ADIDAS
SUSTAINABILITY
PROGRESS
REPORT

CALLING ALL CREATORS
No matter how far we have come with our
sustainability efforts over the years, we know
that we can always improve. And we know that
in order to tackle the big challenges we are
better off when working together.
For this reason, we are calling all creators, our
own employees, our partners and consumers
as well as suppliers to be a part of this important
journey. We strive to give them the space their
ideas and creative force need to improve our
company’s sustainable efforts.
Whether we talk about the empowerment of
workers in our supply chain or assistance for
our suppliers to improve their environmental
performance, further developing our chemical
management, minimising waste and inspiring
our own people to make a positive impact on the
world – guided by our core belief that through
sport, we have the power to change lives, we are
a team of thousands that keeps pushing the limits
further than ever before.
With this report, we present some of the faces
behind our efforts.
We are calling all creators.

CON
TENT

PEOPLE

CEO STATEMENT

04

WE EMPOWER PEOPLE

OUR SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
06

IT STARTS WITH LISTENING: HOW WE EMPOWER
WORKERS IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
BALANCED, INCLUSIVE, GENDER INTELLIGENT:
CHALLENGING COMMON THOUGHTS
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

2020 TARGETS & AMBITIONS

WE IMPROVE HEALTH

STRATEGIC UPDATES
HOW WE OPERATIONALISE OUR STRATEGY: MONITORING
PROGRESS OF ‘SPORT NEEDS A SPACE’
HOW WE LEARN FROM OUR PARTNERS: THOUGHT
LEADERSHIP IN PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS
HOW WE MONITOR OUR FOOTPRINT WHILE MAXIMISING
THE VALUE OF OUR BUSINESS

06
09
09
10
11

PRODUCT

13

WE VALUE WATER

14

IDENTIFY, EDUCATE, ACT: TEAMING UP TO SAVE WATER
WHERE NECESSARY
LEADING BY EXAMPLE: ON OUR WAY TO ACHIEVE
WATER STEWARDSHIP
JOINING TRUSTED PARTNERS TO HELP THOSE IN NEED
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

18
18
19

38
40
42
43

46

REACHING OUT TO THE KIDS: HOW WE ACCELERATE
FOOTBALL DEVELOPMENT IN CHINA
WHEN PHYSICAL FITNESS IS JUST THE BEGINNING:
HOW WE FUEL OUR EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

48
50
51

WE INSPIRE ACTION

53

TAKING ON CHALLENGES OF OUR TIMES:
HOW WE TAILOR ACTIONS TO NEEDS
FIGHTING OCEAN DESTRUCTION: WHY IT NEEDS CREATORS
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

55
57
58

PERFORMANCE
DATA

16

37

60

SUPPLY CHAIN

61

23

AUDITS AND TRAINING
ENFORCEMENT
ENVIRONMENT

64
73
75

25
25
26

GREEN COMPANY

77

EMPLOYEES

80

HEALTH & SAFETY

81

COMMUNITY AFFAIRS

83

CONTACT CREDITS

84

21

REDEFINING THE INDUSTRY, ONE PRODUCT AT A TIME
CHALLENGE MEANS PROGRESS: IMPROVING
OUR CHEMICAL FOOTPRINT
GUIDING OUR SUPPLIERS TOWARDS MINIMISING WASTE
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

WE CONSERVE ENERGY

30

IT STARTS WITH US: SYSTEMATICALLY CONSERVING
ENERGY AT OUR OWN SITES
ON TRACK: EVOLUTION AND CREATION OF EKPI 2.0
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

32
34
35

03

WE INNOVATE MATERIALS & PROCESSES

Our long-term business strategy ‘Creating the New’ is
based on the core belief that, through sport, we have
the power to change lives. And we do this every day as
a company: by empowering people to live an active life,
by teaching life skills through sport and by creating
sustainable products. Our core belief becomes
particularly relevant when we talk about the impact
we have with our sustainability work. We are one of
the very few companies that integrate sustainability
into their business model, which is most visible in the
fact that we take sustainability to the product level.
Two examples are our products made of Parley Ocean
Plastic and the ever-increasing amount of Better
Cotton used in our products. Our UltraBOOST Uncaged
Parley was the best-selling shoe in our newly opened
store on 5th Avenue in New York upon its launch. Also
in 2016, we exceeded our target to source 60% Better
Cotton by 8 percentage points, which puts us in a good
position to source 100% of our cotton as sustainable
cotton by the end of 2018. But we do not stop there. We
do not only see sustainability as an opportunity to get
a competitive advantage. We see it as an obligation for
us as a global company to do business in a responsible
and sustainable way.

US AS A GLOBAL
COMPANY TO DO
BUSINESS IN A
RESPONSIBLE AND
SUSTAINABLE WAY.

«

04

SEE IT AS AN
» WEOBLIGATION
FOR

CEO STATEMENT

DEAR
ALL,

AS BEING
HONESTLY
COMMITTED TO
SUSTAINABILITY
AND AS A
LEADER IN OUR
INDUSTRY.

«

We are proud that we are
seen as being honestly committed to sustainability and
as a leader in our industry.
This is reflected in our continued inclusion in some of
the most important global
sustainability indices. One
example is our membership
in the Dow Jones Sustain­
ability Indices, where we have
been listed for 17 consecutive years. In 2016, as one of
the top-scoring companies in
our industry, adidas received
the RobecoSAM Gold Class
and Industry Mover distinction for excellent sustainability performance.

Our focus on sustainability is not only recognised by investors,
experts and consumers. It also excites our 60,000 employees
and is a major reason why young people from all over the world
would like to work for us. They want to be part of a company
that has a clear mission. Our mission is to be the best sports
company in the world. Best means that we design, build and
sell the best sports and fitness products in the world, with the
best service and experience, and in a sustainable way. Best
is what our consumers, athletes, teams, partners, media and
ultimately also you will say about us.
With this in mind, I hope you enjoy reading this report.
Truly yours,

KASPER RORSTED

­adidas CEO

CEO STATEMENT

Based on our passion for sport, we want
to be the guardians of these spaces of
sport, and we aim to protect these spaces
that have a direct link to our business:
we want to protect spaces where sport
is made, sold and played. Within this life
cycle of sport, we focus on two dimensions, people and product, for each of
which we have set three strategic priorities and ambitious, tangible and measurable goals that guide our sustainability
work towards 2020. You will find more
details on these priorities, and the progress we made towards these goals in
2016, as you read this report.

WE ARE PROUD
»THAT
WE ARE SEEN

05

In this context, 2016 saw the kick-off of
the most holistic sustainability strategy of adidas to date because it looks at
the entire life cycle of sport. This makes
our sustainability strategy so powerful
and successful. Research we conducted
shows that consumers, the creator generation, see sport as an essential part of
their life, and they would dislike a world
without spaces allowing them to practise sports. Sport needs a space to exist.
However, these spaces are increasingly
endangered due to various threats to our
world such as increased industrial pollution and its effect on the environment
and our planet’s climate, the violation
of human rights such as forced labour
practices or discrimination, the consequences of increasing urbanisation as
well as the ever-growing population, to
name a few examples.

2020 TARGETS & AMBITIONS

1

WE VALUE WATER

Water is essential for life. It
is also a key resource for our
industry. In order to tackle the ever-growing issue of water scarcity and achieve
water stewardship1, we have developed
an approach addressing water efficiency,
quality and accessibility.
BY 2020, WE WILL ACHIEVE
•	20% water savings at our strategic
suppliers 2
•	50% water savings at our apparel
material suppliers 3
•	35% water savings per employee at
our own sites 4
Additionally, we will:
•	Further expand the use of waterless technologies for our products.
•	Continue to develop programmes
focused on providing access to
clean water in the communities we
operate in.

2

WE INNOVATE
MATERIALS &
PROCESSES

We create the best for the athlete, while
optimising our environmental impact.
We are committed to steadily increasing
the use of more sustainable materials in
our production, products and stores. At
the same time, we are driving towards
closed-loop solutions.

•	75% paper reduction per employee
at our own sites7
Additionally, we are working on:
•	Replacing conventional cotton, with
the aim of achieving 100% sustainable cotton by 2018.
•	Phasing out the use of virgin plastic, starting with:
– Eliminating plastic bags in our
stores.
– Increasing the use of recycled
polyester in our products.
– Creating a completely new supply chain for Parley Ocean Plastic together with our partner
Parley for the Oceans.
•	
Increasing the use of sustain­
able designs and materials in our
stores.
• Rolling out a global product takeback programme to all of our key
cities and markets.
• Investing in materials, processes
and innovative machinery which
will allow us to upcycle materials
into products and reduce waste.
Ongoing examples include Sport
Infinity and Futurecraft Tailored
Fibre.
•	
Achieving 100% sustainable input
chemistry by adopting the ZDHC
MRSL ; phasing out hazardous
chemicals; providing our strategic suppliers with a list of positive
chemistry (the bluesign bluefinder).

06

BY 2020, WE WILL ACHIEVE
•	20% waste reduction at our strategic suppliers 5
•	5 0% waste diversion for owned
operations to minimise landfill 6

3

WE CONSERVE
ENERGY

Energy is the fuel of the
body. The responsible use of energy is
also critical for our planet to survive.
In order to mitigate climate change, we
are committed to reducing our absolute
energy consumption and CO² emissions,
transitioning to clean energy and looking into energy harvesting opportunities.
BY 2020, WE WILL ACHIEVE
•	20% energy savings at our strategic
suppliers9
•	3% absolute annual reduction in
Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO² emissions
at our own sites10
•	further expansion of the Integrated
Management System (IMS) to key
sites globally at owned operations
• LEED certification for major new
corporate construction projects,
such as the new offices at the company’s headquarters in Germany
and new flagship stores.
Additionally, we will:
•	Reduce the environmental footprint
of our consumer events.

SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY

PRODUCT

This is an overview of all targets we have set ourselves to be achieved by 2020.
We measure our progress towards these targets annually. Please find a detailed
evaluation of these targets at the end of each of our six priorities chapters.

2020 TARGETS & AMBITIONS

1

WE EMPOWER
PEOPLE

People are at the heart
of everything we do. Like a coach ensures
that all of the players on the pitch are in
the right position for the best results, we
empower people to exercise their rights
and unlock their potential.
BY 2020, WE WILL
•	Empower11 our supply chain workers by expanding and refining
grievance systems and skill training programmes.
– 
T his includes the expansion
of the Workers’ Hotline to the
countries where our strategic
suppliers are located.
•	
We will continue to support our
suppliers and licensees in further improving their social and
environmental compliance performance as measured by our
C- and E-KPI rating tools as well
as scorecards.
•	Foster cross-functional and cross-​
cultural careers and experiences
for our employees. This will enable them to gain fresh perspectives and grow professionally and
personally.
•	Champion diversity – regardless of
gender, nationality, ethnic origin,
religion, world view, age, sexual
orientation or gender identity.

2

WE IMPROVE
HEALTH

Sport is the key to an
individual’s health and happiness. Our
aim is to enable people around the world
to participate in sports, while educating
them on physical and mental health, fitness and nutrition. This will ultimately
allow them to lead a healthier and more
fulfilled lifestyle.
BY 2020, WE WILL
•	Introduce education and upskilling
measures on health and work-life
balance topics for our employees.
•	Develop a global Health Management strategy for our employees.
This strategy is based on the strong
foundation we already have at our
offices in Herzogenaurach, Portland and Canton.
•	Utilise sport as a tool to teach values and boost young people’s academic and physical performance.
In addition, this tool will add to their
overall confidence and well-being.
– We aim to increase the number
of enrolled BOKS schools by 50%
in our target areas.
•	
Nurture football talent by promoting grassroots football in China: by
the end of 2018, we aim to reach
22 million students as a result of
our joint efforts with China’s Ministry of Education (MoE).

3

WE INSPIRE
ACTION

We work hard every day to
inspire and enable people to harness the
power of sport in their lives. Likewise, we
want to keep driving change in our industry by leading by example.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO FOCUS ON
•	Rewarding our employees’ commitment and contributions to our
company’s purpose, strategy and
success.
•	
E ncouraging and suppor ting
employee volunteering – creating
agents of change in the communities we work, live and operate in.
•	Engaging with creators and influencers and driving innovative
collaborations.
•	Inspiring consumers, key partners,
brand assets and others to join us
on our journey.
•	Teaming up with our athletes who
will act as role models for young
creators, sharing experiences and
showing that sport is about passion, determination, teamwork,
helping others and being active.

Water stewardship means knowing and reducing our own water use and improving our impact on water at our own operations and along the value chain through innovative solutions and partnerships. | 2 Strategic suppliers are responsible for around 80% of our global production volumes. 2014 baseline | 3 Apparel material suppliers are specialists
in printing and dyeing operations. 2015 baseline | 4 2008 baseline | 5 2014 baseline | 6 Owned operations include offices, distribution centres, retail. 2015 baseline | 7 2008
baseline | 8 Manufacturing Restricted Substance List, as per the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals Programme (ZDHP) | 9 2014 baseline | 10 Scope 1: emissions that
arise directly from sources that are owned or controlled by a
­ didas entities, such as fuels used in our boilers; Scope 2: emissions generated by purchased electricity consumed
by a
­ didas entities. 2015 baseline | 11 This means ensuring our suppliers’ workforces at all levels are empowered with access to effective grievance and feedback channels,
supervisory skills and other means to support fair, healthy and safe workplace conditions.

07

1

SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY

PEOPLE

FROM SPACES WHERE SPORT IS …

MADE

SOLD

PLAYED

PRODUCT

PEOPLE

1	WE VALUE
WATER

1	WE EMPOWER
PEOPLE

2	WE INNOVATE
MATERIALS &
PROCESSES

2	WE IMPROVE
HEALTH
3	WE INSPIRE
ACTION

08

3	WE CONSERVE
ENERGY

SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY

WE TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THE ENTIRE
 LIFE CYCLE OF
SPORT:

HOW WE
OPERATIONALISE
OUR
STRATEGY:
MONITORING PROGRESS OF
We believe that through sport, we have the power to change
lives. It is what drives us and stands behind everything we do.
It is also the core of our Sustainability Strategy ‘Sport needs
a space’, which was introduced in 2016. Building on existing
programmes and tackling the subjects most material to our
business and stakeholders, its name says it all: for sport to be
able to change lives, it needs a space to exist such as a field
to play on or a mountain to climb. The reality is, however, that
due to man-made issues, including pollution through waste and
increasing carbon emissions as well as human rights violations,
these spaces are increasingly endangered. This is where ‘Sport
needs a space’ comes in. It is our way to take on the challenges
that pose a threat to the spaces of sport and, at the same time,
our planet and people.

Covering our entire business model from
end to end, ‘Sport needs a space’ requires
a holistic management approach. For
this reason we have created an internal
cross-functional governance structure,
a tripartite organisation ranging from
project owners to our strategic working
group to a sponsor board. The structure’s
ultimate ambition is manifold: on the one
hand, it empowers bottom-up creativity
and expertise as well as cross-functional

THE GOVER»NANCE

STRUCTURE
EMPOWERS
BOTTOM-UP
CREATIVITY,
ENSURES
TRANSPARENT
DECISIONMAKING AND
PROGRESSTRACKING.

«

FRANK HENKE
VP GLOBAL SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL
AFFAIRS AT ­ADIDAS

09

We have identified six priorities to address
the issues and challenges of the places
where sport is made, where sport is sold,
and where sport is played. In short: along
our entire value chain. Cross-cutting and
relevant for all ‘spaces’, these priorities
have been translated into tangible and
measurable goals we aim to achieve
by 2020, specifically focusing on two
dimensions: product (including materials,
technologies or the manufacturing
process) and people (our own employees
as much as our factory workers, fans,
athletes, and consumers). page 06–08

The operational part of the structure is made up of the respective project owners on the ground who drive implementation
and provide the necessary valuable feedback on the development and execution of their projects to the strategic working
group. Made up of nominated project leads and sustainability
experts representing individual functions, this group not only
monitors the progress of ‘Sport needs a space’, they also identify and react to trends and stakeholder expectations in order
to fine-tune and advance the cross-functional programme in
monthly meetings. They further
define and align KPIs and targets for
‘Sport needs a space’, ensure efficient decision-making, and in turn
report their findings to the sponsor
board consisting of senior representatives of our company – from Social &
Environmental Affairs (SEA), Global
Operations, Global Brands, Human
Resources, Global Workplaces, Retail
Concept, Sales, Finance, and Communication. Acting as advocates, they
promote the strategy to the Executive Board and top management to
ensure its activation and endorsement throughout the company. They
also oversee the progress made
towards our 2020 goals as one team
and provide strategic framework and
priorities for possible adjustments,
further developments, and communication of ‘Sport needs a space’.
While the foundation for a successful structure has been laid in 2016,
we will continue to fine-tune the programme based on learnings in 2017
and beyond.

STRATEGIC UPDATES

‘SPORT NEEDS A SPACE’

alignment and transparent decision-making. At
the same time, it allows a very robust tracking of
progress with clearly defined accountabilities.
Most importantly, it also ensures that priorities
stay relevant in the long run as well as flexible enough so they
can be adjusted to changing internal and external developments
if need be.

IN PROTECTING HUMAN
RIGHTS

Throughout 2016, we invested time in preparing and sharing updates on our human
rights policies and practices, including
the disclosure of our ‘Approach to Human
Rights Defenders’. We understand that we
are the only business globally to have published such a policy. In addition, we shared
our experience on the role business can play
in protecting human rights defenders with
members of the UN Global Compact.

We are a globally operating com- CORPORATE HUMAN
pany with a lot of resources and RIGHTS BENCHMARK
knowledge based on a long history of sustainable engagement
that we are very proud of. As an
important part of this, we recognise our responsibility to respect
human rights and the importance
An important validation of our efforts comes
of showing that we are taking the
from the newly launched Corporate Human
necessary steps to fulfil this social IN THE APPAREL SECTOR
Rights Benchmark (CHRB), which rates the
obligation as a business. We do this
top 500 globally listed companies on their
by striving to operate responsibly along the entire value human rights policy, process, and performance. We are proud
chain, safeguarding the rights of our own employees to have been selected for the pilot and ranked second in the
and those of our suppliers through our ‘Workplace Apparel sector, and fifth in the overall ranking out of 98 corStandards,’ and applying our influence to affect change porations in total. We will be using the results of the benchwherever human rights issues are linked to our busi- mark to identify gaps and areas for improvement in our human
ness activities. But we are well aware that we can have rights work.
a bigger impact when working with partners.
Also released in 2016 was the KnowTheChain evaluation of
Since its inception in 1997, our human and labour forced labour in the global Apparel and Footwear sector. Among
rights programme has been built on the back of the twenty companies selected for evaluation, we ranked first in
intense stakeholder outreach and engagement: seek- the sector due to our best practices, including strong disclosure
ing to understand and define the most salient issues and supply chain risk mapping. The result was also based on
to address as a company, to learn from them and our Modern Slavery Outreach Programme, launched earlier in
use that knowledge to support our overall mission the year, as well as our published call to non-profit groups and
to change lives through sport. This has become visi- other companies to join us in tackling modern slavery issues
ble once more through our human rights activities in in high-risk countries.
2016 that were based on the heightened outreach to
and engagement with our stakeholder groups as well As a global sports company, we do have the obligation to lead
as the development and publication of new industry by example. We will continue to reach out to and engage with
benchmarks.
the relevant stakeholder groups so we can intensify our support for human rights activities.
In October 2016, in line with our long standing commitment to addressing the human rights challenges Read more on our website.

10

#2

STRATEGIC UPDATES

HOW WE
	 LEARN
FROM OUR
PARTNERS:
THOUGHT LEADERSHIP

related to sports, as laid out in our ‘Sports
needs a space’ strategy, we actively contributed to a series of white papers which
were presented at a multi-stakeholder
Sporting Chance Forum in Washington DC.
The two-day event promoted the learning
and capacity building of the parties involved
in major sporting events. It also explored
ways to develop more comprehensive,
consistent, and inclusive approaches
to managing human rights impacts. We
believe that only by pooling the knowledge
of sponsors, sports bodies, governments,
and advocacy groups it is possible to highlight and devise more effective strategies
to address the human rights challenges
associated with mega-sporting events,
from planning through to legacy.

HOW WE
	MONITOR
OUR
FOOTPRINT

our entire value chain from processing of raw materials (Tier 3), upstream
supply chain (Tier 2), direct suppliers (Tier 1) to indirect spends, logistics, core operations including our own
offices and own retail, all the way to the
use phase and end-of-life of our products. The analysis was conducted in
three steps: firstly, we collected relevant primary data from own systems
and operations, as well as secondary
data to complete potential data gaps.
Secondly, we calculated our environmental impacts in absolute terms that
were translated into monetary value in
a last step.

It is our mission to be the best sports company in the world.
For us, this means creating long-term, sustainable value which
goes far beyond the consideration of mere financial metrics: it
includes the management of major intangible value drivers in
our company such as our sustainability performance.

Major impacts identified in indirect
­s upply chain
The objective of our environmental footprint
analysis was to provide us with a clear picture of what our main environmental impacts
along our value chain are and how they correlate to each other in terms of magnitude.
For our pilot exercise we used an internationally recognised methodology to analyse

• G
 HG emissions account for 42% of our total environmental
impacts, with more than half of these CO ² emissions (54%)
caused beyond our direct suppliers. The impacts occur during the processing of raw materials, e.g. leather production, which is mainly due to cattle farming, as well as high
energy use for production of synthetic materials.
• A
 ir pollution comes second with 31% of our total impacts.
The main reasons can be found in the energy-intensive process for synthetic material production and burning of fossil
fuels for energy production.
• W
 ater consumption makes up 15% of our total impacts, with
indirect suppliers being the main contributor. Raw material
production across Tier 3 suppliers accounts for 68% of our
overall water consumption, which is mainly related to agricultural processes. Tier 2 suppliers account for further 21%
of our water consumption, which is mainly the result of ­dyeing
and other wet processes necessary for manufacturing our
products.

11

In order to measure our sustainability performance we know it is critical that we fully
understand the environmental implications
of doing business. In 2016, for the very first
time, we conducted a fact-based pilot analysis
to assess our organisational environmental
footprint. The aim was to better understand
where our main environmental impacts occur
along our value chain, and to translate them
into monetary terms. The results of the analysis will contribute to our Integrated Performance Management (IPM) programme, which
is our overall strategic approach to systematically and consistently consider major
tangible and intangible value drivers in the
­decision-making of our company.

Using the baseline of 2015, we focused
on five main environmental impacts:
GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions, water
consumption, land use as well as air
and water pollution. Results show that
only 4% of our impacts relate to our core
operations (operations related to all of
our administration offices, distribution centres and own production sites globally, as well as own retail stores globally).
The biggest impact however happens in the upstream supply
chain in factories beyond our Tier 1 suppliers we have a direct
relationship with.

STRATEGIC UPDATES


WHILE MAXIMISING THE
VALUE OF OUR BUSINESS

VA LU E C H A I N

T O TA L I M PA C T

GREENHOUSE
GAS

USE PHASE
AND END-OF-LIFE
9%

RETAIL
OWN RETAIL GLOBALLY
3%

ADMINISTRATION & OTHER
OFFICES, DISTRIBUTION
CENTRES, PRODUCTION SITES
1%

LOGISTICS
INBOUND AND OUTBOUND
4%

INDIRECTS
INDIRECT SPENDS
8%

TIER 1
DIRECT SUPPLIERS
6%

WATER
POLLUTION

TIER 2
UPSTREAM SUPPLY CHAIN
18%

WATER
CONSUMPTION

TIER 3
RAW MATERIAL PRODUCTION
50%

AIR POLLUTION

42%
31%
15%
6%
6%

LAND USE

«

ROBIN STALKER, ADIDAS CFO

Results drive holistic company
performance measurement
We will repeat this footprint analysis regularly and use the insights
we gained to evaluate the effectiveness of the programmes we already
have in place, to select the most
effective future strategies to reduce
our impacts, to monitor our progress against the targets laid out
in our sustainability strategy and
to further fine tune our approach if
necessary.
In addition, we will continue to work
on enhancing the footprint methodology used as well as integrating our findings into the relevant
business processes. Therefore, the
results are a crucial contribution to
drive our IPM ambition. This is our
way to embed material financial
and non-financial, as well as tangible and non-tangible value-driving aspects of our business model,
systematically into our decision
making. Providing increased transparency about the impacts created
throughout our value chain, the
results will enable more informed
and fact-based decision-making,
and ultimately lead us to drive holistic value creation for our company.

12

AT ­A DIDAS WE
ARE CHANGING
THE WAY WE DEFINE
AND MEASURE OUR
SUCCESS.
NON-FINANCIAL
VALUE DRIVERS
SUCH AS OUR
SUSTAINABILITY
PERFORMANCE
ARE THEREFORE
CRITICAL
ELEMENTS
OF OUR DECISIONMAKING.		

STRATEGIC UPDATES

»

U
PR D
O

WE VALUE WATER

14

IDENTIFY, EDUCATE, ACT: TEAMING UP TO SAVE WATER WHERE NECESSARY
LEADING BY EXAMPLE: ON OUR WAY TO ACHIEVE WATER STEWARDSHIP
JOINING TRUSTED PARTNERS TO HELP THOSE IN NEED
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

16
18
18
19

WE INNOVATE MATERIALS
& PROCESSES

21

REDEFINING THE INDUSTRY, ONE PRODUCT AT A TIME
CHALLENGE MEANS PROGRESS: IMPROVING OUR CHEMICAL FOOTPRINT
GUIDING OUR SUPPLIERS TOWARDS MINIMISING WASTE
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

23
25
25
26

C

WE CONSERVE ENERGY

30

IT STARTS WITH US: SYSTEMATICALLY CONSERVING ENERGY AT OUR OWN SITES
ON TRACK: EVOLUTION AND CREATION OF EKPI 2.0
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

32
34
35

T

PRODUCT

WE VALUE
WATER

14

WATER IS ESSENTIAL FOR LIFE. IT IS ALSO
A KEY RESOURCE FOR OUR INDUSTRY. IN ORDER TO TACKLE THE EVER-GROWING ISSUE
OF WATER SCARCITY AND ACHIEVE WATER
STEWARDSHIP, WE HAVE DEVELOPED AN APPROACH ADDRESSING WATER EFFICIENCY,
QUALITY AND ACCESSIBILITY.

15

ROM E
PH HA
EL N P
AN .
JO
B
DIR
M A EC
E X N U TO R
A P C E L FAC
AT PA R L E N T U
­AD E L C E R I N
»T
G
IDA , TA
an o re
IW
S
co d w h mem
AN
m y m m i ere ber
t
w
w

NA

a r p ow t e d e
he
po e do er t o d need re w
t h e we r i n g e t o e n o e v t o g e ha
t h m t – t h v e r s u r e r y e t t ve b
b e e y c a o i n v i s m y t h i n e o u t h i n o ! I een
a c st p r n a f e s t e a n g w r s u g i n a m
h i e a c fo i n s e i t h p p
n
in li
t
ve tic rd
t h e e – a n d h e b co u r t h e e r s
e
a
i
i
ir
ful n or adop st e q ging r
l p der tin u i
o t e fo g p m
nti r th indu e n
a l . e m st t
«
to ry

MO
TIV
A
OR T

TH

E

W E VA L U E W AT E R

Water is not only essential for life, it is
also a key resource for our industry. With
the ever-growing issue of water scarcity,
we have developed an overall approach
to address water efficiency, improve
wastewater quality, and provide better
accessibility to water in communities. We
know that we can only be successful if all
of our partners along the supply chain
contribute to our ambition. Educating our
suppliers, subcontractors and material
suppliers, making them identify and
report their water footprint, and acting
upon these results is a top priority of our Sustainability Strategy.
For this reason we have put several programmes and procedures
in place to support our apparel and footwear suppliers.

TO SAVE WATER
WHERE
NECESSARY

As part of the ‘Manufacturing Excellence’ programme, one target
is to achieve 50% water savings at apparel material suppliers
by 2020. Introduced in 2013, the strategic initiative deep-dives
into a variety of projects across a
­ didas’ supply base to further
optimise how our products are engineered and manufactured.
As our industry uses high volumes of water at the stage of
raw material processing, we collaborate closely with our
apparel supplier base by educating them about best available
technologies and processes to strengthen their capabilities
as well as to improve water usage in the manufacturing of our
products. This includes training and advising both our internal
colleagues and our suppliers on innovative methodologies and
technology options that are needed to save water. Over the past
36 months, we have successfully promoted several procedures
tackling those areas considered critical in water processing and
usage in textile production, all of them resulting in increased
water efficiency.

16

One of these procedures is ‘Right First Time’. As any percentage of failure during the dyeing process doubles or
­triples the quantity of water required to dye a fixed quantity

PRODUCT

IDENTIFY,
EDUCATE,
ACT:
TEAMING UP



CITI
TOP 30

of material in the correct colour, ‘Right First Time’ is crucial
because it ensures that only one single dyeing process and the
standard water consumption is necessary to get it right. Additional work streams include ‘water recycling’ – the most common technology used – which aims for 100% reuse of water or
zero discharge as well as ‘improved materiality’ which again
saves 1% total water usage for every 1% in material quality gained. We further implemented machinery upgrades to
improve liquor ratio processes and promoted higher capacity utilisation to increase the amount of material processed
in production machines. First results of these upgrades and
investments are already visible: since 2014 we have reduced
the amount of water in our materials processes from 121
litres/kg to 95 litres/kg – a reduction of 22%.

80%

Based on this success, we have begun to apply a similar
approach to achieve water savings at our footwear suppliers.
In 2016, we started a pilot project with four factories. The goal
is to motivate them to track their water consumption data to
make sure we fully understand their water usage. As a second
step we can then find ways to strengthen their capability to save
water in their manufacturing processes.

INCLUSION
IN THE

THE ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN IN CHINA IS CONSIDERED
A LEADING EFFORT WORLDWIDE

WE ARE COMMITTED
TO DELIVERING FULL
TRANSPARENCY OF
OUR SUPPLIERS’ HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL USE,
EMISSIONS AND WASTE
WATER DISCHARGES:
AS OF 2016, 80% OF
ALL WET PROCESSES
ACROSS OUR GLOBAL
SUPPLY CHAIN ARE
DISCLOSED ON THE
IPE PLATFORM.

We also continue to be transparent about our suppliers’
discharge of waste water. As of 2016, 80% of all wet processes
across our global supply chain were publicly disclosed. Our
efforts to improve our suppliers’ environmental performance
were again officially recognised. In 2016, for the second
consecutive year, adidas ranked first in the textile sector and
second overall out of 198 companies across industries as
evaluated in the Corporate Information Transparency Index
(CITI). Created by the Institute of Public & Environmental Affairs
(IPE) in close cooperation with the US-based environmental
NGO, the Natural Resources Defence Council (NRDC), the index
rates the performance of international brands in managing
environmental impacts of manufacturing operations in China
and identifies environmental issues within their supply chain.
In addition to being first in textiles and second overall, adidas
is listed in the CITI Top 30, officially testifying that we as a
company are making earnest steps towards green procurement
and that the environmental performance of our supply chain in
China is considered a leading effort worldwide.
These results are not down to chance. In fact, we have been
collaborating with the IPE since 2011. Once notified by them, we
partnered with our suppliers to work on their environmental
violations until they were fully addressed. We also conducted
monthly screenings of our suppliers’ presence in the IPE
database. We are aware that further improving our CITI
rating in 2017 will be a challenge due to, for example, stricter
environmental legislation and increasing costs for more
frequent monitoring of our suppliers’ performance. However,
we will continue our path towards a green supply chain in
China.

PRODUCT

W E VA L U E W AT E R

W E VA L U E W AT E R

LEADING
BY EXAMPLE:

JOINING

TRUSTED
PARTNERS
ON OUR WAY TO TO HELP
ACHIEVE WATER THOSE
STEWARDSHIP IN NEED

We are driven by our ambition to achieve water stewardship. For us,
this means knowing and reducing our own water use and improving
our impact on water at our own operations and our value chain
through innovative solutions and partnerships.
While it is important to make sure that our suppliers improve
their water footprint, it is equally if not more important that our
own operations lead by example. In 2016, Green Company, our
environmental programme for our own sites globally, presented
its 2020 targets for water designed to continue our leadership in
water use reductions. see page 20 for details
The second generation of our Green Company programme sets
context-based water reduction targets which are based on one
important understanding: water is a local resource, and reductions
in water use can only be achieved if
addressed individually in each of the
locations. To define the most efficient
targets for each of our sites globally we
assess the local challenges by taking
local watersheds into account using the
‘Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas’. As a result,
we have set proportionally higher targets
in water critical-areas.

B
S CORE

CARBON
DISCLOSURE
PROJECT

18

In 2016, our efforts were recognised by
the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
with a good ‘B score’ (‘A’ being the best),
following our response to their water
questionnaire. With our own Green
Company programme we will continue to
lead by example in order to reduce water
use at our own sites around the world.

The availability of clean water is
essential for humans and the planet to
survive. We are very proud to look back
on a long-standing history of supporting
those in need through engaging in
partnerships for certain projects in
order to help communities. One of these
partners is SOS Children’s Villages.
Most recently, we teamed up on a water
project in Aleppo, Syria, that resulted in
700 families having access to water on
a daily basis.
SOS Children’s Villages Syria is providing water to buildings connected
to a borehole through fixed pipes as
well as public water taps while also
transporting fresh water from the wells
to surrounding neighbourhoods. In
addition, SOS Childrens’ Villages gave the
local authorities in and around Aleppo a
new water pump that can provide up to
30,000 people with fresh water. The team
also installed ten metal containers in the
centre of Aleppo to provide 5,000 people
with necessary water.

We will continue to support trusted
partners and create our own impact on
the world by providing access to clean
water where needed.

FRESH WATER
FOR UP TO

,
30
000
PEOPLE

PRODUCT

Water is a renewable resource, but factors such
as the ever-growing population and the impacts
of climate change are tipping the scale to a point
where water supply may no longer meet demand.
‘Water stress’, defined as the ratio of total freshwater withdrawn to
the total renewable fresh water resources, affects two billion people
and every continent. This hinders environmental sustainability,
economic growth and social development.

W E VA L U E W AT E R

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION

Being committed to transparency we
measure and disclose the progress made
towards our 2020 targets as defined in our
Sustainability Strategy at the end of each
year.
We use three incremental stages of evaluation to describe the progress made:

TIMELINE

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

• I N THE BLOCKS: We are at the starting point, fully prepared and ready to begin this new project or initiative. If a
project is already in place, this stage implies that it might
have been affected by unforeseeable challenges.
• 
R UNNING: We are on track to achieve our set targets. At
the same time, potential partners are on board and working
with us, while problems – if any – are under control.
• 
F INISHING LINE: The target is in clear sight and the project is almost completed successfully. But we know there is
always more to be done and the next starting block is right
around the corner.

PROGRESS

EXPLANATION

20% water savings at our
­strategic suppliers 1

2020

At the end of 2016, 54% of our strategic suppliers were
on track to achieve the 2020 target. With the launch of
our new Sustainability Strategy in 2016, we took the
opportunity to enhance our existing tools to measure
our suppliers’ environmental performance, which has
led us to the development of a more refined method of
measurement. Using a divisional benchmark and taking
into account suppliers’ actual performance, we set
individual targets for each of our suppliers that will drive
2020 target achievement. see page 34 for details

 0% water savings at our
5
apparel material suppliers 2

2020

At the end of 2016, we achieved 11% savings in water
usage, exceeding our annual target. Progress was
driven by our initiative ‘Manufacturing Excellence’ that
successfully promoted several improvement measures
in water processing and usage in textile production, all
of them resulting in increased water efficiency.

19

see page 16 for details

PRODUCT

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

W E VA L U E W AT E R

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

35% water savings per
employee at our own sites 3

2020

We achieved a 23% reduction in water use per employee
between 2008 and 2016, despite increased water
consumption in 2016. This was the result of improvements
in irrigation efficiency, especially at campus locations with
on-site football fields and golf courses. Other measures
include the installation of water-saving devices and the
introduction of awareness campaigns for employees.
A few sites are still unable to measure their water
consumption accurately as they share their office building
with other occupants. The water charges for their leased
or rented space are usually not metered separately, which
makes it difficult to measure water volume in this type of
shared-occupancy setting.
see page 78 for details

Further expand the use of
waterless technologies for
our products

2020

We aim to steadily increase the amount of waterless
dyeing conducted by the company year over year. In 2016,
initiatives to expand the equipment for waterless dyeing
by our supplier have been planned. We continue to work
on defining the DryDye yardage in order to increase the
amount in 2018. Please see our website for details.

Continue to develop
programmes focused on
providing access to clean
water in the communities
we operate in

2020

We continued to support trusted and long-standing
partners in water saving initiatives. In 2016, we teamed up
with SOS Children’s Villages on a water project in Aleppo,
Syria, that resulted in 700 families having access to clean
water on a daily basis.
see page 18 for details

Strategic suppliers are responsible for around 80% of our global production volumes. 2014 baseline. | 2 Apparel material suppliers are specialists in printing and dyeing
operations. 2015 baseline. | 3 Owned operations include offices, distribution centres, retail. 2008 baseline.

20

1

PRODUCT

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

PRODUCT

WE INNOVATE
MATERIALS &
PROCESSES

21

WE CREATE THE BEST FOR THE  ATHLETE,
WHILE OPTIMISING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT. WE ARE COMMITTED TO STEADILY
INCREASING THE USE OF MORE SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS I N O U R P R O D U CT I O N ,
PRODUCTS AND STORES. AT THE SAME TIME,
WE ARE DRIVING TOWARDS CLOSED-LOOP
SOLUTIONS.

NA

EBM E
GE RU
NC
JO
OG
B
LU
SE
PR NIO
MA OD R D
AT T E R U CT I R EC
­AD I A L O TO
»W
IDA S, T P E R R ,
ou het
A I W AT
S
the r Be her
ION
p r s e l t te r I wo
A
o
r
N
te jec ear Cot k to
S

TH

E

CO
L
RA LA
TO BO
R

My amw t, I a ning ton g war
to dre ork, m p s on oal ds a
ou our am pas roud the or a chie
all r co kids is to sion of o Par pply ving
s o o w s m p a , a n le a v , a n u r g le y
lut m ny d t
d
r
ion e t to he e a b cre eat
. « o b w a r co m e t t a t i v
e p ds
mi er w ity.
ar
s
t o u st t m e o r l
f t ain nt d
he
ab of
ilit
y

W E I N N O VAT E M A T E R I A L S & P R O C E S S E S

PRODUCT

REDEFINING

THE

INDUSTRY,
ONE PRODUCT
AT A TIME

today. This means that we need to replace the non-renewable
materials we use, e.g. synthetic fibres such as polyester, but
also cotton and various blends. We also have to address the
global waste challenge and resource shortages by actively
driving material innovations and closed loop solutions that will
reduce our environmental footprint.

23

Creating the best for the athlete is an ambitious goal, doing it
while optimising our environmental impact a much bigger one.
One that we have been taking seriously for many years now.
We believe this is the right thing to do. In addition, we know
that the availability of non-renewable resources is constantly
declining, which is why we must search for alternative solutions

W E I N N O VAT E M A T E R I A L S & P R O C E S S E S

While we work with Parley to reuse plastic
waste, we are also focusing on altogether
avoiding the production of new plastic.
One of the solutions we are currently looking into is Sport Infinity, a research project
led by a
­ didas and funded by the European
Commission, which aims to identify and
develop innovative recyclable composites
that can be broken down into 3D-shapeable materials, and then remoulded in
a waste-free process into a brand new
product. In 2016, an initial proof of concept
underlined for us that this is the most efficient and sustainable manufacturing process for recyclable products, with the key
benefits being a drastic reduction in waste
and the ability to create a product without
the use of adhesives. We have also worked
on a first range of qualified materials enabling fully recyclable products. As a
result we were able to build first demonstrators made from these materials.

The latest sustainable innovation is the Futurecraft Biofabric prototype, which we presented in November 2016. The world’s first
performance shoe made from Biosteel fibres, developed by the
German biotech company AMSilk, not only provides all the properties of a highly functioning performance shoe, it is also 100%
biodegradable in a fully natural process. We will continue our
work on this research project over the coming years.
These examples are complemented by our overall approach and
successful efforts to use more sustainable materials in our products, for example the ever-growing amount of Better Cotton used
in our global production. As a founding member and participating
company, we have been partnering with the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) since 2004, supporting the environmental and social
benefits the initiative brings with it. In 2016, 68% of the cotton we
sourced globally was Better Cotton, again exceeding our original
target of 60%. This brings us even closer
to achieving our commitment to source
100% of cotton across all product categories in all our brands as ‘sustainable
cotton’ by 2018.

IN 2016,
68% OF THE
COTTON
 WE SOURCED
GLOBALLY
WAS
BETTER
COTTON.
24

As part of this, we are working closely
with Parley to transform marine plastic
pollution into performance sports gear.
The plan is working out and, in November 2016, experienced a highlight with
the introduction of our first commercial
football and running performance products made with Parley Ocean P
­ lastic: the
unique Bayern Munich and Real Madrid
jerseys as well as the Ultra BOOST
Uncaged were the first products for consumers to purchase. The partnership will
continue in 2017 with the goal of creating one million pairs of shoes made with
­Parley Ocean Plastic.

From our partnership with Parley for the
Oceans to Sport Infinity and Futurecraft
Biofabric, we will continue our journey
towards redefining the industry of sustainable innovation and the elimination
and reuse of materials.

PRODUCT

In 2016, we have seen remarkable progress on our way to more sustainable
material innovation. One major milestone is the development of our partnership with Parley for the Oceans, an
organisation that addresses major threats
towards the marine environment, the
most important yet most fragile ecosystem on our planet. As founding member,
we support Parley for the Oceans in its
efforts in communication and education,
research and develop­ment, direct action
and eco-­innovation. The mutual focus is
on Parley’s comprehensive Ocean Plastic
Program, which is led by the Parley A.I.R.
Strategy (Avoid, Intercept, and Redesign)
to end ocean plastic pollution.

W E I N N O VAT E M A T E R I A L S & P R O C E S S E S

CHALLENGE MEANS
PROGRESS:

IMPROVING OUR

All of our products are safe for consumers and
comply with all applicable legislation. However,
we are committed to go way beyond that and
proactively search for and implement alternatives
to chemicals of concern without compromising on
the performance and quality of our products. One
example is our commitment to phase out PFCs 1 with
the aim to being at least 99% PFC-free by no later
than the end of 2017. By building in-depth expertise
in our teams and strengthening our research
capacities to find PFC-free alternatives that meet
our high performance and quality standards in
recent years, we have already succeeded in being
90% PFC-free since June 2014, and have eliminated
all long-chain (i.e. C7, C8 and longer) PFCs since
January 2015, across all products we produce or
sell globally. However, the transition to PFC-free
finished products causes challenges and is not
without setbacks, especially when you take our
diverse product portfolio in footwear, accessories
and our global supply chain into account.

CHEMICAL FOOTPRINT

example by involving our licensees and subsidiaries. By the
end of 2016, we had approved solutions for roughly 96% of all
released products. As there are no global standards to define
‘PFC-free’, we have created and implemented an ­adidas PFCfree policy which summarises the most up-to-date findings of
our research work and describes a sophisticated procedure to
ensure compliance with our PFC-free programme as well as to
eliminate the intentional use of PFCs. The policy covers the full
supply chain, end to end: from input chemistry to production
through to the final product, and further provides an approved
list of formulations to be used by all a
­ didas suppliers as well
as an approved list of suppliers who meet our requirements to
produce PFC-free products. All these steps and achievements,
continuous research and commitment have put us in a strong
position towards achieving our ambition as of 2018 onwards.
We strive to be open about our progress even if we do not
have all the answers yet. While we are well on the way to
eliminating PFCs from our production processes, we have
started working on reducing the negative impacts of processing a new chemical of concern: DMF 2, a hazardous solvent used to manufacture synthetic leather products. We are
currently evaluating how many water-based materials are
finding their way into our new products and will proactively
promote these internally to raise awareness. As an important next step, we will collaborate with chemical suppliers and
PU 3 production facilities to optimise the performance properties of synthetic leather products that are currently not
water-based to find the perfect balance between creating the
best for the athlete and optimising our environmental impact.
see page 29 for more details about our progress made in chemical management

Through our research and innovation efforts,
we have achieved significant progress in 2016, for

Defined as all poly- and perfluorinated alkyl substances and their precursors and
metabolites. | 2 Defined as dimethylformamide. | 3 Defined as polyurethane.

1

GUIDING OUR SUPPLIERS TOWARDS
MINIMISING WASTE
After analysing our suppliers’ waste
data, we focused our initial pilot in Vietnam on key apparel and footwear suppliers. We set first phase priorities and
defined the project scope and deliverables with our strategic partners.
The pilot included an analysis of waste
streams, recommendations for waste
segregation efficiency to maximise the
collected waste on the one hand, as
well as a feasibility study and analysis

25

We are committed to minimising waste
as it occurs during production along
our supply chain and finding environmental-friendly disposal solutions that
reduce our environmental footprint. In
collaboration with two strategic partners, we launched a pilot project in Vietnam in 2016 in order to understand how
we can achieve our future ambition of
zero landfill by finding rubber upcycling
alternatives to divert waste from landfill.

of apparel waste disposal methods and
efficiency for Tiers 1 and 2.
As we conclude the first phase in Vietnam, the project will be rolled out regionally to bring the important learnings
to other suppliers and minimise waste
along our supply chain.

PRODUCT



Our commitment to improve our chemical footprint
has long been crucial to our sustainability work and
naturally found its way into our new strategy as well.
Hazardous chemicals contaminating the water supply is only one example of the severe environmental impacts deriving from material processing. At
the same time, some of our products require manmade chemistry with unique criteria to meet our
high performance functional and quality standards.

W E I N N O VAT E M A T E R I A L S & P R O C E S S E S

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

We will achieve 20% waste
reduction at our strategic
suppliers 1

2020

At the end of 2016, 39% of our strategic suppliers were
on track to achieve the 2020 targets. With the launch
of our new Sustainability Strategy in 2016, we took the
opportunity to enhance our existing tools to measure
our suppliers’ environmental performance, which has
led us to the development of a more refined method of
measurement. Using a divisional benchmark and taking into
account suppliers’ actual performance, we set individual
targets for each of our suppliers that will drive 2020 target
achievement. see page 34 for details

50% waste diversion for
owned operations to minimise landfill 2

2020

Our sites have been analysing waste streams and
introducing recycling measures and organic canteen waste
composting over the past few years. Some sites, especially
our administration offices and distribution centres in Asia
and South America, still find it challenging to measure and
track individual waste streams and volumes. Currently,
45% of all our sites have implemented a tracking system.
Some of these challenges relate to how our leases are
structured. For example, we may be charged a flat wastehaul charge by a landlord, rather than a per weight fee.
In some cases, our waste is mixed with other tenants’
waste. This was the first year we requested recycling
volumes. Many facilities and countries appear to lack basic
recycling infrastructure, partners and programmes. This
will be a key priority to address in coming years. To note,
we have reduced the domestic waste per employee by
28% in comparison to 2008, achieving our internal target.
see page 78 for details

75% paper reduction per
employee at our own sites 3

2020

In 2016, we achieved a 17% reduction in paper consumption
compared to the previous year as well as a 49% reduction
since 2008. Success is led by our administrative offices as
many have adjusted the default settings on existing printers or upgraded to new printers that enable users to print
documents double-sided. In addition, the implementation of
badge access printing and the transition to a digital culture is
supporting this reduction in paper consumption. Paper savings have not yet been replicated by our production facilities
and distribution centres. Our distribution centres in particular have struggled to reduce consumption due to the increase
in online orders and the need to print delivery documents.
see page 78 for details

2014 baseline. |

2

Owned operations include offices, distribution centres, retail. 2015 baseline. |

26

1

3

2008 baseline.

PRODUCT

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

W E I N N O VAT E M A T E R I A L S & P R O C E S S E S

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
2020 TARGET

TIMELINE

PROGRESS

IN THE BLOCKS
RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

2018

At the end of 2016, 68% of all cotton we sourced globally
was Better Cotton. This is a great step towards our target
of sourcing 80% by 2017 and achieving 100% sustainable
cotton at the end of 2018. Sustainable cotton in this
sense means Better Cotton, certified organic cotton or
any other form of sustainably produced cotton that is
currently available or might be in future. Please also see
our website.

•	Eliminating plastic bags
in our stores.

2016

As of April 2016, we have eliminated plastic bags from our
retail stores globally and switched to paper bags. In total,
the move will eliminate approximately 70 million plastic
shopping bags per year. Please also see our website.

•	Increasing the use of
recycled polyester in our
products.

2020

In 2016, we have further increased the use of recycled
polyester in our products and offered the first commercial
football and running performance products made with
Parley Ocean Plastic: the unique Bayern Munich and
Real Madrid jerseys as well as the UltraBOOST Uncaged
(with 7,000 pairs available) were the first products for
consumers to purchase and sold out instantly. We have
further committed to create one million pairs of footwear
by the end of 2017. Please also see our website.

•	Creating a completely
new supply chain for
Ocean Plastic together
with our partner Parley for the Oceans.
This means that we are
investing in resources to
divert plastic waste from
coastal communities
back into the production cycle and turn it into
products.

2020

In 2016, we collaborated with our main Parley supply
chain partner in Taiwan and established a collection infrastructure in the Maldives. In addition, we implemented a
monitoring system to get transparency about supply and
demand. Also in 2016, we extended our monitoring coverage to include lower tiers of supplier facilities and started
to conduct a series of labour, health and safety, and environmental audits for suppliers, supporting the launch of
new products.

Replacing conventional cotton, with the aim of achieving 100% sustainable
cotton by 2018.

27

PRODUCT

Phasing out the use of virgin
plastic, starting with:

W E I N N O VAT E M A T E R I A L S & P R O C E S S E S

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

Increasing the use of sustainable designs and materials in our stores.

2020

Sustainability was central to the design of the new ­adidas
flagship store in New York City, which opened in December
2016. The store maintains the building’s existing textures
and finishes, which reduced the need for new materials.
Moreover, the store features sales support items created
with Parley Ocean Plastic, i.e. more than 25% of our mannequins and more than 90% of hangers and all shoe fillers and
size cubes are made with 30% Parley Ocean Plastic. It is the
first store of the adidas store fleet which was equipped with
Parley Ocean Plastic items. We are exploring opportunities
to roll it out further. Please see our website for details.

Rolling out a global product take-back programme
to all of our key cities and
markets. Building on existing take-back pilots such
as the one in Brazil, we will
continuously expand this
programme.

2020

In 2016, we built on and advanced our existing take-back
programme in Brazil and introduced a take-back programme at our own retail stores in Canada. The first results
in Canada have been very positive in terms of store staff
engagement and consumer aspects. As a next step, we will
expand to selected stores in key cities in the US and Western Europe markets in 2017.

2020

In 2016, a proof of concept underlined for us that this is the
most efficient and sustainable manufacturing process for
recyclable products, with the key benefits being a drastic reduction in waste and the ability to create a product
without the use of adhesives. We have also worked on a
first range of qualified materials enabling fully recyclable products. As a result we were able to build first demonstrators made from these materials. We will continue
our work on this research project over the coming years.
Please see our website for details.

•	Sport Infinity, a research
project funded by the
European Commission
which focuses on sporting goods that can be
fully recycled. The project aims to identify and
develop innovative recyclable materials which
will enable the production of easily customisable sporting goods.

28

Investing in materials,
processes and innovative
machinery which will allow
us to upcycle materials into
products and reduce waste.
Ongoing examples include:

PRODUCT

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

W E I N N O VAT E M A T E R I A L S & P R O C E S S E S

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

•	Futurecraft Tailored
Fibre, a new sewing technique which allows new
materials such as gill
nets to be combined for
use in footwear. Thanks
to its efficiency, this process allows a significant
amount of waste from the
traditional shoemaking
process to be eradicated.

2020

In 2016, we released 50 pairs of the iconic Parley prototype
shoe that were created using the adidas Tailored Fibre
technology. In addition, we presented the Futurecraft
Biofabric prototype. The world’s first performance shoe
made from Biosteel fibres provides all the properties of a
highly functioning performance shoe and an upper which is
also 100% biodegradable in a fully natural process. Please
see our website for details.

Achieving 100% sustainable input chemistry by
adopting the ZDHC MRSL;
phasing out hazardous
chemicals; providing our
suppliers with a list of
­positive chemistry (the
bluesign bluefinder)

2020

Adoption of ZDHC MRSL: In 2016, we started to implement
the first industry-wide Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL) which we have jointly created with the
ZDHC organisation. We have set this list as a basic expectation for our suppliers. We also contributed to the MRSL
Conformance Guidance, a tool that aims to support the
implementation of the ZDHC MRSL, which will be released
in early 2017. The communication, supported by adidas
internal hands-on guidance documents, was released to
all Tier 2 wet process suppliers in July 2016;
Chemical phase-out: We have made further progress in
phasing out hazardous chemicals. see page 25 for details ;
bluesign: Our suppliers exceeded the 2016 target of 30% of
auxiliaries and 70% of dyestuffs to be bluesign-approved
by 11% and 6%, respectively. Looking ahead, our 2017 targets for our strategic apparel material suppliers are 50%
of auxiliaries and 80% of dyestuffs to be bluesign-approved.

29

Please also see our website for the latest progress report
about our chemical management.

PRODUCT

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

PRODUCT

WE
CONSERVE
ENERGY

30

ENERGY IS THE FUEL OF THE BODY. THE RESPONSIBLE USE OF ENERGY IS ALSO CRITICAL FOR OUR PLANET TO SURVIVE. IN ORDER
TO MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE, WE ARE
CO M M I T T E D TO REDUCING O U R A BS O LU T E E N E R GY CONSUMPTION A N D CO 2
EMISSIONS, T R A N S I T I O N I N G TO C L E A N
ENERGY AND LOOKING INTO ENERGY HARVESTING OPPORTUNITIES.

EN
AB
LE
R

E

NA

KAM E
MA THE
CH RIN
JO
LE E
B
R
SE
I SO N I O
CO & R M
GE MP GRE ANA
HE RM ANY EN GE
R
AT A D QA N Y ,
­AD U
»M
IDA A RT
i s y ro
ER
S
c re t o i m l e a
S
t h a t e p le s G r

an at pr a m men een
m a d re i o r i o re t t h C o m
o u x i m n ew t i s e s u st e r i g p a n
i n f r f a c i s e s a b le s e n a i n a h t d y le
t h l u e n i l i t i t h e e n e e rg y b l e r i v e a d e r
s i t ro u g c e s e s a p o s rg y e f f c o m r s t
p r e s t h o p m a n d s i t i v e p ro i c i e n p a n o
h e o s p e o e n e r a r t b u t o re i m j e c t s c y y
alt ri su tin si s. pa
h a t y a re g s n e s I w c t i a n d
n d n d e co u s s g a n n
w e i m n o t a i n ro t t o
l l - p ro m i c a b w t h
be
le
i n g ve h
.« u m
an

31

TH

W E CO N S E RV E E N E RGY

PRODUCT

IT
STARTS
WITH
US:
While we pay close attention to our
manufacturing processes to ensure
the responsible use of energy, we are
also systematically improving the environmental footprint at our own sites.
This has led us to commit to reduce our
absolute CO² emissions annually by 3%,
transition to clean energy, and look into
energy harvesting opportunities by 2020.
This is where LEED comes in. Short for
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, it is the internationally recognised and most widely used third-party
verification method for green buildings.
It sets high standards for design and construction and uses strategies to improve

32

SYSTEMATICALLY
CONSERVING
ENERGY AT OUR
OWN SITES

energy savings, reduce CO ² emissions,
improve indoor air quality and reduce
water consumption.
Increasing the number of buildings that
are LEED certified in our major new corporate construction projects is also an
important initiative of our Sustainability Strategy. While most new offices and
distribution centre projects will pursue some level of LEED certification,
our largest facilities generally aspire
for LEED Gold. And we are proud to see
that our new office in Santiago, Chile, has
received LEED Gold, making it the first
new office to achieve this green building
standard since we committed to LEED in

W E CO N S E RV E E N E RGY

2016. In addition, our office in Moscow,
Russia, received LEED Silver, and New
York City will follow next.

We also join trusted partners and organisations in our fight to conserve energy

IMS =
(INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM)

+
+

ENVIRONMENT
HEALTH & SAFETY
ENERGY

33

Our ambition to make our buildings lean
and smart was further underpinned with
the launch of our first Integrated Management System (IMS) in 2016. In addition to environment, the system now
covers provisions for health & safety and
energy. Managing these drivers under
one roof is supported by a dedicated
IMS policy that defines clear procedures
and responsibilities for our workplaces
to operate efficiently and in an environmentally sound manner. It will further
improve risk management, prevent accidents and create a safer work environment. In 2016, we received first-time
certification for our IMS in Germany.
Next, we plan for more sites to join this
system in Europe and North America,
followed by Asia and Latin America in
the next few years.

PRODUCT

Our efforts reach beyond new construction projects and include significant
energy efficiency investments in existing
buildings. In 2016, we kicked off an ambitious lighting retrofit in our largest US
distribution centre in Spartanburg, USA .
The sophisticated lighting control system
and high-quality LED lighting optimises
light levels and energy savings, and
responds dynamically to the demands of
the centre’s operation in real time. While
the retrofit project will be responsible
for an estimated 88% of lighting energy
reduction, it is also the biggest green
ENERGY Fund project since its launch in
2012. The goal of the Fund is to finance
energy efficiency and renewable energy
projects across ­adidas’ properties globally – we have invested in more than 60
projects in our owned and leased properties. Based on the overall success, we
will expand our efforts to include WATER
and WASTE Funds, respectively, in 2017.

and tackle the challenges climate change
poses. We are proud to be recognised
as a leader in climate action by the UN
and to be a member of the UN Climate
­Neutral Now initiative. We also signed
the ­declaration of German Watch in 2016
and will continue to tackle the impact
of ­climate change at our own sites and
across our supply chain in the following
years.
Read more on our website.

W E CO N S E RV E E N E RGY

ONEVOLUTION
TRACK:
AND
CREATION OF
eKPIS 2.0

Within the eKPI 2.0 tool, we developed
three supplier benchmark groups for
each category (apparel, footwear, and
hardware) that allow us to compare supplier performance. The group’s benchmark uses 2014 verified performance
data to set both individual performance
targets in energy, water, and waste as
well as their group’s overall 20% reduction target.

we use an online tool and environmental scorecard that shows their achievement towards these targets in each
of the environmental strategic areas.
One of the major benefits of this new
approach is that we can now target individual reduction plans according to suppliers’ needs in relation to their actual
usage of energy, water, and waste as
well as specified trainings and performance reviews that match their respective situation.
While the evolution of our e KPI 2.0
reporting has made remarkable progress in 2016, we are also looking at how
to further strengthen the programme
and process. Our ambition is to create
an online dashboard that enables our
suppliers and internal teams to track
suppliers’ performance in order to drive
immediate actions, improve accuracy,
and use the suppliers’ self-declared
monthly data real-time decision-making.
see page 71 for details

eKPI 2.0 =
ENERGY, WASTE AND WATER

34

To measure and evaluate our suppliers’ progress against their set targets,

PERFORMANCE-DRIVEN
TOOL FOR GREATER
TRANSPARENCY
INDIVIDUAL TARGETS
TRAINING PLANS
TAILORED TO
SUPPLIERS’ NEEDS

PRODUCT

We know that most of the
environmental impact
occurs in our supply chain,
which is why we put particular focus on ways to
improve how we measure the environmental
performance of our suppliers. With our new Sustainability Strategy having
come into full effect in
2016, we have made significant changes to the
way we monitor the environmental performance of
our suppliers by enhancing our e KPI 2.0 programme. The upgraded
programme is a performance-driven tool that
allows for greater transparency into our suppliers’ actual consumption of
energy, water, and waste,
helping us to understand these strategic
areas in which our suppliers need further guidance and support to improve
their environmental performance.

W E CO N S E RV E E N E RGY

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

20% energy savings at our
­s trategic suppliers 1

2020

At the end of 2016, 37% of our strategic suppliers were
on track to achieve the 2020 reduction targets. With the
launch of our new Sustainability Strategy in 2016, we took
the opportunity to enhance our existing tools to measure
our suppliers’ environmental performance, which has led
us to the development of a more refined method of measurement. Using a divisional benchmark and taking into
account suppliers’ actual performance we set individual
targets for each of our suppliers that will drive 2020 target achievement.
see page 34 for details

3% absolute annual
reduction in Scope 1 and
Scope 2 CO ² emissions at
our own sites 2

2020

In 2016, we surpassed our goals of 3% net emissions
reduction by achieving an 11% absolute annual reduction
in Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO ² emissions. This was aided primarily by ambitious energy efficiency programmes, an
increased investment in carbon offsets, and the declining carbon-intensity of several grids in which we operate. For example, we launched a lighting retrofit at our
largest US distribution centre, installing a sophisticated
lighting control system and high-quality LED lighting.
This project prepares the way for more advanced building technologies that will continue to reduce our carbon
emissions and utility costs.
see page 78 for details

Further expansion of IMS
to key sites globally

2020

In 2016, we successfully implemented an Integrated
Management System (IMS), adding Health & Safety
(BS OHSAS 18001) and Energy standards (ISO 50001) to
our current Environmental System (ISO 14001). IMS is
helping us to drive the integration of Health & Safety,
Energy, and Environmental Management Systems and
standards within our own facilities. During 2016, we
added new sites to our Management System matrix
certification including the Zaragoza office in Spain and
the distribution centre in Langensteinach, Germany.
The IMS will be rolled out to additional sites in Europe
and North America in 2017 and we aim to achieve
certified status in Asia and Latin America by 2020.

35

see page 79 for details

PRODUCT

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

W E CO N S E RV E E N E RGY

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

LEED certification for
major new corporate
­construction projects,
such as the new offices
at the company’s headquarters in Germany and
new flagship stores

2020

In 2016, our new office in Santiago, Chile, received LEED
Gold certification. The office in Santiago sets a high bar for
environmental sustainability, human health, and indoor air
quality. It also serves as a model for resource efficiency
and innovation in future building development. In addition,
our new office in Moscow, Russia, was awarded LEED
Silver status. More LEED projects are underway around
the world.
see page 32 for details

Reduce the environmental
footprint of our consumer
events.

2020

In 2016, we developed guidelines for ‘Sustainable Events’
which will serve as orientation for our markets globally
to run events more sustainably and inspire best practice
sharing opportunities. The guidelines will be made
available to our internal teams and external agencies
with the aim of reducing the environmental footprint
of selected events. We aim for a global rollout of the
guidelines in 2017.

36

1
2014 baseline | 2 Scope 1: emissions that arise directly from sources that are owned or controlled by a
­ didas entities, such as fuels used in our boilers; Scope 2:
emissions generated by purchased electricity consumed by ­adidas entities. 2015 baseline

PRODUCT

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

PE
O
P
E
WE EMPOWER PEOPLE

38

IT STARTS WITH LISTENING: HOW WE EMPOWER WORKERS IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
BALANCED, INCLUSIVE, GENDER INTELLIGENT: CHALLENGING COMMON THOUGHTS
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

40
42
43

WE IMPROVE HEALTH

46

REACHING OUT TO THE KIDS: HOW WE ACCELERATE FOOTBALL
DEVELOPMENT IN CHINA
WHEN PHYSICAL FITNESS IS JUST THE BEGINNING: HOW WE FUEL OUR
EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

48

50
51

WE INSPIRE ACTION

53

TAKING ON CHALLENGES OF OUR TIMES: HOW WE TAILOR ACTIONS TO NEEDS
FIGHTING OCEAN DESTRUCTION: WHY IT NEEDS CREATORS
2020 TARGET EVALUATION

55
57
58

PEOPLE

WE
EMPOWER
PEOPLE

38

PEOPLE ARE AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING
WE DO. LIKE A COACH ENSURES THAT ALL
OF THE PLAYERS ON THE PITCH ARE IN THE
RIGHT POSITION FOR THE BEST RESULTS, WE
EMPOWER PEOPLE TO EXERCISE THEIR
RIGHTS AND UNLOCK THEIR POTENTIAL.

NA

ADM E
SIM ELI
AN NA
JU
N

TA
D I RB
K
E N EC
F I E V I R OTO R
IND LD NM SO
AT O N O P E E N T C I A L
­AD E S R A A L A
IDA I A T I O A F N D
»I
w
N S FA
to
S
an
IRS
,
ou imp t to
,
r
k
r
JO

CO
OR
DIN
AT
OR
S
E

a c s u ove e e p
t e a o o rd p p ly w o r p u s
to ms ina cha ker hin
g
sc dete and tor b in. I sati an
s
a
t
t
p r l a b r m i h e e t w h i n fa c d f i n
t
p r o g ra i l i t y n e t h ex te e e n k o f i o n d w a
o
o
i
m
r
m
ys
as jec
me of th e be nal ur i ys n
t
e
t
n
e
c
s
.
i
l
h
ind er s c I a w t p on ter f a
we ex a e w ons m p orke ath sult nal s
f i r v a i a s n i d e r ro u r e f o r a n t
s
n
st
d
g
l
e
s t a a b le o w o d a t h a g a g l o b a
e
r t e f o r k e b re t o
m l
d.« r ou r s ak ur ent
r i atis thr
o
nd
u s fa c t u g h
try ion
wh
en

TH

NA

VUM E
TU

JO

SE B
AN NIO
AF D E R MA
CA FA I R N V I R N A
­V I E PAC S, P O N G E R
AT T N A I T Y R O J M E N S O
­AD M BU EC TA C I A
ILD T A L
IDA
»I
L
N
I
N
th brin
S
G, D
er g
B
i

ig
n
y
a n o rg h t t r t h e
ou d wo anis aini righ
t o o r p a r k s i n g t n g fo t p a r
in ls t rtici hops he p r ou tne
co t h e o s u p a n t , I m e r fe r s u r s t o
o u n t r i b fa c t o cce e s g e a k e c t s p p l i d o
e
r c ut ri d i t t
e
n t h e s u re s s i o r s .
om e t es
pa o t and hei ne tha ns
c
ny he
r
.«
su ultim dai essa t
l
cc
es ate y wo ry
s o ly
rk
f

IT STARTS
WITH
LISTENING:
WE EMPOWER PEOPLE

HOW WE EMPOWER WORKERS
IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN.

40

While we already have innovative approaches to systematically empowering workers in our factories in

place, we piloted a set of new initiatives aiming to better understand and respond to their needs as well as
to develop suitable skill training programmes for them
in 2016.
Indonesia: gaining insights into workplace conditions
We conducted a pilot survey in three factories in
Indonesia in cooperation with an external partner
based in Hong Kong. The goal was to gain insights
into the current workplace environment and identify
strengths and weaknesses as well as potential
improvement opportunities that can be implemented
to further improve worker satisfaction.
Reaching almost 500 participants, the pilot survey consisted of a series of questions to supervisors and workers regarding topics such as trust and wage fairness
but also issues such as room temperature, noise level,
canteen services, and toilet conditions. Both parties
were also asked about how safe they feel at work in
terms of harassment and discrimination and how any

PEOPLE

People are at the heart of everything we do. We want
to empower them to exercise their rights and unlock
their potential. This goes for our employees as well as
the factory workers in our supply chain. Taking care
of the well-being of our factory workers has been crucial to our supply chain management for decades. As
a core minimum, we have therefore established our
‘Workplace Standards’, our supply chain code of conduct. These standards are contractually binding rules
we apply at our suppliers’ factories to cover workers’
health and safety and to provide provisions to ensure
environmentally sound factory operations. Drawing on international law and the International Labour
Organisation conventions, they follow the model code
of conduct of the World Federation of Sporting Goods
Industry. First applied in 1997, we revised the ‘Workplace Standards’ in 2001, 2006 and 2016 in consultation
with labour and human rights groups.

complaints or suggestions they brought forward were handled.
After the results were analysed for each factory, our partner
conducted focus group discussions and interviews in order to
gain an even deeper understanding of the results and provided
group training content and materials.
Based on the overall positive learnings, the project will be
rolled out to more than 80 factories in Asia and region EMEA
in 2017, given they have received a minimum C-KPI score of
4C. This will help us to establish a baseline and understanding
of workers’ workplace life as well as assist us in determining
suitable follow-up approaches for possible improvements. At
the same time it enables us to better address the challenges
arising from, for example, different languages and cultures.

These are just two examples of our efforts to improve
worker empowerment in our supply chain. They are complemented by, for example, our ‘Worker Hotline’ project,
an innovative grievance mechanism run by an independent service provider in four of our major sourcing
countries. It offers almost 300,000 factory workers the
opportunity to anonymously ask questions, make suggestions
or express their concerns via text message. We also run a programme in Pakistan to improve women’s knowledge and skills
and help them to have better opportunities in the workplace.
see page 43

This serves as an overview of our continuous quest to understand our workers’ needs through listening (bottom-up survey) and training management (communication skills) to
ensure that they have the necessary skills to manage and
motivate their staff in the best possible way. Both approaches
together ensure a stable and beneficial working environment
as well as safe and fair working conditions in the long run,
thus supporting our overall business goals of sustainable
relationships with suppliers and their workforce.

41

Vietnam: training those who supervise
Continuously improving conditions for our workers also
involves training those who are in turn training and supervising the workforce. With this in mind, another pilot project took
place in Vietnam. In order to create a stable and conducive

working environment, supervisors from seven strategic suppliers received specialised training that would
enhance their skills on how to effectively communicate with the workforce, to gain their trust and cooperation as well as understand what motivates them.
In collaboration with a service provider based in Vietnam, the trainings were conducted over a period of
four months in 2016 with a total of 25 local supervisors
who directly manage production-related workers. In a
series of workshops, they learned about management
skills and techniques to empower, persuade and influence people in the workplace, especially during a crisis situation. Following this encouraging pilot project,
the training will be rolled out to other strategic suppliers in Vietnam with the potential to include China
and Indonesia in 2017.

PEOPLE

SUPERVISORS
RECEIVED
SPECIALISED
TRAINING THAT
ENHANCED THEIR
SKILLS ON HOW TO

EFFECTIVELY
COMMUNICATE
WITH THE
WORKFORCE.

WE EMPOWER PEOPLE

BALANCED,
INCLUSIVE,
GENDER
INTELLIGENT:
We firmly believe that a
workforce consisting of
individuals with different strengths, interests,
ideas, and cultural backgrounds is a prerequisite
for success. For this reason
‘Diversity and Inclusion’ is
among our core values and
an essential part of our
People Strategy. We aim
to provide an environment
in which people with fresh
and diverse perspectives
have every possibility they
need to make a difference.
But diversity can only be a
powerful driver for innovation and engagement if it is
embedded in an open and inclusive company culture.
Our actions speak louder than any strategy and this
is why we proactively pursue a portfolio of internal as
well as external activities and memberships. Examples include the ‘Diversity Charter’, ‘Prout at Work’,
the ‘Diversity and Inclusion in Asia Network’, and the
non-profit organisation ‘Catalyst’. Internally, our three
employee-led networks – LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender), Women, and Generations – are
powerful catalysts. In addition to regular events highlighting diversity as a key topic, such as our annual
‘Diversity Day’ which is celebrated across the world,
we participate in benchmarking studies to review our
activities, provide quarterly reports to management
for decision making, take part in diversity career fairs,
and provide diversity and gender intelligence trainings
to our employees.

42

The latest example is the ‘BIG Deal’ training project (BIG stands for balanced, inclusive, and gender

intelligent), a newly designed gender intelligence
training that provides leaders with data, insights, and
tools for an inclusive leadership in order to build a balanced organisation. BIG Deal is designed to encourage
the participants to bring their individual ideas to the
table while giving them the opportunity to revisit and
think critically about some of their key thoughts and
beliefs around diversity, stereotyping, and gender in
the workplace. The training also addresses male and
female traits that everybody carries inside and how
these affect men and women at the workplace. Based
on its great success in 2016, BIG Deal will be offered
on a global scale going forward.
Our overall efforts in this area continue to receive
applause: for the second consecutive year, our North
American organisation achieved a perfect 100 point
score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s
Corporate Equality Index,
PERFECT
the national benchmarking
tool on corporate policies
and practices pertinent to
LGBT employees.

100
POINT

SCORE
HUMAN RIGHTS
CAMPAIGN
CORPORATE
EQUALITY
INDEX

Regardless of location, we
aim to create a business
environment that empowers our people to bring
their individual strengths
to the table while helping
them to unlock their full
potential at the workplace
and beyond.
Read more on our website.

PEOPLE

CHALLENGING
COMMON THOUGHTS

WE EMPOWER PEOPLE

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
Empower our supply chain
workers by expanding and
refining grievance systems and skill training programmes. This includes the
expansion of the Workers’
Hotline to the countries
where our strategic suppliers are located. 1

TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

2020

In 2016, we have further advanced existing worker
empowerment projects. In addition, we have piloted a set
of new initiatives with the aim to improve workers’ skills.
see page 40 for details

Access to Workers’ Hotline to improve worker-management
communication grew by 10%: in 2016, the access to the
Workers’ Hotline continued to grow by 10% compared to
2015. The service is now available to 290,000 workers
in 63 strategic supplier factories across four countries
(Cambodia, Indonesia, Vietnam, and China), offering workers
the possibility to anonymously ask questions and raise
concerns.
Pilot phase of women empowerment programme in
Pakistan benefitted a total of 150 women: introduced in 2015,
the pilot phase of this project was successfully completed in
2016, benefitting 75 on-job workers and 75 redundant women
workers from Sialkot at one of our strategic suppliers.
Introduction of supervisory skill training in Vietnam: in
2016, 25 supervisors from seven strategic suppliers received
tailored training that enhanced their skills to effectively
communicate with the workforce. The training will be rolled
out to other strategic suppliers in Vietnam with the potential
to include China and Indonesia in 2017.
Worker satisfaction pilot survey in Indonesia: reaching
489 participants, the goal of this pilot survey was to gain
insights into the current workplace environment, identify
strengths and weaknesses, as well as potential improvement
opportunities to increase worker satisfaction. The results
will help us to establish a baseline and determine suitable
follow-up approaches for possible improvements. The
project will be rolled out to more than 80 factories in Asia
and region EMEA in 2017 who have qualified for this with a
minimum C-KPI score of 4C.

This means ensuring our suppliers’ workforces at all levels are empowered with access to effective grievance and feedback channels, supervisory skills and other means to
support fair, healthy and safe workplace conditions

43

1

PEOPLE

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

WE EMPOWER PEOPLE

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
2020 TARGET

TIMELINE

PROGRESS

IN THE BLOCKS
RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

We will continue to support
our suppliers and licensees
in further improving their
social and environmental
compliance performance
as measured by our C- and
E-KPI rating tools, as well
as scorecards.
2020

By the end of 2016, half of our suppliers received a 3C
rating, while 17% were awarded with a 4C or above rating.
Compared to 2015 we saw a slight decline in the number
of high-performing suppliers, which was the result of the
implementation of a more consistent application of our rigid
see page 70 for details
audit process.

•	10% of strategic Tier 1
suppliers will achieve
the highest possible
rating for environmental compliance performance (5E) in each of
the defined reduction
targets (water, waste,
energy).

2020

In 2016, we made significant changes to the way we monitor
the environmental performance of our strategic suppliers by
introducing the enhanced eKPI 2.0 tool. The performancedriven tool that allows for greater transparency regarding
our suppliers’ actual consumption of water, waste and
see page 71 for details
energy.

44

PEOPLE

•	At least 80% of strategic Tier 1 suppliers will
achieve 4C rating, which
reflects functioning
management systems
and effective worker
communication and
grievance channels. In
addition, at least 10% of
strategic Tier 1 suppliers
will achieve the highest
possible rating of social
compliance performance
(5C), which reflects highest performance that
is supported by active
worker engagement.

WE EMPOWER PEOPLE

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

2020

In 2016, 50% of strategic licensees achieved top-tier level
as measured through a scorecard. While we achieved the
2016 target, we realised that achieving it for 2017 and the
coming years will be quite challenging. Although there
are benefits of becoming a self-governing licensee, many
licensees still prefer to continue following our external
monitoring programme instead of being enrolled into our
self-governance programme, due to workload.

Foster cross-functional
and cross-cultural careers
and experiences for our
employees. This will enable them to gain fresh
perspectives and grow professionally and personally.

2020

Enabled by a new global mobility policy, our Talent Carousel
career develop­ment programme entered its second year in
2016. Employees from all over the world were again invited to
apply for this programme that would see its 20 finalists take
a cross-functional and international career step by starting a new role in a new location in 2017. Successful candidates remain in the programme for 24 months with the right
to return to their home location while being prepared for a
future senior management position.

Champion diversity –
regardless of gender,
nationality, e
­ thnic origin,
religion, world view, age,
sexual orientation or gender identity

2020

In 2016, we introduced a global data simulation tool that
allows HR managers to calculate and set more realistic
gender and age targets for their functional areas by taking
criteria such as business growth, attrition, promotions,
and hirings into consideration. We successfully hired a
dedicated Diversity Director who is in charge of driving
our global diversity strategy. In addition to regular events
highlighting diversity as a key topic, we provide diversity
and gender intelligence trainings to our employees. In 2016,
we piloted the ‘BIG Deal’ training project (BIG stands for
balanced, inclusive, and gender intelligent), a newly designed
gender intelligence training that provides leaders with data,
insights, and tools for an inclusive leadership in order to
build a balanced organisation. BIG Deal will be offered on
a global scale going forward. For the second consecutive
year, our North American organisation achieved a perfect
100 point score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s
Corporate Equality Index in 2016. In addition, we ranked
second in the Apparel sector in the newly launched Corporate
Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB).
see page 42 for details

45

•	At least 80% of strategic
licensees achieve toptier level, which means
they operate mechanisms to monitor their
own supply chain aligned
with SEA standards, and
support their suppliers
to continuously improve
workplace conditions.
In addition, 10% of strategic licensees operate
sustainability management systems, monitor their supply chain
effectively, reduce social
and environmental footprints, and transparently
report on performance.

PEOPLE

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

PEOPLE

WE IMPROVE
HEALTH

46

SPORT IS THE KEY TO AN INDIVIDUAL’S HEALTH
AND HAPPINESS. OUR AIM IS TO ENABLE PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD TO PARTICIPATE
IN SPORTS, WHILE EDUCATING THEM ON
PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH, FITNESS,
AND NUTRITION. T H I S W I L L U LT I M AT E LY
ALLOW THEM TO LEAD A HEALTHIER AND
MORE FULFILLED LIFESTYLE.

NA

th
ea ids otb
i
s
c re p r c h i n a a l l
t h a te o g ra n g s t i o n to a
Ch e de the m i igni wide ll
t o p i n a . v e l o g re s t h a f i c a n ! T h
a l l e d P a r p m e a t e s t w ce o e
nu ows ucat tner nt o t im e he f
n a m b e u s t i o n i n g f fo o p a c t l p t o
tio r o o go wi
n w f s re a v e r t h t b a l l o n
ide ch ch nin Chi in
fo r o o l t h e g b n a ’s
th chil ma ody
eir dr xi
be en mum
ne
fit
.«

SHM E
YA EN
NP
ING
JO
B
DIR
CO EC
A F R P TO R
AT FA I R O R A ,
­AD S, C T E
»B
IDA H I
sc ring
h
NA
S
fa r o o l i n g
fo
-r
k

CO T
H
AC E
H
W E I M P R O V E H E A LT H

W E I M P R O V E H E A LT H

REACHING

OUT
PEOPLE

TO



THE KIDS:
48

HOW WE ACCELERATE FOOTBALL
DEVELOPMENT IN CHINA

W E I M P R O V E H E A LT H


OUR PROGRESS
SHOWS WE ARE WELL
 ON TRACK: WE HAVE
ALREADY REACHED
7.6 MILLION
STUDENTS IN
7,600 SCHOOLS AND

MORE THAN 13,000
TEACHERS NATIONWIDE.

In order to follow and
achieve this rather
ambitious goal, we
reach out to kids
around the world to
be more active, and
strive to give them access to the necessary tools and athletic
opportunities. As part of this approach, we announced a 3-year
partnership with China’s Ministry of Education (MoE) in September 2015 to promote grassroots football in China and nurture football talent based on our shared vision of accelerating
football development. The partnership focuses on supporting
China’s physical education (PE) classes, teacher trainings, and
student training camps through our curriculum, ambassadors,
and products overall helping children to get more active and
learn that they can benefit from sports throughout their lives.
In the end, we aim to reach 22 million students in China.

The partnership has seen first results with the introduction of
the a
­ didas curriculum learning app. Free of charge and based
upon proven methods developed by ­adidas’ renowned international football trainer, Tom Byer, the app shows Chinese students

key football techniques such as starting, stopping, changing directions, cutting, and turning by watching the videos
in slow motion and with 3D functions.
The first of its kind in China, the football app can also be incorporated into
PE classes, serving as a training and
development tool to make sports more
inclusive. The overall goal is to reach
20,000 primary and middle schools
by 2017. Our progress in 2016 already
shows we are well on track: within the
first year of signing the agreement, we
have already reached 7.6 million students in 7,600 schools and more than
13,000 PE teachers nationwide.

The partnership is not just limited to
the app. a
­ didas winter and summer
camp initiatives featuring curriculum
offerings, coaching, and product support has reached roughly an additional 1,760 of China’s most
promising students so far. Our support also extends to the
MoE’s ‘New Long March of School Football’ programme. This
new 365-episode TV series, set to reach eight million viewers
daily across China, features Tom Byer teaching various technical moves from the ­adidas curriculum. And finally, we also
hosted a number of MoE activations for which we invited our
strong football assets from Ajax Amsterdam and Manchester
United as well as football icon David Beckham to coach kids
in special training classes.
With sport being our DNA , our foundation, and our heart,
this partnership brings the benefits of sport to children
and teachers all over China and follows our goal of inspiring everybody to find their individual path to a healthy and
happy life through sport.

PEOPLE

Sport is our DNA , our
foundation, our heart.
Sport is also the key
to an individual’s
health and happiness.
We strive to enable
people around the
world to participate
in sports, while educating them on physical and mental health,
fitness, and nutrition
to allow them to lead
a healthier life.

W E I M P R O V E H E A LT H

WHEN PHYSICAL
FITNESS IS JUST
THE BEGINNING: 

HOW
WE FUEL OUR EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH

We are proud to have been recognised as a global
leader in sport and nutrition with the Corporate Health
Award – Special Award for Healthy Nutrition in 2016,
the most prestigious German award in the field of
occupational health management. Doing what we do,
sport is an integral part of our daily work routine. Colleagues playing beach volleyball, working out in the
gym or hitting balls on the tennis court is a common
practice at our headquarters in Germany. However, our
health management goes beyond mere sport activities.
Over the past couple of years, we have successfully
created a holistic approach in cooperation with
experts on health and nutrition to provide a healthy
environment for our employees. While our partners
from the occupational health & safety service ‘B.A.D.’
support our employees with their health questions
and offer social counselling as well as an Integration
Management Programme, we also work closely with
our caterer and Holger Stromberg (nutritionist to the
German Football Federation) to not only offer a wide
variety of wholesome meals but also nutrition seminars
and workshops to raise awareness and educate.
Nutrition is also an important part of our partnership with EXOS, a human performance company, who,
together with our coaches, nutritionist, and reception
staff at our headquarters’ gym support our people to
live healthy lives. Based on the latest scientific knowledge about nutrition and physiological needs after
workout, the experts support our employees to take
action and guide them towards a healthier diet with
individual meal plans or education classes.

50

Raising awareness about health extends beyond
our headquarters to our locations in Scheinfeld
and Uffenheim where our health management

team developed a broad offer for our employees in
cooperation with a large health insurance company
and our partners from B.A.D. In October 2016, they
organised ‘Health Days’, a four-day event where more
than 350 employees used the opportunity to book
appointments for medical measures (i.e. vaccines)
and get information about a healthy diet as well as
ergonomic workplace routines.
Taking care of our employees is not limited to nutrition
and sports. We also want to make sure that our people
are able to balance their business and private lives.
Truth is that a global company like ours attracts people
from all over the world and from various stages of life.
Right now, five different generations are part of the
workforce, with the global average age being 30. In
addition, people from more than 80 nations work at
the ­adidas headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Germany.
Each and every one of them deserves a workplace
where they feel comfortable and where they are able
and willing to perform at their best. For this reason,
we have the Work-Life Integration department. The
team’s focus is on creating a work environment which
supports the fit of work and life in different life cycles
and implementing respective concepts.
One of the 2016 additions to the portfolio is the
employee assistance programme. It enables our
employees in Germany to contact an external service
provider to get professional support and advice related
to child care, elder and dependent care as well as
household services. Examples include finding an au
pair, cleaner, gardener, etc., or obtaining tax advice.
The programme is a response to the growing demand
for a better work-life balance and has already been
used by over 400 employees. In 2017, the focus will be
on organising information sessions with the service
provider around care and precaution for emergencies.
We will continue to walk the walk towards a healthy
company with and for our employees in 2017 and
beyond.
Read more on our website.

PEOPLE

When your core belief is that through sport you have
the power to change lives, you cannot just talk the talk,
you also have to walk the walk. For years, we have been
working on a holistic approach at our offices around
the world to not only ensure that sport is an integral
part of our employees’ lives but also raise awareness
for the fact that health goes beyond sports activities.

W E I M P R O V E H E A LT H

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

2020

One of the 2016 additions to the portfolio of the Work-Life
Integration team is the employee assistance programme.
Enabling our employees in Germany to contact an external
service provider to get professional support and advice
related to child care, elder and dependent care as well
as household services, the programme is a response to
the growing demand for a better work-life balance. The
service has already been used by over 400 employees. In
2017, the focus will be on organising information sessions
with the service provider around care and precaution for
emergencies. see page 50 for details

Develop a global Health
Management strategy for
our employees. This strategy is based on the strong
foundation we already have
at our offices in Herzogen­
aurach, Portland, and
Canton.

2020

In 2016, we were awarded the Corporate Health
Award – Special Award for Healthy Nutrition. Our partner
EXOS , a human performance company, supports our
people to live healthy lives together with our coaches,
nutritionist, and reception staff at our headquarters’ gym.
At our locations in Scheinfeld and Uffenheim, Germany,
we developed a broad offer for our employees, including
the organisation of ‘Health Days’ in 2016. see page 50 for details

51

Introduce education and
upskilling measures
on health and work-life
balance topics for our
employees.

PEOPLE

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

W E I M P R O V E H E A LT H

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

2020

By the end of 2016, we increased the number of BOKS
schools by 47% from over 1,500 to 2,200 reaching our
goal in our target areas. In addition, we have developed
additional partners in the healthcare space and created
many different opportunities for employees to engage
in our programme – including ‘Raise Funds for BOKS’,
‘Volunteer at an existing BOKS school’, and ‘Bring BOKS
to our community’. Read more on our website.

Nurture football talent by
promoting grassroots football in China: by the end of
2018, we aim to reach 22
million students as a result
of our joint efforts with
­China’s Ministry of Education (MoE).

2018

In 2015, we announced a 3-year partnership with China’s
Ministry of Education (MoE) to nurture football talent based
on our shared vision of accelerating football development.
Our progress in 2016 already shows we are well on track:
within the first year of signing the agreement, we have
already reached 7.6 million students in 7,600 schools and
more than 13,000 PE teachers nationwide. see page 48 for details

52

Utilise sport as a tool to
teach values and boost
young people’s academic
and physical performance.
In addition, this tool will
add to their overall confidence and well-being.
Through the BOKS programme, we will refine
and perfect the collective impact model with our
other partners, including
those from the healthcare
industry, to provide a solution to the physical inactivity epidemic. We also aim
to increase the number of
enrolled BOKS schools by
50% in our target areas.

PEOPLE

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

PEOPLE

WE INSPIRE
ACTION

53

WE WORK HARD EVERY DAY TO INSPIRE AND
ENABLE PEOPLE TO HARNESS THE POWER
OF SPORT IN THEIR LIVES. LIKEWISE, WE WANT
TO KEEP DRIVING CHANGE IN OUR INDUSTRY BY LEADING BY EXAMPLE.

INT
EG T
RA HE
TO
RS
i
u
a
G e r t t e n c e g re a t m
h
r
t
t h m a e i r fo r e m y e n
a
e
t h t f i t n y . I c a re re f u p l o y rg y
em
d
g
e
in
th
e
e m
r
sk
ill dis eir ntif jou es a ent to
s i co t a y i n r n
s t v e le n g
e st
re r a t s o p y i n h e y
me nd an po
nd de d h rtu
o u ve
n
s ly l o p e l p i n i t i e
g s
re
wa new
rd
ing
.«

AR
MA
A
I N T N AG
H E EG E R
AT A D QR AT I E M
­AD UA O N P LO
IDA RT , G E Y E
»E
c re v e r y
S ERS RM E
AN
ex atin day
Y
st p e r g a I p

NA

HE M E
LE
N

O’M
E
B

JO

NA

EN M E
ES
U

JO

N

D I RB
A N EC
A F D E TO R
AT FA I R N V I R S O
­AD S, T O N C I A
IDA U R M E L
»O
u
r
so
S K E Y N TA
wo
c
i
a
ch
rk
L
l

o n a i n t c o m re a
a n ly f o o i n p l i a n c h e s
re d e m r t h c l u d c e i f a r
e
t h f u g e p l o le g e s u n t h b e y o
eir es ym al pp e s n
ne
or
u d
r
in e
in
m y w l o t e g Tu r n t o f e c r u t n o p p l y
ex te a ca t i o ra t i o key t h e i t m e t
am m
S
b
n
n
n
p le i s a . I a t o t u t a y r i a t
. « b le m p h e l s o n
t o ro u i r
le a d
d b tha
t
y

TAKING ON
CHALLENGES
OF OUR
TIMES:
WE INSPIRE ACTION

HOW WE TAILOR ACTIONS
TO NEEDS

Besides the many obvious physical benefits of sport, it also brings one super
power to the table: it unites across borders, skin colours, and belief systems.
It connects, shapes values, and teaches
important life lessons including teamwork, discipline, and resilience. As a
global sports company, we believe that
through sport, we have the power to
change lives. And we work hard every
day to inspire people to harness this
power of sport in their lives and make
a positive impact on society and our
planet.

In 2016, our focus in Germany was on
work integration. By joining the ‘Wir
Zusammen’ (‘Us Together’) initiative, a

platform to coordinate and inspire German companies to help refugees in their
area, we exceeded our target to employ
30 short-term interns until the end of
the year by 10%. The overall initiative
has been a success even leading to longterm hires: this includes an HR Specialist, a sample sewer (temporary for three
months) and a graphic designer (temporary for one year). We also found an IT
as well as three sales assistant apprentice candidates, who will start their
apprenticeships in September 2017. We
will build on this success in 2017 when

55

An area where this power has become
particularly visible in 2016 was our support for refugees. Our approach follows
a three-pillar model built on humanitarian aid, close collaboration with public
authorities, external partners and volunteers as well as employee integration.
This approach is complimented by support in the countries where we source
from.

we will not only offer internships to
more than 30 refugees but also provide
entrance qualifications and additional
apprenticeships.
We continue to utilise sport as a tool for
integration. Our very own a
­ didas Fund
played a crucial part in offering employees the opportunity to help and support
refugees. Supported by our intranet platform a-LIVE, the Fund organised local
events such as running groups and sport
events for employees to get involved in.
And they rose to the challenge: in 2016,

WE INSPIRE ACTION

Our support reaches beyond the borders
of Germany. Since the civil war in Syria
began in 2011, millions of people had
to leave their homes and flee to neighbouring countries such as Turkey, which
is also one of our sourcing countries. Due
to the limited number of suppliers in Turkey and our strict enforcement approach
that stipulates that refugees or migrants
cannot be offered employment without
a work permit, we have not identified
any Syrian refugee in our supply chain in
Turkey. Nonetheless, we are sensitive to
the broader humanitarian issue facing
the Syrian refugees and have engaged
closely with brands sourcing from Turkey, local trade unions, NGOs, and the
Turkish government on the topic of the
employment rights of Syrian refugees.

and the International Middle East Peace
Research Centre (IMPR). In addition, we
supported the Fair Labor Association (FLA)
with a letter written to the Turkish government to legalise the employment of Syrian refugees and provide them with social
benefits. We have also joined a new crossbrand collaboration team (BEST – Building Effective Solutions Together) with the
aim of addressing issues
»The FLA applauds ­adidas’ work
related to the employment
in Turkey to help Syrian refugees find of ­Syrian refugees in the
decent work and to improve working
area and other supply chain
conditions for local and displaced
related issues in region
EMEA. In order to protect
workers alike. ­adidas was an early
the youngest, we make sure
and active supporter of our advocacy
to distribute leaflets for
efforts with the Turkish Government
employers reminding them
to guarantee legal work permits
of the a
­ didas Workplace
for refugees and has demonstrated
Standards and the relevant
a strong commitment under enorlaws and regulations with
mously challenging circumstances.
regards to child labour.

For the past two years, our activities
include training the Turkey-based suppliers on the impact of illegal workers on
the labour market, how to ensure legal and
fair recruitment, and employment for the
refugees. These trainings were conducted
in collaboration with the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)

SHARON WAXMAN,
PRESIDENT FAIR LABOR ASSOCIATION (FLA)

Our efforts are also directly
addressing the refugees:
in collaboration with the

56

We are grateful for their leadership
on this issue.«

Turkish Ministry of Labour (MoL) and the
FLA, we prepared a booklet to inform Syrian refugees about their critical and basic
employment rights. Distributed by the
MoL and through our suppliers, the booklet provides Syrian refugees with a written resource in their native language on
key articles of Turkish labour law, such as
minimum wage, working hours, compensation, leave, and other rights and benefits – which has the potential of decreasing
their exposure to exploitative employment. We have also established a bilingual worker hotline in Arabic and Turkish
language for our strategic Tier 2 suppliers
in collaboration with an external party to
enable a full-time functioning hotline for
Syrians in case of employment.
We will continue to act on our responsibility as a global sports company by
­harnessing the power of sport and ­leading
by example to inspire others to do the
same.
Read more on our website.

PEOPLE

our employees in Germany invested
around 1,300 hours in the integration of
refugees by not only following the Fund’s
invitation but also by bringing their own
ideas to life. At the same time, we support our employees’ efforts to integrate refugees by offering them three
additional vacation days for their social
engagement and help bringing our core
belief to life.

WE INSPIRE ACTION

FIGHTING
			OCEAN
DESTRUCTION:
WHY IT NEEDS CREATORS

In June 2016, in time for World
Ocean Day, we announced the
release of a limited number of
our iconic adidas x Parley running shoe, the world’s first performance shoe with an upper
made entirely of yarns and filaments reclaimed and recycled from marine waste and
illegal deep-sea gill nets. First
presented in June 2015 within
the unique surroundings of the
United Nations Headquarters in
New York, the shoe came with
a catch: one could not buy it

but had to earn it by entering a creative Instagram and Weibo
contest in which we asked people and employees to take a
pledge and show us how they take action. This call resulted in
impressive and creative videos, and 50 happy winners of the
iconic running shoe.
Two months later, we continued to raise awareness for the
special cause while celebrating our partnership with Parley for the Oceans at our Olympic Games Creator Base in
Rio de Janeiro. We invited a group of creators to experience ­a didas x Parley in a special way by attending a Parley workshop. We invited children and mentors from Projeto
Grael, a local NGO run by the sailing brothers Lars and Torben Grael, which promotes
education through sport and
with which we have partnered
to run a Parley Ocean School
initiative in Rio. The Rio de
Janeiro Parley Ocean School
circulated between June and
September 2016 in Niteroi
and Rio de Janeiro, providing interactive workshops to
3,690 kids in over 30 different
public schools. Children aged
IN OVER 30
6–11 learned about the fragilPUBLIC SCHOOLS
ity of our oceans, plastic polIN RIO DE JANEIRO
lution, and how to take action
against it.

WORKSHOPS
FOR

3,690

KIDS

57

Through our partnership with Parley
for the Oceans, we strive to not only
raise awareness for the state of the
oceans but more importantly keep
calling all creators to become part
of the solution and save our oceans
in the process. Because we believe
that we can fight systemic problems
like ocean destruction a lot better
together as a team.

PEOPLE

Calling all creators got a whole
new meaning in 2016. As part of
our partnership with Parley for
the Oceans, an environmental
organisation and collaboration
network that raises awareness
of the beauty and fragility of the
oceans and implements comprehensive strategies to end
their destruction, we called all
creators around the world to
make their pledge and join the
fight to save the oceans.

WE INSPIRE ACTION

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

Rewarding our employees’
commitment and contributions to our company’s
purpose, strategy, and
success.

2020

Our remuneration system is based on ‘The Score’, our
performance management approach bringing target
setting, employee development, and performance
appraisal under one common process. Each employee is
evaluated and receives feedback at least twice a year. As
part of this system, we are committed to rewarding our
employees with compensation and benefit programmes
that are competitive in the marketplace. Remuneration
throughout the company comprises fixed and variable
monetary compensation, non-monetary rewards as
well as other intangible benefits. The cornerstone of our
rewards programme is our Global Salary Management
System, which is used as a basis for establishing and
evaluating the value of employees’ positions and salaries
in a market-driven and performance-oriented way. In
2016, these salary bands have been made public to our
global employee base, and the ­adidas Stock Purchase
Plan was introduced. We are working on refining the
remuneration system going forward to have an increased
focus on employee development, which we plan to launch
in 2018. Please see our website for details.

Encouraging and supporting employee volunteering
– creating agents of change
in the communities we
work, live, and operate in.

2020

In 2016, 736 employees invested a total of 33,000 volunteer
hours. In cooperation with our Global Consumer Insights
and an independent market research institute, we conducted
research to measure the impact of our volunteering
programmes holistically in 2016. We initiated qualitative
and quantitative research using feedback from more than
2,000 beneficiaries and more than 600 parents in seven
of our partner organisations in eight countries worldwide.
Overall results are very positive, proving for example that
beneficiaries gain self-confidence, leadership skills, and
improvements in their health through participation. More
than 80% of the participants also shared information about
the programme in public, e.g. presented the programme
at a public event, have been asked about it, or convinced
friends to participate.
Since 2011, we were able to impact a total of over two
million children and young people’s lives, and reached over
10 million people through 30 partner organisations on five
continents. By 2020 we aim to create an even higher impact
for our volunteers and the participants of the programmes.

58

Please see our website for details and more information
about our partner organisations.

PEOPLE

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

WE INSPIRE ACTION

2020 TARGET
EVALUATION
TIMELINE

PROGRESS

RUNNING
FINISHING LINE

EXPLANATION

2020

Being committed to raising awareness and empowering
the creative community in support of eco-innovation,
adidas Originals, together with Parley for the Oceans, will
collaborate on projects and continue to create a space
for creators and thinkers to spark conversations around
the need to protect the oceans. In 2016, on the occasion
of Miami Art Basel, both brands generated awareness
amongst this particular group on the topic of ecoinnovation and began a dialogue to educate and inspire,
hosting a dinner that brought this group together to learn
more about the state of the Oceans and discuss original
ways to protect them. Based on both brands’ history of
working with the creative community, this dinner in Miami
served as a launch pad in creating lasting connections in
support of a sustainable lifestyle.

Inspiring consumers, key
partners, brand assets
and others to join us on our
journey.

2020

For the release of a limited edition (50 pairs) of the Parley
prototype shoe on World Oceans Day in June 2016, we
invited people to enter an Instagram contest to win one of
the pairs available. By pledging to stop using single-use
plastic items they were given the chance to win a pair of
the shoes. see page 57 for details

Teaming up with our athletes who will act as role
models for young creators,
sharing experiences, and
showing that sport is about
passion, determination,
teamwork, helping others,
and being active.

2020

For the release of the first commercial football products
using Parley Ocean Plastic we engaged with two of our
partner clubs, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid. Players
wore home jerseys made from Parley Ocean Plastic with
water-based environmentally friendly prints on-pitch in
November 2016. We further partnered with Projeto Grael,
a local NGO run by the sailing brothers Lars and Torben
Grael, to run a Parley Ocean School initiative in Rio de
Janeiro. Circulating between June and September 2016
in Niteroi and Rio de Janeiro, the Parley Ocean School
provided workshops to more than 3,500 kids in over 30
different public schools. Children aged six to eleven
learned about the fragility of our oceans, plastic pollution
and how to take action against it. see page 57 for details

59

Engaging with creators and
influencers and driving
innovative collaborations.

PEOPLE

2020 TARGET

IN THE BLOCKS

SUPPLY CHAIN

61

AUDITS AND TRAINING
ENFORCEMENT
ENVIRONMENT

64
73
75

GREEN COMPANY

77

EMPLOYEES

80

HEALTH & SAFETY

81

COMMUNITY AFFAIRS

83

SUPPLY CHAIN
NUMBER OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES

FACTORIES BY COUNTRY

At the end of 2016, we worked with 1,038 independent factories
(excluding own factories and factories of our licensees) which
manufacture ­adidas products in 63 countries. 64% of the
factories are located in the Asia Pacific region, 26% in the
Americas, and 10% in Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA ).

The total number of factories we worked with in 2016
decreased slightly by 4% compared to the previous year.

In the course of any calendar year there can be changes in the
number of supplier factories we work with, depending on the
market forecasts and the suppliers’ business performance. The
data we are reporting here is a snapshot in time capturing the
situation on 31 December of each year.

We update our global supplier lists (including primary suppliers,
subcontractors and licensees) twice a year on our website.

NUMBER OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES
EXCLUDING OWN FACTORIES AND LICENSEE FACTORIES
Asia

Americas

2016 saw a further reduction in the number of suppliers making
products in China, Thailand, and Taiwan, mainly due to local
sourcing integration and consolidation of factory operations by
our key business partners. Due to the increase in the company’s
sales last year, the number of factories in Indonesia, Vietnam,
and Myanmar, which is a newly developing sourcing location, has
increased. Overall supplier numbers in EMEA remained stable.
The number of factories in the Americas increased slightly due
to the onboarding of new US embellishers.

EMEA

Total

1,133

1,200
1,000
800

725

698

1,079 1,038

661

600
400

260

200

276

273

148

105

104

0
■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016

SUPPLIER FACTORIES BY REGION IN 2016
EXCLUDING OWN FACTORIES AND LICENSEE FACTORIES

10
64% Asia
26

26% Americas
10% EMEA

61

64

PERFORMANCE DATA

1,400

S upply chain

NUMBER OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES P ER COUNTRY 1
2016

2015

2014

Australia

2

1

2

Bangladesh

9

9

9

26

27

22

China

210

242

259

India

36

34

Indonesia

69

Japan

2016

2015

2014

Belgium

2

2

2

Bosnia and Herzegovina

1

1

1

Bulgaria

1

1

0

Czech Republic

4

4

4

51

Egypt

1

1

2

60

62

Estonia

1

1

0

53

58

52

Finland

0

1

1

Korea

81

83

91

France

2

0

1

Laos

1

1

0

Georgia

1

0

0

Malaysia

3

6

2

Germany

16

19

21

Country

Myanmar

8

6

1

Hungary

3

2

1

Pakistan

15

16

12

Ireland

0

0

1

Philippines

12

14

13

Israel

1

2

1

Singapore

1

2

1

Italy

9

9

16

6

6

6

Jordan

1

1

1

Taiwan

28

33

43

Lesotho

1

1

1

Thailand

15

18

19

Latvia

1

0

0

Vietnam

86

82

80

Lithuania

1

1

1

661

698

725

Macedonia

1

1

1

Mauritius

2

3

3

Sri Lanka

Total Asia

Argentina

22

23

23

Moldova

1

1

1

Brazil

35

37

49

Netherlands

1

1

2

Canada

22

25

34

Poland

1

1

2

Chile

2

2

2

Portugal

6

5

7

Colombia

2

2

3

Romania

1

1

1

Costa Rica

0

1

1

Slovakia

1

1

2

Dominican Republic

1

0

0

Slovenia

2

2

2

El Salvador

6

5

4

South Africa

6

7

7

Guatemala

5

5

4

Spain

6

7

8

Honduras

6

8

5

Sweden

5

5

5

Mexico

9

9

15

Switzerland

2

1

3

Nicaragua

2

5

4

Tunisia

4

3

3

Paraguay

0

0

2

Turkey

15

15

20

Ukraine

3

3

3

United Kingdom

1

2

24

Total EMEA

104

105

148

Total Asia

661

698

725

Total Americas

273

276

260

Total EMEA

104

105

148

1,038

1,079

1,133

United States

161

154

95

Total Americas

273

276

241

Total

62

1	Independent supplier production sites of ­adidas, excluding licensee factories and own production sites.

PERFORMANCE DATA

Cambodia

Country

S upply chain

STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS

­ADIDAS LICENSEES

We are committed to responsible purchasing practices and
value long-term and stable business relationships. Around
41% of our strategic suppliers have worked with a
­ didas for
more than ten years and, of these, close to 14% have a tenure
of more than 20 years.

At the end of 2016, a
­ didas worked with 61 licensees whose
suppliers manufactured products in 377 factories across
48 countries.

Of the 1,038 factories that we worked with in 2016, 107 suppliers
are treated as long-term strategic partners. Together, these
strategic suppliers account for approximately 81% of all ­adidas
production (by volume) and for 90% of all footwear production.

As shown in the table below, there is only a slight decrease in
the number of licensee factories compared to last year.

­ADIDAS LICENSEES
2016

Licensees

STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS

Factories producing for licensees 1
Product Type

ALL

Hardware

Apparel

Footwear

Number of suppliers

107

13

64

30

Production countries

2015

2014

61

60

67

377

384

448

48

49

49

11

15

9

13

% of all production volume

81%

55%

79%

90%

Strategic relationships < 5 years

24%

15%

36%

3%

Average years as strategic partner

Strategic relationships <10 years

35%

23%

28%

53%

Strategic relationships <15 years

14%

15%

16%

10%

Strategic relationships < 20 years

13%

23%

13%

10%

Strategic relationships < 25 years

9%

15%

5%

17%

Strategic relationships > 25 years

5%

8%

3%

7%

­ADIDAS AND REEBOK LICENSEES DIVIDED BY PRODUCT RANGE IN 2016

4

2 2

5
56% Apparel
31% Hardware
5% Glasses
31

56

4% Watches
2% Cosmetics

63

2% Footwear

PERFORMANCE DATA

1 This may include factories that produce for both ­­adidas directly and for licensees/agents.

S upply chain

AUDITS AND TRAINING

NUMBER OF FACTORY AUDITS/VISITS AND TRAINING SESSIONS 1
2014

NUMBER OF FACTORY AUDITS/VISITS
AND TRAINING SESSIONS

2015

2016

1,600
1,400

These visits involved various types of audits, Strategic Compliance
Plan discussions, project work, and project meetings with factory
management on high-priority issues at different levels in our
supply chain. Additionally, the SEA team conducted 171 training
sessions and workshops for suppliers, licensees, workers, and
­adidas Group employees.

1,225

1,000
800
600
400
200

131

120

171

0
■ Factory visits (audits + trainings) ■ Training sessions
1	Includes multiple audits/visits to the same factory conducted by the adidas
­­
SEA team and external monitors,
but excludes FLA audits. Includes audits in licensee factories; visits involving management and worker interviews, document review, facility inspections, and training on-site.

64

The number of audits slightly declined, which is in line with an
overall reduction in the number of factories under audit coverage.
The increase in the number of trainings by 43%, mainly in Asia,
is a result of the restructuring of our teams into two specialised
groups for Monitoring and Advisory. We had more capacities to
provide considerably more training to our suppliers. While the
Monitoring team focused solely on auditing, the Advisory team
supported the factories to execute sustainable remediation plans
through several meetings, phone calls, and tailored training.

1,255

PERFORMANCE DATA

During 2016, 1,225 factory visits (including 989 factory audits)
were undertaken.

1,320

1,200

S upply chain

NUMBER OF TRAINING SESSIONS DIVIDED
BY REGION AND TYPE

SUPPLIER TRAINING SESSIONS BY TYPE IN 2016

Overall, the number of training sessions conducted in 2016
significantly increased. 3,387 people attended our training
sessions, 72% more than last year 1. The training offered in
each region covered basic as well as long-term strategic
topics.

26

45% Fundamental
45

29% Sustainability
26% Performance

29

The bulk of the increase comes from the Asia region, especially
related to sustainability training and advisory sessions. As a
result of the restructuring in Asia, mentioned in the previous
section, the Advisory team conducted several more tailored
and in-factory training events compared to previous years. SEA
generally invites people from several factories together to its
training, which enables both higher efficiencies and opportunities
for cross-learning and best practice sharing among suppliers.

NUMBER OF TRAINING SESSIONS DIVIDED BY REGION AND TYPE 1
Type and number of training sessions

Performance 3

Fundamental 2

Region

2016

2015

Sustainability 4

Total

2014

2016

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

Asia

44

32

26

40

43

30

48

19

41

132

91

97

Americas

25

15

25

0

0

0

0

8

7

25

50

32

EMEA

8

0

0

5

1

1

1

2

1

14

7

2

Total

77

47

51

45

44

31

49

29

49

171

148

131

Training sessions conducted for suppliers, workers, licensees, agents, and ­adidas employees.
Fundamental training covers: Workplace Standards & SEA introduction; FFC training; SEA policies & SOPs.
Performance training covers: specific labour, health, safety and environmental issues.
Sustainability training covers: sustainable compliance guideline & KPI improvement; Factory Self-Audits (factory internal audits).

65

1
2
3
4

PERFORMANCE DATA

1 In 2016, 3387 people (2015:1,966) participated in these training sessions.

S upply chain

In 2016, the SEA team conducted 989 social compliance and
environmental audits, using in-house technical staff as well
as external third-party monitors commissioned by a
­ didas
business entities and licensees.
The total number of initial assessments – the first approval
stage for new-entry factories – decreased further by 25%
compared to 2015, which is related to the consolidation of
suppliers and the use of existing suppliers by our sourcing
organisation instead of on-boarding new ones. Performance
audits at our current suppliers also showed a decline of 11%,
reflecting the decline in the number of suppliers, as well as
the increase in the number of suppliers that were enrolled
into our self-governance programme. While the declines were
quite consistent in each region, there were also country-specific
cases. SEA conducted several additional audits in Brazil in 2015
in support of government investigations into working conditions,
which stopped in 2016. On the other hand, the total number of
environmental audits increased slightly (by 4%) compared to the
previous year due mainly to the increase in HIGG environmental
assessments.
In addition to these audits, compliance staff conducted multiple
supplier site visits to discuss specific remedial issues, to follow
up on project work, or to conduct training sessions. Therefore,
the general decrease in the number of audits was complemented
by an overall increase in training sessions and factory visits by
the SEA team.

There were a total of 213 initial assessments (including initial
assessment follow-ups), 84% of which were undertaken in Asia,
with China accounting for 46% of these assessments. Overall,
39% of all candidate factories either were rejected outright or
were rejected for failure to remediate threshold issues in a timely
manner. For further information, please see data on termination
and rejection see page 74 .
A total of 41% (2015: 49%) of all active suppliers were audited in
2016. ‘High-risk’ countries 1 in Asia , the major sourcing region
for ­adidas, received extensive monitoring in 2016 with an audit
coverage that was close to 65%. It is important to mention
that our compliance database also includes suppliers located
in ‘low-risk’ countries as well as suppliers designated as ‘low
priority’, mainly referring to subcontractors making non-core
components for a finished product. While we include these types
of suppliers in our database to achieve greater visibility of our
supply chain, they are currently excluded from our monitoring
activities. Consequently, audit coverage would be higher if
only high-risk countries were taken into consideration. Higher
performing suppliers (those which have demonstrated robust
management systems) may achieve ‘self-governance’ status,
which is rewarded with a reduced frequency in external audits.
Our monitoring programme is characterised by a risk
management approach, which means that we do not envisage
100% audit coverage in every country where our factories are
located. Although there has been a decline in audit coverage
in some countries, the intensity of engagement with factories
has increased, particularly in respect of those suppliers with
problematic or open threshold issues, or those in need of support
to improve their management systems.
1	High-risk countries in Asia include China, Hong Kong, Macao, Vietnam, Bangladesh, Cambodia, India,
Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Mauritius, Myanmar, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand.

NUMBER OF AUDITS DIVIDED BY REGION AND TYPE
Initial Assessment 1

Performance Audit 2

Region

2016

2015

2014

2016

Asia

178

206

226

23

40

58

Americas

Environmental Audits 3

Total

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

524

576

618

137

131

140

839

913

984

75

100

85

0

0

0

98

140

143

EMEA

12

39

21

34

36

42

6

7

3

52

82

66

Total 4

213

285

305

633

712

745

143

138

143

989

1,135

1,193

Every new supplier factory has to pass an initial assessment to prove compliance with the Workplace Standards before an order is placed. The data includes both ‘initial assessments’ and ‘initial assessment follow-ups’.
Audits conducted in approved supplier factories.
Includes HIGG audits, specific Chemical Management audits, and environmental audits.
Includes audits done in licensee factories. In addition, there was a considerable number of full environmental assessments conducted for selected suppliers in Asia.

66

1
2
3
4

PERFORMANCE DATA

NUMBER OF AUDITS DIVIDED BY REGION
AND TYPE

S upply chain

N UMBER OF AUDITS IN SUPPLIER FACTORIES 2014 – 2016

INITIAL ASSESSMENTS BY COUNTRY 1
2016

2015

2014

2014

2015

2016

1,600
Country
1

8

5

Cambodia

4

10

11

China

81

98

134

India

12

21

18

Indonesia

15

11

12

Japan

2

4

1

Laos

0

1

0

Myanmar

4

8

4

Pakistan

6

9

12

Philippines

1

2

1

Sri Lanka

5

2

0

Taiwan

7

0

1

Thailand

3

4

4

Vietnam

37

27

23

178

205

226

Argentina

2

8

5

Brazil

7

7

30

Canada

1

0

0

Costa Rica

0

0

1

Dominican Republic

1

5

1

El Salvador

3

2

0

Guatemala

1

3

7

Haiti

2

0

0

Honduras

0

1

2

Mexico

5

7

6

Nicaragua

0

1

3

United States

1

6

3

23

40

58

Egypt

2

4

3

Georgia

1

2

0

Jordan

2

0

0

Lesotho

1

0

1

Mauritius

0

2

1

Romania

1

0

0

Russia

0

0

1

South Africa

0

1

2

Tunisia

1

0

0

Turkey

4

26

12

Asia Total

Americas Total

Ukraine
EMEA Total

0

0

1

12

37

21

1,200

1,193

1,135
989

800
400

619

611

574

525
372

0

SEA Team

67

1 Including initial assessment follow-ups.

617

External Monitor

Total

PERFORMANCE DATA

Bangladesh

S upply chain

NUMBER OF AUDITS CONDUCTED IN
LICENSEE FACTORIES
The number of audits in factories manufacturing goods for
licensees has decreased slightly in line with the decrease in
the number of licensee factories.
Please note that the table below includes factories that are
shared by ­adidas and licensees, and can list audits that are
undertaken in ­adidas factories as well.

NUMBER OF AUDITS CONDUCTED IN LICENSEE FACTORIES 1
Initial Assessment 2

Performance Audit 3

Environmental Audits 4

Total

2016

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

284

54

47

76

182

197

185

12

15

23

248

259

Americas

6

9

8

20

23

21

0

0

0

26

32

29

EMEA

2

10

1

12

11

16

2

2

3

16

23

20

Total

62

66

85

214

231

222

14

17

26

290

314

333

Asia

1	This may include factories that produce both for ­­adidas directly and for licensees/agents.
2	Every new factory has to pass an initial assessment to prove compliance with the Workplace Standards before an order is placed.
3	Audits conducted in approved factories.
4	Includes HIGG audits, environmental audits and Chemical Management audits.

NUMBER OF AUDITS IN LICENSEE FACTORIES BY REGION
Asia

300
250

284

259

Americas

NUMBER OF AUDITS IN LICENSEE FACTORIES BY AUDIT TYPE
Initial Assessments

EMEA

Total

333

350

200

300

150

250

100

200

0

Environmental Audits

400

248

50

Performance Audits

29

32

26

20

23

16

222

231

214

150
100
50

■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016

85

66

62

0

68

■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016

26

17

14

314

290

PERFORMANCE DATA

Region

S upply chain

NON-COMPLIANCES IDENTIFIED DURING
PRE-SCREENING OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES

TOP 10 LABOUR NON-‐COMPLIANCE FINDINGS IDENTIFIED IN
FACTORIES DURING INITIAL ASSESSMENTS AND INITIAL ASSESSMENT
FOLLOW-UPS IN 2016

Our suppliers are evaluated against a number of critical
compliance issues. While zero tolerance issues – such as
forced labour practices – immediately disqualify a factory
from further consideration, threshold issues trigger rejection
at new factories, but can be addressed in a specified timeframe
at existing factories.

3

25% Fair Wages
27

11% General Principle 1
5% Disciplinary
Practices 2

11

3% Environment
3% Freedom of
Association
2% Child Labour 3
18

2% Employment Status

25

1% Non–Discrimination
3% Other 5

1	General Principle covers company policies, employee handbook, management attitude and transparency,
employment contracts, and filing systems.
2	Disciplinary Practices covers disciplinary policy, procedures and recordings, training, effective grievance
systems, and non-retaliation policy.
3	Child and Juvenile Labour covers management systems, policies and practices to prevent the employment
of child labour, and the necessary protections for juvenile workers, if they are of a legal age to work. The 2%
shown here mainly points to the lack of effective management systems to prevent child labour or manage
juvenile labour, not the existence of children at the factories.
4	Forced and Compulsory Labour covers management systems to prevent forced and compulsory labour, prison
labour, slavery and trafficking, forced overtime, lack of freedom of movement, retention and documents,
recruitments agents, and fees.
5	Other refers to, for example, HR Management and privacy issues.

TOP 10 HEALTH & SAFETY NON-‐COMPLIANCE FINDINGS IDENTIFIED IN
FACTORIES DURING INITIAL ASSESSMENTS AND INITIAL ASSESSMENT
FOLLOW-UPS IN 2016
17% Fire Safety
14% Management
Systems
for Health & Safety
17

20

11% Architectural
Considerations
8% Machine
Safety & Noise

3

14

4
4

8% Chemical Storage
7% Hazardous
Chemicals
in Production
4% First Aid

4
11

7
8

8

4% Electricity &
Electrical Hazards
4% Dormitory
Conditions
3% Sanitation &
Hygiene
20% Other 1

1	For example, occupational hazards risks, personal protective equipment, ergonomics and housekeeping.

69

The second chart shows the health & safety non-compliances
identified during the pre-screening of new supplier factories.
Fire and electrical safety are critical areas for any potential new
supplier and together accounted for 21% of the non-compliances
identified in 2016. The way chemicals were stored and used,
including the presence of banned chemicals, accounted for 15%
of non-conformances reported. A further 14% of the findings
related to management systems, policies and procedures, and
specifically a lack of conformance with our Workplace Standards
and expectation for effective health & safety systems, including
the recruitment and retention of qualified safety staff.

18% Working Hours ⁄
Overtime

PERFORMANCE DATA

Besides identifying non-compliances with our Workplace
Standards at factories, a
­ didas’ compliance team focuses on
the existence and implementation of management systems on
the supplier’s side. The team identifies any gaps in policies and
procedures related to specific areas such as forced labour, child
labour, freedom of association, or discrimination. As a result,
the percentages shown indicate the systemic shortcomings of
newly proposed suppliers rather than the confirmed presence of
specific non-compliances, such as child labour (see footnote 3).

27% Benefits

1 3
2 2

5

The charts in this section illustrate these non-compliance
findings that were identified during the pre-screening of
suppliers in initial assessments and initial assessment
follow-up visits conducted at prospective new factories in
2016. A supplier must resolve identified issues before it can
be accepted into the ­adidas supply chain.
The first chart presents the labour-related non-compliances
identified in supplier factories. More than two thirds of the
labour-related findings fall into the top three broad categories:
‘Wages’, ‘Benefits’, and ‘Working Hours/Overtime’. ‘Wages’
covers – among other things – policies and practices in the
factory for the timely and full payment of wages, overtime
payments, and deductions. ‘Benefits’ relates mainly to policies
and practices for benefits, social and medical insurances,
leave, and public holidays. ‘Working hours/Overtime’ covers
management systems for working hours, policies and practices,
excessive working hours, regular and overtime working hours
as well as rest days.

3

KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR (KPI)
ASSESSMENT: C-RATING AND E-RATING

The bar graph below shows comparable data for the past three
years using this rating classification.

We audit our suppliers regularly against our Workplace
Standards and rate them according to their performance. To
do so, we have established an innovative way to rate suppliers
on their ability to deliver fair, healthy, and environmentally
sound workplace conditions.

In 2016, the number of 1C category suppliers, which represent the
lowest performing factories with serious issues and very weak
commitment to compliance, remained at 1% of the KPI-assessed
factories. Such factories are given a one-year grace period to
move up a grade or have their services terminated. Since 2013,
there has been a focused effort to improve the 2C factories,
which led to a 11% reduction of suppliers in this category.

Social Compliance Rating (C-KPI)
The following table shows the average assessment score by
unit of measure for active suppliers. Each unit of measure is
scored out of 100%. Compared to 2015, the average score of
all C-KPI units of measure, except for worker-management
communication and industrial relations, decreased in 2016.
This reflects the efforts by the newly created Monitoring team
in Asia who conducted more frequent and more in-depth KPI
assessments, which triggers corresponding remedial action and
support by a dedicated Advisory team.
Generally, newly assessed factories start with a relatively low
KPI score (typically 2C) and over a period of years they build
and improve their management systems and compliance
performance. The presence of repetitive or serious threshold
issues can however trigger even lower performance. This is
reflected, for example, in those suppliers receiving a 1C score,
which means they are at risk of termination.

C-KPI ASSESSMENT

67% of our direct suppliers had ratings of 3C or better, which
represents an increase of 3% compared to 2014, although it
has fallen marginally by 2% compared to last year. For the 4C
factories, we see a 7% decline (23% vs 16%) in the number of
suppliers in this self-governance rating classification. The main
reason for this is that some factories struggled to maintain their
high performance due to turnover in their in-house compliance
teams and the more robust and in-depth KPI assessments
being conducted by SEA, including an increased frequency of
unannounced audits.
It is worth noting that the number of factories that are subject
to C-KPI ratings has remained relatively stable at around 45% of
the global supply chain for the last three years. These factories
represent our long-term strategic partners.

PERCENTAGE OF KPI-ASSESSED FACTORIES BY C-RATING IN %

KPI Unit of Measure – Average score in %

1C

2016

2015

2014

Management commitment and responsiveness

63.67

65.27

62.69

Management systems

64.28

67.17

64.83

Worker-management communication and industrial
relations

77.84

77.77

75.23

30

Compliance training for workers and management

73.94

76.99

74.64

20

Transparency in communication and reporting

81.00

82.22

80.90

10

Compliance performance

65.13

66.40

65.16

0

KPI Cumulative Score

61,89

63.84

61.61

The calculation method was changed in 2012 to better reflect actual supplier performance. Numbers are calculated using the latest KPI assessment rating of each active supplier.

2C

3C

60

50

50

43

40

32

32

4C

5C

47

34
23
16

2

1

14

1

3

3

■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016

To best reflect actual supplier performance, numbers are calculated using the latest KPI assessment rating
of each active supplier.

DEFINITION OF C-KPI SCORES
Grade

1C

KPI score band

Performance description

0 – 29% There are numerous severe non-compliance issues. There are no compliance management and compliance practices in place. The factory has been given notice
that business will be terminated unless there is immediate improvement.

2C

30 – 59% There are some non-compliance issues and no compliance management systems. However, there are some effective compliance practices being delivered.

3C

60 – 79% There are minor non-compliance issues. The factory has compliance management systems and some effective compliance practices in place.

5C

80 – 89% Generally there are no non-compliance issues. The factory has compliance management systems in place, and most of the components are effective.
90 – 100% There are no non-compliance issues and all of the factory’s management systems and practices are well delivered and effective.

70

4C

1

PERFORMANCE DATA

S upply chain

S upply chain

In 2016, we made significant changes to the way we monitor the
environmental performance of our suppliers by introducing
the enhanced eKPI 2.0 tool. This performance-driven tool
provides greater transparency into our suppliers actual
consumption of water, waste and energy.
We developed three distinct supplier benchmark groups for
apparel, footwear, and accessories & gear that allow us to
compare supplier facilities and performance. The groups’
benchmark uses 2014 verified performance data to set both
individual performance targets in water, waste, and energy as
well as their groups’ overall 20% reduction target. To measure
and evaluate our suppliers’ progress against their set targets, we
use an online tool and environmental scorecard that shows their
achievement in each of the four environmental strategic targets.

Data and trends from our newly enhanced eKPI scorecard will
be included in our 2017 annual reporting cycle.

eKPI 2.0 SUPPLIER SCORECARD

HIGG/CMA 1 results

25%

Energy reduction target

25%

Water reduction target

25%

Waste reduction target

25%

1 Chemical Management Audit

71

This approach allows us to tailor individual reduction plans
according to suppliers’ needs in relation to their actual usage
of water, waste, and energy as well as specified trainings and
performance reviews that match their respective situation.

PERFORMANCE DATA

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE RATING (E-KPI)

S upply chain

In 2016, the Fair Labor Association (FLA ) conducted four
factory assessments or remediation verification exercises
using the methodology from the Sustainable Compliance
Initiative (SCI).
Since joining the FLA in 1999, more than 300 independent
external audits and verification visits have been conducted at
­adidas suppliers. The number of conventional independent
monitoring visits conducted by FLA accredited monitors has gone
down over the years. This is because of a shift from conventional
monitoring activities to engaging in value-added FLA projects
that focus on reducing and eliminating chronic non-compliance
issues or improving monitoring methodologies. One such activity
since 2015 was the implementation of the FLA strategic plan to
evaluate the compensation code element in practice by affiliated
companies.

INDEPENDENT FLA AUDITS 1
FLA Year

Period

No. of audits

6th

Jan – Dec 2007

15

7th

Jan – Dec 2008

19

8th

Jan – Dec 2009

16

9th

Jan – Dec 2010

16

10th

Jan – Dec 2011

12

11th

Jan – Dec 2012

16

12th

Jan – Dec 2013

n.a.

13th

Jan – Dec 2014

16

14th

Jan – Dec 2015

4

15th

Jan – Dec 2016

4

1 As part of the FLA membership; the numbers include Independent External Verification audits.

72

In 2016, four sustainable compliance initiative (SCI) audits were
conducted at factories in Bangladesh, China, India, and Thailand.
The remainder of our 2016 audit obligation was directed to the
ongoing implementation of the FLA Fair Compensation Strategy,
including wage data gathering exercises in several countries.
This wage data collection work in 2016 contributed to the FLA’s
first annual report on compensation. This report presents
the factory findings from data collection efforts in the supply
chains of FLA participating companies, covering 124 factories
in 21 countries. The Fair Compensation Strategy and the 3-year
implementation plan are mandatory requirements for FLA
participating companies and accredited programmes.

In 2017, the FLA will continue to focus on fully implementing
the FLA’s Core programme, creating a safe space for thought
leadership, improving the representation of its stakeholder
groups, and strengthening the organisational foundation.
Additionally, the FLA will explore opportunities for convergence
with other multi-stakeholder initiatives and the work being done
to confront the most challenging issues with respect to workers’
rights.

PERFORMANCE DATA

INDEPENDENT FLA AUDITS

S upply chain

ENFORCEMENT
WARNING LETTERS
Warning letters are an essential part of our enforcement
efforts and are triggered when we find ongoing serious
non-compliance issues that need to be addressed by our
suppliers. In 2016, we issued a total of 31 warning letters
across 11 countries.
The largest number of warning letters continue to be issued in
Asia, where more than 60% of all supplier factories are located.
Compared to the previous year, the overall number of first
warning letters decreased significantly by 37%. The total number
of second warnings decreased slightly in 2016, with seven letters

being issued. Suppliers who receive second warning letters are
only one step away from being notified of possible termination
of the manufacturing agreement and receive focused monitoring
by the SEA team. The number of third warning letters issued to
business partners (which result in factory terminations) went up
to five in 2016. The majority of these terminations were managed
directly by our licensee business partners as part of their parallel
compliance activities.
It is difficult to generalise about the grounds for a warning letter
as it may be issued for a single unresolved non-conformance
or for multiple breaches of our Standards. The range of issues
that resulted in warning letters in 2016 included poor fire safety
practices, receipt of wages, social & medical insurance, hazardous
chemicals, excessive overtime, deductions, transparency, and
safety controls in high-risk areas.

1st warning

Region

2016

2015

2014

2nd warning

2016

2015

2014

3rd and final warning
(recommended termination)
2016

Total
warning letters

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

58

18

21

37

5

9

1

4

0

20

27

30

Americas

1

5

4

1

1

2

1

0

0

2

6

6

EMEA

0

4

1

1

0

0

0

0

0

1

4

1

Total

19

42

42

7

10

3

5

0

20

31

40

65

Asia

73

1	Including warning letters issued by licensees and agents, but excluding warnings to main suppliers for the non-disclosure of subcontractors, which are issued either directly through business entities or by the adidas
­­
legal
department where there is a breach of contract obligations under a manufacturing agreement.

PERFORMANCE DATA

NUMBER OF WARNING LETTERS ISSUED TO A
­ DIDAS SUPPLIERS BY REGION 1

S upply chain

TERMINATIONS AND REJECTIONS

NUMBER OF BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP TERMINATIONS DUE TO
COMPLIANCE PROBLEMS

We also work closely with the global Product Operations and
other business entities to pre-screen potential new suppliers.
If our initial assessments uncover zero tolerance or threshold
issues, suppliers are rejected.
In 2016, initial assessments were conducted in 184 factories,
and 71 factories were either rejected directly after the initial
assessment identified zero tolerance issues, or were ‘rejected
with a second visit’ due to identification of one or more threshold
issues, which means they were rejected but given the chance
to remediate the non-compliance issues within a specific
timeframe. Overall, the ‘first time rejection rate’ of 39% of all
new factories visited was less than the previous year.
In addition to the ‘first time rejection rate’, we also capture the
‘final rejection rate’. This covers factories directly rejected after
the first visit that have no chance of a second visit as well as
factories rejected after being visited a second time. At the end
of 2016, we had a ‘final rejection rate’ of 4%. This shows the
importance and impact of pre-approval screening as well as
the effort taken by the suppliers to resolve issues and come into
conformance with our Workplace Standards. The remediation
of factory issues is beneficial for workers as it raises the bar
in terms of better and timelier pay, improved benefits, reduced
hours, and the legal protection of formal employment contracts
as well as significant improvements in basic health & safety
within the workplace.

Region

2016

2015

2014

Asia

7

3

13

Americas

2

0

0

EMEA

1

0

0

Global

10

3

13

WORLDWIDE REJECTIONS AFTER INITIAL ASSESSMENT DUE TO
COMPLIANCE PROBLEMS
2016

Total number of
first time rejections 1
First time rejection rate
Total number of
final rejections 2
Final rejection rate

2015

2014

71

101

104

39%

48%

46%

8

20

23

4%

10%

10%

1	Factories that were directly rejected after a first visit, i. e. with no chance of being visited a second time, and
factories that were rejected after initial assessments but which were given a chance for a second visit.
2	Factories that were directly rejected after a first visit, i. e. with no chance of being visited a second time, and
factories that were rejected after being visited a second time.

74

Suppliers who have threshold issues (which are serious but
‘correctable’ non-compliances) are normally given three months
to remediate those issues before being re-audited for final SEA
acceptance.

PERFORMANCE DATA

We work closely with our suppliers to help them improve
their performance. However, where we face situations of
severe or repeated non-compliance, we can and do terminate
business relationships with suppliers. In 2016, we terminated
agreements with ten suppliers for compliance reasons.

S upply chain

ENVIRONMENT

CERTIFICATION OF ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR SUPPLIERS PRODUCING
FOR THE INTERNATIONAL EXPORT MARKET IN %
ISO 14001

100

86

98

OHSAS 18001

98

96

80

In 2016, we worked with 33 athletic footwear suppliers who are
certified in accordance with the International Environmental
Management Standard ISO 14001 and/or the Workplace
Health and Safety Management Standard OHSAS 18001. These
suppliers produced around 96% of ­adidas’ global athletic
footwear sourcing volume.

96

83

60
40
20
0
■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016

Since we have limited control over the direct environmental
impacts of the manufacturing process and how our suppliers act,
the best way to influence them is to encourage the introduction
of environmental management systems, and we have made
implementing such a system mandatory for all our core
suppliers. In order to achieve a certification for a management
system, it requires factory managers to plan, manage, and review
their own environmental performance.

CERTIFICATIONS OBTAINED BY ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR SUPPLIER SITES
PRODUCING FOR THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET 1
Number of FW suppliers

Country

2016

2015

2014

ISO 14001

2016

2015

2014

OHSAS 18001

2016

2015

2014

Argentina

–

–

1

–

–

–

–

–

Brazil

1

–

1

–

–

–

–

–

Cambodia

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

China

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

9

Germany 2

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

–

–

India

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1
7

Indonesia

8

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

Italy 3

1

1

1

–

–

–

–

–

–

Myanmar

3

3

1

1

–

–

1

–

–

Vietnam

16

14

12

12

11

11

12

11

11

Total

42

38

36

33

31

31

33

30

30

75

1	Excluding factories from the Rockport business segment and licensee factories.
2	The site is subject to regular occupational health & safety inspections by authorities, although it does not hold a formal OHSAS 18001 certification.
3	Health and Safety Management System in place that is regularly inspected by local authorities.

PERFORMANCE DATA

CERTIFICATIONS OBTAINED BY ATHLETIC
FOOTWEAR SUPPLIER SITES PRODUCING
FOR THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET

FREIGHT TYPES USED TO SHIP A
­ DIDAS
AND REEBOK PRODUCTS

REDUCING VOLATILE ORGANIC
COMPOUNDS (VOCs)

In 2016, we again tracked the environmental impact related
to the transport of our goods. 2016 was quite stable with a
small reduction in truck freight in Apparel and Hardware and
a slight increase in air freight throughout categories. All in
all, the vast majority of our shipments are via sea freight.

2016 is the year of our biggest success so far: we achieved an
all-time low of an average 14 grams of VOC s per pair of shoes.
Starting with 14.8 grams of VOCs in January we ended up with
13.2 grams of VOCs in December. Performance improvement
in every single country compared to 2015 shows that this is
the result of hard work and a true commitment across our
entire manufacturing base.

FREIGHT TYPES USED TO SHIP ­ADIDAS AND REEBOK PRODUCTS 1

VOCs, which are typically found in solvents used in our
manufacturing process, can – in high concentration – cause
breathing difficulties and other health problems for production
workers. For this reason, we have been requesting for more than
a decade that our footwear suppliers significantly reduce the use
of VOCs in their manufacturing.

% of product shipped

2016

Hardware 2

Footwear

2014

7

8

11

Sea freight

87

87

83

Air freight

6

5

6

Sea and air freight

0

0

0

Truck

17

20

4

Sea freight

78

77

94

Air freight

5

3

2

Sea and air freight

0

0

0

Truck

1

1

2

Sea freight

95

96

96

Air freight

4

3

2

Sea and air freight

0

0

0

Truck
Apparel

2015

By applying innovative as well as environmentally sound bonding
and priming technologies while following the ­adidas guidelines
on the use of chemicals, our athletic footwear suppliers have
been able to reduce the use of VOCs from well above 100 grams
per pair to below 14 grams.

REDUCTION OF VOC EXPOSURE IN GRAMS/PAIR OF ATHLETIC
SPORTS SHOES

1	Figures are expressed as a percentage of the total number of products transported. Data covers products
sourced through Global Operations, excluding local sourcing.
2	Accessories & gear (including caps and socks; in 2015, this category was reclassified and moved from apparel
to hardware).

2000

120

➞

2016

112.8

90
60
30
14.0
0

76

grams/pair

PERFORMANCE DATA

S upply chain

GREEN COMPANY
Since its launch in 2008, the Green Company programme has
continuously improved our environmental impacts across all
our own sites, including administrative offices, production
facilities and distribution centres. Building on eight years of
achievement, the new 2020 targets that are fully embedded in
our overall sustainability strategy demonstrate our continued
focus on environmental leadership within our industry and
raise the bar to new and more ambitious levels.

• Read more about the progress towards these targets
on pages 20, 26, 35, 36

• For more details, please see our 2016 Green Company
Performance Analysis, available on our website

In 2016, a total of 62 adidas corporate sites reported data. Out
of these, 14 sites reported data for the first time. In order to
minimise data errors, and ensure data quality and validity, the
results of these 14 sites were not taken into consideration for
the final KPI calculation, but will be included as of their second
year of reporting.

Energy & Carbon

Water

Waste

Retail

Sustainable
Processes

Enable
carbon neutrality

Manage water
as a vital resource

Close the loop
on waste

Embed sustainability
into our stores

Build and operate
sustainable sites

Achieve a
3% absolute
annual reduction
in Scope 1 and
Scope 2 CO²
emissions

Achieve
water savings
of 35%
per employee
using localised
water reduction
goals
(2008 baseline)

Achieve
50% waste
diversion
for owned
operations

No plastic bags
at retail point
of sale

Expand the
Integrated
Management
System (IMS)
to key sites
globally

Reduce paper
consumption
per employee by
75%
(2008 baseline)

77

Note: Target achievement date is always 12/2020 unless stated otherwise.

LEED Gold
certification
for new flagship
fit-outs

Implement
LEED
at key corporate
sites

PERFORMANCE DATA

GREEN COMPANY 2020 TARGETS

G reen C ompany

AGGREGATED RESULTS 2008–2016: OVERVIEW OF TARGET DEVELOPMENT PER TYPE OF SITE
Target follow-up
per type of site

Energy savings
MWh/m²
Target
2016

Result
2016

Carbon savings
t
Target
2016

Result
2016

Water savings
m³/person
Target
2016

Result
2016

Household waste reduction
t/person
Target
2016

Result
2016

Paper savings
t/person
Target
2016

Result
2016

– 62%

Administration offices

n.a.

– 20%

– 3%

– 17%

– 23%

– 27%

– 28%

– 43%

– 50%

Own production sites

n.a.

– 16%

– 3%

5%

– 23%

– 9%

– 28%

– 20%

– 50%

– 43%

Distribution centres

n.a.

– 15%

– 3%

– 11%

– 23%

– 27%

– 28%

– 9%

– 50%

– 17%

Total

n.a.

– 15%

– 3%

– 11%

– 23%

– 23%

– 28%

– 28%

– 50%

– 49%

Target results for 2016 per type of site

■ Annual linear target achieved ■ Annual linear target not achieved

The following table shows our 2016 performance for energy
consumption, carbon emissions, water consumption, household
waste, and paper consumption for the different administration
offices, own production sites, and distribution centres.

ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2016 COMPANY-WIDE FOR ALL LOCATIONS REPORTING
(INCLUDING 48 SITES)
Environmental data 2016

Total energy consumption
(MWh)

Total carbon emissions
(tonnes)

Total water consumption
(m³)

Total household waste
(tonnes)

Total paper consumption
(tonnes)

Administration offices
Region EMEA

57,126

3,061

88,002

415

91

Region AMERICAS

36,698

15,731

146,459

865

38

5,948

3,754

6,624

not reported

34

99,772

22,546

241,084

1,280

163

Region APAC
Administration offices (total)

Own production sites
Region EMEA

4,262

188

1,925

36

3

Region AMERICAS

30,284

10,613

37,153

664

26

Own production sites (total)

34,546

10,801

39,078

700

29

Distribution centres
Region EMEA

31,960

4,842

23,263

488

71

Region AMERICAS

39,205

12,249

33,586

908

66

2,562

2,109

21,358

2

8

73,727

19,201

78,207

1,398

145

208,045

52,548

358,369

3,378

336

Region APAC
Distribution centres (total)
Total

78

Note: All values in this table are shown as rounded values. Total values can differ from actual sum due to decimal place of individual values.

PERFORMANCE DATA

SUMMARY REPORT 2016

G reen C ompany

INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (IMS)
The Green Company initiative has been the driver for successfully
implementing tools that help us to continuously reduce the
environmental impacts of our corporate sites. One of them is our
Integrated Management System (IMS). In 2016, we expanded our
scope to a fully integrated system. Bringing three management
systems under one roof (ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and BS OHSAS
18001), the Integrated Management System (IMS) allows us
to manage initiatives related to environment, energy, and
occupational health & safety in a single system.

By defining clear procedures and responsibilities that promote
efficient and eco-friendly operations, IMS enables us to improve
our risk management and accident prevention to create a safer
work environment.
Please read more on our website.

IMS CERTIFICATION MATRIX
Region

Management system standard

Certified since

­adidas central management for Green Company, Herzogenaurach, Germany

GLOBAL

ISO 14001
ISO 50001
BS OHSAS 18001

2010

­adidas Office, Portland, USA

AMERICAS

ISO 14001

2010

Reebok Headquarters, Canton, USA

AMERICAS

ISO 14001

2010

TaylorMade-­adidas Golf Headquarters, Carlsbad, USA

AMERICAS

ISO 14001

2010

­adidas Distribution Centre, Spartanburg, USA

AMERICAS

ISO 14001

2010

CCM Hockey Headquarters and Distribution Centre, Montreal, Canada

AMERICAS

ISO 14001

2010

­ didas Headquarters, Herzogenaurach, Germany
a
(incl. the sites World of Sports, World of Global IT, Adi-Dassler-Platz)

EMEA

ISO 14001
ISO 50001
BS OHSAS 18001

2011

Sports Licensed Division Factory, Indianapolis, USA

AMERICAS

ISO 14001
ISO 50001
BS OHSAS 18001

2011

­adidas Footwear Factory, Scheinfeld 1, Germany

EMEA

ISO 14001
ISO 50001
BS OHSAS 18001

1998; 2012

­adidas European Distribution Centre, Scheinfeld 2, Germany

EMEA

ISO 14001
ISO 50001
BS OHSAS 18001

2013

­adidas Area Distribution Centre, Uffenheim, Germany

EMEA

ISO 14001
ISO 50001
BS OHSAS 18001

2013

­adidas Office, Stockport, United Kingdom

EMEA

ISO 14001

2013

­adidas Distribution Centre, Manchester, United Kingdom

EMEA

ISO 14001

2013

­adidas, Central Distribution Centre, Rieste, Germany

EMEA

ISO 14001
ISO 50001
BS OHSAS 18001

2014

­adidas Distribution Centre Langensteinach, Uffenheim, Germany

EMEA

ISO 14001
ISO 50001
BS OHSAS 18001

2016

­adidas, Zaragoza, Spain

EMEA

ISO 14001

2016

79

Stores in the following Western European countries are certified to ISO 50001: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Netherlands,
Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Sweden. Other countries are awaiting the results of ongoing energy audits.

PERFORMANCE DATA

Location

EMPLOYEES
In 2016, adidas saw a further increase in its global employee
base. On 31 December 2016, the company had 60,617
employees, which represents an increase of 9% compared
with 55,555 in the previous year.
New hirings related to the company’s global marketing and sales
organisation aimed at further strengthening key growth areas
and categories were the main drivers of this development. On a
full-time equivalent basis, our company had 51,899 employees
on 31 December 2016 (2015: 47,435).

EMPLOYEE STATISTICS 1
2016

2015

60,617

55,555

Male

50%

50%

Female

50%

50%

Male

70%

71%

Female

30%

29%

Male

73%

76%

Female

27%

24%

Average age of employees (in years)

30

30

Average length of service (in years)

5

4

Total number of employees 2
Total employees (in %)

Management positions (in %)

Management positions (in %) within ­adidas AG 3

EMPLOYEES BY REGION 1 IN 2016

TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2014–2016
64
62

60,617

10% Western Europe

60

19% North America

58
55,555

56
54

19

53,731

9
2

52
50

8

4 10

7% Greater China
19
7

21

8% Latin America
2% Japan
9% MEAA 2
19% Group functions

48

4% Other Businesses

46
44
1 At year end.
2 Middle East, Africa and Other Asian Markets

80

■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016

21% Russia/CIS

PERFORMANCE DATA

1	At year-end. Figures reflect continuing operations as a result of the divestiture of the Rockport business.
2 Number of employees on a headcount basis.
3	Calculated in accordance with German Act on Equal Participation of Women and Men in Executive Positions
in the Private and Public Sector in Germany.

E mployees

HEALTH & SAFETY
HEALTH & SAFETY STATISTICS FOR OUR MAIN ADMINISTRATION OFFICES, PRODUCTION SITES AND DISTRIBUTION CENTRES
2016

2015

2014

Injuries with
>1 lost day

Lost days due
to injury

Number of
employees

Injuries with
>1 lost day

Lost days due
to injury

Number of
employees

Injuries with
>1 lost day

Lost days due
to injury

Number of
employees

­adidas Headquarters – WOS Herzogenaurach, Germany

23

447

4,245 1

27

230

3,767 1

19

258

3,534 1

­adidas Headquarters – ADP Herzogenaurach, Germany

2

8

1,079

1

8

121

1,079

1

2

26

978 1

­adidas Headquarters – WOGIT Herzogenaurach, Germany

0

0

872

1

1

4

872

1

1

15

861 1

­adidas Factory Outlet, Herzogenaurach, Germany

2

10

137

4

40

118

3

20

126

­adidas Office, Amsterdam, Netherlands

0

0

642

0

0

550

0

0

520

­adidas Office, Stockport, United Kingdom

0

0

435

0

0

435

0

0

425

­adidas Office, Landersheim, France

0

0

236

2

22

279

3

21

301

­adidas Office, Monza, Italy

7

167

280

6

31

245

4

26

323

­adidas Office, Zaragoza, Spain

0

0

252

1

18

244

0

0

251
1,105

­adidas Office, Moscow, Russia

5

288

765

2

110

760

4

83

­adidas Office, Portland, USA

1

7

1,310

2

42

964

0

0

796

Reebok Headquarters, Canton, USA

0

0

267

0

0

1,208

1

5

1,175

10

122

604

5

81

714

22

1,127

827

0

0

192

0

0

187

0

0

204

TaylorMade-­adidas Golf Headquarters, Carlsbad, USA
­adidas Administrative Service Bldg. 3, Spartanburg, USA
­adidas Office, Woodbridge, Canada

0

0

307

0

0

281

0

0

276

­adidas Office Baueri, Brazil

0

0

376

0

0

335

2

15

323

­adidas Office, Shanghai, China

0

0

756

0

0

735

1

1

889

­adidas Office, Taikoo Shing, Hong Kong

0

0

300

2

110

300

0

0

296

­adidas Hong Kong Ltd. Office, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong

1

27

155

0

0

147

1

9

151

­adidas Office, Gurgaon, India

0

0

340

0

0

320

0

0

388

­adidas Office, Seoul, South Korea

0

0

135

0

0

120

0

0

310

­adidas Office, Taipei, Taiwan

0

0

139

0

0

230

0

0

150

­adidas Office, Singapore, Singapore
Administration offices (total)

0

0

293

0

0

170

0

0

230

51

1,076

14,060

60

809

14,060

63

1,606

14,439

Health & Safety data 2014–2016 company-wide for locations reporting.

81

1 Number of workplaces, as actual number of employees is not available

PERFORMANCE DATA

Administration offices

E mployees

2016

Injuries with
>1 lost day

Lost days due
to injury

Number of
employees

2015

Injuries with
>1 lost day

Lost days due
to injury

Number of
employees

2014

Injuries with
>1 lost day

Lost days due
to injury

Number of
employees

Own production sites

­adidas Footwear Factory, Scheinfeld 1, Germany
Sports Licensed Division Factory, Indianapolis, USA

5

68

246

8

27

196

12

166

202

15

367

1,156

15

365

998

12

164

977

Sports Licensed Division Factory, Mattapoisett, USA

1

1

106

0

0

114

2

60

110

Sports Licensed Division Factory, Cedar Rapids, USA

3

66

182

2

52

134

0

0

165

CCM Hockey Factory, St Jean, Canada

0

0

56

1

9

56

0

0

56

CCM Hockey Factory, St Hyacinthe, Canada

6

8

154

3

25

154

2

130

154

30

510

1,900

29

478

1,652

28

520

1,664

Own production sites (total)

2016

Injuries with
>1 lost day

Lost days due
to injury

Number of
employees

2015

Injuries with
>1 lost day

Lost days due
to injury

Number of
employees

2014

Injuries with
>1 lost day

Lost days due
to injury

Number of
employees

8

108

131

9

83

167

7

134

167

­adidas Distribution Centre, Uffenheim, Germany

12

75

300

15

163

241

11

84

203

­adidas Distribution Centre, Rieste, Germany

40

438

450

38

337

354

15

268

291

6

62

170

9

141

170

4

93

134

­adidas Distribution Centre, Scheinfeld 2, Germany

­adidas Distribution Centre, Caspe, Spain
­adidas Distribution Centre, Dettwiller, France

0

0

20

0

0

19

0

0

20

­adidas Distribution Centre, Manchester, United Kingdom

7

1

204

3

46

149

4

40

145

TMaG Distribution Centre, Basingstoke, United Kingdom

1

16

171

0

0

164

1

31

1

­adidas Distribution Centre, Obukhiv, Ukraine

0

0

420

0

0

868

0

0

35
903

­adidas Distribution Centre, Moscow, Russia

0

0

22

0

0

22

0

0

­adidas Distribution Centre, Canot, Israel

0

0

95

0

0

40

0

0

48

­adidas Distribution Centre 1 (Apparel), Spartanburg, USA

0

0

43

0

0

42

0

0

43

­adidas Distribution Centre 2 (Footwear), Spartanburg, USA

0

0

39

0

0

43

0

0

42

TMaG Distribution Centre, Liberty, USA

0

0

3

0

0

3

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

CCM Hockey Headquarters and Distribution Centre,
Montreal, Canada

9

37

371

15

1,110

400

12

1,196

402

­adidas Distribution Centre, Embu, Brazil

1

6

134

1

60

142

1

60

460

­adidas Distribution Centre, Pudahuel, Chile

5

13

162

14

242

162

10

249

185

­adidas Distribution Centre Tultitlan-Blokk, Mexico

3

47

120

2

23

66

2

152

210
146

­adidas Distribution Centre, Suzhou, China

1

12

345

4

25

155

0

0

­adidas Hong Kong Ltd., Distribution Centre, Shatin, Hong Kong

4

280

63

1

3

58

4

340

57

97

1,095

3,263

111

2,233

3,265

71

2,647

3,492

178

2,681

19,223

200

3,519

18,977

162

4,773

19,595

Distribution centres (total)
Total
Health & safety data 2014–2016 company-wide for locations reporting.

82

n.r. = not reported
n.a. = not applicable

PERFORMANCE DATA

Distribution centres

COMMUNITY AFFAIRS
In 2016, we saw a decrease in donation requests compared to
the previous two years. One of the reasons is that we reworked
our guidance for external requests to provide even greater clarity
on our corporate giving scope. In general, donation or funding
requests significantly varied in nature and purpose. Incoming
requests were carefully reviewed against the ­adidas Corporate
Giving Guidelines to ensure alignment with corporate policies,
procedures, and the available budget framework.
Compared to 2015, the number of supported projects decreased,
which reflects our more stringent approach in conducting needs
assessments with clear internal definitions. This helped us to
continuously focus on key projects with fewer but more impactful
organisations.
The amount of product donations increased, especially in region
EMEA. There we targeted major volumes of product donations

to support people in severe need, such as refugees at the
Turkish-Syrian border as well as in various refugee camps all
over Europe. To effectively respond to the refugee crisis, adidas
continued its financial support in order to ensure sustainable
and purposeful assistance.
Compared to previous years, we saw a slight decrease in volunteer
hours across our global workforce, but again an increase in
volunteer hours among employees in region EMEA. This is the
result of continuous employee involvement, in particular in the
context of refugee support.
With our data tracking system, we aim to fully cover activities
from all subsidiaries worldwide. We are constantly reviewing our
approach and the system to improve data quality.
Read our Corporate Giving Guidelines on our website.

Region

EMEA
Latin America
North America
Asia Pacific
Total

Donation requests
received

Total number of
projects supported

Units of products
donated

Volunteer
hours

2016

2015

2014 2

2016

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

2016

2015

2014

2,725

2,459

2,924

249

165

384

482,204

144,567

130,513

35,263

33,480

20,935

115

124

77

45

54

7

73,916

74,013

5,581

4,151

3,801

3,005

1,642

9,023

7,702

111

683

590

59,011

27,202

367,349

1,624

2,862

3,202

241

507

539

71

66

58

23,158

9,659

41,406

3,853

7,710

1,608

4,723

12,113

11,242

476

968

1,039

638,289

255,441

544,849

44,891

47,853

28,750

83

1	Numbers include: brand activities, corporate activities, Reebok Foundation as well as worldwide a
­ didas Fund activities.
2	Restatement: Due to double counts caused by the data tracking systems, the 2014 donation requests received for the EMEA region had to be corrected.

PERFORMANCE DATA

COMMUNITY AFFAIRS STATISTICS 1

CONTACT CREDITS
We welcome your views about our efforts to be a more sustainable company.
YOU CAN CONTACT US AT

­a didas AG
Adi-Dassler-Str. 1
91074 Herzogenaurach
Germany
Phone + 49 (0) 91 32 84 - 0
Email:
sustainability@adidas-group.com
(for inquiries about our sustainability programme)
corporate.press@adidas-group.com
(for media inquiries)
w w w.adidas-group.com/sustainability

We strive to repor t in the most accurate, clear, and reliable way possible. To improve
readabilit y, registered trademarks as well as references to rounding dif ferences are
omitted in this Sustainabilit y Repor t.

CREDITS
Editing:
KRISTIN KOOPMANN
— Wort.Text.Konzept.
Design:
STRICHPUNKT
— Stuttgart ⁄ Berlin

©2017 ­adidas AG

