149.0
Annual Report 2014/15

Reasons to invest in Aurubis shares
Diversified business model with leading position along
the ­copper value chain
Innovative, strong company with high expertise in metal
­extraction, processing and recycling
Risk-averse business model with first-class
risk management systems

Sustainable investment: environmentally friendly and
­resource-efficient – “Prime Status” classification from
oekom Research AG and Best Newcomer Germany in the
­investor initiative CDP in 2015
Stable shareholder structure
Constant dividend policy

The Group in Figures / Profile

Good earnings history; stable balance sheet structure
and robust cash flows

<

The Group in Figures
o T 001
IFRS

2014/2015 3)

2013/2014 3), 4)

Change

Results
Revenues

€ million

10,995

11,241

(2 %)

EBITDA

€ million

336

216

56 %

Operating EBITDA

€ million

500

288

74 %

EBIT

€ million

200

88

> 100 %

Operating EBIT

€ million

370

167

> 100 %

EBT

€ million

170

58

> 100 %

Operating EBT 1)

€ million

343

137

> 100 %

Consolidated net income

€ million

134

44

> 100 %

Operating consolidated net income

€ million

257

99

> 100 %

Net cash flow

€ million

365

401

(9 %)

%

18.7

8.5

–

€ million

2,558

1,761

45 %

€

2.95

0.95

> 100 %

Operating earnings per share

€

5.68

2.17

> 100 %

Dividend per share

€

1.35

1.00

35 %

Employees (fiscal year-end)

Number

6,321

6,359

(1 %)

Personnel expenses

€ million

431

415

4%

Operating ROCE 1)
Aurubis shares
Market capitalization
Earnings per share
2)

Human resources

Production
Concentrate throughput

1,000 t

2,294

2,221

3%

Copper scrap input

1,000 t

294

299

(2 %)

Cathode output

1,000 t

1,138

1,126

1%

Wire rod output

1,000 t

764

742

3%

Continuous cast shapes output

1,000 t

170

183

(7 %)

Flat rolled products and specialty wire output

1,000 t

216

228

(5 %)

1) Corporate control parameters.
2) 2014/15 figure is the proposed dividend.
3) Values have been “operationally” adjusted for measurement effects deriving from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, from
­copper price-related measurement effects on inventories and from purchase price allocation impacts, primarily on property, plant and equipment,
­commencing from fiscal year 2010/11 onwards.
4) Prior-year figures have been adjusted pursuant to IAS 8 (more detailed information can be found on p. 127 et seq. of this Annual Report).

Profile
International leader in copper
cathode production with a purity
level of 99.99 % copper

Production sites in Europe and
North America with a global
sales and distribution network

Largest continuous cast wire
rod fabricator worldwide

Aurubis Recycling stands
out due to:
No. 1 in copper
recycling worldwide
About 6,300
­employees

Closing-the-loop solutions
Leading technology
Multi-metal recycling
High resource efficiency
Sustainability
Environmental protection

The Group in Figures / Profile

World’s leading manufacturer
of flat copper products

<

Production of silver, gold,
sulfuric acid and other
­specialty products

Leading international
position in environmental protection

1

149.0
Copper is the constant in our business. It can be reused nearly an infinite number
of times and doesn’t lose quality. Other aspects of our business are always
changing:
We receive raw materials and recycling materials in varying qualities. Prices on the
copper exchange fluctuate. Technical progress opens up new options for using
copper all the time. The conditions in our Company’s environment are also subject
to constant change. We don’t just react to these shifts; we address them actively.
With ongoing development and, from time to time, with a fundamental upgrade.
In year 149 of the Company’s history, we’re working on Version 149.0. It reflects the
demands of changing markets and the relationships with suppliers and customers.
It supports a comprehensive network in the expanded Group and targets improved
operational and production processes with accordingly adjusted technologies and
organizational structures. It establishes the principle of sustainability even more
strongly than before. Furthermore, it takes into account that the working world is
changing and, with it, the requirements for our employees.
The development of the upgrade 149.0 has made significant progress. This report
provides more information about what Aurubis is striving for with Version 149.0
and which features are already in use.

Table of Contents
2 To Our Shareholders

29 Corporate Governance

6 149.0

43 Aurubis Shares on the Capital Market

6

Market Environment

47 Combined Management Report

8

Digitalization

109 Consolidated Financial Statements

12

Value Chain

196 Auditors’ Report

16

Human Resources

197 Responsibility Statement

20 Company Management

198 Further Information

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

2

To Our Shareholders

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Executive Board Member)

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Erwin Faust
(Executive Board Spokesman)

3

The images and news stories that have reached us in the past several weeks and months are
present in our minds and will stay there for quite a while. Large groups of refugees, people
making their way to Europe and terrible terror attacks that clearly show us that Europe isn’t
an isolated island when it comes to unstable global affairs. Many of the issues that we dealt
with in the past fiscal year 2014/15 and that accompanied and influenced our business and
our activities pale in comparison with these events.
Let us nevertheless take a brief look back. In the past fiscal year, Aurubis was in an
environment that reflected difficult general trends, including weakening economic
momentum in China, the Greek debt crisis and the central banks’ interest rate policies,
just to name a few. The raw material markets were also under pressure; the copper price
and other raw material prices declined. The fact that we are able to report an excellent
fiscal year with very good earnings despite these developments is due first and foremost
to the positive situation on our significant individual markets: the copper concentrate
supply was good with high treatment and refining charges; the same was true for refining
charges for copper scrap. Sulfuric acid revenues improved considerably and the cathode
premiums were also at a high level. The metal gain was also very good. At the beginning
of the fiscal year, we had assumed that conditions on all of the relevant markets would
be weaker. This quickly changed for the better, however.
This isn’t the norm, though, and we know this all too well from our varied history over the
past 149 years. The general conditions and the situation on the markets can shift very quickly.
Aurubis, which operated under the name Norddeutsche Affinerie AG until April 1, 2009, is
approaching a notable anniversary in 2016 that not many other companies around the world
have reached. In its 150-year history, Aurubis has experienced and withstood many changes.
Due in large part to people’s close connection and identification with copper as a material
and with their work in the multi-layered copper production and processing procedures,
Aurubis has become what it is today: a Company that holds a recognized position and voice
in the global copper world and that has a good position due to its integrated business
model, with openness to taking advantage of opportunities and changes.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

4

To Our Shareholders

Aurubis is an attractive employer that makes decisive contributions to our Company’s
raw material supply and to sustainable resource management with its comprehensive
recycling activities.
All of these factors benefited us in fiscal year 2014/15 in addition to the positive situation
on our individual markets. Our integrated position along the value chain of copper has
proven itself. We generated an outstanding operating result and, at 18.7 %, the operating
return on capital employed is well above the target of 15 %. We strengthened our balance
sheet further and have excellent and very robust balance sheet ratios. Last but not least,
we are in a position to recommend an attractive dividend to our shareholders.
We want to continue doing so in the future as well. However, we must ensure that we are
also able to overcome less favorable market circumstances. The view in 2014/15 was mainly
directed inward in order to optimize our Company’s processes further. We have worked on
an upgrade for the Aurubis system that ultimately improves on the existing system and
provides it with expanded functions – the upgrade Aurubis 149.0. The fundamental work
has been carried out with internal participation across the Group as well as external
support. Some of the many individual projects are already being implemented, and others
will follow and support the further development of the Company. We want to introduce
integrated management approaches in the supply and processing of raw materials in terms
of value added – from concentrates and copper scrap to cathodes. The Supply Chain
Management division was created for this purpose within the organization. We have also
adopted a new perspective when it comes to recycling. We would like to develop more
strongly as a service provider in this area and provide our customers with comprehensive
solutions that contribute to closing product cycles.
Company changes of any kind require us to bring our employees along for the journey, as
we will not be able to avoid adjustment processes in our way of thinking and doing. With
the growing influence of Industry 4.0, the working world will increasingly shift towards
digitalization. Other far-reaching topics that we are facing include demographic change,

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

5

the recruitment of new employees, professional education, equal opportunities and work/
life balance, just to name a few. Shaking up learned – and sometimes ingrained – ways of
thinking and working should generate new ideas and facilitate an innovative approach to
solving problems.
The course of the past fiscal year and recent events show that change and the uncertainties
that accompany it have become an essential part of our lives. They will therefore increasingly
impact our everyday work. The conditions on the individual sub-markets have also become
less favorable again. We will therefore work even harder to improve our position and to
continue the initiated Aurubis upgrade in the anniversary year 2016.
We will celebrate the anniversary year 2016 and our 150-year history with a series of special
events. You can find more information about this on our website, www.aurubis.com.
Sincerely,

Erwin Faust

Dr. Stefan Boel

Executive Board
Erwin Faust

Dr. Stefan Boel

held managerial positions in the Volkswagen
Group, at VAW Aluminium and as of 2003 at
Novelis Europa, a sub-group of Novelis Inc.
(formerly Alcan Inc.). As the Chief Financial
Officer there, he served on the supervisory
committees of the European companies and for a
time as the commercial director of the German
company. Erwin Faust was appointed Chief
Financial Officer of the Aurubis Executive Board
in 2008. He has been the interim Executive Board
Spokesman since November 1, 2015.

worked as of 2001 in Product Development
and Marketing in the former Copper Division
of Umicore and subsequently became the
commercial director of the Umicore plant in
Bulgaria. After the demerger of Cumerio from
the Umicore Group, Dr. Boel became Vice
President Copper Refining and Mining Projects
and a member of the Executive Committee.
As part of the integration of Cumerio in the
Aurubis Group, he joined the Executive Board
in 2008. He is responsible for BU Copper
Products and, on an interim basis, for BU
Primary Copper.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

6

Market Environment

GLOBAL TRENDS
ESTABLISH NEW PARAMETERS
Technological and societal change, sustainable resource
management and dynamic product markets,
digitalization and new work environments – just a few
of the changes that impact us and our business.
We view these trends as opportunities.

Our core business hasn’t changed much since
the beginning: We produce copper cathodes
whose high purity stands for excellent quality.
Our raw materials include copper concentrates
and recycling materials and our products include
continuous cast wire rod, specialty wire, shapes,
rolled products, strip and profiles made of
copper and copper alloys. Furthermore, tramp
elements and additional products, such as fine
gold, pure silver, sulfuric acid, selenium and iron
silicate are produced in our processes. In total,
we produce over 1.1 million t of quality copper
per year and are thus one of the leading
companies in our industry.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The world is changing. The intensifying
globalization of the economy, higher volatility,
the interconnectedness of the markets,
urbanization, mobility, sustainability and climate
protection – these are all developments that
directly affect our business. We are therefore
called on to look ahead and adapt Aurubis to the
shifting conditions. In year 149 of the Company’s
history, it’s time for an upgrade to Version 149.0.
This upgrade includes an integrated view of
the value chain and the digitally supported
connection of its individual steps and processes
in the Company. The structures from raw

7

material purchasing to the production of
finished copper cathodes are very complex. The
composition of the concentrates and recycling
materials varies strongly. There are also technical
and economic requirements that even work in
the opposite direction, such as retaining
inventory. We are addressing this multi-layered
framework with a new approach. The formation
of an internal Supply Chain Management
division within the Group organization is the
concrete implementation of this way of thinking.

In addition to securing the raw material supply,
recycling is becoming a service that involves our
customers as suppliers of valuable materials.
The production of by-metals and other tramp
elements will be a stronger focus in the future. In
the spirit of resource efficiency and in the name
of our Sustainability Strategy. A comprehensive
project to improve results, like those that have
been successfully executed in other areas of the
Group, is currently setting the course for the
future of the Hamburg and Lünen sites as well.

And a lot is going on in other areas as well.
Copper recycling has always been important for
us – but is increasingly gaining a new
significance. With “closing-the-loop” solutions,
we are taking one big step forward.

The upgrade 149.0 will change Aurubis across
the board – from an overall perspective and in
the small details. Because of this, we include
every employee and take them along with us
on this journey.

The renovated off-gas cleaning facility for
the sulfuric acid plant in Hamburg is one of
many examples of how we approach the
increase in requirements for technical
environmental protection.

8

Digitalization

Previous Business Units

Primary Copper

Recycling/Precious Metals

Copper Products

OUR UPGRADE SETS THE
COURSE FOR THE FUTURE
Business Units as of July 1, 2015

Primary Copper

Copper Products

9

We act with foresight: The “Aurubis system” received an
extensive upgrade one year before its 150-year anniversary.
And this upgrade sets the course for the years to come.

Everyone is talking about Industry 4.0, the
complete digitalization and integration of the
industrial value chain. The implementation of the
objectives of Industry 4.0 is not only laid out in
the German coalition agreement; our customers’
industrial associations are also intensively
focusing on this topic.
Accordingly, the following question was discussed
during this year’s “Aurubis Executive Dialogue”,
the conference for our Group’s top management:
What is the significance of Industry 4.0 for the
copper industry in general and for Aurubis in
particular? An undoubtedly large significance –
this quickly became clear during the discussion.
As a result, a committee will address the issue in
the future: the Industry 4.0 Think Tank. Its
purpose is to find answers to the following
important question: What does Industry 4.0

mean for our Group in practice? How do we want
to handle it? How will our production processes
look in the future? What will change throughout
the industry? This year’s management meeting
didn’t only reveal new areas of action; it also
demonstrated that many things are already
underway when it comes to the digitalization and
integration of our value chain. The expanded
possibilities of digitalization in raw material
procurement and production, as well as product
sales and the new concept planned for our IT
systems, are notable first steps.
It must be kept in mind for all of the measures
that Aurubis’ raw material, process and sales
structures are exceedingly complex. This begins
with the raw materials, whose type, consistency
and quality can vary a great deal. Different
delivery routes and timeframes have to be taken

10

Digitalization

The digitalization
of the value chain is
also a topic for the
industries of Aurubis’
customers.

Good to know:
Industry 4.0
Our main customer industries have started the initiative “Industry 4.0
Platform” to develop technologies, standards, business and organizational
models and encourage their practical implementation in a cross-sector
exchange. For now, it is important to view Industry 4.0 as an intellectual
approach that brings together real production and information technology.
In the process, the separate solutions that have been used up to now will be
embedded in a single network. However, Industry 4.0 can’t be implemented
with radical changes but with steady development.
Advanced analytics
Advanced analytics and big data are terms that are regularly mentioned
in the media. They describe the fact that modern computer systems and
mathematical methods enable support for relevant business decisions
from a large volume of data. With the help of advanced analytics, it’s
possible to solve very large, complex problems with computers instead
of manually.
Project “SCOPE”
The name SCOPE stands for “Supply Chain Optimization and Excellence.”
SCOPE is a model-based tool that depicts the entire primary copper supply
chain from concentrate to cathode, taking commercial and technical
aspects into account. The model utilizes mathematical optimization, an
advanced analytics method, for calculation purposes. SCOPE is currently
used in the Supply Chain Management division to support value-based
production planning and procurement decisions.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

11

Digitally supported
control and monitoring
in the tankhouse at the
Pirdop site.

into account due to the broadly, in some cases
globally, distributed suppliers. The conflicting
goals of delivering the raw material supply on
schedule, managing the inventory necessary for
operations and keeping the capital commitment
low also have to be negotiated. In addition, the
flows of goods within our international Group are
diverse and characterized by dependencies. On
top of that, the processing options vary and the
customer is offered a broad variety of products at
the end of the value chain.
To make these complex group-wide processes
with their accompanying dependencies and
interactions transparent and ultimately to
manage them in an optimal fashion, the Supply
Chain Management division – SCM for short –
was created. This effective new organizational
entity reports directly to the Executive Board
Chairman. SCM connects and manages
concentrate purchasing, recycling material
procurement and production planning and is
involved up to the sale of by-products.
The new division optimizes the input mix for the
production facilities at the different Group sites.
The purpose of SCM is to create a new and
comprehensive level of transparency. All of the
information and data related to the value chain
are combined, processed and become the basis
of planning.

This isn’t possible any more with traditional
manual planning tools. Instead, we will utilize
advanced analytics and a program called “SCOPE”.
The latter is a universal, value-based planning
model that depicts the entire supply chain from
concentrate to cathode in Hamburg and Pirdop,
taking technical restrictions and commercial
conditions into consideration. With the help of
this model, we can achieve the best combination
of raw materials and thus the optimal value added
under the market circumstances. The plan is to
integrate other sites into the model as well. In the
long term, we want to develop the program from
a prototype to standardized software for the
entire Aurubis Group.
At the end – depending on the raw material
quality and availability as well as the contribution
to earnings – the result is an optimal raw material
mix that is precisely tailored to the plants’
possibilities. This means that the capabilities of the
individual facilities will be utilized even better in
the future.
To orient the current IT systems to this
comprehensive, fundamental approach, we have
started a new project called AIR. This is the
abbreviation for the “Aurubis IT Roadmap”.
Growing data and system quality is becoming
increasingly significant for Aurubis’ level of
success. The further development of the IT
landscape should therefore make the material
and value streams more transparent and better
integrate the individual systems necessary for this
purpose.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

12

Value Chain

Copper production

Tankhouse

New products –
higher added value

Tramp elements
– Conventional iron silicate
– Others

Products

– New iron silicate
– Others

Marketing to new and
established customers

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

13

WE CREATE A VARIETY OF
INTERFACES TO OUR
CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS

From the raw material to the product. And not
just for copper. As part of our Supply Chain Management,
we have placed a stronger focus on tramp
elements and want to increase added value on the product side.
We also close the material cycle when it comes to recycling:
from the product back to the raw material.

During the production of our exchange-tradable
copper cathodes, various tramp elements
accumulate which can be used to produce
marketable products. We want to pursue new
approaches in the future to market these
specialty products better. A great deal is being
investigated and developed in various projects.
However, it is still too early for concrete results.

Iron silicate is a good example for how we
want to achieve higher added value and better
marketing for tramp elements. We have started
a project to bring out the valuable metals
contained in the iron silicate slags that
accumulate in our smelting processes optimally.
At the same time, the goal is also to increase
the purity of the final product, iron silicate. In
this way, we want to secure our existing
markets and explore new applications.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

14

Value Chain

Closing the loop – the recycling route of the future

Production
A multi-step cleaning process
for copper scrap and metalbearing production residues
produces marketable cathode
copper of the highest quality,
which is used to fabricate
various copper products.

Usage
From cathode to intermediate
to finished product. Copper is
used in countless applications,
especially when it comes to
conducting electricity and
heat. Excellent alloying ability
and corrosion resistance also
set copper apart.

Recycling
During processing and at the
end of the product life cycle,
metals accumulate that flow
back to the material cycle due
to their excellent recyclability
and existing process technology.
Aurubis provides tailored
solutions for this purpose.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

15

Copper-bearing
stamp scrap
before it is
recycled.

We are also taking completely new approaches to
recycling. We want to focus even more strongly
on sustainability aspects when it comes to
processing recycling raw materials. Now, raw
material security and product business have given
way to a closed material cycle – resulting in
improved raw material management and usage.
The key phrase is “closing the loop”. With this
approach, we hope to attract more customers as
raw material suppliers in the future. We take back
production waste and residues with a varying
copper content and process them into copper
again. This form of cooperation strengthens
customer loyalty and benefits all participants.
Both the customer and Aurubis fulfill their
responsibility of producing as efficiently and
sustainably as possible.
A good example of cooperation with customers
is the marketing of the residual material zincbearing oxide, which accumulates in the KRS
processes in Lünen. One partner company
produces zinc oxide from the zinc in the material,
while a second partner converts the by-product
lead sulfate into lead carbonate. This is then
returned to us – closing the loop.

We want to offer additional service to our
suppliers and customers with a digital platform.
The purpose of the platform is to optimize the
delivery and contract processing but also to make
supporting service functions more accessible and
to provide a contact portal for new business.
Another goal in this context is to set standards,
for example for compliance and sustainability, and
to view administration as a competitive factor.
The “Ultrawire” project is especially futureoriented. It goes beyond normal research and
development work in both its aspirations and its
timeframe. The objective is to produce a new
copper-carbon compound that conducts
electricity much better than the current electrical
conductors. The 14 universities and companies
involved in the project, including Aurubis, don’t
anticipate quick results that can be converted to
new products immediately. However, our
participation shows that we have been trying
very early on to recognize and support ­
forward-looking developments.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

16

Human Resources

Our objective is to
train and educate
employees
comprehensively.

RETHINKING
APPROACHES TO COOPERATION

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

17

We handle the changes in the working world
with fresh ideas. We are repositioning
ourselves together – with transparent communication,
knowledge transfer and job rotation.

The digital shift is changing society, companies
and the working world for many people. The
individual is increasingly taking on a new, more
responsible role: from an employee who merely
carries out tasks to one who plans, manages
and controls. Executing this change consciously
and successfully isn’t always easy – among
other reasons, because the requirements on the
customer side are increasing and global
competition is intensifying.
We are shaping this change actively and
preemptively. First and foremost, this means that
we meet each employee in his or her familiar
workplace and provide support. Early and
transparent communication of the changing
demands is at the center of our communication
with our employees.
How is this approach reflected in our everyday
work? For example, in the newly emerging and
– above all – holistic training and continuing
education concept. The term “holistic” in this case
doesn’t merely refer to transferring the material
but also to the broad spectrum spanning from
dual vocational education as it is practiced in
Germany to qualifications for employees with an
academic degree. Under the project name

“Aurubis Campus”, the training and qualification
center in the Group is being planned in close
cooperation with the Research, Development &
Innovation department. Through intensive
cooperation with a number of universities in
Germany and abroad, we bring our employees
up to speed with the latest knowledge and
technology. In addition to providing further
qualifications, we attract excellent young
employees and participate in innovation
projects as part of this international university
cooperation.
The hiring process for successor planning and
the replacement of retiring employees will also
change. The usual procedures and criteria are
losing significance, as we want to concentrate
much more strongly on promoting and
developing talents. In the hiring process, we
rely on systematic management audits that
bring together managers, HR and external
experts. The participants are included
extensively. These audits are used as part of
annual reviews for succession planning and are
a condition for additional development and
career steps. In this respect, the careers of
specialists and experts will be viewed in a new
light, as they will be weighted just as much as

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

18

Human Resources

Grateful for a new
challenge: Lode
Rosiers – from Human
Resources Manager
to Executive Director
Copper Products
Operations.

Job rotation report
“We implemented important organizational changes at Aurubis Belgium in November
2014. Twelve of our plant’s 37 managers received a new function, mainly through lateral
job rotation, meaning that they didn’t change levels in the hierarchy but instead their
areas of responsibility. The production sectors and the HR department were included
in these changes in particular. The objectives were to develop the managers personally
and to adjust their management skills to the new positions.
The preparation phase for the job rotation took about six months. A number of
managers from the operational areas, Corporate HR and the Aurubis Belgium
Management Team participated.
In the process, I switched from HR management to production. This was a considerable
challenge for me but also a significant motivator to start something new.”
Lode Rosiers

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

19

the management functions in the Group.
An internationally active group like Aurubis is a
global network for the people who contribute
their work, their knowledge and their experience
at the individual interfaces: people from different
countries and cultures, younger and older people,
men and women, career starters and experienced
employees who form a large global team here.
Together, they utilize their diverse abilities and
contribute to achieving new goals again and again.
The very good cooperation beyond national
borders should become even better. This is why
managers are working on projects together in
networks. The rotation of employees in the Group
– from site to site or from job to job – helps make

future cooperation even smoother and more
productive. Employee mobility in this context also
means employee motivation in many cases.
This view is based on initial experiences with job
rotation, for example at Aurubis Belgium, which
have been decidedly positive. The change in
duties, which was a change in perspectives at
the same time, was welcomed with enthusiasm.
It is also compelling that this form of knowledge
transfer, knowledge retention and knowledge
deepening serves all of the participants personally
as well as the Group as a whole. The continuation
of the program is currently being prepared. It will
shake up existing structures and create spaces for
new ideas.

A crucial factor for our Sustainability Strategy – people

ECONOMY

PEOPLE
– Occupational safety and health protection
– Training and continuing education
–R
 esponsibility in the supply chain

Our Copper
for your Life

ucts
od
Pr

PEOPLE

Proce
sse
s

ECONOMY
– Economic stability
– Innovation

ENVIRONMENT
– Resource efficiency and recycling
– Energy
–W
 ater and air

Raw

m a te rials

ENVIRONMENT

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

20

Company Management

Executive Board
Dr. Bernd Drouven, Hamburg, until October 31, 2015
born: September 19, 1955
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Board Member for
Business Unit Primary Copper,
Director of Industrial Relations since July 1, 2015
(dispatched from the Supervisory Board to the Executive
Board from November 1, 2014 to October 31, 2015)
»» NITHH gGmbH, Hamburg
Chairman of the Supervisory Board

Erwin Faust, Hamburg
born: January 4, 1957
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Board Spokesman since
November 1, 2015, Director of Industrial Relations on an
interim basis since November 1, 2015
and responsible for the Corporate Functions,
appointed until September 30, 2018
»» Aurubis Belgium nv/sa, Brussels, Belgium
Director

Dr. Stefan Boel, Hamme, Belgium
born: June 9, 1966
Executive Board Member for Business Unit Copper
­Products and, on an interim basis, Executive Board Member
for Business Unit ­Primary Copper since November 1, 2015,
appointed until April 30, 2021
»» Aurubis Belgium nv/sa, Brussels, Belgium
Director

Dr. Frank Schneider, Moers, until June 30, 2015
born: September 10, 1957
Executive Board Member for Business Unit Recycling/
Precious Metals, Director of Industrial Relations
»» Aurubis Bulgaria AD, Pirdop, Bulgaria
Director until October 2, 2015

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

21
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Supervisory Board
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann, Salzgitter
Chairman,
Chairman of the Executive Board of Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter
»» Hüttenwerke Krupp Mannesmann GmbH, Duisburg +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Ilsenburger Grobblech GmbH, Ilsenburg +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» KHS GmbH, Dortmund +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Mannesmannröhren-Werke GmbH, Mülheim/Ruhr +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Öffentliche Lebensversicherung Braunschweig,
Braunschweig
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Öffentliche Sachversicherung Braunschweig,
Braunschweig
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Peiner Träger GmbH, Peine+
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Flachstahl GmbH, Salzgitter +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Mannesmann Grobblech GmbH,
	Mühlheim/Ruhr +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Mannesmann Handel GmbH, Düsseldorf +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» TÜV Nord AG, Hanover
Member of the Supervisory Board

Burkhard Becker, Hattingen
Member of the Executive Board of Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter
»» EUROPIPE GmbH, Mülheim/Ruhr +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Ilsenburger Grobblech GmbH, Ilsenburg +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Mannesmannröhren-Werke GmbH, Mülheim/Ruhr +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Nord/LB Capital Management AG, Hanover
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Peiner Träger GmbH, Peine +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Flachstahl GmbH, Salzgitter +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Mannesmann Grobblech GmbH,
Mühlheim/Ruhr +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Mannesmann Precision GmbH,
Mülheim/Ruhr +
Member of the Supervisory Board
Dr. Bernd Drouven, Hamburg
Returned to the Supervisory Board on November 1, 2015,
former Chief Executive Officer of Aurubis AG
»» NITHH gGmbH, Hamburg
Chairman of the Supervisory Board

Hans-Jürgen Grundmann, Seevetal *,
until September 30, 2015
Deputy Chairman,
shop mechanic,
Deputy Chairman of the Works Council of Aurubis AG

+ = group companies of Salzgitter AG
* = elected by the employees

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

22

Company Management

Jan Eulen, Kummerfeld *
District Manager of the Mining, Chemical and Energy
Industrial Union Hamburg/Harburg
»» ESSO Deutschland GmbH, Hamburg
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Exxon Mobil Central Europe Holding GmbH, Hamburg
Member of the Supervisory Board
Dr.-Ing. Joachim Faubel, Hamburg *
Employee in Corporate Controlling at Aurubis AG
Renate Hold-Yilmaz, Hamburg *
Deputy Chairwoman since October 2, 2015,
clerical employee,
Chairwoman of the Works Council of Aurubis AG
Dr. Sandra Reich, Hanover
Member of the Executive Board of BÖAG Börsen AG,
Hamburg and Hanover
Dr. med. Dipl.-Chem. Thomas Schultek, Lübeck *
Head of Corporate Health Protection at Aurubis AG,
­member of the Committee of Executive Representatives at
Aurubis AG, Hamburg
Rolf Schwertz, Datteln *
Bricklayer and boiler operator,
Deputy Chairman of the Works Council of Aurubis AG,
Lünen, and Chairman of the Central Representative Council
of Employees with Disabilities of Aurubis AG, Hamburg

+ = group companies of Salzgitter AG
* = elected by the employees

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Prof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt, Hamburg
Chairman of the Deutsche Wildtier Stiftung, Hamburg
»» Capital Stage AG, Hamburg
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Putz & Partner Unternehmensberatung, Hamburg
Member of the Supervisory Board
Ralf Winterfeldt, Hamburg,* since October 1, 2015
Power electronics technician,
Chairman of the General Works Council of Aurubis AG,
Deputy Chairman of the Works Council of Aurubis AG since
October 6, 2015
Dr.-Ing. Ernst J. Wortberg, Dortmund
Self-employed consultant

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

23
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Supervisory Board Committees
Conciliation Committee in accordance with
Section 27 (3) Law on Co-determination (MitbestG)
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann (Chairman)
Hans-Jürgen Grundmann (Deputy Chairman) until
September 30, 2015
Renate Hold-Yilmaz (Deputy Chairwoman) since
October 2, 2015
Dr. Sandra Reich
Ralf Winterfeldt since October 2, 2015
Audit Committee
Dr. Ernst J. Wortberg (Chairman)
Burkhard Becker
Jan Eulen
Hans-Jürgen Grundmann until September 30, 2015
Renate Hold-Yilmaz since October 2, 2015
Personnel Committee
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann (Chairman)
Dr. Bernd Drouven (returned to the committee on
November 1, 2015)
Hans-Jürgen Grundmann until September 30, 2015
Renate Hold-Yilmaz
Dr. Thomas Schultek
Prof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt
Ralf Winterfeldt since October 2, 2015
Nomination Committee
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann (Chairman)
Burkhard Becker
Prof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt
Dr. Ernst J. Wortberg
Technology Committee (since November 1, 2015)
Dr. Bernd Drouven (Chairman)
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann
Renate Hold-Yilmaz
Dr. Thomas Schultek

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

24

Company Management

Report of the Supervisory Board
With respect to Company management, the Supervisory
Board and its committees closely supervised, carefully monitored and advised the Executive Board during the reporting
year and performed the functions incumbent upon it by law,
the Articles of Association and rules of procedure. The
Supervisory Board is confident that the Company was managed lawfully and appropriately. The Supervisory Board was
included in all decisions of fundamental importance for the
Company promptly and directly, as explained in more detail
below.

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann

The Aurubis Group achieved record earnings in fiscal year
2014/15. The basis of this success was the fact that all of the
earnings components, especially good refining charges in
the recycling and concentrate sectors as well as sulfuric acid
revenues, developed positively along with a good performance overall. The accomplishments of the Executive
Board, the management and the employees in every department deserve our acknowledgement once again.
Collaboration between the Supervisory Board and
Executive Board
The joint target of the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board is to increase the enterprise value of Aurubis AG and
its Group companies long-term.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The Executive Board informed the Supervisory Board regularly, promptly and comprehensively about all of the issues
relevant to the Company verbally and in two written reports
per month. These included the planning process, the corporate strategy, important business transactions in the Company and the Group, the associated opportunities and risks
and issues of compliance.
The Supervisory Board discussed all the transactions that
were of importance for the Group in detail on the basis of
the Executive Board’s reports. The Supervisory Board
agreed on the Executive Board’s suggested resolutions after
thorough review and consultation.
The Supervisory Board was continuously informed in detail
about the Group’s earnings and employment developments,
the individual Business Units and the Company’s financial
position. The Executive Board extensively explained deviations in the business performance from the established
plans and discussed the reasons behind them as well as the
initiated measures with the Supervisory Board.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board was also in contact
with the Executive Board, in particular the Executive Board
Chairman, outside of the meetings and communicated with
them about current developments.

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

25
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Consultations in the Supervisory Board
Four scheduled Supervisory Board meetings (on December
11, 2014, March 18, 2015, June 5, 2015 and September 11,
2015) and one extraordinary Supervisory Board meeting (on
June 29, 2015) were held in fiscal year 2014/15. Two resolutions were adopted by written consent in lieu of a meeting.
Dr. Reich was unable to attend two of the meetings
(December 11, 2014 and September 11, 2015) due to illness.
The average participation rate for the Supervisory Board
members was about 96 %. The Executive Board was not
present for part of two Supervisory Board meetings. Dr.
Drouven’s mandate was suspended from November 1, 2014
to October 31, 2015 due to his dispatch to the Executive
Board.
The topics of regular Supervisory Board consultation in
meetings included the business performance, human
resources in the Group, the development of the results and
the raw material, foreign exchange and energy markets. The
Supervisory Board also dealt with the financial situation and
the status of capital expenditure. In particular, the Supervisory Board oversaw the reorganization of the Group, the
earnings trend of Business Line Flat Rolled products and
various optimization and development projects (Step Up)
that were presented by employees in the first and second
management levels below the Executive Board. The Personnel Committee chairman and the Audit Committee chairman also reported at the meetings on the committees’
work, the suggestions made and the results achieved.
In the meeting on December 11, 2014 the Supervisory Board
determined the compensation for the Executive Board
members for fiscal year 2013/14 contingent on the established objectives. Details are explained in this Annual
Report in the Compensation Report.
In the same meeting, consultations focused on the approval
of the consolidated financial statements and the separate
financial statements for Aurubis AG for 2013/14, including
the corporate governance report, and the preparations for
the 2015 Annual General Meeting. The Executive Board

gave a detailed report about the newly established Supply
Chain Management division. Employees in the first and second management levels under the Executive Board presented selected optimization and expansion projects.
The Executive Board presented the revised mid-range planning in the meeting on March 18, 2015. The Supervisory
Board approved the project Fit for Future, which includes a
capacity expansion from 1.3 million t p.a. to 1.47 million t p.a.
of copper concentrate in Pirdop. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board heard a report on the development of Business
Line Flat Rolled Products.
The Supervisory Board meeting on June 5, 2015 took place
at the Buffalo site in the US. The Supervisory Board utilized
the visit to discuss the site intensively and to tour it. Dr.
Reich wasn’t able to participate in the trip due to health reasons but dialed in to the meeting.
In addition to the earnings situation after the first half of
the fiscal year, the Supervisory Board addressed the potential effects of the developments in environmental legislation
for the German sites. Another focus was the earnings development in Business Line Flat Rolled Products and the measures to improve “operational excellence”. The Supervisory
Board extensively discussed the reorganization of the
Group recommended by the Executive Board.
The Supervisory Board approved the new organizational
structure during the extraordinary Supervisory Board meeting on June 29, 2015. Aurubis AG will report in the two Business Units Primary Copper and Copper Products and not in
the three previous Business Units Primary Copper, Recycling/Precious Metals and Copper Products. In connection
with this change, the Supervisory Board repealed the
appointment of Dr. Frank Schneider as of June 30, 2015,
extended the appointment of Dr. Stefan Boel to April 30,
2021 and approved the appointment of Dr. Thomas Bünger
as Chief Representative.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

26

Company Management

In the meeting on September 11, 2015 the Supervisory Board
increased the Executive Board’s base salary and bonus payments by 5.56 %. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board heard
another report on the development of Business Line Flat
Rolled Products. The focus of the meeting was on authorizing the capital expenditure planning and budget as well as
the “Deep Reduction” project. The Supervisory Board also
established the target quota for female Executive Board
members until June 30, 2017 at 0 % since no new Executive
Board members are expected to be appointed before then.
The Supervisory Board set up a Technology Committee that
went into effect on November 1, 2015.
Committees
The Supervisory Board set up a total of four committees to
fulfill its duties in fiscal year 2014/15, which effectively supported the work in the meetings. The committees prepared
the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the topics to be
considered in the meetings. The Conciliation Committee in
accordance with Section 27 (3) Law on Co-determination
(MitbestG) did not meet during the reporting year.
General statements on the composition and working procedures of the Supervisory Board and its committees can be
found in this year’s declaration on corporate governance as
part of the Aurubis AG’s Management Report.
All of the members participated in all of the committee
meetings.
Work on the Personnel Committee
The Personnel Committee met six times during the reporting period. The Personnel Committee dealt with the search
for and selection of the Chairman of the Executive Board
during the meetings. Other focuses included the increase in
the Executive Board salaries starting October 1, 2015, the
new organizational structure and all of the related topics,
including the extension of Dr. Boel’s appointment by
another five years. The Personnel Committee discussed the
recommendation to establish the target EBT for Executive
Board compensation for fiscal year 2015/16.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Work on the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee met four times in the reporting
period to review the separate financial statements for
Aurubis AG, the consolidated financial statements and the
quarterly reports for the past fiscal year, which were discussed with the Executive Board in each case before being
published. The Audit Committee also addressed the monitoring of the accounting process, the effectiveness of the
internal control and auditing system and compliance management in the Group. In all of the meetings, the committee
dealt with the Group’s earnings trend.
The Audit Committee Chairman, Dr. Ernst Wortberg, has
special expertise and experience in the application of
accounting principles and internal control procedures. He is
independent and not a former member of the Company’s
Executive Board.
Apart from the appointment of the auditors and the agreement of the fee with the auditors, the committee established the focuses of the annual 2014/15 audit, specifically:
»» R
 eviewing the compensation tables (contribution
and accrual table) in accordance with the German
­Corporate Governance Code
»» Reviewing Aurubis AG’s pension provisions in
­accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB)
stipulations, taking special consideration of the transfer
of obligations from the Norddeutsche Affinerie Employees’ Pension ­Supplement Fund e.V. to Aurubis AG
»» Reviewing the inventory processes at Aurubis AG
­(Hamburg and Lünen)
»» Reviewing the implementation of Comex fixations
The Audit Committee furthermore monitored the independence of the auditors, obtained the declaration on their
independence recommended by the German Corporate
Governance Code and addressed the additional services
performed by the auditors. In this regard, the designated
auditors were obligated to inform the Chairman of the Audit

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

27
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Committee without delay about any possible grounds for
exclusion or lack of impartiality arising during the audit.
The auditors’ representatives attended one Audit Committee meeting and reported on the audit of the annual
accounts.
Corporate governance and Declaration of Conformity
The regular efficiency review was performed by the Supervisory Board at its meeting on September 11, 2015. The Supervisory Board reviewed its efficiency with a comprehensive
questionnaire developed by an external consultant. All of
the Supervisory Board members worked on this questionnaire prior to the meeting. The results were discussed in
detail.
The Executive Board reports on corporate governance at
Aurubis AG, also on behalf of the Supervisory Board, in
accordance with Section 3.10 of the German Corporate
Governance Code in the declaration and report on corporate governance, which are parts of the Management
Report.
On November 6, 2015 the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board issued the updated Declaration of Conformity to the
Corporate Governance Code in accordance with Section 161
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made it permanently accessible to the public at www.aurubis.com.
Aurubis AG complies with the code recommendations with
two exceptions. Additional information can be found in the
Declaration of Conformity.

Conflicts of interest
There were no conflicts of interest among Executive Board
or Supervisory Board members that should have been disclosed to the Supervisory Board or announced at the
Annual General Meeting. There were no significant transactions with an Executive Board member or parties related to
an Executive Board member.
Audit of the separate financial statements of Aurubis AG
and the consolidated financial statements
The Company’s financial statements prepared by the Executive Board in accordance with the German GAAP, the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with
IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) for the
fiscal year from October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015 and
the Combined Management Report for the Company and
the Group have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers
AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, in accordance with the resolution passed at the Company’s Annual
General Meeting on March 5, 2015 and their subsequent
appointment as auditors by the Supervisory Board. The
auditor responsible was Mr. Matthias Kirschke, who audited
the Group and the Company for the third year in a row. The
auditors have issued an unqualified auditors’ report.
The meeting of the Supervisory Board to approve the financial statements was held on December 10, 2015. All members of the Supervisory Board received copies of the financial statements and audit reports as well as the Executive
Board’s recommendation on the appropriation of the net
earnings and all other documents in good time before this
meeting. These documents were discussed in detail at the
Supervisory Board meeting to approve the financial statements. The auditors participated in this meeting, reported
in detail on how the audit had been performed and their
main audit findings and were available to provide the Supervisory Board with further information, discuss the documents and make additional comments.

www.aurubis.com

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

28

Company Management

Following a detailed discussion on the auditors’ findings and
a thorough consideration of the report by the auditors and
the recommendation of the Executive Board on the appropriation of the net income, and on the basis of its own
review of and discussion on the separate financial statements of Aurubis AG, the consolidated financial statements,
the Combined Management Report for the Company and
the Group and the Executive Board’s recommendation on
the utilization of the unappropriated earnings, the Supervisory Board concurred with the results of the audit. The
Supervisory Board concluded that no objections need to be
raised and, in accordance with the recommendations of the
Audit Committee, approved the separate financial statements of Aurubis AG, which were thus adopted, as well as
the consolidated financial statements and the Combined
Management Report at the meeting on the financial statements. The Supervisory Board concurred with the Executive
Board’s recommendation on the utilization of the unappropriated earnings.
Changes in the Supervisory Board and Executive Board
Mr. Peter Willbrandt resigned his Executive Board mandate
on October 31, 2014. Dr. Bernd Drouven was dispatched to
the Executive Board from November 1, 2014 to October 31,
2015 pursuant to Section 105 (2) German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG) and was appointed Executive Board Chairman.
His Supervisory Board mandate was suspended during this
period. Dr. Drouven has been an active member of the
Supervisory Board again since November 1, 2015. Dr. Frank
Schneider withdrew from the Aurubis Executive Board on
June 30, 2015. Dr. Stefan Boel’s appointment was extended
by five years. Mr. Erwin Faust has been Executive Board
Spokesman since November 1, 2015 and is managing the
Group with Dr. Boel on an interim basis. Mr. Jürgen Schachler
will become the new Executive Board Chairman of
Aurubis AG on July 1, 2016.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Mr. Jürgen Grundmann (Deputy Supervisory Board
­Chairman) withdrew from the Supervisory Board on
­September 30, 2015 with the start of his semi-retirement.
Mr. Ralf Winterfeldt succeeded him as an alternate member.
The Supervisory Board elected Ms. Renate Hold-Yilmaz as
the new Deputy Supervisory Board Chairwoman on
­October 2, 2015.
The Supervisory Board would like to thank Dr. Drouven,
Mr. Grundmann, Dr. Schneider and Mr. Willbrandt for their
­service for the benefit of the Aurubis Group.

Hamburg, December 2014
The Supervisory Board

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann
Chairman

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

29
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Corporate Governance
Report and declaration on corporate
governance (part of the Management
Report)
The principles of responsible and sustainable corporate governance determine the actions of the management and controlling bodies of Aurubis AG. In this declaration, the Executive Board reports – also on behalf of the Supervisory Board
– in accordance with Section 3.10 of the German Corporate
Governance Code and in accordance with Section 289a (1)
German Commercial Code (HGB) about corporate governance.
Declaration of Conformity and reporting on corporate
governance
In accordance with Section 161 German Stock Corporation
Act, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of a company listed in Germany are obliged to issue an annual declaration to the effect that the recommendations of the “Government Commission on the German Corporate
Governance Code” published by the German Federal Ministry of Justice in the official section of the electronic Federal
Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) were and are being complied
with, or to list the recommendations that were or are not
being applied and explain why not.
The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board have concerned themselves on several occasions in fiscal year
2014/15 with the topic of corporate governance and jointly
issued the updated Declaration of Conformity in accordance
with Section 161 German Stock Corporation Act on November 6, 2015. The declaration has been made permanently
accessible to the public on the Aurubis AG website. All the
declarations of conformity of the past five years are also
permanently accessible to the public there.
Text of the Declaration of Conformity
“The Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Aurubis AG
declare that the recommendations of the ‘Government
Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code’
in the version dated June 24, 2014 were applied in the
period from October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015 and that
the recommendations in the version dated May 5, 2015 have

been applied since October 1, 2015 with the following
exceptions:
»» T he contracts with new Executive Board members do
not include a severance pay cap in the amount of maximum two years’ compensation in the event of premature
termination of the contract without good cause, including in the form of so-called (modified) connection
clauses. The first contracts of newly appointed Executive
Board members only have a term of three years and a
severance pay cap for the Executive Board member
would not make sense. Furthermore, a severance pay
cap would not be legally enforceable for the Executive
Board member in many relevant cases. If there is neither
a good cause for revoking the appointment in terms of
Section 84 (3) sentence 1 German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG) nor a good cause for terminating the employment contract without notice in terms of Section 626
German Civil Code, the service contract with the respective Executive Board member can only be terminated by
mutual consent. In this case, the Executive Board member is not obliged to agree to a severance pay cap in
terms of the code recommendation. So-called (modified)
connection clauses that tie the termination of the Executive Board employment contract to the revocation of the
appointment for a good cause and that provide for a
­corresponding severance pay cap for this case cannot be
unilaterally enforced by the Supervisory Board against
the will of the Executive Board member concerned
­(deviation from code Section 4.2.3 paragraph 4).
»» When proposing candidates at the Annual General
Meeting, the Supervisory Board has focused and will
continue to focus on the professional and personal qualifications of the candidates within the framework of the
applicable legal regulations, in particular with respect to
the German Gender Equality Act. It is naturally very relevant that the Company’s international activities, potential conflicts of interest, the number of independent
Supervisory Board members established by the Supervisory Board and diversity are taken into account. In doing
so, it is neither necessary to establish a regulatory limit
for the length of membership in the Supervisory Board
nor to specify concrete objectives and publish them in
Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

30

Corporate Governance

the corporate governance report (deviation from Code
Section 5.4.1 paragraphs 2 and 3).

Hamburg, November 6, 2015
For the Executive Board

Erwin Faust
(Spokesman)

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

For the Supervisory Board:

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann
(Chairman)”
Working procedures of the Executive Board and
Supervisory Board
Aurubis AG is a company subject to German law, to which the
German Corporate Governance Code relates. A basic principle
of German stock corporation law is the dual management
­system with the two bodies of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, which are strictly separated as regards personnel
between the Executive Board as the board of management
and the Supervisory Board as the monitoring organ and each
provided with independent responsibilities. The Executive
Board and Supervisory Board of Aurubis AG work closely
together and in a spirit of trust in the governance and super­
vision of the Company for the benefit of the Company.
The Executive Board
The Executive Board runs the Company on its own responsibility without instructions from third parties in accordance
with the law, the Articles of Association and the Board’s
rules of procedure, taking into account the resolutions
passed at the Annual General Meeting. The Executive Board
represents the Company in dealings with third parties.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The Executive Board as the management body runs the
Company’s business on its own responsibility with the aim
of achieving long-term value added in the Company’s interests while taking the needs of all stakeholders into account.
The principle of overall responsibility applies, i.e. the members of the Executive Board together bear responsibility for
the management of the entire Company. They work
together in a spirit of cooperation and inform one another
continuously about important measures and occurrences in
their areas of responsibility. The overall responsibility of all
Executive Board members notwithstanding, the individual
members of the Executive Board oversee the areas of
responsibility assigned to them in the Executive Board resolutions on their own responsibility. The principles of the
cooperation between Aurubis AG’s Executive Board members are stated in the rules of procedure for the Executive
Board issued by the Supervisory Board. These regulate, in
particular, the allocation of responsibilities between the
individual Executive Board members, matters reserved for
the full Executive Board, the passing of resolutions, i.e. the
required majority for resolutions, and the rights and obligations of the Chief Executive Officer.
Certain Executive Board decisions of particular importance
require the approval of the Supervisory Board. They are
stipulated in a catalogue. For example, the Supervisory
Board makes decisions about investments in other companies if the measure is of great significance for the Group, as
well as about substantial capital expenditure measures.
The Executive Board of Aurubis AG consisted of four and
then three members during the fiscal year. Pursuant to
­Section 105 (2) German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), Dr.
Bernd Drouven was dispatched from the Supervisory Board
to the Executive Board of Aurubis AG from November 1,
2014 to October 31, 2015 to replace former Executive Board
Member Peter Willbrandt and was appointed Executive
Board Chairman. Dr. Drouven also oversaw Business Unit
Primary Copper. Mr. Erwin Faust is the Chief Financial Officer. Dr. Stefan Boel is responsible for Business Unit Copper
Products. Dr. Frank Schneider withdrew from the Executive
Board on June 30, 2015. In its meeting on October 2, 2015
the Supervisory Board appointed Mr. Jürgen Schachler as

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

31
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

the new Executive Board Chairman of Aurubis AG. Mr.
Schachler will assume office on July 1, 2016. In the interim
period between November 1, 2015 and the start of Mr.
Schachler’s term, Aurubis will be led by Mr. Erwin Faust,
Executive Board Spokesman, and Dr. Stefan Boel.
The Executive Board keeps the Supervisory Board informed
promptly and comprehensively, in written and verbal
reports, as well as in the scheduled meetings, about the
strategy, planning, business development, important business transactions and the Group’s risk situation including
risk management and compliance, i.e. the measures to comply with legal requirements and the internal corporate
guidelines. The Executive Board discusses in detail and provides reasons for deviations in the business performance
from previously prepared budgets and targets.
The Executive Board takes diversity into account when filling management positions in the Company and gives attention to female applicants in particular.
On August 17, 2015 the Executive Board set targets for the
proportion of women in the two management levels below
the Executive Board for the first time. The target for the relatively short period until June 30, 2017 is 20 % for each level.
Currently, the proportion of women is 20 % for the first management level and 17.4 % for the second management level.
The Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board advises and monitors the Executive
Board in the management of the Company. It appoints and
rescinds the contracts of Executive Board members, decides
on the compensation system for Executive Board members
and specifies their respective total compensation. In the process, the Supervisory Board takes the relationship between
Executive Board compensation and the compensation of the
higher management level and the relevant workforce into
account. It also defines the target pension level for Executive
Board members. The Personnel Committee submits corresponding suggestions to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board pays attention to diversity in the composition of
the Executive Board in terms of Section 5.1.2 of the German
Corporate Governance Code. The Supervisory Board

established an age limit for the election of Supervisory Board
members. The Supervisory Board did not place a limit on the
length of membership in the Supervisory Board. The Super­
visory Board established a target of 0 % for the proportion of
women in the Executive Board by June 30, 2017 since no new
appointments are expected until then.
The Supervisory Board is included in the strategy and planning as well as all aspects of major significance for the Company. The Supervisory Board has defined rights of veto in
favor of the Supervisory Board for transactions of fundamental importance, in particular those that would significantly change the Company’s net assets, financial position
and results of operations. In the case of important events,
an extraordinary Supervisory Board meeting is convened if
deemed necessary. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board
coordinates the work within the Supervisory Board, chairs
their meetings and attends to the affairs of the Supervisory
Board externally. The Supervisory Board meets without the
Executive Board as necessary.
The Supervisory Board has defined rules of procedure for its
work. The representatives of the shareholders and the employees generally meet separately to prepare for the meetings.
Composition of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board of Aurubis AG with co-determination
has twelve members in accordance with the Articles of
Association, of which six are elected by the shareholders
and six by the employees in accordance with the German
Law on Co-determination (MitbestG). The periods of office
are identical. In accordance with the recommendations of
the German Corporate Governance Code, the shareholders’
representatives were elected individually to the Supervisory
Board in the last election at the Annual General Meeting on
February 28, 2013. Dr. Drouven’s Supervisory Board mandate was suspended during the period from November 1,
2014 to October 31, 2015, during which he was dispatched
to the Executive Board.
The Supervisory Board has not specified any concrete
objectives regarding its composition. When proposing candidates at the Annual General Meeting, the Supervisory
Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

32

Corporate Governance

Board will continue to orient itself to the statutory provisions in the future while focusing on the professional and
personal qualifications of the candidates within the framework of the applicable legal regulations, in particular with
respect to the German Gender Equality Act. It is naturally
very relevant that the Company’s international activities,
potential conflicts of interest as well as the length of membership in the Supervisory Board, the age limit for Supervisory Board members, the number of independent Supervisory Board members in terms of Section 5.4.2 of the
German Corporate Governance Code and diversity are
taken into account.
Dr. Bernd Drouven, a former member of the Aurubis AG
Executive Board, is now a member of the Supervisory
Board. His appointment as an Executive Board member
ended less than two years ago. Dr. Bernd Drouven was
elected to the Aurubis AG Supervisory Board pursuant to
Section 100 (2) p. 1 No. 4 German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG) at the recommendation of Salzgitter Mannesmann
GmbH. In the Supervisory Board’s estimate, the Supervisory
Board has a suitable number of independent members who
do not have a personal or professional relationship with the
Company, its Supervisory Board or Executive Board, a controlling shareholder or someone connected with an associated company, which could be cause for a significant conflict of interest that is not merely temporary. The
Supervisory Board’s term of office amounts to five years;
the current term of office ends at the close of the Annual
General Meeting during which the resolution regarding the
exoneration of the Supervisory Board members is passed
for fiscal year 2016/17.
Supervisory Board committees
The Supervisory Board has formed five long-term committees for its members to prepare and complement its work:
the Personnel Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Conciliation Committee and the
Technology Committee. Some of the committees’ tasks as
well as their composition and work are specified in the rules
of procedure of the Supervisory Board.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Personnel Committee
The six-member Personnel Committee has equal numbers
of representatives of the shareholders and employees. For
the duration of Dr. Drouven’s dispatch to the Executive
Board, his Personnel Committee mandate is suspended in
addition to his Supervisory Board mandate. The Personnel
Committee therefore temporarily has only five members. It
considers the structure and level of compensation paid to
all members of the Executive Board, the preparation of
Executive Board contracts and the selection of qualified
candidates for Executive Board positions in the preparation
of the necessary Supervisory Board resolutions. The Chairman of the Personnel Committee is the Chairman of the
Supervisory Board.
Audit Committee
The four-member Audit Committee with equal representation has the primary task of monitoring accounting and the
accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal control
system and the internal auditing system, the annual audit
and especially the independence of the auditors, the additional services performed by the auditors, the appointment
of the auditors, the determination of the focuses of the
audit and the agreement of the fee as well as compliance.
The Audit Committee Chairman during the fiscal year, Dr.
Ernst J. Wortberg, is an independent financial expert whose
business career has provided him with special expertise and
experience in the application of accounting principles and
internal control procedures. He is not a former member of
the Company’s Executive Board whose appointment ended
less than two years ago.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee did not meet during the
­reporting year.
The Nomination Committee only has representatives of the
shareholders in accordance with the German Corporate
Governance Code. The Nomination Committee has the duty
of suggesting suitable candidates for the Supervisory Board
to propose for election to the Supervisory Board at the
Annual General Meeting.

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

33
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Conciliation Committee
The Conciliation Committee did not meet during the
­reporting year.
Technology Committee
The Supervisory Board formed a Technology Committee as
of November 1, 2015. The four-member committee has equal
numbers of representatives of the shareholders and
employees. The Technology Committee’s duty is to strategically support and monitor the Executive Board in the implementation of significant capital expenditure projects. Dr.
Drouven chairs this committee.
The committees’ compositions are given in the list of Executive and Supervisory Boards in this Annual Report. The
mandates of the Supervisory Board members in other
legally formed Supervisory Boards and comparable German
and foreign controlling bodies are included in the list of the
Executive and Supervisory Boards in this Annual Report.
Avoiding conflicts of interest
The mandates of the Supervisory Board and Executive
Board members in other legally formed Supervisory Boards
and comparable German and foreign controlling bodies are
included in the list of the Executive and Supervisory Boards
in this Annual Report. No Executive Board member holds
more than three Supervisory Board mandates at public limited companies that are not part of the Group or in supervisory committees of non-Group companies with comparable
requirements. Related parties are presented in the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In transactions with Executive Board members, the Supervisory Board represents the Company. Significant transactions with parties related to an Executive Board member
were and are only carried out with the agreement of the
Supervisory Board.
In the last fiscal year no conflicts of interest occurred
among Executive Board or Supervisory Board members that
should have been disclosed to the Supervisory Board Chairman and the other Executive Board members. There were
no consulting or other service or work contracts between

Supervisory Board members and the Company in the
reporting year, either.
Retention in the D&O insurance
Aurubis AG has taken out D&O insurance (pecuniary loss/
third-party indemnity) for the Executive Board and the
Supervisory Board with a reasonable retention. Retention of
10 % of the damage or one and a half times the fixed annual
compensation has been agreed.
Disclosures on relevant corporate governance practices
For Aurubis AG, the applicable legal regulations, in particular stock market law, the Law on Co-determination (MitbestG) and capital markets law, the Articles of Association,
the German Corporate Governance Code and the rules of
procedure of the Supervisory Board and the Executive
Board, provide the basis for the structure of management
and controlling in the Company. Over and above the legal
obligations, Aurubis has defined values and derived a Code
of Conduct from these, which regulates the framework of
behavior and decisions and provides orientation for corporate activities. The values and the Code of Conduct are published on the Aurubis homepage. Each employee is briefed
on these group-wide applicable values and the Code of
Conduct as well as the corporate guidelines stemming from
them. Mandatory instruction is given on special topics to
(potentially) affected employees (e.g. antitrust law, anticorruption, environmental protection and occupational safety).

www.aurubis.com

Shareholders and Annual General Meeting
The shareholders of Aurubis AG exercise their co-­
determination and supervisory rights at the Annual General
Meeting which occurs at least once a year. Resolutions are
passed at the AGM on all matters defined by law which are
binding for all shareholders and the Company. Each share
grants the holder one vote in the AGM voting processes.
The Annual General Meeting elects the members of the
Supervisory Board and passes a resolution on the exoneration of the members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. It decides on the utilization of the unappropriated earnings and on capital measures and gives approval to
company agreements. Furthermore, it makes decisions
Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

34

Corporate Governance

about the compensation of the Supervisory Board and
amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association. An
Annual General Meeting is held once a year, in which the
Executive Board and Supervisory Board give an account of
the past fiscal year. The German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG) stipulates that an extraordinary General Meeting
can be convened in special cases.
Each shareholder who has registered in good time and can
provide proof of his or her entitlement to participate in the
Annual General Meeting and exercise his voting rights is
entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders who cannot or do not wish to attend the Annual General
Meeting in person may authorize a bank, a shareholders’
association, the proxies designated by Aurubis AG, who are
bound to follow the shareholders’ instructions, or another
person of their choice to exercise their voting rights. The
shareholders also have the option of submitting their votes
online before the Annual General Meeting. Aurubis AG will
give further details in the invitation to the Annual General
Meeting.
The invitation to the Annual General Meeting and the relevant reports and information for the resolutions are published in accordance with German stock corporation law
and made available in English and German on the
Aurubis AG website.
Controlling and risk management
It is also part of good corporate governance that the Company handles risks responsibly. As part of our value-­oriented
Group management, adequate risk management ensures
that risks are identified early on and risk positions are minimized. Risk Management reports regularly to the Executive
Board and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee. Compliance management was expanded across the Group in the
fiscal year so as to comply with the requirements resulting
from the legal stipulations and the Code of Conduct. The
Chief Compliance Officer reported regularly to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Details of risk management at Aurubis AG are given in the
risk report, which includes the mandatory report on the
accounting-related internal control and risk management
system issued in accordance with the German Accounting
Law Modernization Act (BilMoG).
Transparency
Aurubis AG regularly informs the participants in the capital
market and the interested general public about the Group’s
economic situation and new facts. The Annual Report, halfyearly reports and the quarterly interim reports are published within the stipulated periods. Press releases and, if
necessary, ad hoc announcements provide information on
current events and new developments. Information is made
available in German and English and is published in printed
form or via suitable electronic media. Meetings are arranged
on a regular basis with analysts and institutional investors as
part of our investor relations activities. Apart from an
annual analysts’ conference, conference calls are also held
for analysts, especially in connection with the publication of
quarterly figures. We also made new matters that were disclosed to financial analysts and similar contacts immediately
available to the shareholders on the Company’s website.
The Company’s Articles of Association, the current Declaration of Conformity and the Declarations of Conformity of
the past five years are likewise available on the website.
Furthermore, immediately after receipt of a relevant notification pursuant to Section 21 German Securities Trading
Act (WpHG), the achieving, exceeding or falling below of 3,
5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 50 or 75 % of the voting rights in the
Company is published in an information system that is distributed throughout Europe.
Financial calendar
The scheduled dates of the main recurring events and publications – such as the Annual General Meeting, the Annual
Report, interim reports, press conferences on the annual
financial statements and analyst conferences – are listed in a
financial calendar. The calendar is published sufficiently in
advance and made permanently available on the Aurubis AG
website.

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

35
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Directors’ dealings
In accordance with Section 15a of the German Securities
Trading Act (WpHG), members of the Executive and Supervisory Boards, certain employees in management positions
and people closely associated to them have to disclose
acquisitions and sales of Company shares and related financial instruments. This does not apply if the total transactions per person do not reach an amount of € 5,000 per
calendar year.
Members of the Executive Board did not carry out any share
transactions from October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015 or
only carried out transactions under the € 5,000 threshold.
The following member of the Supervisory Board informed
the Company that he had acquired or sold no-par-value
shares in the Company in the period from October 1, 2014
to September 30, 2015:
»» Rolf Schwertz: sold 1,564 no-par-value shares
The Executive Board and Supervisory Board held less
than 1 % of the shares issued by the Company as at
­September 30, 2015.
Financial reporting and annual audit
Aurubis AG prepares its consolidated financial statements
and the consolidated interim reports in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as they
should be applied in the European Union. The financial
statements of Aurubis AG are issued in compliance with the
German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG). The financial statements of
Aurubis AG and the consolidated financial statements are
compiled by the Executive Board and examined by the auditors and the Supervisory Board. Aurubis AG released a
Combined Management Report for the AG and the Group
for fiscal year 2014/15. The interim reports and the halfyearly financial reports are discussed by the Audit Committee and the Executive Board before publication.

The Company’s auditor was elected at the Annual General
Meeting in compliance with the provisions of the German
Stock Corporation Act. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, was appointed
auditor of the 2014/15 consolidated financial statements and
the 2014/15 German Commercial Code (HGB) financial
statements of Aurubis AG. Before submitting the proposal
for the election of the auditors, the Supervisory Board
obtained the declaration from PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft on their independence
specified by the German Corporate Governance Code. The
audits were performed in accordance with German auditing
regulations, taking into account the generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by
the German Institute of Public Auditors; in addition, the
International Standards on Auditing were also observed. The
audits also covered risk management and the compliance
with reporting obligations on corporate governance in
accordance with Section 161 German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG).
Furthermore, it was also agreed with the auditors that they
would inform the Supervisory Board without delay about
any possible grounds for exclusion or lack of impartiality
and about the main findings and incidents arising during the
audit.
Hamburg, December 2015

The Executive Board

Erwin Faust
(Spokesman)

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

36

Corporate Governance

Compensation report for the Executive
Board and the Supervisory Board of
Aurubis AG
The following compensation report is part of the Combined
Management Report. It outlines the structure and level of
the Aurubis AG’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board
­compensation.
Compensation for the Executive Board
The Supervisory Board defines the total compensation of
the individual Executive Board members on the basis of proposals from the Personnel Committee and decides on and
reviews the compensation system for the Executive Board
at regular intervals.
The current compensation system has been in effect since
the beginning of fiscal year 2009/10. The principle of the
compensation provisions is to orient the Executive Board’s
contracts more strongly to long-term corporate development.
The compensation of the individual Executive Board members is defined in their employment contracts and consists
of a series of components, comprising fixed compensation,
variable compensation, fringe benefits and pension plans.
The various compensation components are as follows: The
compensation of the Executive Board members is made up
of fixed and variable components. The fixed parts consist of
fixed compensation, the fringe benefits and pension plans.
The annual fixed compensation amounted to € 540,000 for
the Chief Executive Officer (increased to € 570,000 starting
fiscal year 2015/16) and € 378,000 for the ordinary members of the Executive Board (increased to € 399,000 starting fiscal year 2015/16) and is paid out monthly in equal

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

installments. In addition, the Executive Board members
receive fringe benefits in the form of benefits in kind,
mainly comprising the value of insurance premiums in
accordance with the tax guidelines and the use of a company car. The individual Executive Board members must pay
tax on these fringe benefits as components of their compensation.
The system for variable compensation consists of two components, which are paid out each year. The first component
(Component 1) is dependent on achieving an annual target
related to adjusted average consolidated EBT (earnings
before taxes of the Group) of three years, in each case
related to the current and the two prior fiscal years before
the respective fiscal year. The target is EBT derived from
ROCE of 15 %. The target bonus of Component 1 amounts to
about 60 % of the variable compensation in relation to
Component II and can reach a cap of 100 %. If EBT is less
than 40 % of the target, Component 1 will not be paid. The
maximum amount that can be reached from these components is € 675,000 for the Chief Executive Officer
(increased to € 712,500 starting fiscal year 2015/16) and
€ 450,000 for ordinary members of the Executive Board
(increased to € 475,000 starting fiscal year 2015/16).
Component II stipulates that an annual assessment of the
joint (Component II a) and individual (Component II b) performance of the Executive Board will be carried out by the
Supervisory Board. Both components are based on a qualitative criteria-supported assessment of the long-term Company management.
The target bonus of Component II has a cap of 100 %. At
least 50 % of the target bonus is always paid out unless the
granting of same would be unreasonable in the sense of
Section 87 (2) German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). The

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

37
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

maximum amount to be reached from Components II a and
II b amounts to € 225,000 for the Chief Executive Officer
(increased to € 237,500 starting fiscal year 2015/16) and
€ 157,500 for each of the ordinary members of the Executive Board (increased to € 166,250 starting fiscal year
2015/16).

Pensions paid to Executive Board members before they
reach 65 years of age have the character of an interim payment. Compensation paid to an Executive Board member
for activities outside the Aurubis Group after termination of
his contract is offset against the pension until he reaches
the age of 65.

In addition, pension plans have been agreed for the individual Executive Board members, with the exception of Dr.
Boel. The pension benefits are determined as a percentage
of the fixed compensation. The percentage increases based
on the length of service on the Board. The pension is payable once the Executive Board member reaches the age of
65 or in the event of his disability. Dr. Boel has a defined
contribution pension plan, for which an amount of
€ 80,000 (increased to € 100,000 starting fiscal year
2015/16) is paid to an insurance company each year.

All the members of the Executive Board have an additional
defined contribution company pension plan. This pension
plan is based on a lump-sum single payment. At the end of
each fiscal year, € 120,000 for the Chief Executive Officer
and € 80,000 for the other three Executive Board members
is paid into liability insurances.

The employment contracts of Executive Board members
include no change of control clauses. In the event of non-­
renewal of their Executive Board contracts, Executive Board
members (with the exception of Dr. Boel) will, under certain
conditions, receive an early retirement pension. These conditions are fulfilled if the Executive Board member has completed at least five years of service as an Executive Board
member at Aurubis AG and is at least 55 years old. Dr. Drouven fulfilled these conditions during his previous Executive
Board membership and received a pension. These claims
were suspended during his dispatch from the Supervisory
Board to the Executive Board. The assessment basis for the
pension increased slightly due to his new Executive Board
membership.

The Executive Board members can use the accumulated
capital at the earliest when they have reached 60 years of
age, but not before ceasing to be employed by the Company.
The total compensation paid to active members of the Executive Board for activities in fiscal year 2014/15 amounted to
€ 5,175,013 including pension expenses.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

38

Corporate Governance

The following table provides details of the compensation of
the individual members:
Benefits granted

in €
Peter ­Willbrandt
Executive Board Chairman until
­October 31, 2014
Contract until March 31, 2015
Dr. Stefan Boel
Executive Board member since
­April 19, 2008

Erwin Faust
Executive Board member since
­October 1, 2008

Dr. Frank Schneider
Executive Board member until
June 30, 2015

Dr. Bernd Drouven
Executive Board Chairman starting
November 1, 2014

Total

Fixed compensation

Fringe ­benefits

Total

2013/2014

540,000

33,317

573,317

2014/2015 3)

270,000

16,458

286,458

Min.

540,000

16,458

556,458

Max.

540,000

16,458

556,458

2013/2014

378,000

15,234

393,234

2014/2015

378,000

17,813

395,813

Min.

378,000

17,813

395,813

Max.

378,000

17,813

395,813

2013/2014

378,000

17,945

395,945

2014/2015

378,000

18,365

396,365

Min.

378,000

18,365

396,365

Max.

378,000

18,365

396,365

2013/2014

378,000

16,858

394,858

2014/2015 2)

283,500

13,490

296,990

Min.

283,500

13,490

296,990

Max.

283,500

13,490

296,990

2013/2014

0

0

0

2014/2015

495,000

4,112

499,112
499,112

Min.

495,000

4,112

Max.

495,000

4,112

499,112

2013/2014

1,674,000

83,354

1,757,354

2014/2015

1,804,500

70,238

1,874,738

Min.

2,074,500

70,238

2,144,738

Max.

2,074,500

70,238

2,144,738

	Pension expenses in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) amounted to € –315,552 (previous year: € 394,215) for Peter Willbrandt,
€ 429,361 (previous year: € 279,624) for Erwin Faust, € –140,771 (previous year: € 226,352) for Dr. Frank Schneider, € 160,000 (previous year:
€ 160,000) for Dr. Stefan Boel and € 232,607 € (previous year: € 0) for Dr. Bernd Drouven.
2)
Due to Dr. Schneider’s resignation, 9/12 of the previously granted salary is listed.
3)
For 2014/15, 50 % of the benefits granted are listed due to the end of the contract on March 31, 2015.
The variable compensation for several years for fiscal year 2014/15 is calculated according to the ratio of actual EBT to the target EBT
of the Aurubis Group and the average of fiscal years 2012/13, 2013/14 and 2014/15.
The average actual EBT amounts to € 198 million, a 51.2 % target achievement.

1)

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

39
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

o T 002

Variable compensation Variable compensation
for one year
for several years

Total

Pension expenses 1)

Total compensation

393,750

504,900

1,471,967

253,879

1,725,846

196,875

67,838

551,171

232,721

783,892

112,500

0

668,958

232,721

901,679

225,000

337,500

1,118,958

232,721

1,351,679

275,625

336,600

1,005,459

160,000

1,165,459

275,625

90,450

761,888

160,000

921,888

157,500

0

553,313

160,000

713,313

315,000

450,000

1,160,813

160,000

1,320,813

275,625

336,600

1,008,170

270,158

1,278,328

275,625

90,450

762,440

310,852

1,073,292

157,500

0

553,865

310,852

864,717

315,000

450,000

1,161,365

310,852

1,472,217

275,625

336,600

1,007,083

256,937

1,264,020

206,719

67,838

571,547

60,000

631,547

118,125

0

415,115

60,000

475,115

236,250

337,500

870,740

60,000

930,740

0

0

0

0

0

360,938

124,369

984,419

110,000

1,094,419

206,250

0

705,362

110,000

815,362

412,500

618,750

1,530,362

110,000

1,640,362
5,433,653

1,220,625

1,514,700

4,492,679

940,974

1,315,782

440,945

3,631,465

873,573

4,505,038

751,875

0

2,896,613

873,573

3,770,186

1,503,750

2,193,750

5,842,238

873,573

6,715,811

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

40

Corporate Governance

Inflow

Fixed ­compensation

Fringe ­benefits

Total

2013/2014

540,000

33,317

573,317

2014/2015

286,458

in €
Peter ­Willbrandt
Executive Board Chairman until O
­ ctober 31, 2014
Contract until March 31, 2015

270,000

16,458

Dr. Stefan Boel
Executive Board member since A
­ pril 19, 2008

2013/2014

378,000

15,234

393,234

2014/2015

378,000

17,813

395,813

Erwin Faust
Executive Board member since O
­ ctober 1, 2008

2013/2014

378,000

17,945

395,945

2014/2015

378,000

18,365

396,365

Dr. Frank Schneider
Executive Board member until June 30, 2015

2013/2014

378,000

16,858

394,858

2014/2015

283,500

13,490

296,990

Dr. Bernd Drouven
Executive Board Chairman starting November 1, 2014

2013/2014

0

0

0

2014/2015

495,000

4,112

499,112

Total

2013/2014

1,674,000

83,354

1,757,354

2014/2015

1,804,500

70,238

1,874,738

	Pension expenses in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) amounted to € –315,552 (previous year: € 394,215) for Peter Willbrandt,
€ 429,361 (previous year: € 279,624) for Erwin Faust, € –140,771 (previous year: € 226,352) for Dr. Frank Schneider, € 160,000 (previous year:
€ 160,000) for Dr. Stefan Boel and € 232,607 € (previous year: € 0) for Dr. Bernd Drouven.
2)
Variable compensation for the period from October 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015
The variable compensation for several years for fiscal year 2014/15 is calculated according to the ratio of actual EBT to the target EBT
of the Aurubis Group and the average of fiscal years 2012/13, 2013/14 and 2014/15.
The average actual EBT amounts to € 198 million, a 51.2 % target achievement.
1)

Mr. Willbrandt resigned from the Executive Board on October 31, 2014 by mutual agreement. The fixed compensation
was paid until March 31, 2015. The three components of the
variable compensation were established at the time of his
resignation and were paid out in fiscal year 2014/15. The
contributions to the additional defined contribution company pension plan were paid until March 31, 2015.

Board in the year under review amounted to € 873,573. This
amount comprises the service cost and contributions to an
external pension fund.

Dr. Schneider resigned from the Executive Board on June
30, 2015. The termination agreement foresees a lump-sum
compensation, which includes the fixed compensation until
April 30, 2016 as well as the variable compensation for fiscal
year 2014/15 and the proportional variable compensation
for fiscal year 2015/16. The payout will be in January 2016.
The contributions to the additional defined contribution
company pension plan were paid until April 30, 2016.

Compensation for the Supervisory Board
The compensation paid to the Supervisory Board is agreed
at the Annual General Meeting and is covered by Section 12
of Aurubis AG’s Articles of Association. It is based on the
duties and responsibilities of Supervisory Board members as
well as the business situation and the Company’s business
success.

The Company has set up pension provisions on the basis of
IFRS for the Executive Board members. Allocations to the
pension provisions for active members of the Executive
Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Former members of the Executive Board and their surviving
dependents received a total of € 2,011,433, while € 25,638,636
has been provided for their pension entitlement.

In addition to the reimbursement of expenses incurred
while carrying out his/her office, each member of the
Supervisory Board receives a fixed fee of € 40,000 per
­fiscal year. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

41
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

o T 003

Variable compensation Variable compensation
for one year
for several years

Total

Pension expenses 1)

Total compensation

337,500

310,500

1,221,317

253,879

1,475,196

168,750

155,250

610,458

232,721

843,179

236,250

207,000

836,484

160,000

996,484

295,313

230,400

921,526

160,000

1,081,526

236,250

207,000

839,195

270,158

1,109,353

295,313

230,400

922,078

310,852

1,232,930

236,250

207,000

838,108

256,937

1,095,045

177,188 2)

144,788 2)

618,966

60,000

678,966

0

0

0

0

0

412,500

316,800

1,228,412

110,000

1,338,412

1,046,250

931,500

3,735,104

940,974

4,676,078

1,349,064

1,077,638

4,301,440

873,573

5,175,013

twice this amount and his deputy 1.5 times this amount.
Supervisory Board members who serve on a Supervisory
Board committee receive an additional € 5,000 per fiscal
year for each committee served on, not however exceeding
€ 10,000 per fiscal year. Supervisory Board members who
chair a Supervisory Board committee receive an additional
€ 10,000 per fiscal year per chairmanship, not however
exceeding € 20,000 per fiscal year.
In addition to the fixed fee, every member of the Supervisory Board receives an annual bonus linked to the Company’s long-term performance of € 250 for every € 1,000,000
of the Company’s adjusted earnings before taxes (EBT) in
excess of an adjusted EBT of € 50,000,000 per annum on
average over the last three fiscal years. Adjusted EBT is EBT
in accordance with IFRS before revaluation of LIFO inventories using the average cost method and without taking into
account the effects of copper price fluctuations in the valuation of inventories of the former Cumerio companies. It
has averaged € 170 million in the last three fiscal years. The

Chairman receives twice and his deputy 1.5 times this
amount.
The fixed compensation (excluding compensation for committee membership) and the bonus linked to the Company’s
long-term performance are limited to € 80,000 per fiscal
year for each member of the Supervisory Board. The limit
for the Chairman amounts to € 160,000 per fiscal year and
€ 120,000 per fiscal year for his deputy.
Furthermore, Supervisory Board members receive an attendance fee of € 500 for each meeting of the Supervisory
Board and of its committees attended.
The following table provides details of the compensation of
the individual members of the Supervisory Board for fiscal
year 2014/15:

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

42

Corporate Governance

o T 004

in €
Name

Fixed
c­ ompensation

Variable
c­ ompensation

Compensation
for committee
membership

Attendance
fees

Total

Prof. Dr.-Ing Heinz Jörg
­Fuhrmann

2013/2014

80,000

58,500

20,000

3,000

161,500

2014/2015

80,000

60,000

20,000

5,000

165,000

Hans-Jürgen Grundmann

2013/2014

60,000

43,875

10,000

5,000

118,875

2014/2015

60,000

45,000

10,000

6,500

121,500

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

10,000

4,500

83,750

2014/2015

40,000

30,000

10,000

4,000

84,000

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

5,000

3,000

77,250

2014/2015

3,397

2,548

425

0

6,370

Burkhard Becker
Dr. Bernd Drouven
Jan Eulen
Dr. Joachim Faubel
Renate Hold
Dr. Sandra Reich
Dr. Thomas Schultek
Rolf Schwertz
Prof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt
Dr.-Ing. Ernst J. Wortberg
Total

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

5,000

4,000

78,250

2014/2015

40,000

30,000

5,000

4,000

79,000

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

0

2,500

71,750

2014/2015

40,000

30,000

0

2,500

72,500
82,250

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

10,000

3,000

2014/2015

40,000

30,000

10,000

5,000

85,000

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

5,000

2,500

76,750

2014/2015

40,000

30,000

5,000

1,000

76,000

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

5,000

3,000

77,250

2014/2015

40,000

30,000

5,000

5,000

80,000

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

0

2,500

71,750

2014/2015

40,000

30,000

0

2,500

72,500

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

10,000

2,500

81,750

2014/2015

40,000

30,000

10,000

5,000

85,000
88,750

2013/2014

40,000

29,250

15,000

4,500

2014/2015

40,000

30,000

15,000

4,000

89,000

2013/2014

540,000

394,875

95,000

40,000

1,069,875

2014/2015

503,397

377,548

90,425

44,500

1,015,870

On this basis, the Supervisory Board members received a
total of € 1,015,870.
Hamburg, December 10, 2015
Supervisory Board

The Executive Board

Erwin Faust
(Spokesman)

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann
(Chairman)

43

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Aurubis Shares on the Capital Market
High volatility on stock markets due to Greek debt crisis
and uncertainties about economic developments
Prices on the stock markets were highly volatile in fiscal year
2014/15. After a restrained start in October 2014, fiscal policy measures from the European issuing banks, positive
growth data from the US and prospective interest rate
increases by the US Federal Reserve led to price increases.
The DAX rose to an all-time high of 12,375 points on April
10, 2015 as a result. Uncertainty among market participants
about a solution to the Greek debt crisis sent stock markets
into a tailspin in the following months, however. After an
agreement about a bailout for Greece, fear of an economic
slump in China triggered a price slide on the capital markets
in late July. The DAX fell to 9,648 points on August 24, 2015.
Prices for copper and oil also fell. Economic support measures from the Chinese central bank and renewed speculation about the timing of the interest rate turnaround in the
US somewhat brightened the mood on the stock markets
until mid-September. The Volkswagen scandal and subsequent fear of repercussions in the German economy caused
leading stock indices to decrease significantly again. The
DAX fell to a 2014/15 fiscal year low of 9,428 points on September 24, 2015.
Aurubis shares outperform leading stock indices
Because of the good earnings prospects, Aurubis shares
developed very positively during the fiscal year and, with a
45 % increase in value, clearly outperformed the MDAX

(+21 %) and the DAX, which remained behind the second-tier
stocks with an increase of just 2 %. Aurubis shares ended
­fiscal year 2013/14 at € 39.16 (Xetra closing price as at September 30, 2014) and initially fell to the year’s low of € 36.43
on October 8, 2014. Nevertheless, they didn’t react very
strongly to the nervousness that dominated the capital markets due to fears about an economic slowdown in the EU.
With the improvement in the general market mood in
November 2014, the shares took off and reached the high of
the fiscal year, € 59.68, on May 4, 2015 due to the positive
profit warning on April 29, 2015. They lost ground afterwards
until early July due to stock market volatility caused by the
Greek debt dispute. Despite the difficult market environment, the share price recovered until the end of the fiscal
year, thanks in large part to the publication of very good
quarterly figures, and ended the fiscal year at € 56.90 on
September 30, 2015. Market capitalization therefore
increased to € 2,558 million as at fiscal year-end from
€ 1,761 million in the previous year.
Aurubis thus isn’t only an attractive investment for long-term
investors. Shareholders who invested a converted amount of
€ 1,000 at the time of Aurubis’ initial public offering in 1998
and reinvested the dividends they received (without a tax
deduction) into ­shares had a portfolio value of € 7,635 at the
end of September 2015. This is a 664 % increase in value or a
total annual return of 12.53 %. The MDAX recorded a 308 %
increase in value during the same period.

Aurubis share performance compared with the DAX and MDAX, from October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015
indexed to 100 %
160

www.aurubis.com

o G 01

140

120

100

80
October

November

Aurubis shares (Xetra)

December
MDAX

January

February

March

April

May

June

July

August

September

DAX

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

44

Aurubis Shares

Trading volume of Aurubis shares nearly reaches high
prior-year volume
At 193,641 shares, the average daily Xetra trading volume
was slightly below the high trading level of 198,490 shares
during the previous year. The 2 % decline was likely due first
and foremost to market participants’ uncertainty in the
­volatile market environment.
Aurubis shareholder structure still stable, well
diversified
According to an evaluation in December 2014, the proportion of share capital held by institutional investors was 40 %
and retail investors accounted for 35 %, just like last year.
Salzgitter AG continued to hold 25 % of the share capital.
Most of the institutional investors are based outside of
­Germany: 13.4 % of the share capital is held in Germany,
11.0 % in Europe (excluding Germany), 10.4 % in North
­America, 4.7 % in UK/Ireland and 0.5 % in other regions.
Executive Board and Supervisory Board suggest
dividend increase to € 1.35
Aurubis AG is traditionally known for its shareholder-­
friendly dividend policy. We would like for our shareholders
to participate in the Company’s success adequately again
this year as well. The Executive Board and Supervisory
Board will therefore recommend a dividend of € 1.35 per
share at the Annual General Meeting on February 24, 2016.
This corresponds to a payout ratio of 53 % of Aurubis AG’s
earnings (51 % in the previous year). The return on the share
based on the closing price as at September 30, 2015
amounts to 2.4 % (2.6 % in the previous year).

Prompt, continuous communication with institutional
and retail investors
The Company’s good earnings trend in the volatile market
environment led to a high demand for information among
capital market participants in fiscal year 2014/15. We
informed our institutional and retail investors as well as
other interested individuals promptly, continuously and
­purposefully about our business trends and our strategy.
Shareholder structure
in % (prior-year figures in parentheses)

40 (40)
Institutional
investors
13.4 Germany
11.0 Rest of Europe
   4.7 UK/Ireland
10.4 USA
   0.5 Others

o G 02

25 (25)
Salzgitter AG

35 (35)
Retail
investors

Communication with institutional investors has high priority
for Aurubis. At 28 capital market conferences and roadshows at the main financial centers in Europe and North
America, institutional investors and financial analysts even
had several opportunities to speak directly with our top
management. Furthermore, the Executive Board informed
investors and analysts promptly about the quarterly results
and further outlook for the fiscal year in conference calls.
We also welcomed investors at our sites in Hamburg and
Lünen as well, giving them a direct glimpse into our operating processes.
Aurubis AG is observed by a number of international financial analysts. A total of 22 financial institutions regularly
published recommendations and analyses about Aurubis AG
during fiscal year 2014/15. Their ratings were as follows at
the end of the fiscal year:

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Company Management
20
Executive Board
21
Supervisory Board
24
Report of the Supervisory Board

45
29
43

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Overview of analyst recommendations

We informed the capital markets about certain developments with ad hoc announcements. These included a positive profit warning on April 29, 2015 as well as an announcement on October 2, 2015 about the appointment of
Mr. Jürgen Schachler as the new Executive Board Chairman
of the Aurubis Group.

o G 03

Number of analysts

11
Buy/
outperform

9
Hold/
neutral

Interest in the shares was strong again overall in fiscal year
2014/15, as evidenced by the fact that Exane BNP Paribas,
an additional renowned international bank, began analyzing
the shares for the first time. Participation in our Annual
General Meeting on March 19, 2015 was high yet again with
about 1,300 shareholders. Current information on the development of the Company is available on our website. We provide financial reports, analyst presentations and additional
publications in the download center.

2
Sell/
underperform

At two very well attended dialogue events in Hamburg, we
offered our retail investors the opportunity to get to know
the Hamburg site and to receive information about the
Group’s current development and economic environment in
discussions with the Executive Board and other employees.
We also held additional presentations for retail shareholders
at events organized by private shareholder associations.

Key figures of Aurubis shares

o T 005

2014/15 2)

2013/14 2)

2012/13 2)

2011/12 2)

2010/11 2) 3)

Closing price as at fiscal year-end 1)

in €

56.90

39.16

44.80

45.35

38.19

Year high (close) 1)

in €

59.68

49.49

57.24

46.60

45.85

Year low (close) 1)

in €

36.43

36.19

38.68

35.44

33.60

Market capitalization as at
fiscal year-end 1)

in € million

2,558

1,761

2,014

2,039

1,717

Number of shares
as at fiscal year-end

in thousand
units

44,956.7

44,956.7

44,956.7

44,956.7

44,956.7

Dividend or recommended dividend

in €

1.35

1.00

1.10

1.35

1.20

Payout ratio

in %

53

51

46

54

51

Operating earnings per share

in €

5.68

2.17

2.06

4.58

4.79

10.02

18.05

21.75

9.90

7.97

Operating price/earnings ratio as at
fiscal year-end

www.aurubis.com

Xetra disclosures.
2)
Values “operationally” adjusted by valuation results from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, by copper price-related valuation
effects on inventories and by effects from the purchase price allocation, mainly property, plant and equipment, from fiscal year 2010/11 onwards.
3)
Including Luvata RPD as of September 1, 2011.
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.
1)

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

46

Aurubis Shares

Information on Aurubis shares

o T 006

Analyst coverage 2014/15

o T 007

Security identification number:

676650

Baader Bank

Christian Obst

International Securities
­Identification Number (ISIN):

DE 000 67 66 504

Bankhaus Lampe

Marc Gabriel

Stock market segment:

MDAX

Bank of America/Merrill Lynch

Cedar Ekblom

Stock exchanges:

Regulated market: Frankfurt am
Main and Hamburg;
unofficial market: Berlin,
­Düsseldorf, Hanover, Munich,
Stuttgart, Tradegate

Commerzbank

Ingo-Martin Schachel

Deutsche Bank

Katja Filzek

Dr. Kalliwoda Research GmbH

Dr. Norbert Kalliwoda

DZ Bank

Dirk Schlamp

Exane BNP Paribas

Daniel Lurch

Goldman Sachs

Eugene King

Haspa

Ingo Schmidt

Hauck & Aufhäuser

Henning Breiter

HSBC

Thorsten Zimmermann

Independent Research GmbH

Sven Diermeier

Kepler Cheuvreux

Rochus Brauneiser

LBBW

Jens Münstermann

Macquarie Research

Alon Olsha

Morgan Stanley

Alain Gabriel

NordLB

Holger Fechner

Quirin Bank AG

Klaus Soer

SRH Alster Research AG

Oliver Drebing

Steubing AG

Michael Broeker

M.M. Warburg

Eggert Kuls

Market segment:

Prime Standard

Issue price:

€ 12.78

Average daily trading volume:

193,641 shares in Xetra trading

Deutsche Börse code:

NDA

Reuters code:

NAFG

Bloomberg code:

NDA_GR

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

47

Combined Management Report

48

64

89
89

97

105

Foundations of the Group
48 Business model of the Group
51
Corporate control
52 Research, development and innovation
Human resources
53
57
Sustainability, environmental protection and occupational health
Economic Report
64 General economic conditions
65 Conditions specific to the industry
67 Economic development in the Aurubis Group
77 Business performance in the Business Units
84 Executive Board assessment of the Aurubis Group during fiscal year 2014/15
85 Results of operations, financial position and net assets of Aurubis AG
Subsequent Events
Risk and Opportunity Report
89 Integrated risk and opportunity management
89 Risk management system
90 Independent monitoring
90 Explanation of relevant risks
93 Internal control system relating to the consolidated accounting process
94 Opportunity management system
95 Explanation of relevant opportunities
96 Assessment of the Group’s risk and opportunity situation
Forecast Report
97 Overall economic development
98 Development on the markets relevant to our business
101 Business and earnings expectations for the Aurubis Group
103 Expected financial situation
104 General statement on the future development of the Aurubis Group
Legal Disclosures
105 Declaration on corporate governance pursuant to Section 289a German Commercial Code (HGB)
105 Takeover-related disclosures and explanations

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

48

Combined Management Report

Foundations of the Group
Business model of the Group
Business activities
Aurubis AG is an integrated copper group focusing on
­copper concentrate processing, metal recycling and fabrication of a variety of copper products. Precious metals and
specialty products complete our range of services. Aurubis
is therefore active in significant parts of the value chain
for copper.

See Glossary,
page 198.

The Group’s sites are primarily located in Western Europe,
with larger production centers in Germany, Belgium and
Bulgaria. Outside of Europe, Aurubis also has a production
site in the US and a global sales and service network.
About 6,300 employees work for Aurubis worldwide.
Business model
The strength of the Aurubis Group’s business model lies in
the closely coordinated connection of copper production
and copper processing.

The Group’s raw material supply is based on two pillars and
is therefore well suited to utilizing market opportunities and
absorbing supply risks. On the one hand, the Group globally
sources and uses copper concentrates drawn from ores. On
the other hand, Aurubis processes a wide range of intermediates, copper scrap and other metal-bearing recycling
materials.
The product portfolio mainly includes standard and specialty products made of copper and copper alloys.
The main product is copper cathodes, which are traded on
the international metal exchanges. Aurubis produces about
1.1 million t of copper cathodes annually and is thus one of
the leading producers in the world. Copper cathodes are the
starting product for fabricating additional copper products
in the Group, but they can also be sold directly. Aurubis processes copper into continuous cast copper wire rod, shapes,
rolled products, strip, specialty wire and profiles. All of
these products are available in a broad range of types.

Business model: integrating copper production and processing

o G 04

Raw materials

»» Copper concentrates
»» Blister copper

»» Copper scrap recycling
»» E-scrap recycling

BU Primary Copper

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

»» O
 ther recycling
­materials

BU Copper Products

Cathodes

Cathodes

Sulfuric acid

Wire rod

Precious metals

Shapes

By-metals

Flat rolled products

Iron silicate

Specialty profiles

Processors and end users

»»
»»
»»
»»
»»

 onstruction
C
Wind turbines
Engines
Cable
Electrical engineering

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

49
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Other elements found in copper raw materials are processed into additional products, in particular precious
­metals, sulfuric acid and iron silicate.

As of July 1, 2015, Aurubis’ activities are divided into two
operating BUs: BU Primary Copper and BU Copper
­Products. The segment reporting pursuant to IFRS 8 is
also based on this new structure.

Aurubis’ direct customers include companies in the copper
semis industry, the electrical and electronics sector, the
chemical industry and suppliers in renewable energies, construction and the automotive business.
The Aurubis Group is managed from the corporate and
administrative headquarters in Hamburg, where the main
production facilities are also located.
Group structure
The Aurubis Group’s organizational structure is oriented
towards its underlying business model. Fundamental
­adjustments were made in fiscal year 2014/15 and the new
structure went into effect on July 1, 2015. Up to this date,
the Group’s organizational structure was made up of three
operating Business Units (BUs): BU Primary Copper,
BU Recycling/Precious Metals and BU Copper Products.

BU Primary Copper mainly combines the production ­facilities
for processing copper concentrates and producing copper
cathodes at the Hamburg and Pirdop sites. The p
­ recious
­metals sector in Hamburg, which is centralized for the entire
Group, was added in the course of the reorganization.
BU Copper Products consists of the Lünen recycling
plant and the Olen production site, an organizational step
that strengthens the orientation of recycling to customer
­business. This BU also produces and markets products
from the copper product sectors wire rod, continuous cast
shapes, rolled products and specialty products.
From an organizational perspective, the product business
is divided into Business Lines (BLs) Rod & Shapes, Flat
Rolled Products, Bars & Profiles and Marketing Cathodes.

Organizational structure: two operating Business Units with central management

o G 05

Executive Board

Corporate Functions
Business Units
Primary Copper

Copper Products

»» P
 rocuring and processing copper concentrates
»» Producing exchange-traded copper cathodes
»» Producing and marketing sulfuric acid, precious metals
and specialty products

»» P
 rocuring and processing recycling raw materials
»» Producing and marketing exchange-traded copper cathodes
»» Producing and marketing wire rod, shapes, pre-rolled strip,
rolled products and specialty products

Supply Chain Management
Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

50

Combined Management Report

The significant production sites are Hamburg, Stolberg,
Emmerich (Germany), Olen (Belgium), Zutphen (Netherlands), Pori (Finland), Avellino (Italy) and Buffalo (USA).
­Service centers in the United Kingdom, Slovakia and Italy
and a global sales and distribution network complete the
service profile.
Group-wide functions support the operating Business
Units. The newly established Supply Chain Management,
which is responsible for raw material management across
the Group as well as the sale of sulfuric acid and other
­specialty products, should be emphasized in particular.
A list of investments pursuant to Section 313 (2) German
Commercial Code (HGB) as at September 30, 2015 is provided in the notes to the financial statements.

See Glossary,
page 198 and 200.

Significant parameters relevant to the business
The significant parameters relevant for Aurubis are the copper price, treatment and refining charges for raw materials,
cathode premiums and shape surcharges for copper products
as well as sales revenues for sulfuric acid.

However, the copper price indirectly influences the raw
material supply and demand. Furthermore, efficient metal
production in our plants can lead to effects on earnings,
which can cause changes accordingly depending on the raw
material composition and metal price fluctuations.
Treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs) are negotiated
with suppliers when purchasing copper-bearing raw materials. The TC/RC trend depends on the supply and demand
structure on the global markets. TC/RCs are essentially the
compensation for turning raw materials into the commodity
exchange product, copper cathodes, as well as other metals.
The metal exchange and market quotation for copper serves
as the price basis for our copper product sales. The Aurubis
cathode premium and shape surcharges, which are charged
for converting cathodes into copper products, are also part
of the sales price. Economic trends and other developments
have an impact as well.
Pricing along the value chain

o G 06

(schematic illustration)

The copper price is formed first and foremost on the
­London Metal Exchange (LME), which facilitates physical
transactions, hedging and investment business. The price
represents a benchmark beyond exchange trading and is
recognized internationally.
The copper price is the basis of price calculations in the raw
material and product business. There are no significant
direct risks from price fluctuations since the price is extensively and continuously hedged.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Procurement
price for
concentrates
and recycling
raw materials

Treatment
and refining
charges

Copper
price

Cathode
premium
and shape
surcharge

Sales price
for copper
product

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

51
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Corporate control
Control system
The main objective of the management control system is to
increase the Aurubis Group’s corporate value by generating
a positive overall contribution to the enterprise beyond the
costs of capital.
Corporate control parameters
In order to measure financial success for the medium and
long term within the scope of value-oriented corporate control, Aurubis uses the following central control parameters:
»» O
 perating consolidated earnings
(operating EBT = ­earnings before taxes)
»» Operating return on capital employed (operating ROCE)
in the Group
These parameters are regularly presented to the entire
Executive Board and are utilized for internal control purposes. The Executive Board’s variable compensation is also
oriented to these parameters.
The Aurubis Group reports in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). When the average
cost method is applied in accordance with IAS 2, metal price
fluctuations systematically lead to considerable discontinuities in the presentation of the Aurubis Group’s results of
operations, financial position and net assets. In our view,
these valuation results lead to an economically inaccurate
presentation in the Management Report. Furthermore, the
purchase price allocation in the course of the acquisition
of Luvata’s Rolled Products Division resulted in one-time
effects that would also lead to a distortion in the Aurubis
Group’s presentation of the results of operations, financial
position and net assets.

The operating result is derived from the IFRS results of
operations by
»» A
 djustment by valuation results from the use of the
average cost method in accordance with IAS 2,
»» Adjustment by copper price-related valuation effects
on inventories,
»» Adjustment by effects from purchase price allocations,
primarily on fixed assets, from fiscal year 2010/11
onwards.
Operating return on capital employed (ROCE)

o T 008

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Fixed assets

1,327

1,341

Inventories

1,374

1,298

Trade accounts receivable

307

414

Other receivables and assets

212

156

– Trade accounts payable

(761)

(797)

– Provisions and other liabilities

(480)

(452)

Capital employed as at the
­balance sheet date

1,979

1,961

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

343

137

27

30

370

167

18.7%

8.5%

in € million

Financial result
Earnings before interest
and taxes (EBIT)
Return on capital employed
(operating ROCE)

See Glossary,
page 201.

Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Operating ROCE shows the ratio of operating earnings
before interest and taxes (EBIT) to operating capital
employed as at the balance sheet date and indicates the
return on capital employed.

In order to present the Aurubis Group’s operating success
more independently of these valuation effects on internal
control systems, internal Group reporting and control are
carried out on the basis of the operating result.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

52

Combined Management Report

Corresponding to the calculation of the operating result,
operating capital employed is derived by adjusting the
­balance sheet items in accordance with IFRS by the effects
previously mentioned.

The Aurubis Group’s R&D expenditures in reporting year
2014/15 amounted to € 11 million (previous year: € 10
­million). The department employed 56 people (previous
year: 69).

A reconciliation of the balance sheet and income statement
from IFRS to operating figures is provided in the Economic
Report of the Management Report.

The strategic orientation of R&D activities towards
­forward-looking and market-oriented projects was advanced
further. We worked more closely together with a growing
research network of respected international universities and
institutes to investigate scientific principles and expand
future technology platforms.

Research, development and innovation
Innovations based on efficient and effective research
and development (R&D) are an important growth engine
for Aurubis. Our international team of highly qualified
­employees from different fields and their know-how are the
foundation for successfully developing these innovations.
They receive support from internal and external innovation
partners in the process.
R&D employees

o G 07

Number as at September 30
80
69
60

56

In addition to the classic R&D activities, we implemented
computer-based optimization models for material flow
­management during the fiscal year.
Higher requirements for copper and specialty products on
the one hand and increasingly complex primary and secondary raw materials on the other hand present a growing
­challenge for our production processes. Complex metallurgical projects and issues were therefore a focus of our of
R&D work during the fiscal year. We were able to develop a
stable basis for the Group in this area. Furthermore, the
R&D work in primary and secondary metallurgical slags
­continued.

47
40

38

40

10/11

11/12

Additional future-oriented R&D topics are determined by
global trends and the growth areas defined in the Group
strategy. We utilize open innovation approaches in order
to develop the resulting technologies, investigate their
­attractiveness and identify concrete areas of action.

20

0

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

12/13

13/14

14/15

53

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

In the product business, there were positive developments in
the alloy family “BlueBrass 42” on both the wire and the strip
side. There was a breakthrough towards series fabrication for
key customers. We accommodate the increasing demand for
lead-free brass alloys for machining with materials from this
product range. Increased activities in the “Alloyed Wire” project led to process and product optimizations in the fabrication of high-performance alloys made of wire with high copper contents. Nevertheless, additional process developments
are necessary before a stable volume production is possible.
In the strip sector, the introduction of a high-performance
alloy used to produce connectors was successfully concluded.
In addition to casting the alloy, production trials up to the
­initial sampling stage were successfully carried out with key
automotive suppliers. We see good market potential in this
area as well.
R&D expenditures

o G 08

in € million
12

11

Human resources
Personnel strategy
The Human Resources (HR) Corporate Function, in close
cooperation with the local HR departments, is responsible
for developing and implementing a uniform personnel strategy. The strategy is oriented towards the Company’s values:
Performance, Responsibility, Integrity, Mutability, Appreciation. The first letters of these words spell the German word
“PRIMA”, which means “great”. We are committed to these
values.

See Glossary,
page 200.

The focuses of our strategic HR work in fiscal year 2014/15
included organizational development, successor management and talent promotion. The implementation of job rotation measures was also a highlight. Yet another point of
emphasis was the development of the compensation system.
To improve communication among managers, we encouraged networking across the sites with joint project work.

10
9

8

8

8

10/11

11/12

12/13

Personnel structure
A total of 6,321 employees worked in the Aurubis Group
worldwide as at September 30, 2015. Of this number, 56 %
are employed in German plants and 44 % work in other
countries.

6

3

0
13/14

14/15

Aurubis Group personnel are mainly dispersed among the
following countries: Germany (3,539), Bulgaria (825), USA
(653), Belgium (533), the Netherlands (330), Finland (213)
and Italy (130).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

54

Combined Management Report

Aurubis Group employees

o G 09

Number as at September 30
8,000
6,279

6,372

6,563

6,359 1)

6,321 1)

6,000

4,000

2,000

0
10/11
1)

11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

Excluding Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG

Aurubis Group personnel structure
Number

3,977
Blue collar

o G 10

2,056
White collar

288
Apprentices

Diversity and promotion of female employees
We strive for diversity in our personnel structure, both in
the management and at all other levels of the Company. We
view diversity from a cultural perspective but also from the
­perspective of internationality, professional expertise and a
balanced proportion of men and women.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

With the possibility of job changes within the Group, we want
to enhance motivation, shake up established structures and
create space for new ideas and views. Moreover, these
aspects should promote knowledge expansion and knowledge transfer.
Equal opportunities for women and men are outlined in
Aurubis’ Code of Conduct. Within the scope of the German
law for equal participation of men and women in management positions in the private sector and in public service, targets have to be set for increasing the proportion of women in
the first two management levels under the Executive Board.
A target of 20 % for both management levels should be
achieved by June 30, 2017. The first level currently includes
30 managers, six of whom are women, for a proportion of
20 %. The second level has an additional 46 managers, eight
of whom are women, for a proportion of 17.4 %.
A number of our jobs are in the industrial sector. These jobs
are associated with high physical demands and shift work.
Traditionally, very few women work in these areas. While the
number of female applicants for technical fields is increasing
somewhat, it is still low. The proportion of female employees
in the Group is 11.9%, slightly higher than the prior-year level
of 11.6 %.
Aurubis continues to pursue the goal of addressing female
applicants more strongly as an employer. We take this into
account in our university marketing and as part of our existing contact with schools. Staff development programs and
concepts are being developed to increase the proportion of
women in the Group’s upper management in the medium
to long term.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

55
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

The Lünen plant, which is headed by a woman, participated in
“Cross-Mentoring NRW”, a mentoring program which promotes female managers in companies in North Rhine-­
Westphalia, Germany. Aurubis is one of 35 participating companies from diverse sectors. The companies select female
mentors and high-potential individuals for one-on-one
exchange and an overarching program that encourages professional discussions and skills development.
Employee compensation and profit-sharing
Aurubis has a uniform compensation system for its management. This compensation system is based on an analytical
job evaluation, clearly established income brackets and a
target bonus model with defined levels of performance
measurement and weighting. These factors allow managers
to assess what performance is required on the Group, BU
and individual levels and how they are evaluated. During the
past fiscal year, the structure of the compensation system
was adjusted to take individual performance more strongly
into account.
Employees participate in the Aurubis Group’s success. Performance and success-oriented compensation is a fundamental element of the remuneration system at Aurubis AG.
Motivated, high-performance employees make a decisive
contribution to the Company’s achievements and value. The
performance of the individual is always assessed in connection with the performance of the team, the department or
the production sector. The individual performance and collective team performance serve as parameters in this case.
In September 2015, we gave employees at the German sites
the opportunity to acquire a limited number of Aurubis AG
shares at favorable conditions. Overall, 1,470 employees
participated (previous year: 1,612), due in part to the significantly higher share price. A total of 28,670 shares were
­purchased (previous year: 31,270).

Personnel recruitment
Demographic change is a challenge for Aurubis as well. We
are already responding to this shift with our personnel
recruitment. Over 60 % of the graduates of our internal
­program for talented young employees, EXPLORE!, are
expected to take on new positions. Our activities in university marketing for technical and commercial professions
were focused and simultaneously expanded. The cooperation with our partner universities remained intensive. Moreover, we annually provide about 50 student internships in
Hamburg. The offerings for young potential employees are
rounded off with scholarships and supervised thesis papers.
Education and training
Drawing in qualified specialists and managers is of central
importance for Aurubis.
This year we took part in a variety of fairs and events once
again, including the Idea Expo in Hanover. The objective is to
raise interest and recruit young people for technical vocations
in the so-called MINT subjects (mathematics, informatics,
natural sciences and technology).
The career information day “Your Future Starts Here” took
place in Hamburg for the fourth time on April 25 with the
purpose of drawing in apprentices. A number of guests came
to receive information about our apprenticeship offers and
career options and to apply for apprenticeships. Four apprentices were recruited directly and 52 additional invitations to
interviews and long tests were distributed. Our sites in Stolberg and Lünen took part in the “Apprenticeship Night” once
again. Interested young people were able to receive information about trades and apprenticeship options from different
exhibits and information stands and to participate in plant
tours.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

56

Combined Management Report

During a kick-off event on September 4, 2015, Hamburg
Mayor Olaf Scholz and Aurubis AG Executive Board Chairman Dr. Bernd Drouven welcomed 75 young people who
began their apprenticeships at Aurubis in Hamburg and
Lünen in 2015. The Aurubis Group offers 20 different apprenticeship trades. Aurubis took the event as an opportunity to
offer policymakers an expansion of the current apprentice
class to contribute to integration and vocational training in
the current, pressing issue of the refugee crisis.
In addition, the 10-Plus model started up again in Hamburg,
a program in which 12 high school interns are introduced to
various vocations and are supported in the achievement of
a school certificate three days a week at Aurubis.
As of September 1, 2015 we employed 181 apprentices, including 12 interns in the 10-Plus project, making up a total of 8 %
of the workforce. The proportion of apprentices with an
immigrant background is 36 % overall and 48 % among the
new apprentices.
A cooperation agreement with the mobility agency “Work
and Life” was entered into this year to create an international
apprentice exchange among the sites. In the past few years,
six apprentices have been trained in Pirdop and Avellino.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Qualification measures for our employees
The continuous personal development and training of our
employees continues to have high priority. In the Aurubis
Group, personnel development is considered an investment
in the future. Our leadership and qualification program is
closely oriented to the Company’s needs. It includes a total
of 22 measures in the areas of management, personal and
entrepreneurial skills. Our employees have used the measures intensively. In addition to the internal Group qualification program, Aurubis AG employees took part in around
380 technical training sessions and seminars.
Work-life balance
In October 2012 the Aurubis Family Service started up with
the goal of providing support in better combining work and
family to all employees at the German sites. The Aurubis
Family Service helps with the coordination of work and
childcare or nursing care for family members. The service
continued to be well received. It is important to support our
employees in difficult times. The Lünen site was certified as
a family-friendly company.
Thanks from the Executive Board
We would like to thank our employees for their daily commitment in fiscal year 2014/15. Only with the motivation
and dedication of our staff was it possible to develop the
Group successfully. Our thanks also go to the employee
­representatives, with whom we worked constructively and
closely during the past fiscal year.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

57
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Sustainability, environmental protection and
occupational health
Sustainability as part of the company strategy
Sustainable conduct and economic activities are among the
central components of Aurubis’ company strategy. For
Aurubis, acting responsibly means having a conscientious
attitude towards the environment and limited natural
resources. It includes responsible interactions with employees, suppliers, customers, neighbors and the plant areas and
communities where Aurubis is active.
Responsible business practices are also the foundation of
our operating business. Together with healthy growth, this
builds the foundation for sustainable economic success and
a secure future for the Company.
Internal regulations and management systems, the PRIMA
Company values and statutory provisions create the basis
for responsible Company management at Aurubis. The
Group’s five corporate values, PRIMA, include Responsibility
as well as Performance, Integrity, Mutability and Appreciation.
Aurubis respects human rights and advocates for their protection. Compliance with the internationally recognized
core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) are of fundamental significance. Aurubis has
­participated in the United Nations Global Compact since
December 2014 and has thus committed to implementing
the Global Compact’s principles. The progress made in the
year the Global Compact was signed was published in the
Communication on Progress 2014.
Aurubis is listed in the Global Challenges Index, a sustainability index for which oekom research issued the sustainability rating.

Sustainability as part of the corporate culture
A key topic in the Aurubis Group is the continued integration of sustainability in the corporate culture. Aurubis
achieves a great deal in this area at all of the sites in the
Group and across all business processes. We have initiated a
variety of measures to minimize possible effects of business
activities on the environment, but also on employees and
society, as much as possible early on.
In order to address this sustainability approach more systematically, Aurubis developed a comprehensive Sustainability Strategy in fiscal year 2012/13 and made it public in 2014.
The Sustainability Strategy establishes the main areas of
activity for the coming years. Based on these areas, targets
in the categories of the economy, the environment and people as well as action plans for individual areas have been
developed.
For example, Aurubis will continue generating and implementing ideas from Innovation Management, reducing
emissions, expanding recycling of complex materials,
increasing occupational safety, dealing more intensively
with its responsibility in the supply chain and intensifying its
dialogue with interest groups: this includes the European
Union and its member states on the topic of a circular economy.
The rise in questions and demands from different relevant
interest groups validates this approach. Customers are placing a stronger emphasis on environmentally friendly products but also on modern production processes and a secure
and responsible raw material supply. For example, customers asked Aurubis to participate in the investor initiative
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a climate protection rating
project. Aurubis was distinguished as Best Newcomer
­Germany on November 4, 2015.

www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/
participants/49491

www.cdp.net

See Glossary,
page 198.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

58

Combined Management Report

See Glossary,
page 199.

Standards for resource efficiency, environmentally friendly
recycling management and multi-metal recycling solutions
are increasing. Business partners are very interested in
­discussing sustainability issues. One example is Aurubis’
cooperation with Grillo-Werke AG, which comprises a joint
approach to closing material cycles.
Organizational structure
From a thematic and organizational group-wide perspective,
sustainability is part of Corporate Communications & External Affairs at Aurubis. Sustainability Management carries
out the daily work in this area together with representatives
from all of the Group’s departments.

www.aurubis.com/
en/en/corp/
responsibility/
strategy-and-­
sustainability

See Glossary,
page 199.

Comprehensive sustainability reporting
The fourth Aurubis Sustainability Report was published in
2014. It provides an extensive and detailed sustainability
balance of the two previous fiscal years and is supplemented with online reporting.
The new Sustainability Report on fiscal years 2013/14 and
2014/15 will be published in spring 2016. The report’s
­alignment with the internationally recognized reporting
standard Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) makes the Company’s sustainability reporting more transparent and easier to
compare. In addition to the relevant key parameters, the
Sustainability Report outlines successes, targets and challenges and presents the Aurubis Sustainability Strategy.
The next report will follow higher reporting standards (GRI
G4), which we are pleased to fulfill within the framework of
our Sustainability Strategy. In the course of producing the
report, we will address the Company’s main sustainability
issues and carry out a stakeholder survey.

Aurubis is thus well positioned to fulfill the CSR (Corporate
Social Responsibility) reporting obligation, according to which
large companies of public interest have to report about
strategies, risks and results related to environmental, social
and employee issues, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and diversity in management and supervisory bodies
starting in 2017. The Sustainability Report and Annual
Report are already produced in close cooperation between
the relevant departments.
Environmental protection in the Group
Aurubis assumes responsibility for environmental and
­climate protection. At Aurubis, production is carried out in
an environmentally sound manner using state-of-the-art,
­energy-efficient plant technologies with very high environmental standards in order to conserve natural resources and
to maintain a clean environment for future generations. We
pursue this standard at all of the production sites in the
Aurubis Group and across all of our business processes. We
have set targets in environmental protection, defined key
environmental parameters and established measures to
achieve the targets across the Group. The effectiveness of
these targets and measures is reviewed continuously.
Capital expenditure for environmental protection at
Aurubis, copper production
in € million

o G 11

100
83.4

80

81.5

60
40

51.6
33.3

20

38.4

30.7

23.1

34.4

29.6 27.4

27.5
19.6

10.4 11.7 10.0

0
00 01

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09

10

11

12

13

14

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

59
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Topics in Group environmental protection until 2015

o G 12

Climate protection
»» Target: Continued reduction in CO₂ emissions
»» E xample: Constructing turbines to use waste heat
in Hamburg and Lünen

Climate
protection
Noise
»» Target: Reducing noise emissions
»» E xample: Erecting a noise barrier in Olen

Waste
»» Target: Increasing the recycling rates
»» E xamples: Stronger marketing of fayalite in Pirdop
»» Optimizing the separation plant at E.R.N.

Air
»» Targets until 2015:
»» Reducing SO₂ emissions by over 80 % in primary
copper production compared to 2000
(86 % reduction achieved in 2014)
»» Reducing dust emissions in copper production
by over 90 % compared to 2000 (96 % reduction
achieved in 2014)

Air

Noise

Water

Waste

Group-wide environmental management systems (in accordance with ISO 14001 in particular and supplemented by
the participation of Aurubis AG in the Eco-Management and
Audit Scheme, EMAS) support the implementation of environmental and climate protection objectives. Goals are
recorded, deviations are evaluated and corrective measures
are initiated and monitored for their effectiveness.
Moreover, energy management systems in accordance with
ISO 50001 have been implemented at several sites. The
annual external audit offers us the opportunity to have the
successful implementation of environmental protection
measures confirmed by an independent third party and to
recognize potential for improvement.

Soil

Water
»» Target until 2015:
»» Reducing metal emissions to water in copper
­production by about 70 % compared to 2000
(83 % reduction achieved in 2014)
»» E xample: Operating new water treatment plants
in Pirdop and Lünen
Soil
»» Target: Reducing soil contamination
»» E xample: Paving large parts of the plant premises
in Lünen and collecting rainwater

A significant foundation for environmentally friendly
­production is the efficient use of raw materials. Multi-metal
production and the recycling of complex input materials
form the basis for responsible and demand-oriented production at Aurubis.

See Glossary,
page 199.

The continuous improvement of water pollution control, soil
conservation, climate protection and immission protection
is the condition for sustainable environmental protection.
For that reason, more than € 500 million has been invested
in environmental protection measures in primary and secondary copper production since 2000.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

60

Combined Management Report

Sulfur dioxide is formed when copper is produced from copper concentrates. When compared internationally, Aurubis
is a forerunner in reducing specific sulfur dioxide emissions.
Specific dust emissions for primary and secondary copper
production have been reduced by 96 % compared to 2000.
Dust emissions

o G 13

in g/t of copper output
100

1,291

1,350

80
861

60
40

316

20

211 205 218 209
90 82 80 89

72

52

55

12

13

14

0
00 01

02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09

10

11

In addition to reducing emissions to air, we have also made
significant improvements in water pollution control. We
have reduced metal emissions to water in copper production processes from 7.2 to 1.3 g per ton of copper output
since 2000, or by 82 %. Thus, we achieved the environmental protection target of reducing emissions to water by
roughly 70 % by 2015 during this reporting period. Emissions
to water were reduced by more than a quarter compared to
the previous year alone. Our goal is now to maintain this
low level in the future as well.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The following are examples of measures that have strongly
contributed to ongoing improvements in environmental
protection:
»» A
 s part of our voluntary agreement on emission reduction with the city of Hamburg, cutback potential was
identified and emission reduction measures were
agreed on with the Authority for the Environment and
Energy. As a result, the collection of fugitive emissions
in primary copper production was improved with the
installation of additional hoods.
»» A rainwater retention facility that started up at the
Lünen site in spring 2014 has been in normal operation
without any trouble. The collected water now covers a
large proportion of the plant’s internal cooling and
­process water needs.
»» A water treatment plant was commissioned at the
­Bulgarian site in Pirdop in November 2014. With a
capacity of 216 m3/h and multiple catch basins with a
volume of 32,000 m3, the plant treats the site’s surface
water in particular, thus increasing the water quality.
Moreover, a new off-gas treatment facility was started
up that contributes to reducing air emissions further.
Aurubis led an open dialogue with authorities and citizens
across the Group in 2014/15 again and was involved in a
number of projects.
For example, we are participating in the three-year testing
and development phase of the European Commission’s
Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) together with the
overarching European association Eurometaux and the
European Copper Institute (ECI). The goal of this collaboration is to develop and test the methods for determining the
environmental footprint. On this basis, the European
­Commission is striving to create a single market for
­“environmentally friendly products” and “environmentally
friendly ­organizations”.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

61
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

In Hamburg, we have been a member of the Environmental
Partnership since 2003 and are taking part in the Partnership for Air Quality and Low-emission Mobility, which is
coordinated by the city of Hamburg. The goal of the partnership is to reduce nitrogen dioxide emissions, which are
caused by transport in particular. Many ideas on the topics
of employee mobility and efficient carpooling have already
been developed. For example, a bike safety check is offered
for employees to support cyclists’ safety in the dark part of
the year.
We continue to raise employees’ awareness of these issues,
as this is an essential condition for successful environmental
protection.
Striving for energy efficiency, resource efficiency and environmental protection can nevertheless lead to conflicting
goals. For instance, while processing complex recycling
materials is very resource-efficient, it usually requires high
energy consumption. We continuously work on developing
environmental and climate protection in order to reduce our
effects on the environment to a minimum.
Our Environmental Report contains more information
on environmental protection in the Aurubis Group. It is
available online in the “Responsibility” section.

Energy supply and energy efficiency are of
fundamental importance
The fabrication steps in the value chain are complex and
copper production is very energy-intensive. As a result,
there were significant influences from the energy sector
during fiscal year 2014/15. The German energy turnaround,
the start of the third European emissions trading period and
the implementation of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive
took center stage yet again.
As part of their climate protection efforts, companies that
emit carbon dioxide must now have all of the corresponding
rights for this. However, the free allocation of CO2 certificates announced for February 2013 was not issued until
early 2014. Aurubis has filed an appeal against some of
these allocation notifications, so the exact number of allowances isn’t foreseeable yet.
The competitiveness of European industry is reduced by
local additional CO2 costs. To balance these effects,
so-called carbon leakage sectors were established, including
the copper industry. This status, which softens the effect of
the general reduction of CO2 certificate allocation to a great
extent, will be reviewed by the European Commission every
five years and applies to copper up to and including 2019.
Nevertheless, the announced political readjustments of
emissions trading in European industry lead to uncertainties
and affect our ability to plan and our competitive edge.

www.aurubis.com

As an energy-intensive company, the efficient use of energy
isn’t just an ecological but also an economic responsibility
for Aurubis. All of the sites utilize energy as sparingly as
possible and consistently work on productivity and efficiency enhancements.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

62

Combined Management Report

In 2007 the EU member states agreed to reduce primary
energy consumption by 20 % by 2020. The EU Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) went into effect on December 4, 2012.
It comprises a broad spectrum of different sectors and outlines activities to strengthen energy efficiency that are to be
implemented by the member states. This includes the execution of mandatory energy audits by December 5, 2015. All of
the main German sites in the Aurubis Group have developed
an energy management system, carry out energy audits and
are certified in accordance with DIN EN ISO 50001 in the
meantime. We therefore fulfill the basic conditions to continue being subject to a lower German Renewable Energies
Act (EEG) reallocation charge and lower energy/electricity
taxes. Furthermore, this enables us to operate energy-efficient plant technologies systematically and to identify and
implement measures to save additional energy. In order to
discuss experiences beyond the plant boundaries, we participate in the energy efficiency network of the German Metals
Industry Association. An internal network is currently in the
planning stage.

www.new4-0.de/

See Glossary,
page 199.

Our innovative project for highly efficient and flexible electricity production and heat utilization based on process
waste heat started up in November 2014. It was awarded the
Best Practice in Energy Efficiency 2015 label and was nominated for the German Energy Agency’s international Energy
Efficiency Award 2015.
The electricity costs on the EEX (European Energy Exchange)
decreased further in the course of the fiscal year owing to
declining coal prices and the price level for CO2 certificates,
which is still low despite a slight increase. In addition, the
accelerated energy turnaround in Germany heavily

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

influences the electricity price level as well. Exceedingly volatile electricity from renewable energy makes up more than
25 % of gross electricity production in the meantime and
suppresses conventional electricity since it is preferentially
fed in. The result is that expensive gas power plants are
hardly crucial for pricing anymore but instead mainly brown
and hard coal power plants. The electricity exchange prices
in the countries bordering Germany are also affected.
The Aurubis Group bases its electricity supply in Germany
on a virtual “power plant slice” based on hard coal. We
therefore don’t benefit from the price reduction effects of
renewable energies but from falling coal prices worldwide
and the low CO2 price level.
According to present knowledge, there will be no additional
charges from the ruling on the state aid investigation
regarding the German EEG in the past periods. However,
legislators reacted to European objections and are ruling
out the possibility of a complete exemption from grid
charges in the future.
In order to identify possible limitations but also the potential of making electricity more flexible for the Aurubis
plants, the Company is participating in “NEW 4.0”, a large
project with more than 50 partners from the federal states
of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein. NEW 4.0 aims at
implementing a sustainable energy supply for industry and
thus strengthening the region’s future viability.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

63
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

The flexibilization possibilities and energy efficiency
­potential will be analyzed with the support of simulation
models that flow into our Industry 4.0 activities.
In order to protect international sectors like the copper
industry from competitive disadvantages, the EU has
already authorized limited compensation for electricity price
increases stemming from CO2 emissions trading. Corresponding funding guidelines have been passed for Germany,
the Netherlands and Belgium and are being planned for
­Finland. Even the complete compensation approved in
­Germany is only 50 % effective in the copper industry due
to EU regulations.
The exchange prices for natural gas decreased continuously
in the course of fiscal year 2014/15, reaching lows towards
the end of the fiscal year. The main reason for the lower
prices is the good natural gas supply in Europe. A very cold
winter in 2015/16 is currently the greatest risk for increasing
prices again. Furthermore, the lower oil prices placed pressure on some of the import contracts. They also reduced
prices for the liquid gas supply (propane) at the Pirdop and
Pori sites. Due to new LNG (liquefied natural gas) export
capacities, we expect a good supply of natural gas in Europe
despite falling internal production. The US in particular will
be an LNG exporter starting in 2016 and will place additional pressure on the market.

Health protection in the Group
The accident frequency among our employees decreased
again in fiscal year 2014/15. The accident frequency measure
LTIFR (1-n) decreased by 19.2 % compared to the previous year,
to 6.3 (number of work-related accidents with at least one
lost shift per one million hours worked). The absolute number of accidents fell from 80 to 63. There were no
­accident-related fatalities in the Group.

See Glossary,
page 200.

We have been setting occupational safety targets and
actively publicizing them since 2010. Our objective is an
LTIFR (1-n) of ≤ 3.0 in 2022 with an overall goal of a completely accident-free work environment at Aurubis. The
­target for fiscal year 2014/15 was set at LTIFR (1-n) ≤ 7.2.
Aurubis was well below this limit at 6.3. We have defined
a limit of ≤ 6.0 for fiscal year 2015/16.
It is our daily responsibility to provide technical, organizational and personal conditions that prevent all work-related
accidents and illnesses. We are committed to this responsibility.
Accident frequency

o G 14

LTIFR = Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
15

13.3
11.7

10

9.1
7.2

7.2

6.7

7.8
6.5

5

6.3

5.3

0
10/11
LTIFR (1-n)

11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

LTIFR (4-n)

LTIFR (1-n) – accidents with lost time of at least one whole shift
LTIFR (4-n) – accidents with lost time of more than three whole shifts

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

64

Combined Management Report

Economic Report
General economic conditions
Although the global financial system was in robust condition in fiscal year 2014/15, risk factors for the world economy increased. Following the debt crisis in Greece and the
US Federal Reserve’s expected initial interest rate step,
which dominated the first half of 2015, China’s economic
development came into focus starting in the summer.
Accounting for 16.9 % of the global economy, China is a significant driver of its growth. Furthermore, the country plays
an even more considerable role as a raw material consumer
on the global markets. This affects commodity prices and
thus the economic trend in emerging countries dependent
on raw material exports.
Expected GDP growth in 2015 1)

o G 15

in %
8
6.8

7.3

6

4

3.1

2.6

2

1.5

1.5
0.6

0
World
1)

USA

Eurozone

Germany

Japan

China

India

Source: International Monetary Fund, Oct. 2015

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) corrected its fall
forecast for economic growth in 2015 downward, from 3.3 %
(July forecast) to 3.1 %. At the same time, the organization
also pointed out that a return to robust, worldwide growth
is difficult to achieve six years after the deepest global
recession since World War II.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Moreover, the IMF World Economic Outlook (WEO) stated
that there were distinct differences between industrialized
countries and emerging countries. The recovery in the first
group is considered only moderate overall despite positive
isolated developments. Nevertheless, the upswing continued in the US at 2.6 %. The Eurozone is also on a growth
course in 2015 at 1.5 %, with Germany also performing well
with plus 1.5 %. The leading German economic research
institutes are more confident, predicting economic growth
of 1.8 % for the country. Japan registered a positive growth
rate for the first time again. However, demographic shifts
and a decline in investing activity were highlighted as hindering factors. In the opinion of the IMF, maintaining the
loose monetary policy is therefore imperative.
The situation in the emerging countries is a cause for concern, as their growth rates continue to decrease. According
to IMF reports, countries that rely on raw material exports
are affected in particular, such as the countries of Latin
America and those that export crude oil. There has also
been a capital flight from emerging countries, estimated by
the Institute of International Finance at US$ 540 billion.
While observers have assumed for quite a while that the
growth rates would be lower there, the issue only became
acute in the summer due to the uncertain development in
China. This showed that the transformation to a new growth
model isn’t without complications. In Q3 2015 the country’s
economic growth fell below the 7 % mark for the first time
since the global financial crisis. At 6.9 %, it is at the lowest
level since early 2009. In addition, a stock market bubble
burst in China, leading to a tumble in prices on the stock
exchanges and shaking trust in the political leadership’s ability to implement reform. Massive interventions led to only
limited effects initially. Similar developments were evident
on the currency market after the external value of Chinese
currency was strongly devaluated on August 11.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

65
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Conditions specific to the industry
The Aurubis Group is active on the international copper
market and in its sub-markets, whose structures vary
strongly in some cases.
On the global market for copper concentrates, which are
supplied by mining companies and traders, Aurubis
­competes with other primary copper smelters, mainly in
China and Japan.
Aurubis is a significant purchaser and processor of recycling
raw materials containing copper and other metals, which it
procures in the European market first and foremost. Metal
trading companies are the main actors on the supplier side
of this market, though some recycling materials also reach
us directly from product manufacturers as production residues. On the demand side, we primarily compete with
other copper and metal smelters that also utilize recycling
materials.
The market for copper cathodes is international. Copper
cathodes, which are made of refined copper, serve as the
basis for trade on the international metal exchanges. While
Aurubis is one of the largest producers in this area with an
annual output of about 1.1 million t, it doesn’t hold a significant position relative to the overall market of roughly
22 million t.
The markets for copper products are also distinctly fragmented, with a number of companies that mainly belong to
the semi-finished product and cable and wire industries.
Aurubis’ sub-markets were subject to various developments
during fiscal year 2014/15:
On the international copper concentrate market, the trend
towards higher outputs continued and contributed to good
concentrate availability. According to the International Copper Study Group (ICSG), the mine output in 2015 will likely
be 1.2 % higher at 18.8 million t, thus achieving around the
same growth rate as the previous year. The growth rate

published in the ICSG fall forecast is nevertheless more
moderate than generally expected back in the summer. The
market research firm CRU International reduced its estimate
of mine output somewhat after taking price-related production cuts into account. The firm now predicts a growth rate
of 1.4 % for the entire year after 2.3 % in the middle of the
year. The ICSG reports that the mines’ capacity utilization
for the first seven months of 2015 was 83.5 % following
85.0 % in the corresponding period of the prior year. Overall,
the international copper concentrate market registered a
largely balanced relationship between production and
demand.
The European copper scrap market, one of Aurubis’ central
procurement markets, reflected differentiated trends in the
reporting year. Availability was good during long periods of
the fiscal year, continuing in the phase of the first copper
price drop in the second quarter of 2014/15. Refining
charges recovered significantly during this development.
Furthermore, copper scrap processors were well supplied
and were not under pressure to buy. The situation changed
starting in summer 2015. The supply on offer declined, due
on the one hand to falling copper prices but also to lower
collection activity among metal traders overall, who experienced an unfavorable situation for other metal scrap, e.g.
aluminum and steel. The effect on the copper scrap market
remained limited, however, as consumers were still able to
rely on a good supply.
Although there was a good market supply of copper raw
materials overall, the ICSG determined that the production
of refined copper in 2015 will likely only increase by 0.8 %
compared to the previous year. This is an increase of just
190,000 t, much lower than the 7 % growth of 2014. A
roughly 7 % rise in production in China contrasts with losses
in Chile, North America and Japan. The latter are related to
the copper production in the SXEW (solvent extraction
electrowinning) procedure in particular. This is used at the
newly tapped copper mines with oxidic ores. The global
capacity utilization of copper refineries was 81.4 % on average from January to July 2015 (previous year: 81.2 %).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

66

Combined Management Report

The visible copper inventories in the metal exchange warehouses, which should be taken into account in addition to
copper production, grew continuously during the fiscal year
at first, therefore confirming that the trend had reversed at
the end of the previous fiscal year. Starting at about
265,000 t, inventories reached a high of 601,000 t in April
2015. There was an inventory reduction afterwards that
ended at about 450,000 t in late June 2015. Developments
moved in the opposite direction during the following
months. Overall, the inventory level was established at
slightly over 500,000 t. The copper inventories in Chinese
bonded warehouses, which are also viewed as an indicator
of availability, didn’t show a clear trend during the fiscal
year. They ranged from 570,000 t in November 2014 to
700,000 t in June. They were estimated at 380,000 t at the
end of the fiscal year. On the whole, however, the inventory
trend was largely neutral since the volume developments in
the various copper warehouses compensated for part of it.
Global demand for refined copper was disappointing in fiscal year 2014/15. The ICSG estimated it to be 1.2 % lower
than the previous year for 2015. Others still expect growth
of 1.0 % (CRU International) to 2.3 % (WoodMackenzie). The
one thing they all have in common is that they significantly
corrected their original forecasts downward in the course of
the year.
Weaker demand resulted first and foremost from lower Chinese copper demand, which was triggered by weaker industrial production, delayed investments in the electricity grid
and a considerable decline in construction activities. In
addition, there was an inventory reduction in certain areas,
such as air conditioners.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

In the US, the general economic recovery didn’t influence all
of the consumer sectors equally. Copper demand growth for
2015 is estimated at 1.9 % to 2.0 %. Growth in automotive
production slowed down and the recovery in home construction wasn’t evident in the copper demand level. The
strong dollar is also viewed as a negative factor, as it benefits imports.
The opposite happened in Western Europe, as the weak
euro promoted exports. In Germany alone, the Federal
Association for Wholesale, Foreign Trade and Services
(BGA) expects an export plus of 6 % for 2015. Otherwise,
the growth rates became more moderate after a recovery in
the prior year, which was significant in some cases. Western
Europe is viewed as stronger than Eastern Europe, where
copper demand is lower than the previous year. In the Eurozone, industrial production could increase by 1.5 %. The
automotive sector in Western Europe will probably register
solid growth with a 2.7 % production increase.
On the whole, the ICSG expects a largely balanced copper
market for 2015, following a production deficit of just over
400,000 t on the global market for refined copper in the
prior year. The last available monthly figures up to July 2015
also point to this result. If this tendency is confirmed in the
remaining months and the ICSG forecast is therefore accurate, our market estimate provided in last year’s outlook is
in a realistic scope. The Aurubis Group conceded that there
could be a production surplus but also pointed out that it
would remain low.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

67
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Copper price and metal exchange copper inventories
until September 30, 2015

o G 16

in thousand t

US$/t

1,000

8,000

750

7,000

500

6,000

250

5,000

0
09/14

4,000
11/14

01/15

03/15

05/15

07/15

09/15

LME copper price
Metal exchange copper inventories

The copper price on the London Metal Exchange decreased
further in fiscal year 2014/15. The average price was
US$ 5,933/t (LME settlement), around 15 % below the prior-year average (US$ 6,996/t). Although copper prices
stayed well above US$ 6,000/t during the first quarter of
the new fiscal year, with a high of US$ 6,859.50/t on October 28, 2014, the first weak phase started in mid-January.
The price hit a low of US$ 5,390.50/t for this period on January 29. While a recovery set in afterwards and the copper
price rose to slightly over US$ 6,000/t in the second half of
March, this level only continued until May.

Economic development in the Aurubis
Group
Results of operations of the Aurubis Group
Results of operations (operating)
In order to portray the Aurubis Group’s operating success
independently of measurement influences – deriving from
the use of the average cost method for inventory measurement purposes in accordance with IAS 2, from copper
price-related measurement effects on inventories and from
the impact of purchase price allocations, primarily on property, plant and equipment, from fiscal year 2010/11 onwards
– for internal management purposes, the presentation of
the results of operations, net assets and financial position is
supplemented by the results of operations and net assets
explained on the basis of operating values.
The following table shows how the operating result for fiscal
year 2014/15 and for the comparable prior-year period are
determined.

The influences of China’s economic development intensified
starting in the summer. Pressure on the copper price rose
again. In the course of the turbulence on the Chinese financial market, the price fell to a six-year low and thus a fiscal
year low of US$ 4,888/t on August 24, 2015. Though the
copper price recovered by the end of September, it never
moved out of the range of US$ 5,100 to 5,400/t.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

68

Combined Management Report

Reconciliation of the consolidated income statement

in € million
Revenues
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in process
Own work capitalized
Other operating income

o T 009

2014/15
IFRS

2014/15
­adjustment 1)

2014/15
operating

2013/14
operating

10,995

0

10,995

11,241

15

61

76

(115)

6

0

6

6

60

0

60

55

(10,067)

103

(9,964)

(10,250)

Gross profit

1,009

164

1,173

937

Cost of materials

Personnel expenses

(431)

0

(431)

(415)

Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment

(136)

6

(130)

(121)

Other operating expenses

(242)

0

(242)

(234)

Operational result (EBIT)

200

170

370

167

Result from investments measured using the equity method

1

3

4

4

Interest income

4

0

4

5

(31)

0

(31)

(36)

Interest expense
Other financial expenses

(4)

0

(4)

(3)

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

170

173

343

137

Income taxes

(36)

(50)

(86)

(38)

Consolidated net income

134

123

257

99

1)

 djustment for measurement effects deriving from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, from copper price-related
A
­measurement effects on inventories and for impacts from purchase price allocations, primarily on property, plant and equipment, from
fiscal year 2010/11 onwards
Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

See Glossary,
page 200.

The Aurubis Group (Aurubis) generated significantly
improved operating consolidated earnings before taxes
(EBT) of € 343 million in the very good fiscal year 2014/15
(previous year: € 137 million). The business performance was
influenced by the good overall conditions on the markets
relevant to us. Good availability on the copper concentrate
procurement markets led to considerably higher treatment
and refining charges compared to the prior year. The refining charges on the copper scrap markets and revenues for
sulfuric acid rose significantly again compared to the previous year. In contrast, copper products recorded a slight
overall sales decline with higher cathode premiums. Only

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

sales for continuous cast wire rod increased again slightly
compared to the prior year. Business performance was also
impacted by the much higher metal gain year on year.
IFRS earnings before taxes, which amounted to € 170 million, were adjusted for inventory measurement effects of
€ 167 million (previous year: € 72 million), as well as for
impacts of € 6 million (previous year: € 7 million) deriving
from the allocation of the purchase price for the former
Luvata RPD (Rolled Products Division), resulting in operating earnings before taxes of € 343 million (previous year:
€ 137 million).

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

69
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

The Group’s revenues decreased by € 246 million to
€ 10,995 million during the reporting period (previous year:
€ 11,241 million). This development is primarily due to lower
sales of copper products.
Breakdown of revenues

o T 010

2014/15

2013/14

Germany

32

30

European Union

38

40

in %

Rest of Europe

2

3

Other countries

28

27

100

100

Total

The change in inventories amounted to € 76 million (previous year: € –115 million), primarily due to an increase in
­copper inventories.

In a manner corresponding to the development for revenues, the cost of materials decreased by € 286 million, from
€ 10,250 million in the previous year to € 9,964 million.
After taking the change in inventories, own work capitalized
and other operating income into account, the residual gross
profit is € 1,173 million (previous year: € 937 million).
Personnel expenses rose from € 415 million in the previous
year to € 431 million in the current reporting period. The
increase was due in particular to wage increases, higher provisions for profit-sharing and higher personnel costs,
expressed in euros, at the Buffalo/USA site.
Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets amounted
to € 130 million and was therefore € 9 million up on the
­previous year (€ 121 million). The increase is mainly due to
impairment losses recorded by Aurubis Switzerland as well
as higher charges in Bulgaria.

Development of revenues by product groups

o G 17

in € million
4,000

4,028

4,022

3,000

2,558

2,276

2,308

2,391

2,000
1,066

1,000

676

1,195

655

606

456

0
13/14

14/15

Wire rod

13/14

14/15

Cathodes

13/14

14/15

Precious metals

13/14

14/15

Shapes

13/14

14/15

Pre-rolled strip,
strip and profiles

13/14

14/15

Chemicals
and other

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

70

Combined Management Report

Other operating expenses rose from € 234 million in the
previous year to € 242 million in the current reporting
period. Among other factors, the increase was the result of
higher research expenditures and exchange rate impacts.

Results of operations (IFRS)
The Aurubis Group generated consolidated net income
of € 134 million in fiscal year 2014/15 (previous year:
€ 44 million).

The operational result before interest and taxes (EBIT)
therefore amounted to € 370 million (previous year:
€ 167 million).

Consolidated income statement

The net interest expense was € 27 million compared to
€ 31 million in the previous year. The decrease was primarily
due to a lower level of gross debt and a decline in interest
rates.
After taking the financial result into account, operating
earnings before taxes (EBT) were € 343 million (previous
year: € 137 million). The following significant factors were
decisive for the past fiscal year’s development compared
to the previous fiscal year:

o T 011

in € million

2014/15
IFRS

2013/14
IFRS

Revenues

10,995

11,241

Changes in inventories/own work
capitalized

21

(205)

Other operating income

60

55

(10,067)

(10,226)

Gross profit

1,009

865

Cost of materials

Personnel expenses

(431)

(415)

Depreciation and amortization of
intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment

(136)

(128)

»» S ignificantly higher treatment and refining charges
for copper concentrates
»» A strong increase in sales prices for sulfuric acid
»» Substantially increased refining charges for copper scrap
»» Higher cathode premiums
»» A very good metal gain

Other operating expenses

(242)

(234)

Operational result (EBIT)

200

88

Operating earnings before taxes were considerably up on
those of the previous year and exceeded expectations at
the beginning of the fiscal year, when weaker conditions
were still anticipated in all of the relevant markets.
Operating consolidated net income of € 257 million remains
after tax (previous year: € 99 million). Operating earnings
per share amounted to € 5.68 (previous year: € 2.17).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Financial result

(30)

(30)

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

170

58

Income taxes

(36)

(14)

Consolidated net income

134

44

Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

71
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

The Group’s revenues decreased by € 246 million to
€ 10,995 million during the reporting period (previous year:
€ 11,241 million). This development is primarily due to lower
sales of copper products.
The change in inventories showed an increase of € 226 million compared to the previous year, to € 15 million (previous
year: € –211 million), primarily due to an increase in copper
inventories.
In a manner corresponding to the development for revenues, the cost of materials decreased by € 159 million, from
€ 10,226 million in the previous year to € 10,067 million.
After taking the change in inventories, own work capitalized
and other operating income into account, the residual gross
profit is € 1,009 million (previous year: € 865 million).
In addition to the effects on earnings described in the
explanation of the operating results of operations, the
change in gross profit was also due to the metal price trend.
The use of the average cost method leads to metal price valuations that are close to market prices. Metal price volatility
therefore has a direct effect on the change in inventories/
cost of materials and thus on the IFRS gross profit. This is
independent of the operating performance and is not relevant to the cash flow.

Personnel expenses rose from € 415 million in the previous
year to € 431 million in the current reporting period. The
increase was due in particular to wage increases, higher provisions for profit-sharing and higher personnel costs, as
expressed in euros, at the Buffalo/USA site.
Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets rose from
€ 128 million in the previous year to € 136 million in the
reporting period. The increase is mainly due to impairment
losses recorded by Aurubis Switzerland as well as higher
charges in Bulgaria.
Other operating expenses rose from € 234 million in the
previous year to € 242 million in the current reporting
period. Among other factors, the increase was the result of
higher research expenditures and exchange rate impacts.
The net interest expense was € 27 million compared to
€ 31 million in the previous year. The decrease was primarily
due to a lower level of gross debt and a decline in interest
rates.
After taking the financial result into account, earnings
before taxes amount to € 170 million (previous year: € 58
million). A consolidated net income of € 134 million remains
after tax (previous year: € 44 million). Earnings per share
amounted to € 2.95 (previous year: € 0.95).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

72

Combined Management Report

Net assets of the Aurubis Group
Net assets (operating)
The following table shows the derivation of the operating
balance sheet as at September 30, 2015 and September 30,
2014.
Reconciliation of the consolidated balance sheet

in € million

o T 012

9/30/2015
IFRS

9/30/2015
­adjustment 1)

9/30/2015
operating

9/30/2014
operating

1,440

(53)

1,387

1,407

8

(5)

3

3

15

0

15

14

ASSETS
Fixed assets
Deferred tax assets
Non-current receivables and other assets

1,627

(253)

1,374

1,298

Current receivables and other assets

495

0

495

553

Cash and cash equivalents

453

0

453

187

6

0

6

0

4,044

(311)

3,733

3,462

1,550

Inventories

Assets “held-for-sale”
Total assets
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

1,969

(204)

1,765

Deferred tax liabilities

183

(107)

76

71

Non-current provisions

281

0

281

292

Non-current liabilities

509

0

509

306

35

0

35

32

Current liabilities

1,067

0

1,067

1,211

Total equity and liabilities

4,044

(311)

3,733

3,462

Equity

Other current provisions

1)

 djustment for measurement effects deriving from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, from copper price-related
A
­measurement effects on inventories and for impacts from purchase price allocations, primarily on property, plant and equipment, from
fiscal year 2010/11 onwards
Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

73
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Total assets increased from € 3,462 million as at September 30, 2014 to € 3,733 million as at September 30, 2015.
This was primarily due to the increase in cash and cash
equivalents.
The Group’s equity increased by € 215 million, from € 1,550
million as at the end of the last fiscal year to € 1,765 million
as at September 30, 2015, mainly due to the operating consolidated net result of € 257 million and a decrease due to
the dividend payment of € 46 million. Overall, the operating
equity ratio is 47.3 % compared to 44.8 % as at the end of
the previous fiscal year.
Borrowings rose from € 433 million as at September 30,
2014 to € 506 million as at September 30, 2015, primarily
due to the take-up of new bonded loans totaling € 300 million, reduced by the repayment of bonded loans of € 210
million owing to maturity. In this connection, current borrowings amounted to € 25 million as at September 30, 2015
(previous year: € 156 million) and non-current borrowings
were € 481 million (previous year: € 277 million).
Return on capital (operating)
Operating ROCE (rolling EBIT for the last four quarters)
increased from 8.5 % in the previous year to 18.7 % in the
current fiscal year due to the improvement in the operating
result.

Operating return on capital employed (ROCE)

o T 013

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Fixed assets

1,327

1,341

Inventories

1,374

1,298

Trade accounts receivable

307

414

Other receivables and assets

212

156

­– Trade accounts payable

( 761)

( 797)

– Provisions and other liabilities

(480)

( 451)

Capital employed as at the
­balance sheet date

1,979

1,961

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

343

137

27

30

370

167

18.7 %

8.5 %

in € million

Financial result
Earnings before interest and
taxes (EBIT)
Return on capital employed
(operating ROCE)
Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Net assets (IFRS)
Total assets increased from € 3,943 million as at the end of
the previous fiscal year to € 4,044 million as at September 30, 2015. This was primarily due to the € 266 million
increase in cash and cash equivalents; a decrease in working
assets had the opposite effect.

Compared to the forecast in the Annual Report 2013/14,
which anticipated a slightly higher ROCE, Aurubis achieved
a significantly higher ROCE due to the improved operating
result in the fiscal year reported.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

74

Combined Management Report

Balance sheet structure of the Aurubis Group

o T 014

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Fixed assets

36

37

Inventories

40

44

Receivables, etc.

13

14

Cash and cash equivalents

11

5

100

100

Equity

49

48

Provisions

12

14

Liabilities

39

38

100

100

in %

Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

The Group’s equity increased by € 92 million, from € 1,877
million as at the end of the last fiscal year to € 1,969 million
as at September 30, 2015, mainly due to the consolidated
net result of € 134 million and a decrease due to the dividend payment of € 46 million. Overall, the equity ratio is
48.7 % compared to 47.6 % as at the end of the previous
­fiscal year.
Borrowings rose from € 433 million as at September 30,
2014 to € 506 million as at September 30, 2015, primarily
due to the take-up of new bonded loans totaling € 300 million, reduced by the repayment of bonded loans of € 210
million owing to maturity. In this connection, current borrowings amounted to € 25 million as at September 30, 2015
(previous year: € 156 million) and non-current borrowings
were € 481 million (previous year: € 277 million).

Return on capital (IFRS)
ROCE refers to the return on capital employed.
The operating result is used for control purposes within the
Group. The operating ROCE is explained in the section
“Return on capital (operating)”.
Financial position of the Aurubis Group
The Group’s liquidity sourcing is secured through a combination of the Group’s cash flow, short-term and long-term
borrowings, as well as lines of credit available from our
banks. It is the task of the Group’s Treasury function to provide adequate credit resources and lines of credit. In this
manner, fluctuations in cash flow developments can be
compensated at any time.
The development of the Aurubis Group’s liquidity position
is monitored regularly on a timely basis. The control and
­monitoring functions are carried out on the basis of defined
financial ratios.
The main key ratio for controlling debt is debt coverage,
which calculates the ratio of net borrowings to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
(EBITDA) and shows the number of periods required to
redeem the existing borrowings from the Group’s income
assuming an unchanged earnings situation.
The interest coverage ratio expresses how net interest
expense is covered by earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (EBITDA).
Our long-term objective is to achieve a well-balanced debt
structure. In this context, we consider debt coverage < 3 and
interest coverage > 5 to be well balanced.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

75
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Since we use the operating result for control purposes in
the Group, the Group’s key operating financial ratios are
presented as follows:

Analysis of liquidity and funding
The cash flow statement shows the cash flows within the
Group and highlights how funds are generated and used.

Group financial ratios

As a result of the very good business result, the net cash flow
was € 365 million. In contrast, the net cash flow in the prior
year (€ 401 million) was also influenced by an inventory
reduction after the large-scale shutdown in Hamburg was
concluded.

o T 015

Operating

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

0.1

0.9

18.3

9.2

Debt coverage =
net borrowings/EBITDA
Interest coverage =
EBITDA/interest
Prior-year figures have been adjusted

Additional control measures related to liquidity risks are
outlined in the Risk and Opportunity Report in the Combined Management Report.

Investments in fixed assets (including financial fixed assets)
totaled € 112 million in the reporting period (previous year:
€ 128 million). The focus of capital expenditure in Hamburg
was on the lead refinery and on the construction of a new
employee locker room and health center. Investments were
also made in connection with the impending shutdown in
­Pirdop (Bulgaria) in 2016, as well as in continued improvement and expansion of production capacities in the fiscal
year reported.

Source and application of funds

See Glossary,
page 199.

o G 18

in € million
+365

+4

(104)
453

187

Cash and cash
equivalents
9/30/2014

Cash inflow from
operating activities
(net cash flow)

Cash inflow from
financing activities

Cash outflow from
investing activities

Cash and cash
equivalents
9/30/2015

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

76

Combined Management Report

After deducting investments in fixed assets from the net
cash flow, the free cash flow amounts to € 253 million (previous year: € 273 million). The cash outflow from investing
activities totaled € 104 million (previous year: € 121 million).
The cash inflow from financing activities amounted to
€ 4 million, compared to a cash outflow of € 126 million in
the previous year. The cash inflow compared to the cash
­outflow in the prior year was primarily due to the take-up of
new bonded loans totaling € 300 million, reduced by the
repayment of bonded loans of € 210 million owing to
­maturity.
Cash and cash equivalents of € 453 million were available to
the Group as at September 30, 2015 (€ 187 million as at
­September 30, 2014). Cash and cash equivalents are utilized
in particular for operating business activities, investing
activities and repayment of borrowings.
The Group’s borrowings rose to € 506 million as at September 30, 2015 (previous year: € 433 million). After deducting
cash and cash equivalents of € 453 million (previous year:
€ 187 million), net borrowings amounted to € 53 million as
at September 30, 2015 (previous year: € 246 million).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Net borrowings in the Group
in € million

Borrowings
– Cash and cash equivalents
Net borrowings

o T 016

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

506

433

(453)

(187)

53

246

Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

In addition to cash and cash equivalents, the Aurubis Group
has unutilized credit line facilities and thus has adequate
liquidity reserves. Parallel to this, within the context of
­factoring agreements, the Group makes use of the sale of
receivables without recourse as an off-balance-sheet
­financial instrument.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

77
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Business performance in the Business Units
Business Unit Primary Copper
Key figures

o T 017

in € million

2014/15
operating

2013/14
operating

Revenues

5,914

6,109

EBIT

271

150

EBT

256

130

Capital expenditure
Depreciation and amortization
Operating ROCE
Avg. number of employees

70

82

(86)

(82)

31.1 %

16.9 %

2,730

2,737

Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Business performance and earnings trend
Business Unit (BU) Primary Copper produces pure copper
cathodes from copper concentrates and recycling materials
and processes intermediates from other smelters. The BU
also produces and markets precious metals, sulfuric acid and
iron silicate.
The main production sites are Hamburg (Germany) and
­Pirdop (Bulgaria), which both have smelting facilities and
copper tankhouses.
The earnings of BU Primary Copper are determined first and
foremost by treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs) for
processing raw materials and by revenues from precious
metal and sulfuric acid sales.
Operating earnings in BU Primary Copper in fiscal year
2014/15 exceeded the previous year’s earnings very significantly. The very good results were based in particular on the

higher treatment and refining charges for copper concentrates, higher refining charges for copper scrap and improved
revenues from cathode premiums. High sulfuric acid revenues owing to good global demand and a very good metal
yield made additional contributions to the earnings increase.
In addition to the positive market factors in fiscal year
2014/15, it should be taken into consideration that the extensive maintenance and repair shutdown at the Hamburg site
in September/October 2013 and problems starting up the
primary copper production facilities negatively affected the
BU’s prior-year earnings.
In total, BU Primary Copper generated operating earnings
before taxes (EBT) of € 256 million. Compared to the previous year, this is a € 126 million improvement in earnings and
thus twice the prior-year level. The BU’s revenues were just
below the previous year at € 5,914 million.
High treatment and refining charges for copper
concentrates and copper scrap
The international copper concentrate market was characterized by a good supply overall during the fiscal year. Severe
weather in Chile didn’t affect the mine output relevant for
the market. The large mines in Latin America produced
without any notable disruptions. Additional volumes from
new projects came onto the markets as well. Treatment and
refining charges for long-term business in 2015 therefore
started at an improved level. In spot business, demand
increased temporarily for concentrates of pure quality,
which are necessary to mix with complex qualities. TC/RCs
for this material thus declined somewhat in the course of
the fiscal year but were still at a good level overall. The
availability of more complex concentrates was better on the
market and allowed for higher TC/RCs.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

78

Combined Management Report

Concentrate throughput

o G 19

in million t
2.5
2.1

2.1

2.2

2.2

2.3

2.0

Silver output

o G 20

in t
1,600
1,374
1,222

1,200

1,038

1,000

958

12/13

13/14

14/15

1.5
800
1.0
400

0.5

0

0
10/11

11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

Considering the favorable market environment for primary
smelters, we secured a good concentrate supply for our
smelting operations in Hamburg and Pirdop. At the same
time, we were in a position to raise the TC/RCs in our contracts and to enter into additional long-term supply contracts. We also optimized our supplier portfolio further.
The availability of copper scrap, which is processed in the
smelters in BU Primary Copper in addition to concentrate,
was high during large parts of the fiscal year, so we were
also able to secure a good supply and good refining charges
in this area.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

10/11

11/12

Good total demand for sulfuric acid benefits sales
The fiscal year started with weak global demand on the sulfuric acid market in an environment influenced by seasonal
factors. Business revived afterward, due first and foremost
to momentum from the fertilizer industry. The price level
rose in the course of this development. However, the market circumstances changed at the end of the fiscal year and
there was a surplus on the market. The higher prices
couldn’t be maintained in this environment.
Good raw material supply leads to improved earnings
The good supply of copper concentrate, recycling materials
and copper scrap ensured that our production facilities were
utilized during the entire fiscal year. BU Primary Copper processed a total of 2.3 million t of copper concentrate (previous
year: 2.2 million t). Sulfuric acid output was about 2.2 million t (previous year: 2.1 million t) based on the concentrate
throughput. The copper scrap input in the BU amounted to
102,000 t.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

79
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Gold output

o G 21

in t
50
43
40

35

37

45

39

Capital expenditure in BU Primary Copper
in € million

o G 22

104

100
86

821)

75

70

30
48

50
20
25

10
0

0
10/11

11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15
1)

The processed copper concentrate volume at the Hamburg
site reached around 1.1 million t (previous year: 1.0 million t)
and was therefore slightly above the previous year. It was
1.2 million t at the Pirdop site, the level of the previous year
(1.2 million t).
At 615,000 t, cathode output in BU Primary Copper
exceeded the previous year (594,000 t). The tankhouse in
Hamburg produced 383,000 t of cathodes in the fiscal year
(previous year: 362,000 t). At just around 232,000 t
(2013/14: 233,000 t), the tankhouse in Pirdop reached
roughly the same output volume as the prior year.
The silver output was 958 t (previous year: 1,000 t), slightly
down on the prior year. Gold output increased somewhat
from 43 t in the previous year to 45 t in fiscal year 2014/15.

10/11
11/12
12/13
Adjusted due to change in Group structure

13/14

14/15

Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in BU Primary Copper amounted to
€ 70 million in the past fiscal year. The focus of the capital
expenditure was the expansion of production capacities,
improvement in environmental protection and infrastructure renovations at the sites belonging to the BU.
In Hamburg, the construction of the new lead refinery and
the replacement of the tankhouse rectifier were the central
capital expenditure projects. Extensive investments were
made in infrastructure during the past fiscal year as well.
At our Bulgarian site in Pirdop, capital expenditure within the
scope of the growth project Pirdop 2014 was concluded. The
project Pirdop 2014 had a total budget of € 44 million and
included measures to improve environmental protection and
expand the primary smelter’s concentrate processing capacity. Furthermore, initial preparatory investments were made
for the large-scale shutdown taking place in fiscal year
2015/16.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

80

Combined Management Report

Business Unit Copper Products
Key figures

o T 018

in € million

2014/15
operating

2013/14
operating

Revenues

8,586

9,130

EBIT

138

61

EBT

130

55

Capital expenditure
Depreciation and amortization
Operating ROCE
Avg. number of employees

41

47

(44)

(39)

12.9 %

6.0 %

3,330

3,356

Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Business performance and earnings trend
Business Unit (BU) Copper Products produces and markets
high-quality copper products, such as continuous cast wire
rod, shapes, pre-rolled and finished strip and specialty profiles, primarily from internally produced copper cathodes.
We also use recycling copper to fabricate rolled products.
Following the reorganization that went into effect on July 1,
2015, recycling and the Lünen and Olen sites belong to the
Business Unit as well.
The AURUBIS ROD brand of continuous cast copper wire
rod is the strongest copper product in the portfolio by
­volume. It exhibits high electrical conductivity, very good
workability and an excellent surface and is therefore a preferred feedstock for the cable and wire industry as well as
special semi-finished products. Aurubis is a world leader in
this market segment and produces AURUBIS ROD with
state-of-the-art plant technology at four sites: Hamburg
(Germany), Olen (Belgium), Avellino (Italy) and Emmerich
(Germany).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The AURUBIS SHAPES brand includes various continuous
cast copper shapes as preliminary products for semi-­finished
product fabricators and tube rolling mills. We are the European market leader in this product segment. Large piece
weights, unique dimensions and special copper grades are
our specialty. A significant part of our AURUBIS SHAPES
output is directly delivered to our subsidiary Schwermetall
Halbzeugwerk GmbH (50 % Aurubis holding), which produces pre-rolled strip for a number of semis fabricators
worldwide.
Finished strip is produced in Stolberg (Germany), Pori
­(Finland) and Buffalo (USA). We fabricate shaped wire for
the electrical industry in Stolberg. Moreover, Aurubis
­Belgium in Olen produces copper bars and profiles.
At the recycling plant in Lünen, we produce high-quality
copper cathodes from a variety of recycling raw materials,
including electrical and electronic scrap as well as other
complex materials. The Olen site also has recycling activities
and a tankhouse for the production of copper cathodes.
In addition to the cathode premium, another significant
earnings component within BU Copper Products is the
so-called shape surcharge for processing copper cathodes
into copper products. In the recycling business, earnings are
primarily generated through refining charges and the additional metal yield.
Overall, BU Copper Products generated operating earnings
before taxes (EBT) of € 130 million in fiscal year 2014/15
(previous year: € 55 million).
This result is due first and foremost to good contributions
from the Lünen and Olen facilities as well as the continued
improvement in the performance of Business Line Rod &
Shapes. Business Line Flat Rolled Products also improved its
earnings in the course of ongoing restructuring.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

81
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Product markets
European demand for copper products was initially
restrained in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014/15. The
markets developed more and more positively at the
­beginning of the second quarter.
While northern European demand stabilized at a good level,
growth momentum primarily came from the recovering
southern European markets. Despite the crises in Ukraine
and the Middle East, the economic trend in the copper
product business was robust. In contrast, the economic
recovery in North America didn’t lead to a global increase in
copper products.

The market availability of complex recycling materials, which
have lower amounts of copper and significant levels of
­additional non-ferrous and precious metals, was sufficient.
The supply decreased slightly only at the end of the fiscal
year. This raw material category includes industrial residues
and electrical and electronic scrap, for example.
Copper scrap input in the Group

o G 23

400
348

334

331

300

299

294

13/14

14/15

200

The good ongoing European demand for wire rod was
mainly supported by the key sectors during the entire fiscal
year. On the other hand, the shapes and rolled products
business weakened despite some positive momentum.

100

0
10/11

Recycling markets
At the start of the fiscal year, the European markets for copper scrap reflected increasingly good availability, which led
to a significant rise in refining charges. The decline in the
copper price and growing uncertainty about the future price
trend led to reduced willingness to sell among traders starting in the summer, though, so the supply for new business
decreased. Attainable refining charges were scaled back but
stayed at the level that was in place at the end of Q1 2014/15
until the end of the fiscal year.

11/12

12/13

Production
Good business performance in AURUBIS ROD
In largely stable markets in fiscal year 2014/15, Aurubis
slightly increased the market shares in the continuous cast
copper wire rod business that it had gained in the previous
year. The high reliability of Aurubis as a business partner
and the superior product quality were decisive for this
development.
Aurubis produced a total of 764,000 t of AURUBIS ROD in
the Group’s four rod facilities in fiscal year 2014/15. This is a
3 % increase compared to the previous year (742,000 t).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

82

Combined Management Report

Continuous cast wire rod output

o G 24

in thousand t
785

800

742
646

600

764

608

400

200

0
10/11

11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

AURUBIS SHAPES declines slightly
In fiscal year 2014/15 we weren’t able to achieve the good
prior-year deliveries of cakes and billets made of pure copper materials due to decreasing demand. This was partially
compensated for by a stronger focus on specialty products
and alloys.
All in all, AURUBIS SHAPES had an output of 170,000 t
during the fiscal year, a 7 % decrease compared to the
­previous year (183,000 t).
Continuous cast shape output

o G 25

in thousand t
250
200

197
164

150

183

170

149

100
50
0
10/11

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

Flat rolled product and specialty wire fabrication
decreases somewhat during fiscal year
Specific programs to improve efficiency and enhance
­productivity and quality were carried out in Business Line
Flat Rolled Products. In particular, Zutphen (Netherlands)
made good progress with the copper strip line relocated
from Sweden.
At 207,000 t, the output of flat rolled products and specialty wire in fiscal year 2014/15 was about 5 % down on the
prior-year level (218,000 t). The production decline in the
strip sector impacted the Buffalo plant, which had to reduce
its production volume by 14 % to 95,000 t due to demand.
In contrast, the European plants increased their production
volume by 4 % to 112,000 t. Specialty wire output fell by 7 %
owing to demand.
BL Bars & Profiles benefits from good demand
Output in BL Bars & Profiles increased to 11,400 t thanks
to good demand and a good operating performance and is
thus 28 % higher than the previous year (8,900 t).
Cathode output below expectations
Cathode output in BU Copper Products remained below
expectations in fiscal year 2014/15. It was only 187,000 t in
the Lünen plant (previous year: 193,000 t). In contrast, the
tankhouse in Olen produced 336,000 t, just slightly below
the ­prior-year output of 338,000 t.

83

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Cathode output in the Group

o G 26

in thousand t, BU Primary Copper and BU Copper Products
1,200

1,147

1,148

1,147

1,126

1,138

1,000

Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in BU Copper Products was € 41 million
in fiscal year 2014/15.
There was no prominent capital expenditure in Business
Line Rod & Shapes.

800
600
400
200
0
10/11

11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

Cathode output in the Group by sites

o G 27

in thousand t, fiscal year 2014/15
400

383

There was no prominent capital expenditure in Business
Line Bars & Profiles.
Initial investments were made at the Olen site for
­infrastructure improvements and the new main building.

336
300
232
187

200

Capital expenditure in Business Line Flat Rolled Products
focused on production facility maintenance. Improvements
in efficiency and product quality were targeted and implemented in the process. In addition, specific individual capital
expenditure projects were carried out to expand fabrication
options and capacities.

Capital expenditure in BU Copper Products

o G 28

in € million
100

60

0

45

471)
Hamburg

Lünen

Olen

41
36

Pirdop
30

27
13

15

Recycling trend varies
The copper scrap market had a good availability of volumes
in fiscal year 2014/15, which allowed for a good processing
level accordingly. The copper scrap input in BU Copper
­Products was 192,000 t.

0
1)

10/11
11/12
12/13
Adjusted due to change in Group structure

13/14

14/15

The material throughput in the KRS reached 269,000 t in
­fiscal year 2014/15 and was thus significantly below the high
prior-year level of 301,000 t, partially due to temporary
­shutdowns at the beginning and middle of the fiscal year.
The modified mix of raw material input also had an impact.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

84

Combined Management Report

Executive Board assessment of the Aurubis
Group during fiscal year 2014/15
The Aurubis Group ended fiscal year 2014/15 with outstanding results that significantly exceeded our initial expectations.
Operating consolidated earnings before taxes (EBT) reached
€ 343 million (previous year: € 137 million). Nevertheless, we
continued working on improvements throughout the Group.
A program was initiated with a number of optimization and
efficiency enhancement projects, some of which went into
effect in the course of the fiscal year. The purpose of these
projects is to make Aurubis more independent from the
developments in its environment and on the markets.
In the scope of a reorganization, the Group’s structure was
adjusted so that reporting in fiscal year 2014/15 focuses on
just two Business Units, BU Primary Copper and BU Copper
Products. The sectors that used to be included in BU Recycling/Precious Metals were allocated to these two BUs.
Both BUs are supported by the newly formed Supply Chain
Management division, which is responsible for group-wide
raw material management and includes the optimization of
the procurement and production processes in an integrated
system. Moreover, sales of sulfuric acid, precious metals and
other specialty products are assigned to this division.
Both Business Units achieved a positive result but at considerably different levels. The varying trends in the individual
markets had an impact in particular, as did the very good
metal gain. The internal operating ROCE target of 15 % for
the entire Group was exceeded with 18.7 %.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Business development in BU Primary Copper was characterized by very good concentrate markets, which enabled not
only a good supply but also strong increases in treatment
and refining charges. The trend on the copper scrap markets
was also positive. While throughputs were slightly higher
year on year, they were below our expectations. Sales prices
for sulfuric acid rose sharply due to the market conditions.
Higher cathode premiums also had a positive influence.
The development in BU Copper Products varied. The recycling business, which shifted within the organization, benefited from a good supply and delivered good contributions to
earnings thanks to considerable increases in refining charges.
The rod and shapes business improved compared to the
prior year. The restructuring of Business Line Flat Rolled
Products continued. The somewhat improved business performance was accompanied by a higher contribution to
­earnings. There were positive earnings effects in this BU as
a result of the increased cathode premiums as well.
Due to the good business results in particular, the net cash
flow was € 365 million.
The Aurubis Group’s balance sheet structure is very robust.
The equity ratio (operating) is 47.3 %.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

85
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Results of operations, financial position and
net assets of Aurubis AG
General information
In order to supplement our Aurubis Group reporting, we
explain the development of Aurubis AG in the following
section. Aurubis AG is the parent company of the Aurubis
Group and is based in Hamburg with production sites in
Hamburg and Lünen. Apart from managing the Aurubis
Group, the business activities of Aurubis AG also include
primary copper production and recycling as well as copper
product fabrication and precious metal production. The
separate financial statements of Aurubis AG have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the German
Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, HGB) and the
­German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz, AktG). The
primary differences from the Group financial statements
prepared in accordance with IFRS principles are in the
accounting treatment of fixed assets, the measurement of
inventories, the measurement of financial instruments and
the accounting treatment of pension provisions.
The Aurubis Group is managed at Business Unit (BU) level
using operating EBT and operating ROCE as the financial
performance indicators. These are also used for Aurubis AG’s
operating activities, which are a significant component of
the Group. To this extent, the development and forecast of
the financial performance indicators at BU and Group levels
represent the development and forecast of Aurubis AG as an
individual company.
The analysis of the development for the financial performance indicators outlined above during the fiscal year and
the forecast for the following year are provided in the Economic Report and the Forecast Report for the entire Group.
Statements regarding the risk situation and opportunities
can be found in the Group’s Risk and Opportunity Report.

Results of operations
Development of the annual result and significant
income statement items (HGB)

o T 019

in € million

2014/15

2013/14

Revenues

7,528

7,584

Changes in inventories/own
work capitalized

52

( 34)

Other operating income

59

93

( 7,064)

( 7,161)

575

482

Cost of materials
Gross profit

( 257)

( 216)

Depreciation and amortization
of intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment

( 45)

( 49)

Write-downs of current assets

( 60)

0

Other operating expenses

( 117)

( 123)

Operational result (EBIT)

96

94

Financial result

111

( 14)

Result of normal business
­activities (EBT)

207

80

Taxes

( 62)

( 18)

Net income for the year

145

62

Personnel expenses

Compared to the previous year, Aurubis AG’s business performance in fiscal year 2014/15 was positively impacted by a
higher concentrate throughput and, at the same time, benefited from increased treatment and refining charges and a
more efficient metal yield. Furthermore, the refining charges
on the copper scrap markets and revenues for sulfuric acid
rose significantly again compared to the previous year. The
copper product business benefited from higher cathode
premiums.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

86

Combined Management Report

Development of Aurubis AG revenues by
product groups

o G 29

in € million
2,928 2,908

3,000

2,354 2,400

Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets decreased by
€ 4 million to € 45 million (previous year: € 49 million). The
decrease is the result of a lower capital expenditure volume
during the fiscal year. Write-downs of current assets in the
amount of € 60 million relate to financial receivables from
an affiliated company.

2,000

1,000

1,018 1,088

867 780
417

352

At a level of € 117 million, other operating expenses are
slightly below the prior year (€ 123 million). Overall, the
operational result (EBIT) therefore amounted to € 96 million
(€ 94 million in the previous year).

0
13/14 14/15

13/14 14/15

13/14 14/15

13/14 14/15

13/14 14/15

Cathodes

Wire rod

Shapes

Precious
metals

Sulfuric acid
and other

Revenues decreased by € 56 million to € 7,528 million during
the reporting period (previous year: € 7,584 million). This
development is primarily due to lower sales of copper pro­
ducts.
Due to a slightly lower cost of materials ratio compared to
the previous year, and taking into account the change in
inventories, own work capitalized and other operating
income, the gross profit increased by € 93 million to € 575
million during the reporting year (previous year: € 482 million).
Personnel expenses increased by € 41 million to € 257 million (previous year: € 216 million), primarily due to the dissolution of a support fund and the associated assumption of
the obligation in the form of a direct commitment for pension benefits for Aurubis AG employees.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The financial result for the reporting year is € 111 million
(previous year: € –14 million). This includes dividends from
subsidiaries in the amount of € 83 million (previous year:
€ 36 million), as well as write-ups of investment carrying
amounts in the amount of € 69 million. Furthermore, an
impairment loss of € 1 million was recognized against an
investment carrying amount, and write-downs of € 6 million
were recorded as at the balance sheet date in respect of
securities classified as fixed assets. The financial result also
includes net interest expenses of € 34 million.
After taking a tax expense of € 62 million (previous year:
€ 18 million) into account, the reported annual net income
amounts to € 145 million (previous year: € 62 million). At a
level of 29 %, the effective tax rate is above that of the previous year (22 %) due to a change in the earnings structure.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

87
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Net assets
Fixed assets rose to € 1,940 million (previous year: € 1,870
million) due to write-ups of affiliated companies amounting
to € 69 million. Inventories increased to € 739 million (previous year: € 717 million) due to higher inventories of cathodes, wire and shapes.
Taking the strong € 266 million increase in cash and cash
equivalents into consideration, total assets rose by a total of
€ 284 million to € 3,461 million. Therefore, fixed assets
account for 56 % (previous year: 59 %) of total assets, inventories account for 21 % (previous year: 22 %) and receivables
and other assets account for 10 % (previous year: 14 %).
Equity increased by € 100 million to € 1,290 million (previous year: € 1,190 million) due to the net result generated for
the fiscal year. At 37 % (previous year: 37 %), the equity ratio
remained at the prior-year level.
Provisions increased in total by € 70 million to € 289 million,
mainly due to the € 43 million increase in pension provisions
and the € 29 million increase in tax provisions. The increase
in pension provisions was mainly the result of the dissolution of the support fund and the transfer of pension claims
to a direct commitment from Aurubis AG.

Sundry liabilities fell from € 62 million to € 15 million as a
result of lower VAT liabilities within the context of legal
amendments to the reverse charge procedure at the beginning of the fiscal year.
Balance sheet structure of Aurubis AG

o T 020

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Fixed assets

56

59

Inventories

21

22

Receivables, etc.

10

14

Cash and cash equivalents

13

5

100

100

37

37

in %

Equity
Provisions

8

7

Liabilities

55

56

100

100

Aurubis uses assets under the terms of leasing agreements
that are not recognized as assets in the balance sheet.
Financial commitments deriving from leases amount to
€ 9 million. Apart from this, financial commitments under
long-term storage and handling agreements amount to
€ 145 ­million.

Liabilities to banks rose by € 74 million, mainly due to the
take-up of bonded loans of € 300 million with the simultaneous repayment of bonded loans of € 210 million. The
increase in trade accounts payable from € 486 million to
€ 529 million concerns concentrate deliveries that were paid
for directly after the balance sheet date. Borrowings from
affiliated companies increased from € 712 million to € 730
million within the context of normal financial transactions.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

88

Combined Management Report

Financial position
Liabilities to banks amounted to € 487 million as at the
­balance sheet date (previous year: € 413 million). Their terms
to maturity are as follows:
o T 021

Less than 1 year

€ 22 million

1 to 5 years

€ 344 million

More than 5 years

€ 121 million

After including financial liabilities to subsidiaries of
€ 568 million (previous year: € 494 million) and deducting
cash and cash equivalents of € 426 million (previous year:
€ 160 million), net borrowings amount to € 629 million as at
­September 30, 2015 (previous year: € 747 million).
Analysis of liquidity and funding
The annual result and the reduction in working capital lead
to a positive net cash flow of € 217 million. The reduction
was the result of lower trade accounts receivable due to
metal price developments and higher liabilities deriving
from concentrate deliveries as at the balance sheet date.
The overall cash inflow from the change in working capital
amounts to € 44 million during the reporting year.
The cash outflow from investments in fixed assets is
€ 54 million (previous year: € 64 million). Investments in
property, plant and equipment of € 51 million (previous
year: € 63 million) are primarily related to the construction
of the new lead refinery and an employee locker room and
health center at the Hamburg site. Investments were also
made in various infrastructure and improvement measures.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The cash inflow from financing activities was related both to
the take-up of bonded loans of € 300 million with the
simultaneous repayment of bonded loans of € 210 million,
as well as to the take-up of loans from subsidiaries in conjunction with the existing cash pooling arrangements.
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting
period amount to € 426 million. In addition to cash and cash
equivalents, Aurubis AG has unutilized credit line facilities
and thus has adequate liquidity reserves. Furthermore,
within the context of factoring agreements, Aurubis AG
sells receivables without recourse as a financing instrument.
Capital expenditure
During the past fiscal year, € 6 million was invested in the
construction of the new lead refinery at the Hamburg site.
The project was concluded in 2015.
A total of € 7 million was invested in the construction of a
new employee locker room and health center at the Hamburg site during the fiscal year. The total capital expenditure
volume for the project is likely to amount to € 15 million. It
is scheduled to be completed in spring 2016.
Furthermore, additional projects relating to general facility
maintenance, infrastructure, energy efficiency and environmental protection were completed at the Hamburg and
Lünen sites.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

89
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Subsequent Events
Dr. Bernd Drouven was dispatched to the Executive Board
and appointed Executive Board Chairman from November 1,
2014 to October 31, 2015 pursuant to Section 105 (2) German
Stock Corporation Act (AktG). His Supervisory Board mandate was suspended during this period. Dr. Drouven has
been an active member of the Supervisory Board again since
November 1, 2015.

Mr. Erwin Faust has been Executive Board Spokesman since
November 1, 2015 and is managing the Group with Dr. Stefan
Boel on an interim basis. Mr. Jürgen Schachler will assume
his role as the new Executive Board Chairman of Aurubis AG
on July 1, 2016.

Risk and Opportunity Report
Integrated risk and opportunity
management
Risks and opportunities are key elements of our business
activities and are essential to the Company’s success. As part
of our operating business activities and our strategic management, we weigh opportunities and risks against one
another and ensure that they remain balanced. We try to
identify and evaluate opportunities as early as possible. We
only accept risks when they provide an opportunity for
­commensurate economic success.
Aurubis AG’s risk situation depends significantly on the
Aurubis Group’s risk situation. The statements of the Company’s management on the overall assessment of the risk
­situation also summarize Aurubis AG’s risk situation.

Risk management system
Our objective in risk management is to manage and monitor
the risks associated with our business with the help of a Risk
Management System (RMS) suited to our activities. The
early identification and observation of risk development is
of major importance. Furthermore, we strive to limit negative effects on earnings caused by risks with appropriate
and economically sound countermeasures.

Risk management is an integral component of the centralized
and decentralized planning, management and monitoring
processes and covers all of the Aurubis Group’s main sites,
business sectors and staff functions. The planning and
­management system, risk reporting, an open communication
­culture and risk reviews at the sites create risk awareness
and make our risk situation transparent.
Risk management officers have been appointed for all sites,
business sectors and staff functions, and they form a ­network
within the Group. The Group headquarters in Hamburg
­manages the network. Corporate Risk Management reports
directly to the Chief Financial Officer. The RMS is documented in a corporate policy.
Standard risk reporting takes place bottom-up each quarter
using a uniform, group-wide reporting format. Within this
format the identified risks and risks beyond a defined
threshold are explained and evaluated on the basis of their
probability of occurrence and their business significance,
and measures to manage them are outlined. The risks registered with Group headquarters are qualitatively aggregated
into significant risk clusters by Corporate Risk Management
and reported to the entire Executive Board. The report also
establishes the basis for the report to the Audit Committee
as well as external risk reporting.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

90

Combined Management Report

o T 022

Potential effect on earnings in € million
>1

>5

>20

>50

medium medium

Likelihood
high

high

high

medium

low medium medium

high

low

low

low medium medium

unlikely

low

low

low medium

In the report to the Executive Board and the Audit Committee, the qualitatively aggregated risk clusters are assessed
with due regard to risk management measures (net perspective) based on their probability of occurrence and the potential effect on earnings pursuant to the spreads included in
the table and are classified as low, medium or high.

Independent monitoring
The RMS is subject to routine monitoring and review. Internal Audit monitors risk management and compliance with
the internal control system using systematic audits. As a
process-independent authority, they contribute to the
­integrity and improvement of the business procedures and
the effectiveness of the installed systems and controls.
In addition, the auditors review our early risk detection system to ensure that it adheres to legal requirements. They
report the audit results to the Executive Board and the
Audit Committee.
Furthermore, the Audit Committee deals intensively with
risk management issues. The risk management officer regularly informs the committee together with the Executive
Board about current developments.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Explanation of relevant risks
The risks associated with our business are explained in the
following sections according to our risk clusters. Furthermore, the main measures and instruments we use to
counter these risks are also outlined. We have separately
indicated risks and risk-relevant issues that we currently
classify as potentially medium to high.
Supply and production
The ability to keep the production facilities supplied with
raw materials and the availability of these facilities are of
the utmost importance for the Aurubis Group. Potential
large-scale disruptions are viewed as high risks.
To ensure the supply of copper concentrates for Business
Unit Primary Copper, we have concluded long-term agreements with a number of concentrate suppliers from various
countries. In this way, we are able to reduce the risk of production interruptions caused by possible delivery failures
significantly. The risk of volatile treatment and refining
charges on the spot market is also limited by the long-term
nature of the agreements.
The recycling facilities were well supplied overall due to our
extensive international supplier network despite weak availability of copper scrap in some cases. From today’s standpoint, we expect this sufficient supply situation and utilization
of our production facilities for recycling material to continue.
Nevertheless, there are ongoing treatment charge volatilities
due to the general metal price trend, metal traders’ collecting
activity and inventory management, the European economic
situation and competition for the secondary raw materials
relevant for Aurubis.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

91
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

The material supply in the copper product fabrication facilities is mainly covered by copper cathodes produced within
the Group. In addition to higher value added, this allows for
quality control for copper products during the entire process. We were able to cover most of the demand for copper
cathodes for BU Copper Products internally, therefore
ensuring our delivery reliability and the quality of our products. We also procured a sufficient volume of copper-bearing raw materials for the production plants of Business Line
Flat Rolled Products. We expect the supply to remain sufficient in this area as well.
Plant availability was satisfactory overall, though it was
reduced at times due to scheduled maintenance standstills
and technical disruptions. Preparations for the large-scale
shutdown at the Pirdop site in fiscal year 2015/16 are currently underway.
As a matter of principle, we took organizational measures
(for example alarm plans and employee drills) to handle
potential incidents such as flooding or fire. We also address
the risk of malfunctions by carrying out regular maintenance work and keeping critical replacement parts on hand.
We deal with logistics risks by implementing a thorough,
multi-step acceptance process for service providers, by
avoiding single sourcing and by preventively developing
back-up solutions. We have an international network of
qualified service providers at our disposal and, for instance,
minimize weather-related risks in the transport chain by
avoiding contingency risks through contractual arrangements regarding appropriate alternatives.

Sales
In addition to supply and production risks, the Aurubis
Group also faces sales risks, which are classified as
“medium”.
The sales situation for copper products developed favorably
overall in a positive market environment during the past fiscal year. Sales in the rod sector increased again compared to
the previous year. We expect the current market situation to
continue and product sales to be stable this fiscal year.
Overall, there is high price pressure on the market due to
overcapacities.
After a seasonally weaker start to the fiscal year, demand for
sulfuric acid recovered, particularly in the fertilizer industry.
At the end of the second half of the year, however, the price
situation in spot business weakened owing to an oversupply
on the market with stable demand. We expect the price
weakness to continue until the spring.
Aurubis sells cathodes that are not processed internally on
the international copper cathode market.
Energy
The energy prices tended to decrease in the course of the
fiscal year. We are safeguarded against unplanned cost
­fluctuations from unpredictable and volatile prices on the
electricity exchange owing to our electricity contract which
has been in effect since 2010. This safeguard corresponds to
most of our electricity demand and covers the main German
sites. We also deal with fundamental supply security as well
as the potential and limitations of more flexible energy
sourcing which arise due to the increasing, volatile feed-in
of renewable energies.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

92

Combined Management Report

Burdens resulting from changes in potential cost drivers
such as the German Renewable Energies Act (EEG), the
emissions trade, grid charges and the eco-tax are generally
difficult to quantify reliably because of the still uncertain
legal situation and changing political conditions. We expect
the tax burden to remain at the current level in the medium
term due to the 2014 German EEG passed this year. According to present knowledge, there will be no significant additional charges from the state aid investigation regarding the
network charge exemption in the past periods.
The fundamental retention of the special carbon leakage
status for certain sectors starting in 2021 with regards to
the allocation of emission trading allowances and CO2 electricity price compensation is currently being discussed by
policymakers. From today’s perspective, it is difficult to predict the result. We expect costs to increase in the medium
term overall, which could lead to significant strains. The
topic of energy and the associated risks, currently classified
as “medium”, will remain relevant for Aurubis as an energy-­
intensive company in the future as well.
Finance and financing
Metal price and exchange rate fluctuations represent a
potential risk in the buying and selling of metals. This risk is
substantially reduced with foreign exchange and metal price
hedging. Metal backlogs are hedged daily with financial
instruments such as spot and forward contracts. The same
occurs by using spot and forward exchange contracts to
hedge foreign currencies. Foreign exchange risks from
exchange rate fluctuations are also minimized on a daily
basis this way. We have only selected first-rate, credit-­
worthy firms as partners for hedging transactions to minimize the credit risk.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

We hedge expected receipts from foreign currencies, especially the US dollar, with options and forward exchange
transactions in some cases. We will continue this in the
future as well and expect that we can reduce the risks from
metal price and exchange rate fluctuations to a reasonable
level with these measures.
Credit risks from trade accounts receivable are largely
hedged by commercial credit insurances. Internal risks were
only permitted to a very limited extent and after review. The
development of the outstanding receivables is monitored
closely. During the reporting period there were no significant bad debts. We do not foresee any threatening trends
for future development.
The liquidity supply is very important for the Aurubis Group
and was secured during the past fiscal year. The credit lines
at the banks were also sufficient. From the current perspective, we expect a corresponding trend for the new fiscal
year as well. Risks that could result from the resurgence of
the sovereign debt crisis in the Eurozone and which we currently classify as “medium” are monitored by the treasury
function.
Environmental protection and other aspects
There is always a risk that environmental or regulatory provisions could become more stringent, leading to added
costs or limitations in product fabrication and marketing.
For example, there is a risk that increasingly strict environmental legislation will restrict the marketing of iron silicate
more and more. We have started a capital expenditure project in the Hamburg primary smelter to counter this development. From an environmental perspective, the target is to
reduce the impurities in the iron silicate with an additional
preparation stage. We also want to achieve greater flexibility
on the sales market by expanding our granulation capacities.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

93
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

In addition, environmental risks resulting from the possible
failure to comply with limit values and violations of requirements can have legal consequences. We ensure the environmentally sound operation of our production facilities to
counter this. We are an international leader in environmental protection, which is confirmed by annual certifications in
accordance with ISO 14001 and EMAS, for example. We
consider ourselves to be well positioned for the future in
this regard. Nevertheless, operational incidents that could
have an adverse impact on the environment cannot be completely ruled out. Overall, we classify the environmental
risks as “medium”.

risks of possible incidents or disasters. In order to prevent
the risks of unauthorized access to Company data, we
restrict the issue of access rights, carry out security reviews
and use modern security technologies.

In a plant with complex processes, employees’ specialist
knowledge is an important factor to ensure performance
quality. Different measures are intertwined with each other
so that Aurubis can continue to count on employees’ knowhow. We build connections to qualified young people
through our cooperation and contact with universities and
foster development among professionals and managers with
qualification measures.

(Report pursuant to Section 289 (5) and Section 315 (2)
No. 5 German Commercial Code (HGB))

Occupational safety and health protection take high priority
for us. We focus on individual responsibility, detailed hazard
assessments, training and short-term and medium-term
goals with the objective of “zero accidents”.
We counter legal, tax and compliance risks with organizational procedures and clear management structures. We are
closely following the political discussion about tax issues,
for example the financial transaction and capital tax, and
their possible effects. Anti-trust proceedings against
Aurubis are currently underway in Bulgaria. The Aurubis
Group considers the allegations unfounded.
We limit the risks of decreased IT system availability with
continuous monitoring, technical precautions and necessary
adjustments. The redundant design of our IT infrastructure
as well as data recovery and continuity plans counter the

Furthermore, selected risks are largely covered by insurances. We rely on the expertise of an external insurance
broker for this purpose.

Internal control system relating to the
consolidated accounting process

The objective of the internal control system (ICS) for the
accounting process is to ensure that financial statements
are prepared in compliance with regulations. Aurubis has an
internal control and risk management system in which
structures and processes related to the accounting process
are defined and implemented in the organization. This
ensures that the Group accounting procedures are reliable
and performed correctly, that business transactions are
thoroughly reported in a timely manner as prescribed by
law and in the Articles of Association, and that legal norms
and internal guidelines on accounting are observed. Amendments to laws and accounting standards are continuously
analyzed for their relevance for the consolidated financial
statements, and resultant changes are incorporated in the
Group’s internal processes and systems.
Principles of the internal control system related to
accounting policies
As the parent company, Aurubis AG prepares the Aurubis
Group’s consolidated financial statements. The financial
reporting of the consolidated Group companies that are
included in the consolidated financial statements takes
place prior to this process. These Group companies prepare

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

94

Combined Management Report

their financial statements locally and transfer them via a
defined uniform group-wide data model to the Corporate
Accounting Department. The Group companies are responsible for compliance with the valid group-wide guidelines
and procedures as well as for the correct and timely execution of the accounting-relevant processes and systems.
The internal control system includes the following main
principles:
»» E nsuring standardized accounting procedures in the
preparation of the separate financial statements of
Aurubis AG by systematically implemented controls,
which are supported by manual accounting controls and
other authorization and approval procedures (separation of functions, access regulations and limitations, the
use of the dual control principle, guidelines on payment
transactions)
»» Ensuring uniform Group accounting procedures in
­accordance with IFRS by the application of uniform
accounting regulations and work instructions, central
audit of reporting packages, analysis of deviations from
the ­budget and reporting as part of the quarterly
finance meetings
»» Inclusion of external accounting and internal reporting
by all Group companies in a uniform consolidation and
reporting system
»» Overall consolidation of the consolidated financial
­statements by the Corporate Accounting Department,
which centrally performs the consolidation measures,
coordination and monitoring of the timely and procedural input
»» Giving the Group companies support in accounting
­procedures by having a central contact person in
­Corporate Accounting
»» Clarification of special technical questions and
complex issues related to specific cases with an
external ­consultant

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Internal Audit as process-independent risk observation
Internal Audit examines the reliability of the accounting
practices, among other things. In particular, existing internal
accounting policies and the adherence to them in practice
are assessed. Internal Audit additionally provides information about risks that arise from identifiable deviations and
advises on adjustment measures.

Opportunity management system
In addition to risk management, opportunity management is
an important element of the Aurubis Group’s centralized
and decentralized planning, management and control processes. The objective is to identify internal and external
potential that could positively impact our economic success
early on. This potential is assessed and weighed against the
risks associated with it. The next step is to define initiatives
and measures to help put this potential into effect. The process of identifying and assessing opportunities is part of our
annual integrated strategy and planning process.
Utilizing opportunities is a daily management responsibility
– both on the segment level and the Group level. The basis
for recognizing opportunities is continuous observation and
analysis of our markets on the supply and demand side, the
competitive environment and global trends.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

95
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Explanation of relevant opportunities
Rising global demand for copper and copper products
Copper is one of the most important metallic raw materials.
Demand for copper is aligned with world economic growth,
especially in the electrical, electronics, construction and
automotive industries. Global trends such as increasing
energy scarcity, rising urbanization and the growth of the
world’s middle class will continue to drive copper demand
upwards. In particular, it will expand at a disproportionately
high rate in the next few years in China, which is already the
most significant market, and in the other emerging countries. If the economy and the demand for our copper products develop more favorably than currently expected in the
markets relevant to us, this could have a positive influence
on the Aurubis Group’s earnings.
Positive trend in treatment and refining charges and
market prices for our products
The Aurubis Group’s earnings situation will be largely determined by the treatment and refining charges for copper
concentrates, copper scrap and recycling materials and by
the market prices for our products, such as sulfuric acid. If
treatment and refining charges and market prices for our
products develop more favorably than currently forecast,
this could positively impact the Aurubis Group’s earnings.
Increasing significance of sustainability and resource
efficiency
Aurubis is the world’s leading copper recycler. In light of the
rising importance of resource efficiency and sustainability,
we expect demand for recycling solutions to continue growing. This is also supported and promoted by national and
international law. Thanks to our recycling activities and
proximity to our copper product customers, we consider
ourselves to be in a position to offer expanded solutions for

closed recycling systems in the future. If national and international recycling regulations become stricter and demand
for recycling solutions in our markets increases more
strongly than expected, this could positively affect the
Aurubis Group’s procurement situation and therefore its
earnings.
Development of expertise in processing complex raw
materials
Primary and secondary raw materials are becoming more
complex, to the effect that their contents of copper are
decreasing and the concentrations of tramp elements and
impurities are increasing. One of Aurubis’ strengths is processing complex materials, e.g. electronic scrap. Aurubis
continuously develops this expertise to develop effective
and resource-efficient processing methods for the raw
materials of the future. If even more progress is achieved in
developing our skills than currently forecast, this could positively influence the Aurubis Group’s earnings.

See Glossary,
page 198.

Continuous improvement of processes and cost position
and achievement of synergies
Our markets are globally competitive. Operating excellence
is therefore exceedingly important. We continuously work
on optimizing our processes and improving our cost position. Furthermore, we are always identifying and implementing the synergy potential arising from our position
along the copper value chain. If we go beyond the targets
connected to initiated improvement measures, this could
have a positive impact on the Aurubis Group’s earnings.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

96

Combined Management Report

Capacity expansion linked with internationalization
We see growth potential in an expansion of our processing
capacities in regions with favorable economic conditions
and in proximity to our procurement and sales markets. We
will continue investing in our existing sites but will also
strive to further expand our production network. If we are
in a position to expand our capacities even more and/or
with lower capital expenditure than expected, this could
positively affect the Aurubis Group’s earnings.
Development of solutions for customers and suppliers
We work closely with our suppliers and customers at all levels of our value chain. This includes developing individual
customer products, providing additional services, processing
specific raw materials and offering additional closed recycling solutions. We will continue expanding and improving
these solutions to create added value for our customers and
suppliers. If the demand of our customers and suppliers for
our solutions and services is stronger than forecast, this
could have a positive effect on the Aurubis Group’s earnings.
Innovations from future research and development
activities
In the scope of our research and development activities we
work on innovations that create a competitive advantage for
us in the future. For example, we’re working on making our
processing methods more resource-efficient and on expanding our expertise in complex material processing. Our activities in the product sector focus on developing production
technologies to reduce throughput times and on the technical implementation of recycling solutions for our customers,
for instance. If there is more progress in our research and
development activities than currently expected, this could
positively impact the Aurubis Group’s earnings.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Assessment of the Group’s risk and
opportunity situation
No substantial risks arose in the reporting year. There were
no particular structural changes in the Group’s risks.
According to our current assessment, there are no risks that
endanger the Company’s continued existence.
Both the Audit Committee and the auditors ascertained
that the Executive Board and Supervisory Board have taken
the measures prescribed by Section 91 (2) German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG) in an appropriate manner and that
the legally required risk management and monitoring system fulfills all the requirements.
For a complete overview of Company activities, the opportunities of the Group have to be considered in addition to
the risks. The existing opportunities in the Aurubis Group
are comparable to those of the previous year. We are confident that we will be able to utilize the opportunities presented by our business portfolio, our expertise and our ability to innovate. At the same time, these factors put us in a
position to successfully counter existing risks. Furthermore,
we are convinced that we have the appropriate processes,
measures and instruments in place to identify important
opportunities and to manage relevant risks.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

97
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Forecast Report
The statements made in the Forecast Report are based on
our assessment of the overall economic conditions and the
trend on the global copper market and Aurubis’ raw material
and product markets, which are based on analyses by economic research institutes, organizations and industry associations as well as internal market analyses. The forecasts for
the future business performance shown here are aligned
with the BU targets as well as the opportunities and risks
posed by the expected market conditions and competitive
situations in the forecast period of one year. The opportunities and risks affecting the Aurubis Group are explained in
detail in the Risk and Opportunity Report. Our forecasts are
regularly adjusted. The following statements are based on
our knowledge in December 2015.
The Aurubis Group started the new fiscal year 2015/16 in a
global market environment that was on the decline overall:
The growth of the global economy is restrained. Risks persist, especially in the uncertain economic development in
emerging markets, China in particular. While the economic
performance in the US is satisfactory, the head of the US
Federal Reserve gave the interest rate increase a real chance
in 2015. The impact of these individual factors is still open. In
the Eurozone, the mood among companies in October
picked up slightly across the board, which was confirmed by
the Markit Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI). It remains to
be seen whether this will be reflected in concrete results
beyond slight growth. The effects of the refugee influx in
Europe is also unclear. Furthermore, the political conflicts in
Ukraine and the Middle East still haven’t been solved.
For the copper market and the other metal and raw material
markets, it can be assumed that the global economy will
remain on a growth course but that the uncertainties will
continue. This will also influence the copper price trend.

There was no definitive price direction for copper in the
first few weeks of the new fiscal year, with prices above
US$ 5,000/t. The price fell below this mark starting in
mid-November, however. The ongoing price development
is uncertain. Price recoveries are possible if production
­disruptions arise, copper inventories decline further or
­copper demand turns out to be satisfactory after all.
Our sub-markets, e.g. the concentrate market, are showing
positive tendencies at the start of the new fiscal year
2015/16. Many aspects also speak for moderate cathode
demand overall and stable product business. The further
development on the copper scrap markets, which are more
oriented to the short term, can’t be forecast yet. The sulfuric
acid market, which is similarly based on the short term and
difficult to predict, is currently experiencing a surplus and
therefore much lower prices.
The internal measures to improve earnings will likely
have stronger impacts than in 2014/15; the maintenance
shutdown in primary copper production at the Pirdop
site will strain production.

Overall economic development
Global economy continues to grow but is subject to
ongoing risks
According to IMF predictions, the global economy will
­continue to grow in 2016, though risks continue. After 3.4 %
in 2014 and 3.1 % in 2015, growth of 3.6 % is forecast for the
coming year. Both the developed economies and the emerging markets will contribute to this. The latter in particular
were confronted with a combination of adverse factors in
2015. They experienced geopolitical tensions, reduced capital flows and stricter financing conditions in some cases.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

98

Combined Management Report

As the heavyweight of this group of countries, China was a
primary talking point due to its reduced growth dynamics,
which led to additional negative effects across national borders.
Lower raw material prices caused significant impacts. While
countries rich in raw materials suffered as a result, the economic development of countries dependent on raw material
imports benefited.
The following influences will significantly shape the overall
situation in 2016:
The new five-year plan in China for the period 2016 to 2020
does not include a growth target. Nevertheless, the Chinese
president doesn’t predict that the country’s economic
growth will decrease in the next few years, estimating an
annual growth rate of at least 6.5 %. Foreign economic
experts are more cautious regarding the expected GDP
growth, however. The IMF forecasts only 6.3 % growth for
China. Nevertheless, when it comes to the overall view of
the emerging and developing countries, the IMF believes
the return to 4.5 % economic growth is possible, which indicates a certain normalization in the conditions in some
countries and positive influences from the improved development in industrialized countries. Especially low-income
countries and countries dependent on raw material exports
are still subject to specific risks, however.
Among the highly developed countries, the IMF believes
that the recovery in the US is likely to continue. The situation benefits from low energy prices, strong company balance sheets and a further recovery in the construction sector. This should more than compensate for the strains from
the firm US dollar. Economic growth in the US is therefore
forecast at 2.8 % in 2016.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The improvement tendencies in Japan could continue.
­Economic growth is expected to be 1 % in 2016.
The moderate recovery in the Eurozone will likely continue,
supported by low raw material prices, loose fiscal policy and
a low euro, which promotes exports. However, growth will
continue to be limited by individual regional developments
within the currency area and other factors such as demographic trends. Overall, the IMF forecasts 1.6 % growth in
the Eurozone for 2016 following 1.5 % in 2015. Germany is at
the same level with plus 1.6 % compared to the previous
year. France and Italy are slightly lower with plus 1.5 % and
1.3 %, respectively. Outside of the Eurozone, the forecast for
the United Kingdom indicates above-average growth of plus
2.2 %.

Development on the markets relevant to
our business
General copper market
Economic circles don’t have much confidence in the raw
material sector in general for the coming year. The focus in
this case is on the weaker raw material demand, which is
observed in China in particular. This is especially true for copper, as the country accounts for about 45 % of global copper
demand. Nevertheless, sector analysts and specialist institutes don’t expect larger production surpluses on the market
for refined copper. For example, the International Copper
Study Group even calculated a minimal production deficit in
its global copper balance for 2016. Others, such as Cochilco,
Chile’s state copper commission, see a low surplus of
44,000 t, which must be viewed in relation to the overall
market of about 22 million t.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

99
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

The international copper market could thus have a solid
­foundation for 2016 again, which stands counter to an ongoing price decline. Uncertainties will continue to impact the
market trend, however, so continued price volatility should be
expected.
Opinions regarding China are all over the spectrum, which
makes a clear statement impossible.
According to CRU International, in the US, which accounts for
7.5 % of global copper demand, about one-third of the
national copper demand is seen in correlation with industrial
output, which could grow by about 2 % in 2016. This rate is
considered possible for the US automotive sector as well,
which accounts for roughly 14 % of national copper demand.
All in all, there may be a moderate increase of slightly over
2 % in US copper demand in 2016.
For western Europe, the slow economic recovery is expected
to affect copper demand, though with regional differences.
Copper demand could grow by 1.5 % in this market in 2016.
Momentum is coming from outside northern European countries, specifically Spain and Italy, in the meantime. There are
good prospects for construction in the Eurozone, and the
outlook for automotive production is also described as stable.
The international warehouses of the London Metal Exchange
recorded a decline in copper inventories during the first few
weeks of the new fiscal year. In mid-November 2015 the LME
recorded copper inventories of 259,000 t, a nearly 62,000 t
decrease since the beginning of the new fiscal year. Volumes
registered for delivery are also high.
It is especially difficult to assess the production side of the
copper market for the coming year since there could be considerable effects from the currently low copper price level in
addition to the usual influential parameters such as strikes,

raw material bottlenecks, technical disruptions, maintenance
shutdowns, weather and forces of nature. This has been evident in the announcements of larger copper companies
during the last several weeks. Glencore, which produces copper and other metals, intends to reduce its copper output by
455,000 t, for example. The other large international metal
companies are also under price and cost pressure and are
overhauling their portfolios and their business with the goal
of cost reduction and optimization. This could lead to additional production cuts.
There are other influences on the copper market apart from
production, demand and inventory availability. These include
the developments on the foreign exchange markets, which
affect the involvement of institutional investors. A strong US
dollar reduces their interest in the dollar-based copper market. The price trend for other raw materials, such as crude oil,
or developments on the capital market can also influence
investor behavior. A reliable forecast isn’t possible for these
markets. With respect to our own US dollar risks, we have
hedged most of the known main currency positions for
2015/16.
The copper price, which is formed on the exchange, will be
­subject to indeterminable influences and fluctuations regardless of the fundamental factors. This is also due in part to
­different market assessments from analysts, investors and
other actors.
Markets for copper concentrates and sulfuric acid
The raw material supply for copper production at Aurubis is
largely made up of copper concentrates, for which there is
an international market. Primary smelters without their own
mines mainly source concentrates via long-term supply contracts whose treatment and refining charges are oriented to
annual benchmarks for pure qualities.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

100

Combined Management Report

The supply on the international copper concentrate markets
will likely be good again during the new fiscal year, due in
particular to the start-up of expansion capacities and new
mine projects as well as customers’ purchasing needs. Production difficulties at mines or unpredictable events such as
strikes, technical disruptions, energy bottlenecks and
extreme weather could negatively influence supply, however.
Treatment and refining charges for spot shipments of copper
concentrates are currently at a high level. This will likely have
a positive impact on the conditions of the current negotiations for 2016.
The supply on European copper scrap markets is very low at
the moment. Future development can’t be reliably forecast
for the long term.
The unfavorable situation for prices of sulfuric acid, which
we produce as a by-product of concentrate processing, could
continue initially due to an ongoing surplus. The duration
and extent of this situation can’t be predicted either. The
trend in the emerging markets and the development on the
fertilizer market will have a crucial impact.
Markets for copper products and recycling
The situation on the markets for copper products in the
coming months will strongly depend on how the European
economy and the individual sectors develop. The trend in
these areas has been stable overall up to now and could
continue.
The German Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers’
­Association (ZVEI) anticipates 5 % growth for the global
electrical and electronics market in 2016. This development
is supported first and foremost by the emerging markets,
whereas low growth of 3 % is expected in Europe.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Demand for cars and trucks in Europe rose by 8.8 % and
12.2 %, respectively, in the first nine months of 2015, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. Whether and how the latest emission scandals will
negatively affect European manufacturers’ sales in 2016 isn’t
clear yet.
Forecasts for the German construction industry predict
moderate growth of 2 % for 2016 year on year, with the
main momentum coming from urban areas.
Based on these forecasts, we expect stable economic development in Europe for 2016 in the three main sectors in
which copper is used, as long as the overarching political
and economic risks don’t intensify.
The US economy, whose development is decisive for our
plant there, is supposed to continue recovering in 2016,
which should be reflected positively in copper demand.
Nevertheless, the situation will also depend on how the
higher pressure, which is a result of stronger imports, and
ongoing weakness in demand affect individual key
­customers.
For continuous cast copper wire rod, European demand
could initially remain at the current level during the next
few months. The situation in France likely won’t improve
significantly. Many factors speak for the continuation of the
slight recovery in the Italian and Spanish market. On the
whole, we expect largely stable demand activity in the cable
and wire industry as well as in the automotive sector during
the current fiscal year despite the first quarter, which is
­usually weak due to seasonal factors.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

101
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

The trend for continuous cast copper shapes continues to
move towards high-quality specialty products, which are
increasingly requested in unique dimensions. At the same
time, demand for standard products is expected to be
weaker. Overall, we expect demand for shapes to stabilize
at the current level.
On the European market for flat rolled products, we don’t
anticipate much change in demand all in all. There will be
growth opportunities in individual sectors. We don’t expect
the market environment to change much in North America.
The difficult market conditions for copper scrap have intensified after the end of the fiscal year. Due to lower metal
price quotations, scrap collection has been scaled back
overall. This is also true for copper, which is collected by
metal traders together with other metals such as aluminum
and steel scrap. Moreover, the price trend motivates the
upstream stages of the recycling chain to hold onto scrap
and wait for better prices. A constant level of demand is
therefore met by a somewhat reduced scrap supply. There is
currently pressure on refining charges.
The availability of complex recycling materials, including
electronic scrap, is fundamentally subject to other conditions and thus to changes that don’t go into effect as
quickly. The situation for complex recycling materials in the
new fiscal year has proven to be on the decline somewhat
due to weak metal quotations and a weak supply from
upstream suppliers. It should be assumed that pressure on
refining charges could increase in this area as well if these
market conditions persist.

Business and earnings expectations for the
Aurubis Group
The uncertainties from the Aurubis Group’s overall economic and market environment will continue to accompany
our business activities in fiscal year 2015/16 as well. Current
insights indicate that we will experience varying developments in the Business Units (BUs):
In BU Primary Copper, we anticipate good continued availability of copper concentrates, which will allow for a good
supply with high treatment and refining charges and thus
establish the basis for a satisfactory utilization of our smelting capacities at all of the sites.
We will carry out a large-scale shutdown of primary copper
and sulfuric acid production at our site in Pirdop (Bulgaria)
in April/May 2016. There will be a limited loss of production
due to the 50-day shutdown. The work will nevertheless
benefit from the experience gained from the comparable
project in Hamburg. The scope of the shutdown is also
smaller since the Pirdop site doesn’t have its own precious
metal production. The capital expenditure costs are
expected to be € 44 million and the strain on earnings
before taxes will be around € 25 million.
Additional short-term operational shutdowns for maintenance work are scheduled for other facilities and equipment
in the Group. If there are no unexpected disruptions, e.g. in
the process technology, due to unpredictable incidents or
events at our supplier companies, it can be assumed that we
will be able to achieve good throughputs once again.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

102

Combined Management Report

The media reporting about the concentrate markets
referred to the increasingly complex material composition
of the concentrates again. This was confirmed during
reporting year 2014/15 and is a unique challenge for us. We
have actively addressed this development and want to
adjust our processing methods to it even more strongly
along the entire supply chain. Furthermore, we are still
working on tapping cost reduction potential to improve the
situation in international competition.
In contrast to the copper concentrate business, sulfuric acid
sales depend on more short-term developments. The contracts therefore have much shorter terms. At the beginning
of the new fiscal year, there was pressure on the sulfuric
acid prices due to a supply surplus. There is no recognizable
improvement at the moment.
This also applies to the copper scrap supply and the corresponding refining charges. The available volumes have been
weak since early October 2015 and the market conditions
are accordingly unsatisfactory.
In BU Copper Products we deal with markets that vary
­considerably:
The course for cathode sales is currently being set for calendar year 2016. Aurubis reduced its cathode premium for
European customers from US$ 110/t to US$ 92/t and therefore accounts for customer demand for annual contracts,
which is expected to be restrained.
Negotiations for 2016 annual contracts are currently underway in the product business. Ongoing uncertainties in the
global economy and in Europe’s economic development are
reflected in our customers’ orders. It is still too early for
concrete statements about final volumes. We nevertheless
anticipate satisfactory capacity utilization in the new fiscal
year.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Good demand can be expected for wire rod overall, which
we primarily sell in Central Europe. The outlook in the final
demand sectors supports this expectation from the current
perspective. The developments in the current negotiations
for 2016 annual contracts remain to be seen.
The overall assessment of the market situation for copper
shapes varies. The trend in this area continues to move
towards high-quality specialty products, which are increasingly requested in unique dimensions. Simpler standard
shapes for the construction industry and basic machine
applications have little growth potential and are subject to
stagnation.
We anticipate slight growth in the European market for flat
rolled products, especially in the connector segment. We
expect demand growth to extend beyond market growth
owing to quality and performance improvements. In North
America we expect to balance out some of the business
­volume that declined in fiscal year 2014/15 in a largely
unchanged market environment.
The market trend in Asia is difficult to assess, particularly
due to the uncertain growth forecasts for China. We don’t
anticipate any specific momentum for our business from
this area.
The copper scrap recycling business is oriented to the short
term and can change very quickly. It is sensitive to the copper price but also to metal traders’ collection and delivery
tendencies, which include other metals. As a result, the
tight market situation is not likely to change much in the
near future, especially since seasonal influences will take
effect at the end of the year. Existing contracts and inventories are able to cushion the currently low material availability on the market. However, a reliable overall assessment of
the future copper scrap supply can’t be provided at the
moment. Just as in BU Primary Copper, routine maintenance

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

103
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

shutdowns must be taken into account. For complex raw
materials in particular, such as electronic scrap and industrial residues, we want to continue expanding our new recycling approach, which includes addressing product customers more.
The availability of industrial residues also depends on the
overall economic trend. This is viewed with confidence in
Europe and could be reflected positively in the supply.
Overall, there could be quarterly differences as in the previous years. This is mainly due to seasonal factors but could
also be caused by disruptions in equipment or operating processes. The business performance of the first quarter of a fiscal year in particular is shaped by special features related to
the period, including reduced customer orders or changes in
raw material deliveries.
The influences from European and German energy and environmental policy, which are important for us, can’t be forecast. In the first quarter of the new fiscal year, the European
Commission published a position paper about the topic of
the circular economy in the EU, which will make its way to the
European Parliament and the 28 member states. This issue is
related to one of Aurubis’ main areas of expertise and copper’s key product benefit. Aurubis will assess the opportunities and risks of the intended regulations and support the
political decision-making process.

Expected financial situation
The good business result is reflected in a strong net cash
flow of € 365 million in the past fiscal year. Strains from cash
outflows from investing activities amount to just € 104 million for the fiscal year (previous year: € 121 million). Overall,
net borrowings decreased from € 246 million in the previous year to € 53 million. Gross borrowings rose from € 433
million in the previous year to € 506 million during the fiscal
year due to scheduled repayments of bonded loans in the
amount of € 210 million on the one hand and new issues of
bonded loans of over € 300 million on the other. Of the
new bonded loans, € 185 million has a term of five years and
€ 115 million has a term of seven years. Available cash
increased from € 187 million to € 453 million. The Company
has additional liquidity through lines of credit amounting to
€ 350 million from a syndicated loan agreement running
until 2017. Aurubis therefore has sufficient liquidity that is
not at risk from today’s perspective. We don’t expect any
significant negative impacts on the financial position from
the operating business in the coming fiscal year. We intend
to settle the payments due during the year with the existing
liquidity.

The future development and forecast of Aurubis AG coincides with the general statement on the Aurubis Group.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

104

Combined Management Report

General statement on the future
development of the Aurubis Group
The Aurubis Group generated record earnings in fiscal year
2014/15. The situation on our raw material markets and
other significant earnings drivers were positive. We were
able to provide our facilities with a good supply of raw
materials. Our main customer sectors were also economically robust.
For 2016 we expect operating earnings to be considerably
lower than the prior year due to a weaker market outlook
for copper scrap and sulfuric acid as well as the scheduled
maintenance shutdown in our primary copper production in
Pirdop, Bulgaria. The improvement projects we initiated in
2015 will only partially influence the earnings trend in the
coming year and will make significant positive contributions
to earnings in future fiscal years in particular.
Overall, we expect both operating EBT and ROCE to be significantly lower in fiscal year 2015/16 compared to the
reporting year.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Forward-looking statements
This document contains forward-looking statements about
our current forecasts of future events. Words such as
“anticipate”, “assume”, “believe”, “predict”, “expect”, “intend”,
“can/could”, “plan”, “project”, “should” and similar terms
indicate such forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.
Some examples include unfavorable developments in the
global economic situation, especially a tightening of the
raw material supply and a decline in demand in the main
copper sales markets, an intensification of the sovereign
debt crisis in the Eurozone, a worsening of the budget situation in the US, a deterioration of our refinancing options
on the credit and finance markets, unavoidable occurrences beyond our control such as natural disasters, acts of
terror, political unrest, industrial accidents and their effects
on our sales, purchasing, production or financing activities,
­changes in exchange rates, a loss of acceptance for our
products and services resulting in impacts on the establishment of prices and the utilization of processing and
production capacities, price increases for energy and raw
materials, production interruptions due to material bottlenecks, employee strikes or supplier bankruptcies, successful implementation of measures to reduce costs and
enhance efficiency, the business outlook for our significant
holdings, the successful implementation of strategic
­cooperation and joint ventures, amendments to laws,
­ordinances and official regulations as well as the outcomes
of legal proceedings and other risks and uncertainties,
some of which are described in the Risk and Opportunity
Report in this Annual Report. If one of these uncertainties
or ­difficulties occurs, or if the assumptions underlying the
forward-looking statements prove to be wrong, the actual
results could deviate considerably from the results mentioned or implicitly expressed in these ­statements. We do
not intend, nor do we assume the obligation, to update
forward-looking statements continuously, as these statements are based solely on the circumstances on the day of
publication.

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

105
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Legal Disclosures
Declaration on corporate governance
pursuant to Section 289a German
Commercial Code (HGB)

Shareholdings exceeding 10 % of the voting rights
One indirect shareholding in Aurubis AG exceeds 10 % of
the voting rights:

The declaration on corporate governance and the compensation report are part of the Combined Management
Report. Both are printed at the beginning of this Annual
Report and are available on the Company’s website at
www.aurubis.com/corporate-governance and
www.aurubis.com/compensation-report.

Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter, notified the Company in accordance with Section 21 (1) German Securities Trading Act
(WpHG) on August 29, 2011 that its voting interest in
Aurubis AG had exceeded the threshold of 25 % of the
­voting rights on August 29, 2011 and amounted to 25.002 %
of the voting rights (representing 11,240,000 votes). Of this
total, 25.002 % of the voting rights (representing 11,240,000
votes) are attributed to Salzgitter AG via Salzgitter
­Mannesmann GmbH, Salzgitter.

Takeover-related disclosures and
explanations
Explanatory report by the Executive Board of Aurubis AG,
Hamburg, in accordance with Section 176 (1) sentence 1
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) on disclosures of
takeover provisions pursuant to Section 289 (4) and
Section 315 (4) German Commercial Code (HGB) as at
the balance sheet date of September 30, 2015
The following disclosures as at September 30, 2015 are
­presented in accordance with Section 289 (4) and Section
315 (4) German Commercial Code (HGB).
Composition of the subscribed capital
The subscribed capital (share capital) of Aurubis AG
amounted to € 115,089,210.88 as at the balance sheet date
and was divided into 44,956,723 no-par-value bearer shares,
each with a notional value of € 2.56 of the subscribed capital.
Each share grants the same rights and one vote at the
Annual General Meeting. There are no different classes of
shares.

Accordingly, one direct investment in the capital of
Aurubis AG exceeds 25 % of the voting rights: according to
the notification of Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter, dated August 29,
2011, Salzgitter Mannesmann GmbH, Salzgitter, has held
25.002 % of the voting rights (representing 11,240,000
votes) since August 29, 2011.
Appointment and removal of Executive Board members
and amendments to the Articles of Association
The appointment and removal of members of the Executive
Board of Aurubis AG are covered by Sections 84 and 85 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and Section 31 Law on
Co-­determination (MitbestG) in conjunction with Section 6
(1) of the Articles of Association. Amendments to the Articles of Association are subject to the approval of the Annual
General Meeting. The resolution at the Annual General
Meeting is passed by a majority that must comprise at least
three quarters of the subscribed capital represented in the
vote; Section 179 et seq. German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG) applies. In accordance with Section 11 (9) of the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board is authorized to
resolve amendments to the Articles of Association that only
relate to their wording. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board
is empowered to adjust Section 4 of the Articles of

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

106

Combined Management Report

Association after the complete or partial execution of the
subscribed capital increase in accordance with the respective
claim to the authorized capital and after the authorization
expires. It is also empowered to adjust the wording of Section 4 (1) and (3) of the Articles of Association in accordance
with the respective issuing of new no-par-value bearer shares
to the holders or creditors of convertible bonds and/or
bonds with warrants, profit ­participation rights or participating bonds (or combinations of these instruments), which are
issued by the Company or companies in which it has an
­indirect or direct majority interest for a cash contribution as
a result of the authorization resolved at the Annual General
Meeting on March 1, 2012 under item 8 of the agenda, and
grant a conversion or option right to new no-par-value
bearer shares in the Company or establish a conversion obligation. The same applies if the authorization to issue bonds
with warrants or convertible bonds is not used after the
authorization period expires or if the conditional capital is
not used after the deadlines for exercising option or conversion rights or for fulfilling conversion or option obligations
have expired.
Power of the Executive Board to issue shares
In accordance with Section 4 (2) of the Articles of Association,
the Executive Board is empowered, with the approval of the
Supervisory Board, to increase the Company’s subscribed
­capital in the period until March 2, 2016 by issuing up to
22,478,361 new no-par-value shares in exchange for a cash
contribution and/or a contribution in kind once or in several
installments by up to € 57,544,604.16. The shareholders shall
always be granted a subscription right. The new shares can
also be acquired by one or more credit institutions with the
obligation of offering them to shareholders for subscription.
The Executive Board is, however, authorized, subject to the
approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude shareholder
subscription rights once or on several occasions:

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

a) inasmuch as it is necessary to exclude subscription rights
for possible fractional amounts,
b) up to an arithmetical nominal value totaling
€ 38,046,026.24 if the new shares are issued for a
­contribution in kind,
c) or capital increases against cash contributions up to an
arithmetical nominal value totaling € 11,508,920.32 or, if
this amount is lower, by a total of 10 % of the subscribed
capital existing when this power was exercised for the
first time, if the issuing price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the price of Company shares in the
same category on the stock exchange at the time when
the issuing price is finally fixed. The subscribed capital
allotted to the shares that are issued or have to be issued
to fulfill convertible bonds and/or bonds with warrants,
that are issued in the corresponding application of Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG) excluding the subscription right after this authorization to exclude the subscription right goes into effect
or that are sold after this authorization to exclude the
subscription right goes into effect pursuant to Section 71
(1) No. 8 and Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG) must be included in this limit. An
inclusion that has been carried out is canceled if powers
to issue convertible bonds and/or bonds with warrants in
accordance with Section 221 (4) sentence 2 and Section
186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
or to sell own shares in accordance with Section 71 (1)
No. 8 and Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock
­Corporation Act (AktG) are granted again at the Annual
General Meeting after exercising such powers that have
led to inclusion,

Combined Management Report
48 Foundations of the Group
64 Economic Report
89 Subsequent Events

107
89
97
105

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

d) inasmuch as it is necessary to grant holders or creditors
of bonds with warrants or convertible bonds issued by
the Company relating to shares a subscription right for
new shares to the same extent as they would be entitled
after exercising their option or conversion rights.
In the resolution dated February 11, 2011 the Executive
Board of Aurubis AG declared in the scope of a voluntary
commitment that it would not make use of the authorizations to exclude shareholders’ subscription rights during the
duration of the authorization provided in Section 4 (2) of
the Articles of Association insofar as this would lead to the
issuing of Aurubis AG shares under the exclusion of subscription rights whose notional value exceeds a total of 20 %
of the subscribed capital at the time of the Annual General
Meeting’s resolution, or, if this amount is lower, of the subscribed capital existing at the time the authorization is first
used.
This voluntary commitment was made accessible on
Aurubis AG’s website in the Investor Relations section for
the duration of the authorization.
Power of the Executive Board to repurchase shares
With a resolution of the Annual General Meeting on February 28, 2013, the Company was empowered until February
27, 2018 to repurchase its own shares (treasury shares) up to
a total of 10 % of the current subscribed capital. Together
with other own shares held by the Company or attributable
to it in accordance with Section 71a et seq. German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG), the shares acquired by the Company based on this authorization shall at no time exceed
10 % of the Company’s current subscribed capital. The
acquisition of shares for the purpose of trading with own
shares is excluded. The Executive Board is empowered to
use shares in the Company that are purchased on account
of this power for all legally permitted purposes, and in particular also for the following purposes:

a) Own shares that have been acquired can also be sold in a
way other than a sale via the stock exchange or by means
of an offer to all of the shareholders, if the shares are sold
in return for a cash payment at a price that is not materially lower than the stock market price of the Company’s
shares of the same category at the time of the sale; the
subscription rights of the shareholders are excluded. This
power shall, however, only apply on the condition that
the shares sold excluding the subscription right may not,
in accordance with Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German
Stock Corporation Act (AktG), exceed 10 % of the subscribed capital, either at the time this becomes effective
or at the time of exercise of this power (the “upper limit”),
in each case taking into account the possible use of other
authorizations to exclude the subscription right in accordance with, or in the corresponding application of, Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG). An inclusion that has been carried out is canceled
if powers to issue new shares from authorized capital in
accordance with Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG) or to issue convertible bonds
and/or bonds with warrants in commensurate application
of Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG) are granted again at the Annual General
Meeting after exercising such powers that have led to
inclusion.
b) Own shares that have been acquired can also be sold in a
way other than a sale via the stock exchange or by means
of an offer to all of the shareholders, if this is carried out
in return for a contribution in kind by a third party, especially in conjunction with the acquisition of business entities, parts of business entities or participating interests in
business entities by the Company itself or by a business
entity dependent on it or majority owned by it, and in
conjunction with business combinations or to fulfill conversion rights or obligations relating to conversion or
option rights issued by the Company or Group entities of
the Company; the subscription rights of the shareholders
are in each case excluded.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

108

Combined Management Report

c) Own shares acquired can be withdrawn entirely or in part
without a further resolution of the Annual General Meeting. They can also be withdrawn applying simplified proceedings without a reduction in capital by adjusting the
proportionate notional share of the remaining no-parvalue shares in the subscribed capital of the Company.
The complete text of the resolution dated February 28, 2013
has been included under agenda item 7 in the invitation to
the Annual General Meeting 2013 published in the German
Federal Gazette on January 15, 2013.
Power of the Executive Board to issue convertible bonds
and shares from conditional capital
In accordance with Section 4 (3) of the Company’s Articles
of Association, the subscribed capital is conditionally
increased by up to € 52,313,277.44 by issuing up to
20,434,874 new bearer shares without a nominal amount
(no-par-value shares), each with notional interest in the subscribed capital of € 2.56 (conditional capital). The conditional increase in capital will be used to grant no-par-value
bearer shares to the holders or creditors of convertible
bonds and/or bonds with warrants, profit participation
rights and/or participating bonds (or combinations of these
instruments), which are issued by the Company or companies in which it has an indirect or direct majority interest,
for a cash contribution as a result of the authorization
resolved at the Annual General Meeting on March 3, 2012
under item 8 of the agenda, and grant a conversion or
option right to new no-par-value bearer shares in the Company or establish a conversion obligation. The conditional
increase in capital will only be carried out to the extent that
option or conversion rights are used or those holders or
creditors that are required to convert fulfill their obligation
to convert and that the Company’s own shares or new
shares from the utilization of authorized unissued capital

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

are used for this purpose. The new no-par-value bearer
shares are entitled to participate in the profits from the
beginning of the fiscal year in which they come into existence through the exercise of option or conversion rights or
the fulfillment of conversion obligations. The Executive
Board is authorized to define the further details of how the
conditional capital increase shall be performed.
The complete text of the resolution dated March 1, 2012 has
been included under agenda item 8 in the invitation to the
Annual General Meeting 2012 published in the German
Federal Gazette on January 19, 2012.
Significant conditional agreements concluded by the
Company
In the event that a single person or a group of persons acting
together should acquire more than 50 % of the shares or the
voting rights in Aurubis AG, every syndicate lender from the
agreement with a banking syndicate (“the Syndicated Loan”)
on a credit line totaling € 350 million, which primarily serves
to finance the working capital of the Group, shall be entitled
to cancel its participation in the Syndicated Loan and to
demand immediate repayment of the amounts owed to it.
Within the scope of various bonds totaling € 436 million,
every lender has an extraordinary right of cancellation if
­control over the borrower changes.

109

Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
116 General disclosures
116 Significant accounting principles
125 Changes in accounting and measurement methods due to
new standards and interpretations
134 Notes to the income statement
141 Notes to the statement of financial position
183 Notes to the cash flow statement
184 Segment reporting
189 Other disclosures
194 Investments

Financial Statements

110
111
112
114
115
116

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

110

Consolidated Income Statement

Consolidated Income Statement
for the period from October 1 to September 30 (IFRS)
o T 023

in € thousand

Revenues

Note

12 months
2014/15

12 months
2013/14

1

10,995,202

11,240,967

Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in process

2

15,281

(211,292)

Own work capitalized

3

6,383

6,389

Other operating income

4

59,749

55,214

Cost of materials

5

(10,067,396)

(10,226,417)

1,009,219

864,861

Gross profit
Personnel expenses

6

(431,295)

(415,145)

Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

7

(136,406)

(128,039)

Other operating expenses

8

(242,237)

(233,908)

199,281

87,769
4,074

Operational result (EBIT)
9

1,403

Interest income

10

3,591

4,936

Interest expense

10

(30,940)

(36,221)

Other financial income

11

225

225

Other financial expenses

11

(4,116)

(3,231)

169,444

57,552

(35,876)

(13,452)

133,568

44,100

Result from investments measured using the equity method

Earnings before taxes (EBT)
Income taxes

12

Consolidated net income

132,435

42,633

13

1,133

1,467

Basic earnings per share (in €)

14

2.95

0.95

Diluted earnings per share (in €)

14

2.95

0.95

Consolidated net income attributable to Aurubis AG shareholders
Consolidated net income attributable to non-controlling interests

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

111
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the period from October 1 to September 30 (IFRS)
o T 024

in € thousand

Consolidated net income

12 months
2014/15

12 months
2013/14

133,568

44,100

(12,189)

(19,131)

Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss in the future
Measurement at market of cash flow hedges

(1,585)

(529)

Changes deriving from translation of foreign currencies

3,778

2,115

Income taxes

1,761

4,170

Remeasurement of the net liability deriving from defined benefit obligations

17,449

(78,394)

Income taxes

(5,553)

25,527

3,661

(66,242)

Consolidated total comprehensive income/(loss)

137,229

(22,142)

Consolidated total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to Aurubis AG shareholders

135,981

(23,250)

1,248

1,108

Measurement at market of financial investments

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss

Other comprehensive income/(loss)

Consolidated total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

112

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
(IFRS)

Assets
in € thousand

o T 025

Note

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

10/1/2013

Intangible assets

15

83,898

83,328

84,279

Property, plant and equipment

16

1,287,082

1,307,316

1,299,241

Interests in affiliated companies

17

1,418

1,328

1,328

Investments

17

744

845

871

Other financial fixed assets

17

24,410

30,027

33,793

26,572

32,200

35,992

42,877

45,445

44,592

1,440,429

1,468,289

1,464,104

Financial fixed assets
Investments measured using the equity method

18

Fixed assets
24

8,080

2,780

8,751

Non-current receivables and financial assets

21

14,227

13,206

19,809

Other non-current non-financial assets

21

Deferred tax assets

Non-current receivables and other assets
Non-current assets

1,176

1,031

775

15,403

14,237

20,584

1,463,912

1,485,306

1,493,439

19

1,626,440

1,717,346

1,895,622

Trade accounts receivable

20

306,905

414,235

380,676

Income tax receivables

21

3,303

9,339

32,944

Other current receivables and financial assets

21

138,898

92,193

93,556

Other current non-financial assets

21

Inventories

Current receivables and other assets
Cash and cash equivalents

22

46,201

37,513

65,860

495,307

553,280

573,036

452,971

187,282

32,733

2,574,718

2,457,908

2,501,391

5,955

0

6,782

Current assets

2,580,673

2,457,908

2,508,173

Total assets

4,044,585

3,943,214

4,001,612

Assets “held-for-sale”

Certain figures as at September 30, 2014 and October 1, 2013 have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

113
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Equity and liabilities
in € thousand

o T 026

Note

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

10/1/2013
115,089

Subscribed capital

23

115,089

115,089

Additional paid-in capital

23

343,032

343,032

343,032

Generated Group earnings

23

1,523,444

1,424,188

1,483,515

Accumulated other comprehensive income

23

Equity attributable to shareholders of Aurubis AG
Non-controlling interests

23

Equity

(15,764)

(7,529)

5,846

1,965,801

1,874,780

1,947,482

2,778

3,069

3,020

1,968,579

1,877,849

1,950,502

24

182,986

224,300

273,731

Pension provisions and similar obligations

25

221,772

230,639

157,759

Other non-current provisions

26

59,751

61,229

62,122

281,523

291,868

219,881
419,812

Deferred tax liabilities

Non-current provisions
Non-current financial liabilities

27

508,294

304,634

Other non-current non-financial liabilities

27

1,179

999

743

Non-current liabilities

509,473

305,633

420,555

Non-current provisions and liabilities

973,982

821,801

914,167
41,628

26

34,749

32,351

Current financial liabilities

27

25,421

155,917

75,155

Trade accounts payable

27

761,409

796,848

813,647

Income tax liabilities

27

53,926

14,727

4,212

Other current financial liabilities

27

187,024

161,600

133,256

Other current non-financial liabilities

27

Other current provisions

39,495

82,121

69,045

Current liabilities

1,067,275

1,211,213

1,095,315

Current provisions and liabilities

1,102,024

1,243,564

1,136,943

Total liabilities

2,076,006

2,065,365

2,051,110

Total equity and liabilities

4,044,585

3,943,214

4,001,612

Certain figures as at September 30, 2014 and October 1, 2013 have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

114

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the period from October 1 to September 30 (IFRS)
o T 027

in € thousand

12 months
2014/15

12 months
2013/14

Earnings before taxes

169,444

57,552

Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets

140,522

131,271

Change in allowances on receivables and other assets
Change in non-current provisions
Net losses on disposal of fixed assets
Measurement of derivatives
Financial result

391

1,327

(2,486)

(13,547)

2,714

3,476

16,149

40,195

25,932

26,985

(46,355)

7,306

Change in receivables and other assets

59,000

(7,415)

Change in inventories (including measurement effects)

92,633

183,841

2,360

(1,671)

Change in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities)

(95,397)

(28,157)

Cash inflow from operating activities (net cash flow)

364,907

401,163

(111,747)

(128,372)

Income taxes received/paid

Change in current provisions

Payments for investments in fixed assets

346

239

Interest received

3,567

3,640

Dividends received

4,174

3,275

(103,660)

(121,218)

Proceeds from the disposal of fixed assets

Cash outflow from investing activities
Proceeds deriving from the take-up of financial liabilities
Payments for the redemption of bonds and financial liabilities

486,935

397,726

(413,648)

(443,898)

Interest paid

(23,262)

(29,240)

Dividends paid

(46,496)

(50,511)

3,529

(125,923)

264,776

154,022

Cash inflow (cash outflow in the prior year) from financing activities
Net change in cash and cash equivalents

913

527

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

187,282

32,733

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

452,971

187,282

Changes resulting from movements in exchange rates

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

115
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
o T 028

Accumulated other
comprehensive income components

in € thousand

Balance as at
9/30/2013
Adjustment pursuant
to IAS 8
Balance as at
9/30/2013

Measurement at
market of
Currency
financial translation
assets differences

Equity
attributable to
Aurubis AG
Income shareholdtaxes
ers

Subscribed
capital

Additional
paid-in
capital

Generated
Group
equity

Measurement at
market of
cash flow
hedges

115,089

343,032

1,482,378

(2,674)

2,114

5,795

611

0

0

1,134

0

0

0

Non-­
controlling
interests

Total
equity

1,946,345

3,020

1,949,365

0

1,134

0

1,134

115,089

343,032

1,483,512

(2,674)

2,114

5,795

611

1,947,479

3,020

1,950,499

Dividend payment

0

0

(49,452)

0

0

0

0

(49,452)

(1,059)

(50,511)

Consolidated total
comprehensive
income/(loss)

0

0

(9,875)

(19,131)

(529)

2,115

4,170

(23,250)

1,108

(22,142)

of which consolidated
net income

0

0

42,633

0

0

0

0

42,633

1,467

44,100

of which other comprehensive income/(loss)

0

0

(52,508)

(19,131)

(529)

2,115

4,170

(65,883)

(359)

(66,242)

Balance as at
9/30/2014

115,089

343,032

1,424,185

(21,805)

1,585

7,910

4,781

1,874,777

3,069

1,877,846

Balance as at
9/30/2014

115,089

343,032

1,424,185

(21,805)

1,585

7,910

4,781

1,874,777

3,069

1,877,846

Dividend payment

0

0

(44,957)

0

0

0

0

(44,957)

(1,539)

(46,496)

Consolidated total
comprehensive
income/(loss)

0

0

144,216

(12,189)

(1,585)

3,778

1,761

135,981

1,248

137,229

of which consolidated
net income

0

0

132,435

0

0

0

0

132,435

1,133

133,568

of which other comprehensive income/(loss)

0

0

11,781

(12,189)

(1,585)

3,778

1,761

3,546

115

3,661

115,089

343,032

1,523,444

(33,994)

0

11,688

6,542

1,965,801

2,778

1,968,579

Balance as at
9/30/2015

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

116

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
General disclosures
Aurubis AG is a quoted corporate entity domiciled in Germany.
As required by Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and the Council dated July 19, 2002 on the application of international accounting standards and Section 315a (1) of the German
Commercial Code (HGB), the accompanying consolidated financial
statements as at September 30, 2015 have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
approved and published by the International Accounting Standards
Board (IASB), as adopted by the European Union. The interpretations
of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
(IFRIC) have been taken into account.
The Supervisory Board released the consolidated financial statements
for publication after they were approved on December 10, 2015.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros. If
nothing to the contrary is indicated, all amounts are shown in thousands of currency units.
Current and non-current assets and liabilities are presented as separate categories in the statement of financial position. In this context,
current assets and current liabilities are expected to be realized within
12 months of the balance sheet date or are held primarily for trading
purposes.
As a general rule, assets and liabilities have been measured at amortized acquisition or construction cost. Derivative financial instruments
and available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value. The
preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with
IFRS furthermore requires the Executive Board and authorized
employees to make estimates and assumptions in significant areas

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

that have an impact on the measurement and reported amount of the
assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position, and on
related income and expenses. Sectors which particularly require the
application of estimates and assumptions are presented under “Main
estimates and assumptions” on page 132.
This report may include slight deviations in the totals due to rounding.

Significant accounting principles
Scope of consolidation
As in the previous fiscal year, in addition to the parent company,
Aurubis AG, Hamburg, 22 further companies in which Aurubis AG,
Hamburg, holds the majority of the voting rights either directly or indirectly, and thus has control, were included in the consolidated financial
statements as at the balance sheet date by way of full consolidation.
The consolidated balance sheet date corresponds to the balance sheet
date of Aurubis AG, Hamburg, and all consolidated s­ ubsidiaries, with
the exception of three consolidated companies, whose balance sheet
date is December 31. Interim financial statements were prepared by
these companies as at the consolidated b
­ alance sheet date for consolidation purposes.
Accordingly, the financial statements of all significant subsidiaries in
which Aurubis AG holds legal and/or de facto control are included in
these consolidated financial statements.
Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg, a producer of
pre-rolled strip, has been accounted for using the equity method in
accordance with IFRS 11.24 in conjunction with IAS 28. A 50 % investment is held in this entity, which is managed jointly with another partner (joint venture).

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

117
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Consolidation principles
The separate financial statements of all companies included in consolidation are prepared in accordance with the uniform accounting policies applied in the Aurubis Group. The financial statements of the
main companies included in the consolidated financial statements
have been audited by independent auditors.
Capital consolidation is performed as at the acquisition date using the
acquisition method, whereby the acquisition cost of the acquired
interest is offset against the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities of the subsidiary at that time. An unallocated difference on the
asset side is recognized as goodwill and tested at least annually for
impairment. In accordance with IAS 36, goodwill is not amortized on a
scheduled basis. Negative goodwill is recognized immediately in profit
or loss following a reassessment of the fair values.
Receivables, liabilities and contingent liabilities, and revenues, other
income and expenses between group companies are eliminated. Profits resulting from transactions between group companies are eliminated, if material.
In addition to eight German companies, 15 foreign companies are
included in the consolidated financial statements. In accordance with
the functional currency concept, the financial statements of subsidiaries prepared in foreign currencies were translated into euros, as the
euro is Aurubis AG’s reporting currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional currency at the exchange
rate at the time of the transaction or, in the case of subsequent measurement, at the time of such measurement. Foreign currency transactions are usually in US dollars. The average US dollar exchange rate
during fiscal year 2014/15 was 1.14835 US$/€. The exchange rate as at
September 30, 2015 was 1.1203 US$/€. Gains and losses resulting from
the fulfillment of such transactions as well as from the conversion of
monetary assets and liabilities designated in a foreign currency as at

the balance sheet date are recorded in profit and loss in the cost of
materials unless they have to be accounted for in equity as qualified
cash flow hedges or net investments in foreign business operations.
In fiscal year 2014/15, conversion differences totaling € 1.3 million (net)
from foreign currency were recognized as an expense. In accordance
with IAS 21, assets and liabilities in the balance sheet of subsidiaries
reporting in a foreign currency are translated at the mid-market rates
on the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at
the average rates for the fiscal year. Any resultant translation differences are recognized directly in equity until the possible disposal of
the subsidiary.
Joint ventures are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 11 using the
equity method. Profits deriving from upstream/downstream transactions with Group companies are eliminated proportionally.
Recognition of revenues
Revenues and other operating income are recognized when control
and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are
transferred to the customer if the amount of revenues can be reliably
determined and the economic benefit deriving from the transaction is
probable. Bonuses granted in the fiscal year are deducted from revenues. Processing fees are taken into account in accordance with the
stage of completion of the processed material.
Financial instruments
A financial instrument is a contract that simultaneously gives rise to
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
In this connection, financial assets particularly comprise cash and
cash equivalents, equity instruments held in other entities (e.g. investments or share portfolios), trade accounts receivable, other loans and
receivables granted, and primary and derivative financial instruments

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

118

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

that are held for trading. Financial liabilities generally establish a
­contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets. These
include in particular bonds and other securitized liabilities, liabilities
to banks, trade accounts payable, financial lease liabilities and derivative financial instruments. Within the Group, regular way purchases
and sales of financial instruments are generally recorded as of the
­settlement date, i.e. at the date of delivery and transfer of title.
­Derivative financial instruments are recognized as of the trade date.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are generally reported gross
(i.e. without being netted).
Financial assets are recognized if Aurubis has a contractual right to
receive cash and cash equivalents or other financial assets from
another company. Financial assets are always recognized initially at
fair value. Thereby, in the case of financial assets that will not be measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss, the transaction
costs directly attributable to the purchase have to be taken into
account. The fair values recognized in the balance sheet represent the
market prices of the financial assets to the extent that these can be
determined directly by reference to an active market. Otherwise, they
are measured using normal market procedures (valuation models),
applying the market parameters specific to the instrument. Non-­
interest-bearing financial assets with a term exceeding one year are
discounted. For financial assets with a remaining term of less than one
year, it is assumed that the fair value corresponds to the nominal
value. Financial assets designated in foreign currency are measured on
initial recognition with the valid rate applicable at the date of the
transaction and as at the balance sheet date with the mid-market rate
as at the balance sheet date. Financial assets are derecognized if the
contractual rights to payments from the financial assets no longer
exist or all opportunities and risks are essentially transferred. Financial
assets sold without recourse were derecognized.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The non-current receivables reported in “other financial fixed assets”
are assigned to the category “loans and receivables” and, if significant,
are measured at amortized cost, applying the effective interest
method.
On account of their short maturities, trade accounts receivable are
measured at nominal value, less allowances for doubtful debts. The
allowances take adequate account of credit default risks, which are
determined on the basis of past experience and individual assessments of the risks. Actual defaults result in derecognition of the
receivables affected.
Impairment losses relating to trade accounts receivable are recorded
in an allowance account. The decision as to whether a credit risk is
recorded by using an allowance account or through direct reduction
of the receivables depends on how reliable the assessment of the risk
situation is.
Financial assets held for trading are measured at fair value. These
include derivative financial instruments that are not included in an
effective hedging relationship in accordance with IAS 39 and therefore
have to be classified as held for trading.
In addition, delivery contracts are concluded in the Aurubis Group for
non-ferrous metals to cover the expected requirement for raw materials and also for the sale of finished products. In the process, physical
delivery contracts may be terminated by making compensation payments due to changes in demand. Price-fixed metal delivery contracts
are therefore also recognized as derivative financial instruments. Since
these are not included in an effective hedging relationship in accordance with IAS 39, they are similarly classified as “held for trading”.
Gains or losses resulting from the subsequent measurement of “held
for trading” financial assets are recognized in profit or loss.

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

119
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Other financial assets are allocated to the category loans and receivables and, to the extent that they are non-current, are measured at
amortized cost, applying the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents have a remaining term on initial recognition of up to three months and are measured at nominal value.
Within the Aurubis Group, the “available-for-sale” category represents the residual amount of primary financial assets that fall under
IAS 39 and are not assigned to another category. They include the
interests in affiliated companies that are reported under financial fixed
assets, other investments and securities classified as fixed assets.
They are generally measured at fair value, which is derived from the
stock market price, provided a price quoted in an active market is
available. Subsequent gains and losses resulting from measurement at
fair value are recognized in equity as a component of other comprehensive income. This does not apply if these are permanent or significant impairment losses and also if these are foreign-currency-related
changes in the value of debt instruments, which are recognized in
profit or loss. The accumulated gains or losses deriving from measurement at fair value that are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income are only recognized in profit or loss upon disposal of
the financial assets. If the fair value of non-quoted equity instruments
cannot be reliably determined, the interests are measured at cost net
of impairment losses, if appropriate.
No financial instruments were reclassified into other measurement
categories either in fiscal year 2014/15 or in fiscal year 2013/14.
Within the Aurubis Group, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of a financial asset is higher than the present value of
the future cash flows. The test of whether impairment exists is carried

out at every balance sheet date. Indications such as considerable
financial problems on the part of the debtor are taken into account in
order to determine objectively whether evidence of impairment
exists.
In order to resolve the question of impairment, the existing credit
relationships that are assigned to the category “loans and receivables”
need to be analyzed and then measured subsequently at amortized
cost. At every balance sheet date, an investigation is required in order
to assess whether there are objective indications of impairment that
should be recognized in the financial statements. The amount of the
loss is calculated as the difference between the carrying amount of
the asset and the present value of the expected future cash flows, discounted with the original effective interest rate of the financial instrument (recoverable amount). In this connection, for the sake of simplicity, cash flows from short-term receivables are not discounted. The
carrying amount of the asset is reduced to the recoverable amount by
means of a direct write-down or by using an allowance account and
the reduction is recognized in profit or loss. For equity instruments of
the “available-for-sale” category, an impairment loss is recognized if
there are considerable adverse changes in the issuer’s environment or
the fair value is significantly lower than the original cost for a long
period. The loss is determined as the difference between the current
fair value and the carrying amount of the financial instrument. While
reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are to be recognized in profit or loss, in the case of equity instruments they may only
be recognized in equity.
Financial liabilities are recognized if there is a contractual obligation
to transfer cash and cash equivalents or other financial assets to
another company. Financial liabilities are always initially recognized at
fair value. The directly attributable transaction costs are also

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

120

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

deducted for all financial liabilities that are not subsequently measured at fair value and are amortized over the term of the liability
applying the effective interest method. Financial liabilities denominated in foreign currency are measured on initial recognition with the
valid rate applicable at the date of the transaction and as at the balance sheet date with the mid-market rate.
Primary financial liabilities, which include borrowings, trade
accounts payable and other primary financial liabilities, are generally
measured at amortized cost. If the interest effect is not insignificant,
non-interest-bearing liabilities, or liabilities bearing low interest rates,
with a residual term exceeding one year, are discounted. In the case of
liabilities with a residual term of less than a year, it is assumed that
the fair value corresponds to the settlement amount.
Liabilities under finance leases are recognized on inception of the
lease at the lower of the present value of the leasing payments and
the fair value of the leased asset. In subsequent periods, the redemption portions included in the leasing payments reduce the corresponding liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments that are not included in effective
hedging relationships must be classified as “held-for-trading” and
therefore recognized at fair value through profit and loss. If this is
negative, this results in the recognition of a financial liability.
The Aurubis Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge
interest rate and foreign currency risks and to hedge commodity price
risks.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. This represents the market value and can be both positive and negative. If the
market value is not available, the fair value is calculated utilizing present value and option price models. As far as possible, relevant market
prices and interest rates observed at the balance sheet date derived

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

from recognized sources are used as the opening parameters for
these models.
Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments are recognized either through profit or loss in the income statement or in
equity as a component of other comprehensive income. The decisive
factor hereby is whether or not the derivative financial instrument is
included in an effective hedging relationship. If no cash flow hedge
accounting relationship exists, the changes in fair values are to be
recognized immediately in profit or loss. If, on the other hand, an
effective hedging relationship exists, such changes will be recognized
in equity as a component of other comprehensive income.
In order to avoid fluctuations in the income statement due to the different measurement of hedged items and hedging instruments, IAS
39 includes special regulations relating to hedge accounting. The aim
of these hedge accounting regulations is to record gains and losses on
hedging instruments and hedged items so that they compensate one
another as far as possible.
In addition to documentation, as a prerequisite for the application of
the regulations of hedge accounting, IAS 39 requires proof of an
effective hedging relationship. Hedge effectiveness means that
changes in fair value (for fair value hedges) or changes in cash flow
(for cash flow hedges) of the hedged items are compensated by
changes in the opposite direction in the fair value or by changes in
the cash flows of the hedging instruments, in each case relating to the
hedged risk.
The purpose of derivatives that are used as hedging instruments in
conjunction with a cash flow hedge is to hedge future cash flows. A
risk with regard to the amount of future cash flows exists in particular
for loans at floating interest rates and planned transactions that are
highly likely to occur. Derivative financial instruments used in conjunction with cash flow hedge accounting are recognized at fair value.
The gain or loss on measurement is split between an effective and an

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

121
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

ineffective portion. The effective portion is the portion of the gain or
loss on measurement that represents an effective hedge of the cash
flow risk. This is recognized directly in equity under a special heading
(cash flow hedge reserve), after taking into account deferred taxes.
The ineffective portion deriving from measurement is recognized on
the other hand in profit or loss in the income statement. The general
recognition rules for the transactions underlying the hedged cash
flows do not change. Following the termination of the hedging relationship, the amounts recorded in the reserve are always transferred
to the income statement when gains or losses in connection with the
hedged item are recognized in profit or loss or when the underlying
transaction is not actually expected to occur anymore.
The purpose of fair value hedges is to hedge the exposure to changes
in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized
firm commitment. In accordance with the regulations on fair value
hedge accounting, the derivative financial instrument used as a hedging instrument is recognized at fair value, whereby gains and losses on
measurement are recognized in profit or loss in the income statement. For the hedged asset or the hedged liability, changes in the
market value resulting from the hedged risk must also be recognized
in profit or loss in the income statement. Fair value hedge accounting
isn’t currently used within the Aurubis Group.
The Aurubis Group furthermore enters into hedging relationships that
do not satisfy the strict requirements of IAS 39 and cannot therefore
be accounted for in accordance with the regulations on hedge
accounting. Nevertheless, these hedging relationships comply from an
economic point of view with the principles of risk management.
Moreover, no hedge accounting is applied in the case of the monetary
assets and liabilities recognized in connection with foreign currency
hedging, because the gains and losses on the hedged items that have
to be realized on the foreign currency translation in profit or loss in
accordance with IAS 21 are accompanied by gains and losses on the
derivative hedging instruments and more or less compensate one
another in the income statement.

Financial assets and financial liabilities that fall under IAS 39 could
under certain circumstances be allocated irrevocably on initial recognition to the subcategory “fair value option”. The Aurubis Group has
not made use of the fair value option either for financial assets or for
financial liabilities.
The fair value of financial instruments is determined pursuant to the
regulations of IFRS 13 covering measurement at fair value. The fair
value of financial instruments quoted in active markets is calculated
based on the price quotation insofar as these are prices used in routine and current transactions. Where no prices quoted in active markets are available, the Aurubis Group uses measurement procedures
to determine the fair value of financial instruments. Consequently, the
input parameters applied in measurement procedures are based
where possible on observable data derived from the prices of relevant
financial instruments traded in active markets. The use of this valuation procedure requires estimates and assumptions on the part of the
Aurubis Group, the scope of which depends on the price transparency
of the financial instrument and its market, and the complexity of the
instrument. The management regularly analyzes the methods and
influencing factors used to determine the fair value to ensure that
they are appropriate. Additional information about the main estimates
and assumptions used to determine the fair value can be found in the
section “Additional disclosures on financial instruments”.
Intangible assets
If intangible assets are acquired, they are recognized at acquisition
cost. Internally generated intangible assets that provide future economic benefits are recognized at their cost of generation if the criteria
for their recognition as an asset are fulfilled. They are amortized on a
scheduled straight-line basis over their expected useful lives of generally three years. With the exception of goodwill, the consolidated
financial statements do not include any intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

122

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment used in the business operations for
more than one year are measured at acquisition or construction cost
less scheduled depreciation. Such assets also include spare parts and
maintenance equipment used for more than one period. Technical
minimum stocks are recognized as components of the respective
technical equipment and machinery. These stocks are quantities of
materials that contain metals and are necessary to establish and
ensure a production facility’s functionality for its intended use. Minimum stocks are not subject to scheduled depreciation.
Construction costs include all direct costs. Borrowing costs that can
be directly allocated to the purchase, construction or production of a
qualifying asset are capitalized. Borrowing costs of € 125 thousand
were capitalized in the fiscal year reported with a respective financing
cost rate of 2.7 % (previous year: € 0 thousand). Scheduled depreciation is recorded using the straight-line method. The depreciation periods used correspond to the expected economic useful lives of the
assets, as applicable within the Group. The following main useful lives
are applied:
o T 029

Buildings

25 to 40 years

Site installations

10 to 25 years

Technical equipment and machinery
Technical minimum stock
Factory and office equipment

5 to 20 years
unlimited useful life
3 to 20 years

General overhauls or maintenance measures resulting in the replacement of components are recognized as an asset if it is probable that
future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the costs can be
measured reliably.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Leasing
Leased items of property, plant and equipment that satisfy the criteria
of IAS 17 for a finance lease are recognized as fixed assets. This is the
case if all significant risks and rewards of economic ownership lie with
the respective group company. Such items of property, plant and
equipment are recognized at fair value or, if lower, at the present
value of the minimum lease payments, and are depreciated using the
straight-line method over the lease term or, if it is expected that ownership will be obtained at the end of the lease term, over the economic useful life of the respective assets. The future lease installment
payment obligations are recognized as a liability at their present value
or current market value. The lease installment is divided into an interest component and a repayment component, to ensure that the lease
liability bears interest at a constant rate. The non-current part of the
net leasing obligation is recorded under non-current financial liabilities and the current part is recorded under current financial liabilities.
The interest component of the leasing rate is recognized in the
income statement, leading to a constant interest charge over the term
of the leasing agreement.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill,
are not amortized on a scheduled basis, but are subjected to an
annual impairment test. Furthermore, an assessment is made at every
balance sheet date to determine whether there are any indications
that the asset could be impaired. In the same way, items of property,
plant and equipment are tested for impairment if there are any indications of such impairment.
Since the metals contained in the minimum stock can be recovered
and the utilization potential of the minimum stock is not subject to
wear and tear as it is not used in the production process, an unlimited
useful life is assumed. The minimum stocks are therefore not amortized on a scheduled basis but are instead tested for impairment in
conjunction with the respective production facilities if there are any
indications of such impairment.

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

123
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Assets that are amortized on a scheduled basis are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount might not be recoverable. Impairment losses are recorded in
the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value of the
asset less costs to sell and its value in use. For impairment tests,
assets are combined at the lowest level for which cash flows can be
separately identified (so-called cash-generating units). With the
exception of goodwill, non-monetary assets on which impairment
losses were recognized in the past are reviewed as at each balance
sheet date to see whether the impairment losses possibly have to be
reversed.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at acquisition or production cost. Production cost includes all direct costs as well as a systematically allocated
share of the production-related overheads. All interchangeable inventories are measured applying the average cost method and are recognized as at the reporting date at the lower of cost and net realizable
value. Net realizable value is generally determined on the basis of
quoted stock exchange or market prices as at the balance sheet date.
Assets held for sale
A non-current asset is classified as held for sale if the corresponding
carrying amount is mainly realizable through a sales transaction and a
sale is highly likely. Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of
the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. If the criteria for
classifying an asset as held for sale no longer apply, it is returned to
fixed assets at the lower value of its amortized cost and the recoverable amount.

The balance sheet in the current year included non-current assets
held for sale amounting to € 5,955 thousand (previous year: € 0 thousand). This relates to a property, including buildings, of Aurubis Switzerland, SA, which is up for sale (see Note 16).
Other non-financial assets
Other non-financial assets are recognized at amortized cost. Writedowns are made to the extent that the non-financial assets are at risk.
Income taxes
The tax expense of a period is made up of current and deferred taxes.
Taxes are recognized in the income statement unless they are related
to items that were recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. In this case, the taxes are also recognized as a component of other comprehensive income.
The Aurubis Group companies are subject to taxation in a number of
countries around the world. The actual tax expense is calculated by
applying the tax regulations of the individual countries that are applicable as at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxes result from temporary differences between the tax-­
related carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and those taken into
account in the IFRS financial statements as well as from tax loss carryforwards. They are calculated using the balance sheet-oriented liability
method by applying the tax rates expected in the individual countries
at the time of realization. These rates are generally based on legislation that has been enacted, or substantially enacted, as of the balance
sheet date and which are expected to be applicable at the time of
realization of the deferred tax receivable or the settlement of the
deferred tax liability.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

124

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Deferred tax assets deriving from temporary differences, tax loss carryforwards and tax credits are recognized by the respective company
entities to the extent that deferred tax liabilities exist. If deferred tax
assets exceed deferred tax liabilities, they are recognized to the
extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will be available in the future to ensure the utilization of these tax assets. The
recoverability of the recognized deferred taxes is reviewed on an individual basis each year.
Deferred tax liabilities that arise due to temporary differences in connection with investments in subsidiaries and associated companies
are recognized unless the point in time for the reversal of the temporary differences can be determined by the Group and it is likely that
the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future
due to this determining influence.
Changes in deferred taxes in the balance sheet generally lead to
deferred tax expense or income. If circumstances that entail a change
in deferred taxes are recognized directly in equity or in other comprehensive income, the change in deferred taxes is also taken into
account directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if they relate
to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and they can
be set off against each other.

Provisions
Provisions for pension and similar obligations are determined in accordance with the projected unit credit method prescribed by IAS 19
based on actuarial reports. In this connection, the demographic
assumptions applied, as well as expected salary and pension trends
and the discount rate to be used, are determined on the basis of current estimates as of the balance sheet date. Accordingly, actuarial
gains and losses can result from deviations between the actual
parameters as at the balance sheet date and the assumptions used for
the calculation. These actuarial results – as well as revenues from plan
assets that are not included in net interest – are recognized immediately and completely as they arise and are disclosed as generated
Group earnings in equity. Past service cost is recognized immediately
as an expense.
To determine the net obligation deriving from defined benefit plans,
the fair value of the plan assets is deducted from the present value of
the pension obligations.
Other provisions are set up for all other uncertain obligations and
risks of the Aurubis Group provided that a related obligation to third
parties results from a past event, the settlement of which is expected
to result in an outflow of cash resources, and the amount of which
can be reliably estimated. If the effect of the time value of money is
material, non-current provisions are recognized at their present value.
Other non-financial liabilities
Other non-financial liabilities are recognized at amortized cost.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

125
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Changes in accounting and measurement methods
due to new standards and interpretations
The following standards which affected the Group were applied for
the first time in fiscal year 2014/15.
Standards and interpretations applied for the first time

Standards/­interpretations

o T 030

Compulsory
application in
the EU

Adoption by EU
Commission

Impact

IFRS 10

Consolidated Financial Statements

1/1/2014

12/11/2012

no impacts

IFRS 11

Joint Arrangements

1/1/2014

12/11/2012

Elimination of proportional consolidation, i.e. the 50 % inclusion
in consolidated financial statement reporting line items in the
statement of financial position and the income statement is discontinued and the joint venture is accounted for using the
equity method. The joint venture is disclosed under investments
measured using the equity method.

IFRS 12

Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1/1/2014

12/11/2012

more extensive disclosures of interests in other entities

IFRS 10
IFRS 11
IFRS 12

Amendments: Transitional Provisions

1/1/2014

4/4/2013

no impacts

IAS 27

Separate Financial Statements
(rev. May 2011)

1/1/2014

12/11/2012

no impacts

IAS 28

Investments in Associates and
Joint Ventures (rev. May 2011)

1/1/2014

12/11/2012

no impacts

IFRS 10
IFRS 12
IAS 27

Amendments: Investment Entities

1/1/2014

11/20/2013

no impacts

IAS 32

Amendments: Financial Instruments:
­Presentation – Offsetting Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities

1/1/2014

12/13/2012

no impacts

IAS 36

Amendments: Impairment of Assets:
Recoverable Amount Disclosures for
Non-Financial Assets

1/1/2014

12/19/2013

no impacts

IAS 39

Amendments: Financial Instruments:
1/1/2014
Recognition and Measurement – Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of
Hedge Accounting

12/19/2013

no impacts

IFRIC 21

Levies

6/13/2014

no impacts

6/17/2014

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

126

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The following standards are to be applied to all fiscal years beginning
after October 1, 2014. They were not adopted early in the consolidated financial statements.
Standards and interpretations not adopted early

Standards/­interpretations

o T 031

Compulsory
application in
the EU

Adoption by EU
Commission

Impact

IFRS 9

Financial Instruments – Classification
and Measurement

1/1/2018

open

Includes rules for classifying and measuring financial instruments depending on the business model as well as the cash
flows of the financial instrument. Establishes the accounting
requirements relating to impairments of financial assets, in that
not only incurred losses (the previous so-called incurred loss
model) but also expected losses (the so-called expected loss
model) are to be recorded. Defines hedge accounting requirements.

IFRS 15

Revenue from Contracts with
­Customers

1/1/2018

open

Description of when and in what amount revenues should be
recorded as well as an explanation of required disclosures in the
notes to the financial statements. Determination of revenues
based on a five-stage model that must be applied to all contracts with customers.

Various

Improvements to IFRS (2010-2012)

2/1/2015

12/17/2014

no significant impacts

Various

Improvements to IFRS (2011-2013)

1/1/2015

12/18/2014

no significant impacts

Various

Improvements to IFRS (2012-2014)

1/1/2016

open

being investigated by Management

IAS 16
IAS 38

Amendments: Clarification of
­Acceptable Methods of Depreciation
and Amortization

1/1/2016

open

being investigated by Management

IAS 19

Amendments: Defined Benefit Plans:
Employee Contributions

2/1/2015

12/17/2014

no impacts

IFRS 10
IAS 28

Amendments: Sales or contributions of open
assets between an investor and its
associate/joint venture

open

being investigated by Management

IFRS 10
IFRS 12
IAS 28

Amendments: Investment Entities:
Applying the Consolidation Exception

1/1/2016

open

no impacts

IAS 27

Amendments: Equity method in
­separate financial statements

1/1/2016

open

no impacts

IFRS 11

Amendments: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations

1/1/2016

open

no impacts

IFRS 14

Regulatory Deferral Accounts

1/1/2016

open

no impacts

IAS 1

Amendments: Disclosure Initiative

1/1/2016

open

Clarifications on the materiality of the presentation and disclosure of information in IFRS financial statements. Standards on
the presentation of subtotals, the structure of the notes to the
financial statements and information about accounting methods.

IAS 16
IAS 41

Amendments: Agriculture:
Bearer Plants

1/1/2016

open

no impacts

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

127
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Adjustment pursuant to IAS 8
In May 2011, the IASB published IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”, which
was adopted into European law by the EU in December 2012. This is to
be applied for the first time in fiscal years that start on or after January 1, 2014.
IFRS 11 outlines the accounting treatment for joint arrangements,
which are classified as joint operations or joint ventures. In this connection, the previously permissible method for inclusion of joint ventures by means of proportional consolidation is no longer allowed. In
accordance with IFRS 11, joint ventures must now be accounted for
using the equity method.
As a consequence, Aurubis AG’s previous 50 % inclusion of Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG in the individual reporting line
items within the statement of financial position and the income statement in the consolidated financial statements no longer applies . The
joint venture is now included by applying the equity method. Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG is now recognized in the

statement of financial position under “Investments measured using the
equity method”. The contribution to earnings (after taxes) of Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG is shown in the income statement under “Result from investments measured using the equity
method”. Aurubis has applied IFRS 11 since October 1, 2014. The
amendments are to be retroactively applied as from the beginning of
the comparative period.
Furthermore, personnel obligations that represent an accrued liability
according to IAS 37, such as Christmas bonuses, outstanding vacation
entitlements and success-based remuneration, have been reclassified
from current personnel provisions to other financial liabilities in the
statement of financial position. Aurubis has applied this amendment
retroactively from October 1, 2014 as from the beginning of the comparative reporting period.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

128

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The quantitative impacts of the retrospective corrections to the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated income
statement pursuant to IAS 8 for fiscal year 2013/14 are presented in
the following table:
o T 032

in € thousand

10/1/2013
before
­adjustment

Adjustment
­pursuant to
IAS 8

10/1/2013
after
adjustment

Assets
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Financial fixed assets
Investments measured using the equity method
Fixed assets
Deferred tax assets
Non-current receivables and financial assets
Other non-current assets
Non-current receivables and other assets

84,342

(63)

84,279

1,319,102

(19,861)

1,299,241

35,992

0

35,992

0

44,592

44,592

1,439,436

24,668

1,464,104

8,751

0

8,751

19,809

0

19,809

775

0

775

20,584

0

20,584

Non-current assets

1,468,771

24,668

1,493,439

Inventories

1,940,195

(44,573)

1,895,622

395,046

(14,370)

380,676

Income tax receivables

33,268

(324)

32,944

Other current receivables and financial assets

92,093

1,463

93,556

Trade accounts receivable

Other current non-financial assets

66,327

(467)

65,860

Current receivables and other assets

586,734

(13,698)

573,036

32,765

(32)

32,733

6,782

0

6,782

Current assets

2,566,476

(58,303)

2,508,173

Total assets

4,035,247

(33,635)

4,001,612

Cash and cash equivalents
Assets “held-for-sale”

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

129
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

10/1/2013
before
­adjustment

Adjustment
­pursuant to
IAS 8

10/1/2013
after
adjustment

Subscribed capital

115,089

0

115,089

Additional paid-in capital

343,032

0

343,032

1,482,378

1,137

1,483,515

in € thousand

Equity and liabilities

Generated Group earnings
Accumulated other comprehensive income components
Equity attributable to shareholders of Aurubis AG
Non-controlling interests

5,846

0

5,846

1,946,345

1,137

1,947,482

3,020

0

3,020

1,949,365

1,137

1,950,502

Deferred tax liabilities

277,136

(3,405)

273,731

Pension provisions

158,990

(1,231)

157,759

62,553

(431)

62,122

221,543

(1,662)

219,881

428,573

(8,761)

419,812

743

0

743

Non-current liabilities

429,316

(8,761)

420,555

Non-current provisions and liabilities

927,995

(13,828)

914,167

80,908

(39,280)

41,628

83,722

(8,567)

75,155

817,770

(4,123)

813,647

4,938

(726)

4,212

100,224

33,032

133,256

70,325

(1,280)

69,045

1,076,979

18,336

1,095,315

Equity

Other non-current provisions
Non-current provisions
Non-current financial liabilities
Other non-current non-financial liabilities

Other current provisions
Current financial liabilities
Trade accounts payable
Income tax liabilities
Other current financial liabilities
Other current non-financial liabilities
Current liabilities
Current provisions and liabilities

1,157,887

(20,944)

1,136,943

Total liabilities

2,085,882

(34,772)

2,051,110

Total equity and liabilities

4,035,247

(33,635)

4,001,612

The corrections pursuant to IAS 8 include reclassifications of accrued liabilities from other current provisions to other current financial liabilities in
the amount of € 37,033 thousand as at October 1, 2013.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

130

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

o T 033

in € thousand

9/30/2014
before
­adjustment

Adjustment
­pursuant to
IAS 8

9/30/2014
after
adjustment

Assets
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Financial fixed assets
Investments measured using the equity method
Fixed assets
Deferred tax assets
Non-current receivables and financial assets
Other non-current assets
Non-current receivables and other assets

83,363

(35)

83,328

1,330,667

(23,351)

1,307,316

32,200

0

32,200

0

45,445

45,445

1,446,230

22,059

1,468,289

2,780

0

2,780

13,216

(10)

13,206

1,031

0

1,031

14,247

(10)

14,237

Non-current assets

1,463,257

22,049

1,485,306

Inventories

1,763,497

(46,151)

1,717,346

425,497

(11,262)

414,235

9,339

0

9,339

89,993

2,200

92,193

Trade accounts receivable
Income tax receivables
Other current receivables and financial assets
Other current non-financial assets

37,879

(366)

37,513

Current receivables and other assets

562,708

(9,428)

553,280

Cash and cash equivalents

187,440

(158)

187,282

Current assets

2,513,645

(55,737)

2,457,908

Total assets

3,976,902

(33,688)

3,943,214

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

131
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

9/30/2014
before
­adjustment

Adjustment
­pursuant to
IAS 8

9/30/2014
after
adjustment

Subscribed capital

115,089

0

115,089

Additional paid-in capital

343,032

0

343,032

1,423,051

1,137

1,424,188

in € thousand

Equity and liabilities

Generated Group earnings
Accumulated other comprehensive income components
Equity attributable to shareholders of Aurubis AG
Non-controlling interests

(7,529)

0

(7,529)

1,873,643

1,137

1,874,780

3,069

0

3,069

1,876,712

1,137

1,877,849

Deferred tax liabilities

227,433

(3,133)

224,300

Pension provisions

232,183

(1,544)

230,639

61,542

(313)

61,229

293,725

(1,857)

291,868

315,288

(10,654)

304,634

999

0

999

Non-current liabilities

316,287

(10,654)

305,633

Non-current provisions and liabilities

837,445

(15,644)

821,801

70,646

(38,295)

32,351

Current financial liabilities

165,179

(9,262)

155,917

Trade accounts payable

801,272

(4,424)

796,848

15,399

(672)

14,727

127,914

33,686

161,600

Equity

Other non-current provisions
Non-current provisions
Non-current financial liabilities
Other non-current non-financial liabilities

Other current provisions

Income tax liabilities
Other current financial liabilities
Other current non-financial liabilities
Current liabilities

82,335

(214)

82,121

1,192,099

19,114

1,211,213

Current provisions and liabilities

1,262,745

(19,181)

1,243,564

Total liabilities

2,100,190

(34,825)

2,065,365

Total equity and liabilities

3,976,902

(33,688)

3,943,214

The corrections pursuant to IAS 8 include reclassifications of accrued liabilities from other current provisions to other current financial liabilities in
the amount of € 35,281 thousand as at September 30, 2014.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

132

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

o T 034

in € thousand

12 months
2013/14
before
­adjustment

Adjustment
­pursuant to
IAS 8

12 months
2013/14
after
adjustment

Revenues

11,334,578

(93,611)

11,240,967

(211,869)

577

(211,292)

6,389

0

6,389

55,705

(491)

55,214

(10,294,260)

67,843

(10,226,417)

890,543

(25,682)

864,861

Personnel expenses

(424,780)

9,635

(415,145)

Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

(130,429)

2,390

(128,039)

Other operating expenses

(241,142)

7,234

(233,908)

Operational result (EBIT)

94,192

(6,423)

87,769

0

4,074

4,074

4,949

(13)

4,936

(37,504)

1,283

(36,221)

Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in process
Own work capitalized
Other operating income
Cost of materials
Gross profit

Result from investments measured using the equity method
Interest income
Interest expense
Other financial income
Other financial expenses
Earnings before taxes (EBT)

225

0

225

(3,231)

0

(3,231)

58,631

(1,079)

57,552

(14,531)

1,079

(13,452)

Consolidated net income

44,100

0

44,100

Consolidated net income attributable to Aurubis AG shareholders

42,633

0

42,633

Consolidated net income attributable to non-controlling interests

1,467

0

1,467

Basic earnings per share (in €)

0.95

0.00

0.95

Diluted earnings per share (in €)

0.95

0.00

0.95

Income taxes

In the 2014/15 consolidated financial statements, the comparative
­prior-year figures and the opening balance as at October 1, 2013 were
adjusted to comply with the provisions of IAS 8.
Main estimates and assumptions
Accounting and measurement in the consolidated financial statements are influenced by a large number of estimates and assumptions, which are based on past experience as well as additional factors, including expectations about future events. All estimates and
assessments are subject to continuous review and re-evaluation. The

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

use of estimates and assumptions is especially necessary in the following areas:
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in line with the
accounting and measurement methods. In this context, the recoverable amount is calculated on the basis of the value in use (Note 15).
The calculation of the value in use requires estimates of the future
cash flow in particular, on the basis of calculations made for planning
purposes. The impairment test of the Aurubis Hamburg Copper

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

133
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Products cash-generating unit (CGU) resulted in no impairment of
goodwill either in the current or past fiscal year. A 10 % reduction in
the predicted cash flow or an increase of 0.5 percentage points in the
WACC after taxes from 6.5 % to 7.0 % would also not result in the
need to recognize any impairment losses.
Fair values in conjunction with business combinations
Acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognized
with their fair values when accounting for business combinations.
DCF-based procedures, whose results depend on assumed future
cash flows and other assumptions, are often used in this context. The
measurement of contingent liabilities depends significantly on the
assumptions with respect to the future resource outflows and the
probability of their occurrence.
Fair values of derivatives and other financial instruments
The fair values of financial instruments for which there are no quoted
prices in an active market are determined on the basis of mathematical procedures and are influenced by assumptions specific to the
instrument. Estimates have a significant influence when the fair value
is to be determined for financial instruments for which at least one
significant parameter is not based on observable market data (Level 3
of the fair value hierarchy). The selection and application of suitable
parameters and assumptions require an assessment by management.
Extrapolation and interpolation procedures have to be applied in particular when data are derived from uncommon market transactions.
Detailed information can be found in the section entitled “Additional
disclosures on financial instruments” on page 174.

Accounting for inventories
Various estimates have to be made in connection with the accounting
for inventories. For example, individual estimation procedures are
applied when counting inventories as well as in the determination of
the metal yield content. Due to the use of increasingly complex input
materials, a re-estimation of the metal yield quantities was made and
used as a basis for determining acquisition costs. The resulting reduction in the carrying amount of inventories is € 40 million.
Pension provisions and other provisions
The employees’ company pension scheme in the Aurubis Group
includes both defined benefit and defined contribution commitments.
Obligations deriving from defined benefit pension plans are measured
in accordance with actuarial procedures. These procedures are based
on several actuarial assumptions, such as, for example, the assumed
interest rate, expected remuneration and pension developments,
employee fluctuations and life expectancy. For the purposes of determining the assumed interest rate, high-quality corporate bonds with
commensurate terms and currencies are used as a source of reference.
Deviations of the actual development from the assumptions at the
beginning of the reporting period lead to remeasurement of the net
liability.
When recognizing other provisions, assumptions are made with
regard to the probability of the occurrence and the amount and timing of the outflow of resources, which by their nature are subject to
uncertainty.
Other significant estimates relate to the determination of the useful
lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, the collectability of receivables and the measurement of inventory risks
within inventories.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

134

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the income statement

4. Other operating income

1. Revenues
By product groups in € thousand

o T 035

2014/15

2013/14

Continuous cast wire rod

4,022,082

4,027,772

Copper cathodes

2,275,680

2,558,232

Precious metals

2,391,651

2,307,852

Continuous cast shapes

1,195,119

1,065,986

Pre-rolled strip, strip and profiles

654,698

675,509

Other

455,972

605,616

10,995,202

11,240,967

in € thousand

o T 037

2014/15

2013/14

Cost reimbursements and services for
third parties

23,446

23,501

Income from commissions and
refunded freight payments

9,890

8,683

Damage claims and indemnities

2,325

8,553

Income from the reversal of provisions

2,621

1,444

21,467

13,033

59,749

55,214

Other income

Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

A further breakdown of Aurubis Group revenues by Group segments
is provided in the context of segment reporting.

5. Cost of materials
in € thousand

2. Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in process

o T 036

in € thousand

2014/15

2013/14

76,178

(141,536)

(60,897)

(69,756)

15,281

(211,292)

Finished goods
Work in process

Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

The increases in inventories in the current year are mainly due to
higher inventory volumes. In contrast, the inventory reduction in the
previous year mainly resulted from lower inventory volumes.
3. Own work capitalized
Own work capitalized of € 6,383 thousand (previous year: € 6,389
thousand) primarily includes production costs and purchased materials.

Raw materials, supplies and merchandise
Cost of purchased services

o T 038

2014/15

2013/14

9,764,655

9,933,453

302,741

292,964

10,067,396

10,226,417

Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

Taking into account the changes in inventories of € 15,281 thousand
(previous year: €– 211,292 thousand), the cost of materials ratio was
91.4 % (previous year: 92.7 %).
6. Personnel expenses and human resources
in € thousand

Wages and salaries

2014/15

2013/14

334,184

320,057

97,111

95,088

431,295

415,145

Social security, pension and other benefit expenses

Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

o T 039

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

135
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

The pension expenses primarily comprise allocations to the provisions
for pensions.

8. Other operating expenses
in € thousand

The average number of employees in the Group during the year was
as follows:
o T 040

2014/15

2013/14

Blue collar

4,013

4,037

White collar

2,052

2,047

252

253

6,317

6,337

Trainees and apprentices

Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

7. Depreciation and amortization
Depreciation and amortization for the Group on intangible assets and
property, plant and equipment totaled € 136,406 thousand (previous
year: € 128,039 thousand). This comprises depreciation of € 134,897
thousand (previous year: € 125,822 thousand) on property, plant and
equipment and amortization of € 1,509 thousand (previous year:
€ 2,217 thousand) on intangible assets.
No impairment losses were recognized on intangible assets during the
current or previous fiscal year.
Property, plant and equipment of € 2,648 thousand (previous year:
€ 0 thousand) was written down in value in connection with an
event-triggered impairment test (see Note 16).
A breakdown of depreciation and amortization on intangible assets
and property, plant and equipment is provided in the details of
changes in the Group’s fixed assets (see Notes 15 and 16).

Selling expenses

o T 041

2014/15

2013/14

104,930

99,930

77,019

74,219

Administrative expenses

3,008

2,437

57,280

57,322

242,237

233,908

Other taxes
Sundry operating expenses

Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

The selling expenses mainly comprise freight costs.
9. Result from investments measured using the equity method
The result from investments measured using the equity method in the
amount of € 1,403 thousand (previous year: € 4,074 thousand) comprises the 50 % holding in Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co.
KG, Stolberg.
10. Interest
in € thousand

o T 042

2014/15
3,591

4,936

(30,940)

(36,221)

(27,349)

(31,285)

Interest income
Interest expense

2013/14

Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

The interest income mainly derives from interest-bearing c­ ustomer
receivables.
The interest expense primarily results from Aurubis AG’s b
­ orrowings.
The interest expense includes the net interest from defined benefit
plans amounting to € 5,621 thousand (previous year: € 5,273 thousand).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

136

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

11. Other financial result
in € thousand

o T 043

2014/15

Other financial income
Other financial expense

2013/14

225

225

(4,116)

(3,231)

(3,891)

(3,006)

The other financial expense mainly derives from impairment losses
recognized against securities classified as fixed assets (see Note 17).
12. Income taxes
Income taxes comprise income taxes paid or owed and deferred
taxes. Income tax expense including deferred taxes is made up as follows:
o T 044
in € thousand

2014/15

2013/14

85,923

27,012

(50,047)

(13,560)

35,876

13,452

Current taxes
Deferred taxes

Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

The tax credit from deferred taxes in the amount of € 50,047 thousand results from the change in temporary balance sheet differences.
The tax expense includes current taxes of € 616 thousand relating to
prior years (previous year: € 1,023 thousand) as well as deferred taxes
relating to prior years (deriving from corrections to the tax-based figures) of € 647 thousand (previous year: € 347 thousand).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Applicable German tax legislation for fiscal year 2014/15 foresees a
statutory corporate income tax rate of 15 % (previous year: 15 %), plus
a solidarity surcharge of 5.5 % (previous year: 5.5 %). The trade tax rate
at Aurubis AG amounts to 16.59 % (previous year: 16.59 %) of the taxable income. Trade tax rates of between 11.09 % and 17.33 % are applicable for the other German group companies (previous year: between
10.76 % and 17.33 %). The foreign companies are subject to their
respective national income tax rates, which vary between 10 % and
35.98 % (previous year: 10 % and 45.88 %). The “notional interest
deduction” is a special feature to be observed under Belgian tax law,
which results in a lower assessment basis for the current taxes of
Aurubis Belgium in the reporting period of € 18,459 thousand (previous year: € 15,918 thousand).
In accordance with IAS 12.81 (c), the actual total tax expense has to be
reconciled to the tax charge that would have resulted if the theoretical tax rates were applied to the reported consolidated pre-tax earnings.
The Group taxes include tax effects from foreign subsidiaries to a significant degree. As a consequence, the tax rate of the German parent
company (32.42 %; previous year: 32.42 %) is not applied, but a groupwide mixed tax rate of 19.49 % (previous year: 8.47 %).
The change in the average group tax rate results from significant
changes in the distribution of the companies’ contributions to total
earnings as compared to the prior year. In contrast to the prior year,
the main contributions to earnings resulted from Aurubis AG and
Aurubis Bulgaria in roughly equal amounts.

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

137
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Reconciliation:
in € thousand

Earnings before taxes
Theoretical tax charge at 19.49 % (previous year: 8.47 %)

o T 045

2014/15

2013/14

169,444

57,552

33,025

4,873

Changes in the theoretical tax charge due to:
11

(239)

– non-recognition and correction of deferred taxes

2,944

7,568

– taxes for previous years

1,263

1,370

– non-deductible expenses

5,352

5,323

– non-taxable income

(317)

(258)

(6,274)

(5,411)

– outside basis differences

(76)

(230)

– effects deriving from consolidation of items using the equity method

(59)

390

7

66

35,876

13,452

– changes in tax rate

– notional interest deduction (Belgium)

– other
Income taxes
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

The effects deriving from the non-recognition and correction of
deferred taxes mainly result from the non-recognition of deferred tax
assets on the losses of Aurubis Netherlands BV during the fiscal year.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

138

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The recognized deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities result
from the following recognition and measurement differences in individual items in the statement of financial position, from tax loss carryforwards and from outside basis differences (OBD):
o T 046

9/30/2015

in € thousand

Deferred tax
assets

9/30/2014

Deferred tax
liabilities

Deferred tax
assets

Deferred tax
l­iabilities

Intangible assets

3,717

204

4,302

459

Property, plant and equipment

1,062

114,875

664

116,711

2

0

2

0

31

2,429

27

2,890

27,596

178,156

24,842

212,778

779

42,422

1,438

34,968

55,698

4,152

59,617

5,353

8,288

400

8,569

320

Liabilities

71,030

14,014

53,304

7,454

Tax loss carryforwards

14,494

0

7,676

0

0

951

0

1,028

(174,617)

(174,617)

(157,661)

(157,661)

8,080

182,986

2,780

224,300

Financial fixed assets
Financial fixed assets accounted for using the equity method
Inventories
Receivables and other assets
Pension provisions
Other provisions

Outside basis differences
Offsetting
Per consolidated statement of financial position
Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

Altogether, € 28,374 thousand of the deferred tax assets (previous
year: € 26,280 thousand) and € 220,578 thousand of the deferred tax
liabilities (previous year: € 247,746 thousand) will be realized within
the next 12 months. Deferred tax assets of € 154,323 thousand (previous year: € 134,162 thousand) and deferred tax liabilities of € 137,025
thousand (previous year: € 134,215 thousand) will be realized after
more than 12 months. These figures represent the amounts prior to
offsetting.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

139
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

The following table shows the deferred and current taxes that directly
decreased or increased the other comprehensive income (OCI) and
accordingly equity:
o T 047

9/30/2015

in € thousand

Balance

9/30/2014

Change

Balance

Change

Deferred taxes
Derivatives

7,575

1,683

5,892

4,771

Pension provisions

8,202

(5,556)

13,758

25,498

Total

15,777

(3,873)

19,650

30,269

Current taxes

(1,033)

78

(1,111)

(601)

(886)

(254)

(632)

(632)

Currency differences
Prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

Furthermore, there were changes affecting net income, amounting to
€ 693 thousand (previous year: € 329 thousand) in the individual
deferred tax positions of the foreign subsidiaries due to exchange
rates.
Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent to which the
respective benefits will probably be realized. Based on the forecast
profit expectations of the subsidiaries, it is probable that the tax loss
carryforwards will be utilized in conformity with IAS 12.34.

Total tax loss carryforwards amount to € 156,839 thousand (previous
year: € 121,610). No deferred tax assets have been recognized on trade
tax loss carryforwards of € 100,003 thousand (previous year: € 83,657
thousand), as the possibility of utilizing them is believed to be unlikely
from a current perspective. Of the tax loss carryforwards deemed not
to be utilizable, an amount of € 33,363 thousand (previous year:
€ 33,733 thousand) can be carried forward indefinitely, an amount of
€ 26,395 thousand (previous year: € 22,528 thousand) can be utilized
within the next seven years and an amount of € 40,246 thousand
(previous year: € 27,396 thousand) can be utilized within the next
nine years.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

140

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The recognition of corporate income tax credits and increases on
account of Section 37 German Corporate Income Tax Act (KStG)
resulted in net income of € 72 thousand in the year under review
(previous year: € 94 thousand).
Deferred tax liabilities of € 951 thousand (previous year: € 1,028 thousand) were set up in respect of the differences between the proportional equity of subsidiaries recognized in the con­solidated statement
of financial position and the investment carrying amounts for these
subsidiaries shown in the tax-based records of the respective parent
company (so-called outside basis differences) as at the balance sheet
date. No deferred tax liabilities were set up for outside basis differences deriving from undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, amounting
to € 14,144 thousand (previous year: € 19,365 thousand), since the
reversal of these differences is unlikely in the foreseeable future.
13. Income attributable to non-controlling interests
Of the reported consolidated net income for 2014/15 of € 133,568
thousand (previous year: € 44,100 thousand), a share of income of
€­1,133 thousand (previous year: € 1,467 thousand) is attributable to
shareholders other than the shareholders of Aurubis AG, Hamburg.
This relates to the non-controlling interests in Deutsche Giessdraht
GmbH, Emmerich and Aurubis Bulgaria AD, Pirdop.

14. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the consolidated
net earnings excluding the non-controlling interests by the weighted
average number of shares outstanding during the fiscal year.
o T 048

2014/15

2013/14

132,435

42,633

44,957

44,957

Basic earnings per share in €

2.95

0.95

Diluted earnings per share in €

2.95

0.95

in € thousand

Consolidated net income a­ ttributable
to Aurubis AG shareholders
Weighted average number of shares (in
thousand)

Diluted earnings per share are determined by augmenting the
weighted average of the shares outstanding during the fiscal year to
include the maximum number of shares that could have been issued if
all conversion rights on convertible bonds had been exercised. Where
applicable, the consolidated net income is increased at the same time
by the interest expense incurred on convertible bonds less the corresponding taxes.
Since conversion rights on convertible bonds existed neither in the
reporting year nor in the prior year, the diluted earnings per share for
the Aurubis Group correspond to the basic earnings per share.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

141
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Notes to the statement of financial position
15. Intangible assets
The development of the costs of acquisition or generation and the
accumulated amortization and impairment-related write-downs of the
intangible assets are as follows:
Costs of acquisition or generation
in € thousand

o T 049

10/1/2014

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2015

102,418

1,274

(645)

802

103,849

43,170

0

0

0

43,170

976

912

0

(802)

1,086

146,564

2,186

(645)

0

148,105

Intangible assets
Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses
Goodwill
Payments on account for intangible assets

Amortization and impairment losses

o T 050

10/1/2014

Amorti­zation
and impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Disposals

9/30/2015

Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses

(38,714)

(1,508)

537

(39,685)

Goodwill

(24,522)

0

0

(24,522)

0

0

0

0

(63,236)

(1,508)

537

(64,207)

in € thousand

Intangible assets

Payments on account for intangible assets

Carrying amount
in € thousand

o T 051

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Intangible assets
Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses

64,164

63,704

Goodwill

18,648

18,648

1,086

976

83,898

83,328

Payments on account for intangible assets

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

142

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Costs of acquisition or generation
in € thousand

o T 052

10/1/2013

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2014

101,164

629

(260)

885

102,418

43,170

0

0

0

43,170

1,225

660

(24)

(885)

976

145,559

1,289

(284)

0

146,564

Intangible assets
Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses
Goodwill
Payments on account for intangible assets

Amortization and impairment losses

o T 053

10/1/2013

Amorti­zation
and impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Disposals

9/30/2014

Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses

(36,758)

(2,217)

261

(38,714)

Goodwill

(24,522)

0

0

(24,522)

0

0

0

0

(61,280)

(2,217)

261

(63,236)

in € thousand

Intangible assets

Payments on account for intangible assets

Carrying amount

o T 054

9/30/2014

9/30/2013

Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses

63,704

64,406

Goodwill

18,648

18,648

976

1,225

83,328

84,279

in € thousand

Intangible assets

Payments on account for intangible assets

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

143
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Intangible assets comprise licenses acquired for a consideration, primarily in connection with a contribution made to the investment
costs for a power plant, as well as goodwill on consolidation arising in
the Aurubis Group. As in the prior year, most of the goodwill (€ 17,439
thousand) relates to the Aurubis Hamburg Copper Products cash-­
generating unit (CGU).

The cash flow estimates cover a planning horizon of four years before
transferring to perpetuity. The cash flows were established within the
scope of a qualified planning process including internal company values based on past experience and extensive market knowledge, and
they take into consideration management’s assessment and estimates
regarding the future development of the regional market.

Aurubis carries out an impairment test on goodwill at least annually.
For the impairment test on goodwill, the goodwill acquired in conjunction with a business combination is allocated to the CGU that is
expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
If the carrying amount of the CGU to which the goodwill was allocated exceeds its recoverable amount, a commensurate impairment
loss is recognized on the allocated goodwill.

In addition to the weighted capital costs, the significant assumptions
used to calculate the value in use were the forecast earnings trend
and the sustainable growth rate of the terminal value at a level of 1 %.
The growth rate was derived from future expectations and does not
exceed the long-term average growth rates of the respective markets.

As in the prior year, there was no requirement to recognize an impairment loss for the Aurubis Hamburg Copper Products CGU.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to
sell and the value in use. Aurubis determines the recoverable amount
on the basis of the value in use. The value in use is determined by
means of discounting future cash flows after taxes with a risk-adjusted
discount rate (WACC) after taxes (discounted cash flow method).

The WACC used for discounting purposes amounted to 6.5 % after
taxes or 9.3 % before taxes as at September 30, 2015 (previous year:
7.5 % after taxes or 10.7 % before taxes).
As in the prior year, there was no requirement to recognize impairment losses on intangible assets with a limited useful life.
As in the prior year, no capitalized development costs were recognized in the Group as at September 30, 2015. Research costs are recognized in profit or loss for the respective periods (see Note 30).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

144

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16. Property, plant and equipment
The acquisition or construction costs and the accumulated depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and equipment are as
follows:
Acquisition or construction cost

in € thousand

o T 055

10/1/2014

Exchange rate
differences

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2015

Property, plant and equipment
620,855

1,855

7,886

(2,060)

(3,073)

625,463

1,950,927

4,997

37,658

(30,285)

43,215

2,006,512

Other equipment, factory and
office equipment

84,277

532

6,460

(3,865)

992

88,396

Leased assets

34,783

0

0

(112)

0

34,671

Payments on account for assets
under construction

70,671

229

70,935

(68)

(52,560)

89,207

2,761,513

7,613

122,939

(36,390)

(11,426)

2,844,249

Land and buildings
Technical equipment and machinery

Depreciation and impairment losses

o T 056

10/1/2014

Exchange rate
differences

Depreciation
and impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2015

Property, plant and equipment
(329,793)

(114)

(21,201)

1,705

5,505

(343,898)

(1,052,254)

(1,478)

(104,211)

22,834

0

(1,135,109)

Other equipment, factory and
office equipment

(57,633)

(276)

(7,553)

3,626

0

(61,836)

Leased assets

(14,071)

0

(1,932)

111

0

(15,892)

(446)

14

0

0

0

(432)

(1,454,197)

(1,854)

(134,897)

28,276

5,505

(1,557,167)

Land and buildings
Technical equipment and machinery

Payments on account for assets
under construction

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

145
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Carrying amount

o T 057

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Land and buildings

281,565

291,062

Technical equipment and machinery

871,403

898,673

in € thousand

Property, plant and equipment

Other equipment, factory and office equipment

26,560

26,644

Leased assets

18,779

20,712

Payments on account for assets under construction

88,775

70,225

1,287,082

1,307,316

Technical equipment and machinery includes additions and disposals
of minimum stocks in the amount of € 8,395 thousand (net), mainly in
connection with the commissioning of the new lead refinery.
The transfers of acquisition or construction costs and accumulated
depreciation and impairment losses include reclassifications of € 5,921
thousand (net) to “Assets held for sale” (see the fundamental accounting principles). This concerns a property with buildings of Aurubis
Switzerland, SA, which is for sale.
In the prior year, the real estate previously disclosed in the reporting
line “Assets held for sale” had been reclassified to property, plant and
equipment, as a sale within 12 months was considered unlikely at that

time. The Management actively resumed its planned sales activities
again in fiscal year 2014/15. The property and buildings were therefore
classified as held for sale. In this connection, the real estate was subject to an impairment test and an impairment loss of € 2,648 thousand was recorded.
The carrying amount represents the fair value less costs of disposal.
This is a fair value on a non-recurring basis which was determined by a
real estate assessor. It thus concerns input factors on Level 3 of the
assessment hierarchy.
The real estate is disclosed for segment reporting purposes within the
Copper Products segment.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

146

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Acquisition or construction cost

o T 058

10/1/2013

in € thousand

Exchange rate
differences

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2014

Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings

577,494

315

17,979

(2,351)

27,418

620,855

1,854,189

2,106

50,124

(66,250)

110,758

1,950,927

Other equipment, factory and office equipment

79,844

283

6,481

(4,292)

1,961

84,277

Leased assets

34,945

0

77

(239)

0

34,783

148,018

81

52,499

(66)

(129,861)

70,671

2,694,490

2,785

127,160

(73,198)

10,276

2,761,513

Technical equipment and machinery

Payments on account for assets under construction

Depreciation and impairment losses

in € thousand

10/1/2013

o T 059

Exchange rate Appreciation for
differences
the fiscal year

Depreciation
and impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2014

Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings
Technical equipment and
machinery

(313,056)

245

990

(16,169)

1,680

(3,483)

(329,793)

0

(100,575)

63,906

(382)

(1,052,254)

(1,014,894)

(309)

Other equipment, factory
and office equipment

(54,475)

(132)

0

(7,120)

3,712

382

(57,633)

Leased assets

(12,352)

0

0

(1,958)

239

0

(14,071)

(473)

27

0

0

0

0

(446)

(1,395,250)

(169)

990

(125,822)

69,537

(3,483)

(1,454,197)

Payments on account for
assets under construction

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

147
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Carrying amount

o T 060

9/30/2014

10/1/2013

Land and buildings

291,062

264,440

Technical equipment and machinery

898,673

839,295

Other equipment, factory and office equipment

26,644

25,369

Leased assets

20,712

22,593

Payments on account for assets under construction

70,225

147,544

1,307,316

1,299,241

in € thousand

Property, plant and equipment

The transfers of acquisition or construction costs and accumulated
depreciation and impairment losses include reclassifications of
€ 6,792 thousand (net) from “Assets held for sale”.
Depreciation and impairment losses include an impairment loss
of€ 2­ ,648 thousand (previous year: € 0 thousand) resulting from an
impairment test at Aurubis Switzerland, SA, in relation to a property
with buildings.
Rented or leased items of property, plant and equipment totaled
€ 18,779 thousand (previous year: € 20,712 thousand). The carrying
amount of the leased facilities includes carrying amounts of € 6,308
thousand (previous year: € 6,828 thousand) for ships for transporting
copper concentrates and sulfuric acid and carrying amounts of
€ 4,983 thousand (previous year: €5,426 thousand) for the warehouse
used for storing copper concentrates in Brunsbüttel. Some of the
lease payments are adjusted annually based on the indexed price
trend for industrial products. The lease agreements are mainly based
on fixed rental arrangements. Collateral has not been provided for
them.

No property, plant and equipment was pledged as security for loans
within the Group as at September 30, 2015 and September 30, 2014.
Purchase commitments for property, plant and equipment amounted
to € 9,097 thousand as at September 30, 2015 (previous year: € 8,843
thousand).
Minimum stocks are recognized in technical equipment and machinery as components of the respective technical equipment and
machinery. Minimum stocks are quantities of materials that are necessary to establish and ensure a production facility’s continuing functionality for its intended use. A total of € 297,453 thousand was allocated to the technical minimum stock as at September 30, 2015
(previous year: € 289,058 thousand).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

148

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

17. Financial fixed assets
The interests in affiliated companies and investments included in the
financial fixed assets in the amount of € 2,162 thousand (previous
year: € 2,173 thousand) are classified as “available-for-sale”. In the fiscal year reported, all interests in affiliated companies were measured
at amortized cost since it would only be possible to ascertain the market value reliably within the context of concrete sales negotiations.
These interests are not quoted and there is no active market. It is not
at present planned to sell the interests.
A detailed overview of the investments included in the financial
assets of Aurubis AG, Hamburg, is presented at the end of this report.
The other loans reported in financial fixed assets include neither overdue nor impaired items (see Note 29).
As regards the other financial fixed assets that are neither impaired
nor in default of payment, there was no indication as at the current
balance sheet date that the debtors would not fulfill their payment
obligations.
Fixed asset securities still mainly comprise investments in Salzgitter
AG, Salzgitter.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

18. Investments accounted for using the equity method
Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg, is a joint venture in which Aurubis holds a 50 % interest. It is operated as a joint
venture with a partner and is assigned to BU Copper Products. The
business objective of the company is the fabrication and marketing of
pre-rolled strip made of copper and copper alloys. Pursuant to IFRS
11.24 in conjunction with IAS 28, Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH
& Co. KG is accounted for using the equity method.
The next two tables summarize the financial information of Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG in accordance with IFRS. Furthermore, the summarized financial information on the investment
carrying amount is derived from the table. The financial information
provided in the table represents the total figures for the Company (i.e.
100 %).

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

149
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Summarized statement of financial position
in € thousand

Current assets

o T 061

2014/15

2013/14

113,693

120,171

61

316

Non-current assets

49,963

46,792

Current liabilities

47,153

46,916

of which: cash and cash equivalents

of which: current financial liabilities
(with the exception of trade accounts payable and other liabilities and provisions)
Non-current liabilities
of which: non-current financial liabilities
(with the exception of trade accounts payable and other liabilities and provisions)

30,789

30,267

31,647

29,901

24,510

21,308

Net assets

84,856

90,146

Proportional net assets (50 %)

42,428

45,073

Elimination of unrealized intra-Group profits

166

(71)

Effects deriving from the supplementary tax balance sheet

283

443

42,877

45,445

Carrying amount of the investment as at September 30, accounted for using the equity method

Summarized statement of comprehensive income
in € thousand

Revenues
Scheduled depreciation and amortization
Interest income
Interest expense

o T 062

2014/15

2013/14

304,466

328,322

5,176

4,779

490

25

2,533

2,567

284

189

2,650

8,682

(40)

(425)

Total comprehensive income

2,610

8,257

Proportional share of total comprehensive income (50 %)

1,305

4,129

Dividends received

3,950

3,050

Income tax expense
Net income from continuing operations
Other comprehensive income/(loss)

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

150

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Reconciliation of the combined financial information

o T 063

in € thousand

Net assets as at 10/1
Profit/loss of the period

2014/15

2013/14

90,146

87,989

2,650

8,682

(40)

(425)

Distribution

(7,900)

(6,100)

Net assets on 9/30

84,856

90,146

Share of associated company (50 %)

42,428

45,073

Elimination of unrealized intra-Group profits

166

(71)

Effects deriving from the supplementary tax balance sheet

283

443

42,877

45,445

Other comprehensive income/(loss)

Carrying amount

19. Inventories
in € thousand

o T 064

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Raw materials and supplies

684,296

782,704

Work in process

444,390

508,928

Finished goods, merchandise

491,474

417,069

6,280

8,645

1,626,440

1,717,346

Payments on account of i­nventories

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

In the fiscal year reported, write-downs of € 116,101 thousand were
recorded against inventories (previous year: write-downs of € 34,341
thousand) due to lower metal prices.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

151
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

20. Trade accounts receivable
The trade accounts receivable as at September 30, 2015 and as at September 30, 2014 were due within one year.
The age structure of the trade accounts receivable is as ­follows:
o T 065

in € thousand

Carrying
amount

thereof: neither
overdue nor
impaired as at
the balance
sheet date

306,905

276,430

19,167

8,153

3,155

414,235

389,769

14,819

8,635

1,012

thereof: not impaired as at the balance sheet date
and due in the following time bands
less than 30 between 30 and
days
180 days

more than 180
days

as at 9/30/2015
Trade accounts receivable
as at 9/30/2014
Trade accounts receivable
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Movements on the allowances for trade accounts receivable are as
follows:
o T 066
in € thousand

Specific allowances
Balance as at 10/1
Allowances in the period

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Default risks on trade accounts receivable are largely covered by trade
credit insurance.

3,267

2,968

238

299

21. Receivables and other assets
Other receivables and other assets comprise other financial and other
non-financial assets.

Additions

265

822

Reversal

(26)

(833)

Transfers
Exchange rate changes
Balance as at 9/30

As regards the balances of trade accounts receivable that are neither
impaired nor overdue, there is no indication as at the balance sheet
date that the debtors will not fulfill their payment obligations.

0

322

(1)

(12)

3,505

3,267

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

All expenses and income deriving from allowances and write-offs of
trade accounts receivable are shown respectively under other operating expenses or other operating income.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

152

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Non-current receivables and other assets were made up as follows as
at the balance sheet date:
o T 067

in € thousand

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

1,335

549

Non-current (with a residual term of more than 1 year)
Derivative financial instruments of the held-for-trading category

45

0

Other non-current financial assets

12,847

12,657

Non-current receivables and financial assets

Derivative financial instruments held as hedging instruments in the context of hedge accounting

14,227

13,206

Remaining non-current non-financial assets

1,176

1,031

Other non-current non-financial assets

1,176

1,031

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Derivative financial instruments of the held-for-trading category with
a term of more than one year are reported as non-­current due to their
economic hedging relationship.
Current receivables and other assets were made up as follows as at
the balance sheet date:
o T 068
in € thousand

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

60,294

58,185

Current (with a residual term of more than 1 year)
Derivative financial instruments of the held-for-trading category
Derivative financial instruments held as hedging instruments in the context of hedge accounting
Receivables from related parties
Other current financial assets
Other current receivables and financial assets

468

120

11,966

12,149

66,170

21,739

138,898

92,193

3,303

9,339

Other current non-financial assets

46,201

37,513

Current non-financial assets

49,504

46,852

Income tax receivables

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

153
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

The other current non-financial assets mainly comprise VAT receivables
of Aurubis Bulgaria AD, Pirdop.
The disclosed receivables from related parties primarily comprise
receivables from Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg, which is accounted for using the equity method, and receivables
from non-consolidated companies.
In the current year reported, the other current financial assets particularly comprise security deposits from brokers, amounting to € 45.4
million, for the handling of forward metal commodity and forward
exchange transactions on behalf of Aurubis AG, Hamburg.
Furthermore, the other current financial assets include a continuing
involvement from late payment risks for factoring transactions and
del credere and currency risks deriving from current trade accounts
receivable in the amount of € 11,790 thousand (previous year: € 10,216
thousand). The level of continuing involvement corresponds to the
maximum risk of loss, mainly based on the assumption that all receivables open on the balance sheet date that were sold remain outstanding for the entire period for which A
­ urubis can be held responsible for
the late payment risk.
A liability of € 12,025 thousand (previous year: € 10,457 thousand) was
reported in connection with the continuing involvement. All trade
accounts receivable sold to factoring companies have a term of less
than one year, so that the fair value of the continuing involvement
and the associated liability each correspond to the carrying amount.
All of the receivables covered by a factoring contract for which the
main opportunities and risks were transferred to the purchaser of the
receivables were completely derecognized. The maximum loss Aurubis
has to bear from credit risks is limited to a purchase price reduction.
This is retained by the buyer at the time of sale and is ultimately repaid
in the amount of the unused portion. The purchase price reduction for
the sold and derecognized receivables (nominal volume: € 11,556 thousand) amounted to € 1,116 thousand as at September 30, 2015 (previous year: € 815 thousand) and is included in other financial assets. A
total of € 345 thousand (previous year: € 239 thousand) was recorded
as an expense deriving from the sale of the receivables.

In total, outstanding receivables in the amount of € 270 million (previous year: € 253 million) had been sold to factoring companies as at
the balance sheet date.
With the exception of interest derivatives, there is no interest rate
fluctuation risk deriving from any receivable or other asset. Further
information on the interest derivatives is provided in Note 29 Financial instruments.
The allowances on other financial assets are reported in the following
table:
o T 069

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Specific allowances
Balance as at 10/1

724

154

Changes in allowances during the
period

126

570

0

500

Exchange rate changes

126

70

Balance as at 9/30

850

724

in € thousand

Additions

In the fiscal year reported and in the prior year, no income was
recorded deriving from the reversal of write-downs on other financial
assets.
As regards other financial assets that are neither impaired nor overdue, there is no indication as of the balance sheet date that the debtors will not fulfill their payment obligations.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

154

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

22. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of current accounts at banks, as
well as commercial paper with a term of up to one month, cash in
hand and checks. Cash at banks mainly comprises euro balances.
23. Equity
The share capital amounts to € 115,089,210.88 and is divided into
44,956,723 no-par-value bearer shares, each with a notional interest of
€ 2.56. The share capital is fully paid in.
The Executive Board is empowered, subject to the approval of the
Supervisory Board, to increase the share capital by March 2, 2016 by
up to € 57,544,604.16 by issuing new shares once or in several installments for a cash contribution or a contribution in kind.
The share capital has been conditionally increased by up to
€ 52,313,277.44 by issuing up to 20,434,874 new no-par-value bearer
shares with a proportionate notional amount per share of € 2.56 of
the share capital (conditional capital increase). It will be used to grant
shares to the holders of bonds with warrants and/or convertible
bonds and participation rights and/or participating bonds that can be
issued by February 28, 2017.
Generated group equity comprises consolidated net income, the revenue reserves of all group companies, the accumulated unappropriated
earnings of the subsidiaries since their initial consolidation and the
accumulated amounts resulting from consolidation adjustments recognized in profit or loss. In addition, the effects deriving from the
remeasurement of the net liability resulting from the defined benefit
pensions plans (after taxes), which are recorded directly in equity, are
also included.

The legal reserve of € 6,391 thousand, which is not available for distribution, is also included in this amount. The change in generated group
equity from € 1,424,188 thousand as at September 30, 2014 to
€ 1,523,444 thousand as at September 30, 2015 includes the dividend
payment of € 44,957 thousand, effects recognized in equity deriving
from the remeasurement of the net liability resulting from the defined
benefit pensions plans (after taxes) of € 11,781 thousand and the consolidated net income for fiscal year 2014/15 of € 132,435 thousand.
Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income amounting in
total to € – 8,235 thousand (previous year: € – 13,375 thousand), mainly
comprise gains and losses of € – 12,189 thousand (previous year:
€ – 19,131 thousand) deriving from the measurement of derivative
financial instruments at market prices in conjunction with cash flow
hedges.
The amount transferred during the period from other comprehensive
income to the consolidated income statement in conjunction with cash
flow hedge accounting is € – 43,576 thousand (previous year: € 1,225
thousand) and is reflected primarily in the cost of materials. € 2,175
thousand, which was reported in the other financial result, was transferred from other comprehensive income to the consolidated income
statement in the prior year in connection with the measurement of
financial investments at market prices.
The non-controlling interests amounting to € 2,778 thousand (previous
year: € 3,069 thousand) comprise the interests of non-group shareholders in the equity of two companies that are fully consolidated by
Aurubis AG. As at September 30, 2015, the companies concerned were
Deutsche Giessdraht GmbH, Emmerich, and Aurubis Bulgaria AD, Pirdop.
Changes in equity are presented in detail in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

155
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Proposed appropriation of earnings
The separate financial statements of Aurubis AG, Hamburg, have
been prepared in accordance with German GAAP (HGB – German
Commercial Code).
o T 070

Net income for the year of
Aurubis AG
Unappropriated earnings brought
forward from the prior year
Allocations to other revenue reserves
Unappropriated earnings

€ 145,083,390.78
€ 42,987,473.73

Capital employed comprises equity and interest-bearing liabilities,
less cash and cash equivalents. In the current fiscal year reported, the
Aurubis Group achieved a ROCE of 18.7 % in the past fiscal year,
­compared with 8.5 % in the prior year, due to the improvement in
the operating EBIT (operating EBIT of € 370 million compared with
€ 167 million in the prior year).
All external requirements under financial covenants were fulfilled in
the past fiscal year.

€ 72,500,000.00
€ 115,570,864.51

A proposal will be made to the Annual General Meeting that
Aurubis AG, Hamburg’s unappropriated earnings of € 115,570,864.51
are used to pay a dividend of € 1.35 per no-par-value share
(= € 60,691,576.05) and that € 54,879,288.46 be carried f­ orward.
A dividend of € 1.00 per share was paid in fiscal year 2014/15, totaling
€ 44,956,723.00.
Additional information on capital management
The main purpose of management control is to increase the corporate
value of the Aurubis Group, in that a positive contribution to the
enterprise as a whole is generated beyond the capital costs. The task
of Group Treasury is to provide optimum liquidity and to control the
Group’s liquidity to ensure that the balance sheet structure is in equilibrium in the long term. Control and monitoring are carried out on
the basis of defined key ratios. Net debt and liquidity are controlled in
the medium and short term by means of regular cash flow forecasts.
One of the main key ratios used to determine and compare profitability is ROCE (return on capital employed), which reflects the efficiency
with which the capital is utilized in the operating business or for
investments. ROCE is defined as the ratio of EBIT (earnings before
interest and taxes) to capital employed as at the balance sheet date.

24. Deferred tax liabilities
The breakdown of the deferred tax liabilities is presented in Note 12
Income taxes.
25. Pension provisions and similar obligations
Within the Aurubis Group, retirement benefits for employed persons
are provided on the basis of both defined benefit plans and defined
contribution plans.
The majority of the pension benefit systems in the Aurubis Group are
based on defined benefit plans in Germany and the US. These represent individual contractual direct obligations on the one hand. On the
other hand, the Group provides benefits in the form of defined benefit obligations within collective plans. Both funded and unfunded
plans exist.
In Germany, the Group provides eligible employees with pension benefits as well as disability and surviving dependent benefits. These are
provided to a great extent through pension and support funds whose
assets may solely be utilized to satisfy the Aurubis Group’s pension
obligations.
Generally, the amount of the pension benefit per qualified year of service is determined as a percentage of a pensionable salary. In Germany, pensions are reviewed every three years and adjusted, where
necessary, in a manner corresponding to the price index development.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

156

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Furthermore, a subsidiary in the US grants employees pension, health
care and life insurance benefits for the period after retirement under
specific conditions related to age and duration of employment with
the company. These pension benefits are based on collective agreements that only apply to unionized employees.
These represent lifelong pension benefits whose level depends on the
duration of employment. The amount of the benefits does not
depend on the salary.
Health care benefits are provided after the employee leaves the company until an established minimum age.
While the pension plans are mainly financed through the specific
assets of a separate pension fund, there is no separate fund for the
health care and life insurance benefits provided in the US.
Within the Group, actuarial reports were obtained for all pension obligations. The reports take uniform group-wide accounting policies into
consideration, while nevertheless reflecting special country-specific
circumstances.
In addition to the mortality tables published by Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck (“Richttafeln 2005G”), the following market discount rates, salary and pension trends were used to calculate the pension obligations
in Germany:
o T 071

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Discount rate

2.40 %

2.40 %

Expected salary trend

3.00 %

3.00 %

Expected pensions trend

1.80 %

1.80 %

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

A discount rate of 4.06 % (previous year: 3.93 %) was taken as a basis
for the measurement of the pension provision of Aurubis Buffalo, Inc.,
Buffalo. Income and pension trends are not relevant for the calculation of the pension obligations of the US subsidiary.
The net pension provision recognized in the consolidated statement
of financial position for defined benefit plans as at September 30,
2015 and September 30, 2014 is as follows:
o T 072
in € thousand

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

542,981

555,673

of which funded

417,974

431,929

– Fair value of plan assets

321,209

325,034

Net carrying amount on September 30

221,772

230,639

0

0

221,772

230,639

Present value of pension obligations

of which: disclosed as assets
of which: disclosed as liabilities

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

157
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

The net liability for benefit obligations, taking into account separate
reconciliations for the present value of the defined benefit obligation
as well as the plan assets, is derived as follows:
Development of the present value of the pension obligations
in € thousand

o T 073

2014/15

2013/14

Present value of unfunded benefit obligations

123,744

66,464

Present value of funded benefit obligations

431,929

405,685

Present value of the pension obligations as at 10/1

555,673

472,149

11,595

9,128

0

500

Current service cost
Past service cost
Loss from settlements
Interest cost on the pension obligations
Remeasurements

130

412

14,474

16,596

(251)

82,622

Actuarial gains/losses from demographic assumptions

3,609

1,455

Actuarial gains/losses from financial assumptions

(979)

79,456

(2,881)

1,711

Benefits paid

(22,176)

(21,086)

Payments for settlements

(25,422)

(9,626)

8,958

4,978

542,981

555,673

Actuarial gains/losses from adjustments based on experience

Exchange rate difference
= Present value of the pension obligations as at 9/30
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

The present value of the defined benefit pension obligation includes
€ 66,539 thousand (previous year: € 76,629) in obligations for a US
subsidiary, € 16,881 thousand (previous year: € 14,632) of which relates
to health care and life insurance benefits.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

158

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The loss from settlements results from the transfer of obligations
from the defined benefit pension plans of the US subsidiary to an
external insurance company.
Development of the plan assets
in € thousand

Fair value of the plan assets as at 10/1
Interest income

o T 074

2014/15

2013/14

325,034

314,390

8,853

11,323

16,472

4,486

Benefits paid

(16,477)

(15,488)

Payments for settlements

(25,422)

(5,894)

Contributions made by employer

5,782

12,035

Exchange rate difference

6,967

4,182

321,209

325,034

Remeasurement effects

Fair value of the plan assets as at 9/30

Development of the net liability
in € thousand

Net liability as of 10/1
Current service cost
Past service cost
Loss from settlements
Net interest result
Remeasurement effects
Benefits paid
Payments for settlements
Employer contributions to the plan
Exchange rate difference
Net liability as at 9/30
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

o T 075

2014/15

2013/14

230,639

157,759

11,595

9,128

0

500

130

412

5,621

5,273

(16,723)

78,136

(5,699)

(5,598)

0

(3,732)

(5,782)

(12,035)

1,991

796

221,772

230,639

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

159
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

The remeasurement effects are directly recorded in other comprehensive income and are disclosed under generated group equity. The net
interest result is disclosed under interest expense. In contrast, the
other components of the pension expenses (current and past service
cost and the loss deriving from settlements) are recorded in personnel
expenses.

In the US, the defined benefit plan is financed by outsourced fund
assets. The investment strategy in the US aims at a distribution of the
plan assets comprising 60 % shares and 40 % fixed rate securities. In
order to avoid an uncontrollable risk concentration, investment in
other asset classes (e.g. commodities, real estate, venture capital) is
not permitted.

In Germany, the defined benefit plans are primarily administered
through processes in operation within the pension fund and the benefit fund. In this context, the pension fund is overseen by the German
Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin).

The plan assets in the Group are made up as follows:

Regulations related to the pension fund’s capital investment portfolio
are established by the “Ordinance on the Investment of Restricted
Assets of Insurance Undertakings (Investment Ordinance)”. The
Investment Ordinance regulates the permitted quantitative distribution and mix of capital investments for the pension fund. A large portion of the pension fund’s assets are invested in special funds. The
contributions are calculated in accordance with the current technical
business plan.
The risk capital investments (equity instruments and debt instruments
with a rating lower than investment grade) may account for a maximum of 35 % of the carrying amount of the coverage assets. At 25 % of
the coverage assets’ carrying amount, the real estate rate was fully
exhausted. Derivatives are primarily used for hedging purposes. The
risk of longevity is taken into account by the actuary, after performing
a review, by adjusting the biometric parameters, where necessary.
The benefit funds are also oriented to the Investment Ordinance with
respect to permitted capital investments. The contributions are within
the range of the tax-related possibilities.

o T 076
in € thousand

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Cash and cash equivalents

10,030

17,719

Equity instruments

56,623

62,915

Debt instruments

126,792

132,713

Real estate

119,160

96,782

Reinsurance

2,875

2,475

Other current net assets

5,729

12,430

321,209

325,034

Total plan assets

The plan assets include neither internal financial instruments nor real
estate used internally. The equity and debt instruments held via security funds are allocated to their corresponding investment classes in
the overview.
Market prices are generally available for the equity instruments as
a result of their respective quotations on an active market. The fair
value of € 56,623 thousand (previous year: € 62,915 thousand)
includes € 27,054 thousand (previous year: € 36,405 thousand) for
plan assets for a US subsidiary.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

160

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The debt instruments are also regularly traded on an active market.
The fair value of € 126,792 thousand (previous year: € 132,713 thousand) includes € 18,210 thousand (previous year: € 24,811 thousand)
for plan assets for a US subsidiary.

The following duration terms are expected for undiscounted pension
payments in the future:
o T 078

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Less than 1 year

21,532

21,898

Between 1 and 5 years

93,859

99,372

More than 5 years

752,505

757,859

Total

867,896

879,129

in € thousand

Real estate is held directly and is located exclusively in Germany.
There is no active market from which market prices can be derived.
The Company is subject to various risks in connection with the
defined benefit plans. The Company is subject to the general actuarial
risks in particular, such as the risk of longevity and the risk of interest
rate changes.
Sensitivity analysis
The following sensitivity analysis shows the effect of changes in the
parameters on the fair value of the defined benefit obligations. Each
change in a significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately,
i.e. if one parameter varied, the other parameters remained constant.
o T 077

Effect on obligation
9/30/2015

9/30/2014

in € thousand

Change
in para­
meter

Increase

Decrease

Increase

Decrease

Actuarial
interest rate

+/– 50
basis
points

(40,804)

45,396

(41,712)

46,508

Expected
­salary
develop­
ment

+/– 50
basis
points

9,057

–9,513

9,534

(9,857)

Expected
pension
development

+/– 50
basis
points

27,133

(25,783)

27,638

(26,114)

+/–
1 year

22,021

(23,125)

22,753

(23,801)

Life
­expectancy

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

The weighted average duration of obligations from defined benefit
plans as at September 30, 2015 is 16.2 years (previous year: 16.1 years).
The expense for defined contribution pension plans amounted to
€­­22,670 thousand in the year reported (previous year: € 25,268 thousand). These include both voluntary commitments and the employer’s
contribution made by the Group to statutory pension schemes.

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

161
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

26. Other provisions
The individual classes of provisions developed as follows during the
fiscal year reported:
o T 079

in € thousand

Personnel provisions
Expected losses on onerous
contracts
Environmental provisions
Sundry provisions

Balance per
10/1/2014

Used

Released

Allocated

Interest effect

Exchange rate
difference

Balance per
9/30/2015

62,026

(18,583)

(250)

21,101

599

303

65,196

3,508

(3,128)

0

2,821

0

0

3,201

19,045

(503)

(804)

432

147

402

18,719

9,001

(5,981)

(1,567)

5,916

0

15

7,384

93,580

(28,195)

(2,621)

30,270

746

720

94,500

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

The personnel provisions consist mainly of obligations to employees
relating to anniversary bonuses, temporary assistance benefits and
those deriving from the early retirement agreements. Provisions for
environmental risks primarily related to clean-up measures at the Lünen
site as well as in Buffalo, USA and Zutphen, Netherlands. The provisions
have terms of up to 24 years. The probable costs are determined taking
into account past experience in comparable cases, existing appraisals
and the clean-up methods that will probably be used on the basis of
present knowledge.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

162

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

27. Liabilities
Financial liabilities as at the balance sheet date were as follows:
o T 080
in € thousand

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Non-current (with a residual terms of more than 1 year)
463,681

257,913

Liabilities under finance leases

16,997

19,064

Derivative financial instruments of the held-for-trading category

21,626

17,287

Bank borrowings

Liabilities to related parties
Derivative financial instruments held as hedging instruments in the context of hedge accounting
Non-current financial liabilities

950

0

5,040

10,370

508,294

304,634

Current (with a residual terms of less than 1 year)
761,409

796,848

Bank borrowings

23,506

154,128

Derivative financial instruments of the held-for-trading category

87,209

73,116

Liabilities to related parties

4,663

6,029

Liabilities under finance leases

1,916

1,789

Derivative financial instruments held as hedging instruments in the context of hedge accounting

25,849

11,800

Other current financial liabilities

69,302

70,655

973,854

1,114,365

Trade accounts payable

Current financial liabilities
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

163
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

The liabilities under finance leases include the present value of the
lease installments and the contractually guaranteed residual values at
the end of the lease term. Payments are due as follows:
o T 081

9/30/2015

in € thousand

Expected lease payments
Interest portion
Redemption portion

less than­
1 year

9/30/2014

1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

Total

less than
1 year

1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

Total

2,399

8,658

11,960

23,017

2,464

9,220

14,007

25,691

666

2,063

1,375

4,104

728

2,308

1,802

4,838

1,733

6,595

10,585

18,913

1,736

6,912

12,205

20,853

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

The finance leasing agreements include both extension and purchase
options, as well as price adjustment clauses.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

164

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The following table shows the Aurubis Group’s contractually agreed
undiscounted interest and redemption payments for non-derivative
financial liabilities and the discounted net cash flows of the derivative
financial instruments with negative fair values.

Payments in the amount of € 788.5 million (previous year: € 485.0
­million) deriving from forward foreign exchange transactions with a
negative fair value are matched by receipts in the amount of € 752.0
million (previous year: € 462.4 million) as at September 30, 2015.
Derivatives with positive fair values qualify as assets and are therefore
not included.
o T 082

Payments
Carrying
amount as at
9/30/2015

up to
1 year

from
1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

487,187

29,193

370,278

125,124

18,913

1,915

4,760

12,210

761,409

761,409

0

0

5,613

4,663

950

0

108,835

87,209

21,626

0

Derivatives designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting purposes

30,889

25,850

5,039

0

Other financial liabilities

69,302

69,302

0

0

1,482,148

979,541

402,653

137,334

in € thousand

Bank borrowings
Liabilities under finance leases
Trade accounts payable
Liabilities to related parties
Derivatives of the held-for-trading category

Total

o T 083

Payments
Carrying
amount as at
9/30/2014

up to
1 year

from
1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

412,042

161,964

268,022

11,788

20,853

2,464

9,220

14,007

796,848

796,848

0

0

6,029

6,029

0

0

Derivatives of the held-for-trading category

90,403

73,117

17,286

0

Derivatives designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting purposes

22,170

11,800

10,370

0

Other financial liabilities

70,654

70,654

0

0

1,418,999

1,122,876

304,898

25,795

in € thousand

Bank borrowings
Liabilities under finance leases
Trade accounts payable
Liabilities to related parties

Total
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

165
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

This presentation does not show any plan figures but only the financial instruments that were held as at September 30, 2015 or September 30, 2014 respectively and for which contractual agreements on
the payments existed. Foreign currency amounts are translated at the
closing rate.

Aurubis had no bank borrowings secured by mortgages and fixed
assets. Financial assets have not been pledged as collateral for bank
borrowings.
Non-financial liabilities as at the balance sheet date are as follows:

o T 084

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Other non-current non-financial liabilities

1,179

999

Non-current non-financial liabilities

1,179

999

in € thousand

Non-current (with a residual term of more than 1 year)

Current (with a residual term of less than 1 year)
Other tax liabilities

11,223

46,906

Social security obligations

15,764

22,677

Income tax liabilities

53,926

14,727

Advance payments received on orders

3,385

5,074

Other current non-financial liabilities

9,123

7,464

93,421

96,848

Current non-financial liabilities
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Other tax liabilities mainly comprise VAT liabilities.
28. Other financial commitments
o T 085
in € thousand

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

9,097

8,843

179,430

187,336

Warranty obligations

1,997

1,668

Contingent liabilities under discounted
bills

1,289

1,669

191,813

199,516

Capital expenditure commitments
Obligations under long-term contracts

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

166

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The capital expenditure commitments relate exclusively to property,
plant and equipment.
Obligations under long-term contracts are mainly related to the provision of transport and handling services by various service providers.
In addition, an agreement has been concluded with an energy utility
for the cost-based procurement of one billion kilowatt hours of electricity per annum over a term of 30 years commencing in 2010. The
payments are based on price and performance components as well as

a contribution to the investment costs of a power plant. Furthermore,
the Group has long-term oxygen supply contracts in place for various
sites.
Financial commitments under leases
As at September 30, 2015, lease commitments under operating leases
amounted to € 27,096 thousand (previous year: € 25,703 thousand).
These are due as follows:

o T 086

in € thousand

less than 1 year

1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

Total

8,321

11,501

7,274

27,096

7,407

10,109

8,187

25,703

9/30/2015
Commitments under operating leases
9/30/2014
Commitments under operating leases
Prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

Lease payments in fiscal year 2014/15 recognized as expense
amounted to € 7,785 thousand (previous year: € 7,366 thousand).
29. Financial instruments
The Aurubis Group is exposed to market risks, liquidity risks and
default risks as a result of the use of financial instruments.
Market risks
Market risks arise as a result of a possible change in risk factors that
lead to a decrease in the market value of the transactions affected by
these risk factors. The following groups of general risk factors are relevant for the Aurubis Group: currency exchange rate risks, interest
rate risks and other price-related risks.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Currency exchange rate risks
As a result of its business operations, the Aurubis Group is exposed to
currency exchange rate fluctuations. Changes in exchange rates can
lead to losses in the value of financial instruments. Foreign currency
forward and option contracts are concluded to limit currency risks.
These mainly relate to the US dollar. For this purpose, the daily foreign
currency positions from underlying transactions are offset against each
other each day and any remaining open positions are squared by
means of foreign exchange derivatives. Aurubis works exclusively with
business partners with good credit standing on all foreign exchange
transactions.
Furthermore, foreign currency forward and option contracts were concluded in the past fiscal year to hedge future receipts. Provided the criteria for cash flow hedges were fulfilled, the results of these hedge
transactions were recognized in the accompanying financial statements initially in other comprehensive income in the amount of the
effective part of the hedge transaction. These results are recognized in

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

167
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

profit or loss as soon as the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. Fundamental shifts in currency relationships, in
particular between the euro and the USD, can, however, only be
hedged for a limited time.
Information on the management of exchange rate risks is provided in
the Risk Report in the Management Report.
The foreign currency risk represents the risk position for the following
period. This corresponds to the net amount of the nominal volume of
the non-derivative and derivative financial instruments held, which are
exposed to exchange rate risks. In addition, planned revenue transactions of the following periods are included to the extent that these are
taken into account for currency risk management purposes to show
the risk position for the following period.

In order to determine the exchange rate risk, a sensitivity analysis is
performed for the foreign currencies that pose a significant risk for
the business, in this instance, the US dollar. For the purpose of the
sensitivity analysis for the currencies, it was assumed that the
exchange rate of the euro compared with the US dollar would change
by +/– 10 %.
If the euro had been 10 % stronger or weaker against the US dollar on
September 30, 2015 or September 30, 2014 as compared to the rate
prevailing on the balance sheet date, equity and net income for the
year would have changed to the extent shown in the following table.
All relevant items in the statement of financial position and the budgeted revenues included in the foreign currency risk have been
included in the calculation.
Currency sensitivity

Foreign currency risk

o T 087

o T 088

EUR/USD

EUR/USD
in € thousand

Risk position deriving from recognized
transactions

9/30/2015

in € thousand

2014/15

2013/14

Closing rate

1.1203

1.2583

9/30/2014

(674,465)

(772,313)

Budgeted revenues

631,827

539,336

Devaluated rate (EUR against USD)

1.0083

1.1325

Forward foreign exchange contracts

327,652

528,297

Effect on net income

68,859

59,953

(117,826)

(76,293)

thereof budgeted revenues

70,203

59,926

219,027

thereof non-derivative
­transactions

Put option transactions
Net exposure

167,188

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

thereof derivative transactions
Effect on equity

IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis to be performed for each type of
risk to indicate the market risks. The use of sensitivity analyses determines the potential impacts on profit or loss and on equity as at the
balance sheet date of a change in the respective risk variable for each
type of risk. The impacts for the periods are determined by relating
the hypothetical changes in the risk variables to the amount reported
as at the balance sheet date. In doing so, it is assumed that the
amount reported as at the balance sheet date is representative for the
entire year.

34,647

36,925

(35,991)

(36,898)

(35,601)

(26,482 )

1.2323

1.3841

(54,676)

(48,426)

thereof budgeted revenues

(57,439)

(49,031)

thereof non-derivative
­transactions

(26,683)

(29,585)

Appreciated rate (EUR against USD)
Effect on net income

thereof derivative transactions
Effect on equity

29,446

30,190

26,740

20,995

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

168

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Interest rate fluctuation risks
Interest rate fluctuation risks arise due to potential changes in market
interest rates and can result in a change in the fair value of fixed-­
interest financial instruments and interest payment fluctuations for
variable interest rate financial instruments. Any interest rate risks that
arise are hedged by interest rate swaps. Interest rate fluctuation risks
are of significant importance in the financial sector. Provided the
­criteria for cash flow hedges are fulfilled for the hedging of variable
interest payments, the results of these hedge transactions are initially
recognized in other comprehensive income in the amount of the

effective portion of the hedge transaction. They are recognized in
profit or loss as soon as the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss in the respective fiscal year.
Details of how interest rate risks are managed are provided in the
Risk Report in the Management Report.
The following table shows the net exposure for variable interest-­
bearing risk positions.

Variable interest risk positions

o T 089

Total amount
in € thousand

Loans/time ­deposits
Other risk items
of which hedged
against the interest
rate risk
Net exposure

9/30/2015

up to 1 year

9/30/2014

9/30/2015

1 to 5 years

9/30/2014

9/30/2015

more than 5 years

9/30/2014

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

427,342

157,910

427,342

157,910

0

0

0

0

(319,106)

(308,461)

(248,106)

(219,961)

(58,000)

(88,500)

(13,000)

0

71,000

88,500

0

0

58,000

88,500

13,000

0

179,236

(62,051)

179,236

(62,051)

0

0

0

0

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

In accordance with IFRS 7, interest rate fluctuation risks are presented
in a sensitivity analysis, which reflects the effects of a change in market
interest rates on interest income, interest expense and equity.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

In the event of an increase (decrease) in all relevant interest rates by
100 basis points (50 basis points), equity and earnings for the year as
at September 30, 2015 and September 30, 2014 would change as
shown by the following table. The same items have been included in
the calculation as for the determination of the net exposure presented above.

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

169
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Interest rate sensitivities

o T 090

9/30/2015
+100 BP

in € thousand

9/30/2014
– 50 BP

+100 BP

– 50 BP

Effect on earnings

1,792

(899)

(621)

310

Effect on equity

2,412

(1,255)

1,638

(836)

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Other price risks
As a result of its business operations, the Aurubis Group is exposed to
commodity price risks. Among other measures, non-ferrous metals
futures contracts are entered into in order to mitigate these risks. The
contracts are mainly focused on the hedging of the copper price. For
this purpose, incoming and outgoing metal quantities from underlying
transactions are offset against each other each day and remaining
open positions are squared by means of metal exchange transactions.
We work exclusively with business partners with good credit standing
on all metal hedge transactions.

The Aurubis Group has secured its electricity consumption by concluding a long-term agreement with an energy utility. Aurubis is
exposed to an electricity price risk from the measurement of part of
this agreement.
The nominal volumes of the derivative financial instruments covering
copper, silver, gold, as well as electricity, coal and CO₂, which result
from the gross total of the nominal amounts of the individual purchasing and sales contracts, are as follows.
Nominal volumes of the derivatives

If price-fixed metal delivery agreements for non-ferrous metals are
accounted for as derivative financial instruments to cover the
expected raw material requirement or the expected sale of finished
products, market value changes are recognized in profit or loss. Gains
and losses from the contrary development of the fair value of the
hedged items and the hedge transactions are therefore recognized
directly in profit or loss.
Details of metal price risk management processes are provided in the
Risk Report in the Management Report.

o T 091

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

1,794,749

1,602,155

Silver

104,825

133,898

Gold

398,103

372,421

96,385

116,426

2,394,062

2,224,900

in € thousand

Copper

Electricity, coal, CO₂

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

In accordance with IFRS 7, commodity price risks are shown in the
form of a sensitivity analysis, which reflects the effects of a change in
the commodity prices on the net income for the period.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

170

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

In the event of a 10 % increase (decrease) of all relevant commodity
prices, equity and earnings for the year would be changed as at September 30, 2015 and September 30, 2014 as shown in the following
table. The calculation includes all derivatives for copper, silver, gold, as
well as electricity, coal and CO₂ as at the balance sheet date.
Commodity price sensitivity

o T 092

Copper
in € thousand

Silver

Gold

Electricity, coal, CO₂

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

43,782

56,518

8,735

9,781

26,760

29,384

3,656

4,603

(43,782)

(56,518)

(8,735)

(9,781)

(26,760)

(29,384)

(3,656)

(4,603)

Price increase
Effect on earnings
Price decrease
Effect on earnings

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

The effects on earnings shown in the commodity price sensitivity
table for metals are partially or completely compensated through the
measurement of the purchase or sales contracts that are not yet fixed,
since these positions are provisionally measured at the respective
price on the reporting date.
Derivative financial instruments
The Aurubis Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge
exchange rate, interest rate and other price risks. Provided the criteria
for the application of hedge accounting are fulfilled, these are reflected
by cash flow hedges.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

171
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Financial derivatives

o T 093

ASSETS

LIABILITIES

9/30/2015

in € thousand

Carrying
amount

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Nominal
volume

Carrying
amount

Nominal
­volume

Carrying
amount

9/30/2014

Nominal
volume

Carrying
amount

Nominal
­volume

Interest rate swaps
without a hedging ­relationship
as cash flow hedges

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

45

13,000

0

0

93

58,000

6,084

88,500

25,209

604,582

46,378

974,952

5,988

470,248

7,785

233,121

126

26,851

0

0

30,483

287,300

14,807

228,115

Foreign exchange forward contracts
without a hedging ­relationship
as cash flow hedges
Forward foreign exchange options
0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

342

30,380

120

56,157

313

84,587

1,279

13,027

36,420

1,043,090

12,315

529,506

81,061

1,303,316

57,721

1,630,791

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

without a hedging relationship

0

0

41

821

21,787

96,385

24,897

115,606

as cash flow hedges

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

without a hedging relationship
as cash flow hedges
Metal futures contracts
without a hedging ­relationship
as cash flow hedges
Other transactions

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

The nominal volume of the derivative financial instruments is the sum
of the nominal amounts of the individual purchase and sales contracts. By contrast, the fair value is based on the measurement of all
contracts at the prices applicable on the measurement date. It indicates the potential impact on income of the prompt settlement of all
derivatives as at the balance sheet date, without considering the
hedged transactions.
The impact on earnings of changes in the fair value of financial derivatives that relate to a cash flow hedge is recognized in equity through
other comprehensive income in the amount of the effective portion.

The effective portion of the changes in the value of derivative
­financial instruments, which was recognized in equity through other
comprehensive income in the period reported, amounts to € –55,675
thousand (previous year: € –18,002 thousand). The amount that was
transferred during the period from equity into the income statement
in the context of cash flow hedge accounting was € –43,576 thousand
(previous year: € 1,225 thousand) and is mainly included in the income
statement item “Cost of materials”.
The ineffective portion of the fair value change is by contrast recognized directly in profit or loss.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

172

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

As was the case in the previous year, no ineffective portions of the
change in fair value of the hedge instruments were identified that had
to be recognized during the fiscal year reported.
The following two tables show when the cash flows from cash flow
hedges will occur and when they will influence the income statement:
Cash flow hedges as at September 30, 2015
Occurrence and impact on income statement
in € thousand

o T 094

Carrying
amount

Nominal
­volume less than 1 year

1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

Interest rate swaps
Assets

45

13,000

0

0

13,000

Liabilities

93

58,000

0

58,000

0

Forward foreign exchange contracts
126

26,851

26,851

0

0

30,483

287,300

207,768

79,532

0

Assets

342

30,380

30,380

0

0

Liabilities

313

84,587

42,410

42,177

0

Assets
Liabilities
Foreign currency options

Cash flow hedges as at September 30, 2014
Occurrence and impact on income statement
in € thousand

o T 095

Carrying
amount

Nominal
volume

less than 1 year

1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

Interest rate swaps
Assets
Liabilities

0

0

0

0

0

6,084

88,500

0

88,500

0

0

0

0

0

0

14,807

228,115

161,640

66,475

0

120

56,157

56,157

0

0

1,279

13,027

13,027

0

0

Forward foreign exchange contracts
Assets
Liabilities
Foreign currency options
Assets
Liabilities
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

173
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Liquidity risks
Liquidity risks represent the risk that the business cannot meet its
own obligations. The contractually agreed undiscounted interest and
redemption payments of the financial liabilities are shown in Note 27.
The adequate sourcing of the Group with cash and cash equivalents is
ensured not only by the Group’s cash flow but also by the existing
short-term and long-term credit lines with our banks. Fluctuations in
cash flow can therefore be cushioned. An autonomous executive
committee monitors the development of Aurubis’ liquidity position on
a timely and regular basis and reports to the Executive Board. Further
management measures taken regarding liquidity risks are described in
the Risk Report in the Management Report.

Default risks
Default risks exist for all classes of financial instruments, in particular
for trade accounts receivable. The concentration of the credit risk is
limited due to the wide-ranging and heterogeneous customer base.
The largest individual customer account receivable balances are regularly controlled. The credit risk arising from derivative financial instruments is limited since the corresponding contracts are only concluded
with contractual parties and banks that have a good credit standing.
The customers are classified by their credit rating within the context
of the credit risk management process and each customer is given a
specific credit limit.
The carrying amounts of the financial assets in the statement of financial position, less any write-downs, represent the maximum potential
default risk without taking into account the value of any securities
received or other risk-mitigating agreements.
Furthermore, to minimize default risks, we monitor the receivables
from our business associates on a regular basis. Apart from instruments that are customary within the market, such as letters of credit
and guarantees, we also make particular use of commercial credit
insurance to safeguard against potential bad debts. If receivables are
sold under factoring agreements, this is done without recourse.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

174

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Additional disclosures for financial instruments
2014/2015
Measurement in the statement of
financial p
­ osition under IAS 39
Carrying amounts, measurement and fair values analyzed by
­measurement categories
in € thousand

Measurement category under
IAS 39

Carrying
amount
9/30/2015

Amortized
cost

Fair value
­recognized
in equity

Fair value
­recognized in
profit or loss

ASSETS
Interests in affiliated companies

AfS

1,418

1,418

0

0

Investments

AfS

744

744

0

0

Fixed asset securities

AfS

24,318

0

24,318

0

Other financial fixed assets
Other loans
Trade accounts receivable

LaR

92

92

0

0

LaR

306,905

306,905

0

0

Other receivables and financial assets
LaR

12,057

12,057

0

0

LaR

78,926

78,926

0

0

Derivatives without a hedging relationship

FAHfT

61,629

0

0

61,629

Derivatives with a hedging relationship (hedge accounting)

n/a

513

0

513

0

LaR

452,971

452,971

0

0

Bank borrowings

FLAC

487,187

487,187

0

0

Liabilities from finance leases

n/a

18,912

0

0

0

Trade accounts payable

FLAC

761,409

761,409

0

0

Payables to related parties

FLAC

5,613

5,613

0

0

Other non-derivative financial liabilities

FLAC

69,301

69,301

0

0

Derivatives without a hedging relationship

FLHfT

108,835

0

0

108,835

Derivatives with a hedging relationship (hedge accounting)

n/a

30,889

0

30,889

0

850,951

850,951

0

0

Available-for-sale (AfS)

26,480

2,162

24,318

0

Financial assets held for trading (FAHfT)

61,629

0

0

61,629

1,323,510

1,323,510

0

0

108,835

0

0

108,835

Receivables from related parties
Other financial assets
Derivative financial assets

Cash and cash equivalents
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Derivative financial liabilities

thereof aggregated by measurement categories in accordance with IAS 39
Loans and receivables (LaR)

Financial liabilities at amortized cost (FLAC)
Financial liabilities held for trading (FLHfT)
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

175
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

o T 096

2013/2014
Measurement in the statement of
financial ­position under IAS 39
Balance sheet
valuation under
IAS 17

Fair value
9/30/2015

Carrying
amount
9/30/2014

Amortized
cost

0

n/a

1,328

1,328

0

0

n/a

845

845

0

0

24,318

29,920

0

29,920

Fair value
­recognized
in equity

Fair value
­recognized in
profit or loss

Balance sheet
­valuation under
IAS 17

Fair value
9/30/2014

0

0

n/a

0

0

n/a

0

0

29,920

0

92

107

107

0

0

0

107

0

306,905

414,235

414,235

0

0

0

414,235

0

12,057

12,240

12,240

0

0

0

12,240

0

78,926

34,304

34,304

0

0

0

34,304

0

61,629

58,734

0

0

58,734

0

58,734

0

513

120

0

120

0

0

120

0

452,971

187,282

187,282

0

0

0

187,282

432,450

0

501,927

412,042

412,042

0

0

0

18,912

18,912

20,853

0

0

0

20,853

20,853

0

761,409

796,848

796,848

0

0

0

796,848

0

5,613

6,029

6,029

0

0

0

6,029

0

69,301

70,654

70,654

0

0

0

70,654

0

108,835

90,403

0

0

90,403

0

90,403

0

30,889

22,170

0

22,170

0

0

22,170

0

850,951

648,168

648,168

0

0

0

648,168

0

24,318

32,093

2,173

29,920

0

0

29,920

0

61,629

58,734

0

0

58,734

0

58,734

0

1,338,250

1,285,573

1,285,573

0

0

0

1,305,981

0

108,835

90,403

0

0

90,403

0

90,403

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

176

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The market value of financial instruments to be recognized at fair
value is as a general rule determined on the basis of quotations on the
metal or other relevant exchanges. If no such quotations are available,
measurement is carried out applying a process that is customary for
the market (measurement methods), based on instrument-related
market parameters and interest rates drawn from recognized sources.
If observable input parameters are not available or only partially available, the fair value is calculated on the basis of appropriate measurement methods. In the Aurubis Group, this applies in particular to the
extrapolation of market data for electricity and coal, with due regard
to market information about price determination and liquidity considerations. If insufficient market information is available, management’s
best estimate for a certain input parameter is used to determine the
value. Thus, if observable input parameters are not available or only
partially available on the market, the measurement process is significantly influenced by the use of estimates and assumptions.

Pursuant to IFRS 13, the following tables show the measurement
methods used to determine the fair value for Level 1, Level 2 and
Level 3 as well as the main non-observable parameters that were used
for measurement.
In this connection, the individual levels are defined in accordance with
IFRS 13 as follows:
»» L evel 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities
»» Level 2: procedures under which all input parameters with a significant effect on the fair value are observable either directly or indirectly in the market
»» Level 3: procedures that use input parameters which have a significant influence on the fair value and are not based on observable
market data
Financial instruments from Level 1 measured at fair value

Because of the predominantly short-term nature of cash and cash
equivalents, trade accounts receivable and payable, other receivables
of the category “loans and receivables”, payables to related parties
and other non-derivative financial liabilities, an assumption is made
that the fair values correspond to the carrying amounts.
An assumption has been made for investments in non-­corporate entities and non-quoted limited liability companies that the carrying
amount corresponds to the market value. It would only be possible to
reliably determine the market value in conjunction with specific sales
negotiations.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Type

Measurement method

Securities classified as fixed assets

Exchange prices

o T 097

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

177
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Financial instruments from Level 2 measured at fair value

o T 098

Type

Measurement method

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Par method, taking actively traded forward rates into account

Foreign currency options

Black-Scholes model

Interest rate swaps

Discounted cash flow method. This adds together the present value of the cash flows
expected in the future and discounts them, utilizing a market-conform interest rate

Metal futures contracts

Discounted cash flow method

Other transactions

Discounted cash flow method

Financial instruments from Level 2 not measured at fair value

o T 099

Type

Measurement method

Financial liabilities

Discounted cash flow method

Financial instruments from Level 3 measured at fair value

Type

Measurement method

Energy supply contract

Discounted cash flow method

o T 100

Significant non-observable
­measurement parameter
Extrapolation of market data for
electricity and coal

Interdependence between significant
­non-­observable measurement parameters
and fair value
The fair value would be higher (lower) if:
– t he price for electricity increased more
(less) than expected
– t he price for coal increased less (more)
than expected

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

178

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

If the parameters used for measurement fall into different levels of
the measurement hierarchy, the fair value measurement is fully classified as belonging to the lowest level to which an input parameter is
attributed, where this parameter significantly influences the entire fair
value.

If there are any reclassifications to other levels in the measurement
hierarchy, the Aurubis Group accounts for these as at the beginning
of the relevant fiscal year.
The following overview shows the main measurement parameters
that provide the basis for those financial instruments that are
accounted for at fair value and presented in the notes to the financial
statements.

Hierarchical classification of fair values of financial
instruments in accordance with IFRS 7 as at September 30, 2015
Aggregated by classes
in € thousand

Securities classified as fixed assets

o T 101

Fair value
9/30/2015

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

24,318

24,318

0

0

61,629

0

61,629

0

513

0

513

0

86,460

24,318

62,142

0

501,927

0

501,927

0

Derivative financial assets
Derivatives without a hedging relationship
Derivatives with a hedging relationship
Assets

Bank borrowings
Derivative financial liabilities
Derivatives without a hedging relationship
Derivatives with a hedging relationship
Liabilities

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

108,835

0

89,531

19,304

30,889

0

30,889

0

641,651

0

622,347

19,304

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

179
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Hierarchical classification of fair values of financial
instruments in accordance with IFRS 7 as at September 30, 2014
Aggregated by classes
in € thousand

Securities classified as fixed assets

o T 102

Fair value
9/30/2014

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

29,920

29,920

0

0

58,734

0

58,734

2,206

120

0

120

0

88,774

29,920

58,854

2,206

432,450

0

432,450

0

Derivative financial assets
Derivatives without a hedging relationship
Derivatives with a hedging relationship
Assets

Bank borrowings
Derivative financial liabilities
Derivatives without a hedging relationship

90,403

0

74,790

15,613

Derivatives with a hedging relationship

22,170

0

22,170

0

545,023

0

529,410

15,613

Liabilities
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

There were no reclassifications between the individual levels in fiscal
year 2014/15 or in the previous year.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

180

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The following overview shows a reconciliation of the financial instruments measured at fair value and classified in Level 3:
Reconciliation of financial instruments in Level 3 as at
September 30, 2015

Aggregated by classes
in € thousand

Derivative liabilities without a hedging relationship

o T 103

Status at
10/1/2014

Reclassification
to/from Level 3

Profits (+) and
losses (–)
recorded in the
income
­statement

(15,613)

0

(3,691)

Status at
9/30/2015

Profits (+)/
losses (–) for
derivatives held
at the balance
sheet date

(19,304)

(3,691)

Reconciliation of financial instruments in Level 3
as at September 30, 2014

Aggregated by classes
in € thousand

o T 104

Status at
10/1/2013

Derivative assets without a hedging relationship
Derivative liabilities without a hedging relationship

Gains and losses deriving from derivative financial instruments
­classified as Level 3, which concern part of an energy supply contract,
are reflected in the income statement position “Cost of materials”.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Reclassification
to/from Level 3

Profits (+) and
losses (–)
recorded in the
income
­statement

Status at
9/30/2014

Profits (+)/
losses (–) for
derivatives held
at the balance
sheet date

2,206

0

(2,206)

0

(2,206)

0

0

(15,613)

(15,613)

(15,613)

The value of these financial instruments is partially based on non-­
observable input parameters, which are largely related to the price of
electricity and coal. If the Aurubis Group had taken possible alternative measurement parameters as a basis for measuring the relevant
financial instruments on September 30, 2015, the recorded fair value

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

181
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

would have been € 6,407 thousand (previous year: € 7,422 thousand)
higher in the case of an increase in the electricity price and a decrease
in the coal price by 20 % respectively at the end of the term or € 4,792
thousand (previous year: € 6,133 thousand) lower in the case of a
decrease in the electricity price and an increase in the coal price by
20 % respectively at the end of the term. In order to calculate the
maximum impacts which can arise from the relative uncertainty in the
determination of the fair values of financial instruments whose measurement is based on non-observable parameters, the Aurubis Group
remeasures this financial instrument by incorporating parameters that
are at the outer limits of the range of possible alternatives for non-­
observable input data. Since it is nevertheless unlikely that a scenario
will arise in which all of the non-observable parameters are at the
outer limits of the range of possible alternatives at the same time, the

estimated values previously mentioned should exceed the actual
uncertainty factors when determining the fair value as at the balance
sheet date. Thus, the disclosures shown do not represent a prediction
or an indication of any future changes in the fair value.
Offsetting options for derivative financial assets and liabilities
The financial instruments that Aurubis enters into are subject to netting agreements with financial institutions that include a mutual right
of offset. However, these agreements do not fulfill the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position, as the netting right can
only be utilized if one of the contracting parties defaults.
The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities in the
Aurubis Group that are subject to offsetting options.

Offsetting options for derivative financial assets and liabilities
in € thousand

o T 105

2014/15

2013/14

62,142

58,854

Financial assets
Gross amounts of financial assets in the statement of financial position
Financial instruments that qualify for offsetting in the statement of financial position
Net values of financial assets in the statement of financial position
Offsettable due to framework agreements
Total net value of financial assets

0

0

62,142

58,854

(28,112)

(28,474)

34,030

30,380

(139,724)

(112,573)

0

0

(139,724)

(112,573)

28,112

28,474

(111,612)

(84,099)

Financial liabilities
Gross amounts of financial liabilities in the statement of financial position
Financial instruments that qualify for offsetting in the statement of financial position
Net values of financial liabilities in the statement of financial position
Offsettable due to framework agreements
Total net value of financial liabilities
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

182

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Net earnings by measurement categories
in € thousand

o T 106

2014/15

2013/14

8,566

6,159

Available-for-sale (AfS)

(3,897)

(2,987)

Financial instruments held for trading (FAHfT and FLHfT)

(4,641 )

8,273

3,753

(2,995)

3,781

8,450

Loans and receivables (LaR)

Financial liabilities at amortized cost (FLAC)

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

The net earnings of the financial instruments held-for-trading mainly
include the gains/losses deriving from metal futures contracts on the
exchanges and forward foreign exchange contracts, as well as from
price-fixed metal delivery transactions treated as derivatives. Purchase or sales contracts that are not yet fixed, which result in a partial
compensation effect since they are valued provisionally at the respective price on the reporting date, are not included. Dividends, but not
interest, are included in the calculated earnings. The foreign currency
result of the items accounted for at amortized cost which are included
in the net result in fiscal year 2014/15, amounts to € 12,155 thousand.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

In conjunction with the recognition in equity of the change in value of
available-for-sale financial assets, net measurement impacts of
€ – 1,585 thousand (previous year: €– 528 thousand) were recorded in
other comprehensive income in 2014/15.
30. Research and development
Research and development costs of € 10,925 thousand were recognized in profit or loss for the Aurubis Group for fiscal year 2014/15
(previous year: € 9,991 thousand).

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

183
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Notes to the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement reports the cash flows in the Aurubis Group
in fiscal year 2014/15 and in the prior-year comparative period. In
accordance with IAS 7, a distinction is made between the cash inflow
from operating activities, the cash outflow from investing activities
and the cash inflow or outflow from financing activities.
Commencing with earnings before taxes, adjustment is made for all
non-cash expenses and income, the financial result (consisting of the
result from investments measured using the equity method, interest
expense, interest income and other financial expenses and income),
income taxes paid in and out and changes in working capital to arrive
at the cash inflow from operating activities (net cash flow).

A free cash flow of € 253 million (previous year: € 273 million) results
after deducting investments in fixed assets from the net cash flow.
The cash outflow from investing activities totaled € 104 million (previous year: € 121 million).
The cash inflow from financing activities was € 4 million compared to
a cash outflow of € 126 million in the previous fiscal year. The cash
inflow compared to a cash outflow in the previous year was mainly
due to the take-up of new bonded loans of € 300 million, less the
repayment of bonded loans of € 210 million due to maturity.
Overall, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of € 453 million
available as at September 30, 2015 (€ 187 million as at September 30,
2014).

The net cash flow amounted to € 365 million due to the very good
business result. In contrast, the net cash flow of the previous year
(€ 401 million) had also been impacted by an inventory reduction
after the large-scale shutdown in Hamburg was concluded.
Investments in fixed assets (including financial fixed assets) amounted
to € 112 million in the reporting period (previous year: € 128 million).
The investments in Hamburg focused on the lead refinery and the
construction of a new employee locker room and health center. In
­Pirdop (Bulgaria), investments were made in connection with the
pending shutdown in 2016 and investments for the improvement and
expansion of production capacities continued in the fiscal year
reported.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

184

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Segment reporting

Primary Copper segment

in € thousand

Copper Products segment

Other

2014/2015
operating

2013/2014
operating

2014/2015
operating

2013/2014
operating

2014/2015
operating

2013/2014
operating

Revenues
Total revenues

5,914,239

6,109,208

8,585,989

9,130,114

12,492

15,327

Inter-segment revenues

3,240,790

3,430,170

273,658

580,122

3,071

3,389

Revenues with third parties

2,673,448

2,679,038

8,312,332

8,549,992

9,421

11,938

EBITDA

357,207

232,108

181,348

100,623

(39,404)

(44,238)

Depreciation and amortization

(85,849)

(81,802)

(43,575)

(39,228)

(656)

(635)

EBIT

271,359

150,306

137,774

61,395

(40,059)

(44,873)

2,736

1,452

13,561

16,526

19

2,348

(17,870)

(21,541)

(25,641)

(27,332)

(154)

(2,738)

Result from investments measured
using the equity method

0

0

4,416

4,597

0

0

Other financial income

0

0

5

5

220

194

Interest income
Interest expense

Other financial expense
Earnings before taxes

0

0

0

(26)

(4,116)

(3,180)

256,224

130,216

130,115

55,167

(44,090)

(48,249)

31.1

16.9

12.9

6.0

70,203

81,764

41,455

46,608

2,730

2,737

3,330

3,356

257

244

Income taxes
Consolidated net income
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
in %
Capital expenditure on intangible
assets and property, plant and
­equipment
Average number of employees

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

185
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

o T 107

Total

Reconciliation/consolidation

2014/2015
operating

2013/2014
operating

10,995,202

11,240,967

499,152

288,492

(130,079)

(121,665)

369,073
16,316

2014/2015
IFRS

Group total

2013/2014
IFRS

2014/2015
IFRS

2013/2014
IFRS

0

0

10,995,202

11,240,967

(163,465)

(72,684)

335,687

215,808

(6,327)

(6,374)

(136,406)

(128,039)

166,827

(169,792)

(79,058)

199,281

87,769

20,326

(12,725)

(15,390)

3,591

4,936

(43,665)

(51,611)

12,725

15,390

(30,940)

(36,221)

4,416

4,597

(3,013)

(523)

1,403

4,074

225

199

0

26

225

225

(4,116)

(3,205)

0

(26)

(4,116)

(3,231)

342,249

137,133

(172,805)

(79,581)

169,444

57,552

(35,876)

13,452

133,568

44,100

9.2

4.1

111,657

128,372

0

0

111,657

128,372

6,317

6,337

0

0

6,317

6,337

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

186

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

We report on the operating segments in the same way as in the internal reporting to the chief operating decision makers. The chief operating decision makers are defined as the Executive Board of Aurubis AG.
Aurubis changed the segment reporting during fiscal year 2014/15.
The former BU Recycling/Precious Metals was integrated into two
other BUs, Primary Copper and Copper Products. The change corresponds to the shift from a technology-oriented structure to a
­market-oriented one and was carried out retroactively. The internal
controlling and reporting structure was adjusted correspondingly.
­Prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly.
The Aurubis Group is divided into two reportable segments, which
differ as regards their production processes or their products and
which are managed separately. The “other” column includes central
administrative income and costs that cannot be directly allocated to
one of the reportable segments.
The internal reporting is generally based on the accounting policies in
accordance with IFRS, which are applied in the consolidated financial
statements. For internal management purposes, the IFRS-based
results are reconciled to the operating result. The operating result of
the Group and of the respective Business Unit is determined by
adjusting the IFRS-based results for:
»» M
 easurement impacts deriving from the use of the average cost
method in accordance with IAS 2
»» Copper price-related measurement effects on inventories
»» Effects deriving from purchase price allocations, primarily on fixed
assets, commencing in fiscal year 2010/11
The presentation of the segment reporting corresponds to the internal reporting.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

The reconciliation to IFRS used in the consolidated financial statements is shown in the reconciliation/consolidation column. In this
connection, a total of € 452 thousand (previous year: € 22 thousand)
of earnings before taxes derives from consolidation impacts, while
€ – 173,257 thousand (previous year. € – 79,603 thousand) derives
from reconciliation to the IFRS EBT.
The Group generates most of its revenues with business associates in
countries in the European Union. The breakdown of revenues by
regions is based on the location of the customers, and is as follows:
o T 108

2014/15

2013/14

Germany

3,581,806

3,353,270

Other European Union c­ ountries

4,128,565

4,573,002

in € thousand

269,375

385,530

1,626,442

1,691,113

America

935,792

820,221

Other

453,222

417,831

10,995,202

11,240,967

Rest of Europe
Asia

Group total

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

187
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

The breakdown of capital expenditure and non-current assets by
regions is based on the location of the respective assets:
o T 109

Capital expenditure

Assets

2014/15

2013/14

2014/15

2013/14

Germany

59,947

78,483

819,417

824,646

Bulgaria

29,476

21,569

332,777

349,303

Belgium

9,878

12,035

174,331

175,145

Other European countries

4,729

7,862

68,029

78,647

North America

7,717

8,423

45,875

40,547

111,747

128,372

1,440,429

1,468,288

in € thousand

Group total
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted (see p. 127 et seq.).

The locations in other European countries are mainly business sites
within the European Union.
Primary Copper segment
Copper production ranges from the procurement of copper-bearing
and precious metal-bearing raw materials to the production of marketable metals. In the Primary Copper segment, copper concentrates are
mainly used as the raw material for copper production. The products
are copper cathodes that can be traded on the metal exchanges, as

well as gold, silver and platinum metal products that originate from
additionally processed precious metal-bearing raw materials. During
the copper production process, a variety of products are produced in
this segment from the natural by-elements in the raw materials, such
as sulfuric acid and iron silicate stone. Furthermore, the Primary Copper segment produces high-quality selenium products.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

188

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Revenues in the Primary Copper segment consist both of revenues
generated within the Group (since all of the copper cathodes produced are sold to the Copper Products segment) and of sales of precious metals to external customers. In addition, sulfuric acid and iron
silicate stone are sold to external customers.
Copper Products segment
The Copper Products segment includes copper production from
­copper-bearing recycling materials and all sectors involved in the production and marketing of wire rod, continuous cast shapes, strip and
profiles as well as specialty products. The copper cathodes produced
in this segment and the Primary Copper segment mainly serve as the
starting products for these products. Products produced by this segment are sold to customers worldwide.
Segment data
The revenues of the individual segments consist of inter-­segment revenues and of revenues with third parties outside the Group. The total
third party revenues of the individual segments correspond to the
consolidated revenues of the Group. The prices and conditions for
products and services exchanged between Group companies and segments correspond to those with non-related parties.
A breakdown of the revenues by product groups is provided in the
information on revenues (Note 1).
Operating EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) represents earnings before taxes, adjusted for the financial result allocated to the segment. Based on this, operating EBITDA (earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization) is operating EBIT adjusted for
depreciation and amortization on intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment belonging to the segment.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

In total, impairment losses amounting to € 14,612 thousand were
made in respect of assets (previous year: reversals of impairment
losses of € 3,465 thousand), comprising impairment losses of € 9,346
thousand relating to the Primary Copper segment (previous year:
reversals of impairment losses of € 3,243 thousand) and impairment
losses of € 5,266 thousand relating to the Copper Products segment
(previous year: reversals of impairment losses of € 223 thousand). As
was the case with the reversals of impairment losses in the previous
year, the impairment losses in the Primary Copper segment related
exclusively to impairment losses (previous year: reversals of impairment losses) on current assets. In the Copper Products segment,
there were impairment losses of € 2,618 thousand (previous year:
reversals of impairment losses of € 223 thousand) relating to current
assets; impairment losses of € 2,648 thousand were recognized on
fixed assets in the current fiscal year in accordance with IAS 36
­(previous year: € 0 thousand).
The average number of employees for each segment includes all the
employees of companies that were fully consolidated in the accompanying financial statements.

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

189
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Other disclosures
Disclosures concerning relationships to related parties
In accordance with IAS 24, related parties are regarded as all individual persons and entities that can be influenced by, or that can themselves influence, the Company.
The employees’ representatives on the Supervisory Board received
compensation for their employment at Aurubis AG at a level that is
normal for the market.
In the Aurubis Group, various group companies purchase different
types of services from and provide different types of services to
related companies as part of their normal business activities. Such
delivery and service relationships are charged at market prices. In the
case of services, these are conducted using the basis of existing contracts. The following amounts relate to a joint venture accounted for
using the equity method:
9/30/2015
in € thousand

Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG

o T 110

Income

Expenses

Receivables

Liabilities

79,654

30,957

3,762

1,132

9/30/2014
in € thousand

Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG

o T 111

Income

Expenses

Receivables

Liabilities

115,255

26,109

6,962

877

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

190

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The following amounts relate to non-consolidated related companies:
9/30/2015
in € t housand

Joint ventures
Subsidiaries

o T 112

Income

Expenses

Receivables

Liabilities

6
3,333

152,977

0

3,240

1,667

1,986

1,195

9/30/2014
in € thousand

Joint ventures
Subsidiaries

o T 113

Income

Expenses

Receivables

Liabilities

18
3,091

198,216

0

4,545

1,264

3,389

1,207

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted as at 9/30/2014 (see p. 127 et seq.).

With the exception of Salzgitter AG, no individual shareholders of
Aurubis AG exercise a significant influence on the Aurubis Group.
Salzgitter Group companies accounted for € 3,959 thousand in
expenses (previous year: € 336 thousand) and € 0 thousand in
income (previous year: € 27 thousand) during the fiscal year. At the
balance sheet date, there were related liabilities of € 243 thousand
(previous year: € 0 thousand).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

At the balance sheet date, letters of comfort totaling € 6,000 thousand (previous year: € 6,000 thousand) had been issued to secure
bank liabilities of C.M.R. International N.V., Antwerp, a joint venture
that is not included in the scope of the consolidation.

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

191
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Disclosures on the Executive Board and Supervisory Board
Total compensation
The total compensation of the active Executive Board members for
fiscal year 2014/15 amounted to € 4,301,440 and included a fixed
component for the past fiscal year of € 1,804,500, fringe benefits
of € 70,238 and a variable component of € 2,426,702. In addition,
­expenditures for pension provisions in the amount of € 873,573
were recognized as an expense.

The following member of the Supervisory Board informed the
­Company that he had acquired or sold no-par-value shares in the
Company in the period from October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015:

Former members of the Executive Board and their surviving
­dependents received a total of € 2,011,433, while € 25,638,636 has
been provided for their pension entitlement.

Declaration of conformity with the German Corporate
Governance Code in accordance with Section 161 German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG)
The declaration required under Section 161 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) has been issued by the Executive Board and the
Supervisory Board and has been made permanently accessible to the
shareholders on the Company’s website.

The compensation of the Supervisory Board for fiscal year 2014/15
amounted to € 1,015,870.
Details of the individual compensation of the members of the
­Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are provided in the
­compensation report.
Shareholdings
Members of the Supervisory Board hold 4,031 shares (6,515 shares
in the prior year) and members of the Executive Board hold
2,400 shares (4,600 shares in the prior year) in Aurubis AG.
Notifiable securities transactions
Directors’ dealings
In accordance with Section 15a German Securities Trading Act
(WpHG), the members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory
Board must ­disclose the acquisition and sale of shares in the Company. This does not apply if the total transactions per person do not
reach an amount of € 5,000 per calendar year.
Members of the Executive Board did not carry out any notifiable
securities transactions from October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015 or
only carried out transactions under the € 5,000 threshold.

»» Rolf Schwertz: sold 1,564 no-par-value shares
The Executive Board and Supervisory Board hold less than 1 % of the
shares issued by the Company.

Notification pursuant to Section 160 (1) No. 8 German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG)
Norges Bank (the Central Bank of Norway), Oslo, Norway, informed
us on April 10, 2015 pursuant to Section 21 (1) German Securities
­Trading Act (WpHG) that their voting rights in Aurubis AG had
exceeded the 3 % voting rights threshold on April 9, 2015 and on that
day amounted to 3.03 % of the voting rights (representing 1,361,144
voting rights).
The Ministry of Finance on behalf of the State of Norway, Oslo,
­Norway, informed us on April 10, 2015 pursuant to Section 21 (1)
­German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) that their voting rights in
Aurubis AG had exceeded the 3 % voting rights threshold on April 9,
2015 and on that day amounted to 3.03 % of the voting rights
­(representing 1,361,144 voting rights). 3.03 % of the voting rights
­(representing 1,361,144 voting rights) are attributed via Norges Bank
to the country of Norway represented by the Ministry of Finance
­pursuant to Section 22 (1) sentence 1 No. 1 German Securities
Trading Act (WpHG).
Norges Bank (the Central Bank of Norway), Oslo, Norway, informed us
on May 12, 2015 pursuant to Section 21 (1) German Securities Trading
Act (WpHG) that their voting rights in Aurubis AG had fallen below the
3 % voting rights threshold on May 11, 2015 and on that day amounted
to 2.93 % of the voting rights (representing 1,318,398 voting rights).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

192

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The Ministry of Finance on behalf of the State of Norway, Oslo,
­Norway, informed us on May 12, 2015 pursuant to Section 21 (1)
­German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) that their voting rights in
Aurubis AG had fallen below the 3 % voting rights threshold on
May 11, 2015 and on that day amounted to 2.93 % of the voting rights
­(representing 1,318,398 voting rights). 2.93 % of the voting rights
­(representing 1,318,398 voting rights) are attributed to the company
pursuant to Section 22 (1) sentence 1 No. 1 German Securities Trading
Act (WpHG).
Norges Bank (the Central Bank of Norway), Oslo, Norway, informed
us on May 22, 2015 pursuant to Section 21 (1) German Securities
­Trading Act (WpHG) that their voting rights in Aurubis AG had
exceeded the 3 % voting rights threshold on May 20, 2015 and on
that day amounted to 3.08 % of the voting rights (representing
1,382,846 ­voting rights).
The Ministry of Finance on behalf of the State of Norway, Oslo,
­Norway, informed us on May 22, 2015 pursuant to Section 21 (1)
­German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) that their voting rights in
Aurubis AG had exceeded the 3 % voting rights threshold on May 20,
2015 and on that day amounted to 3.08 % of the voting rights
­(representing 1,382,846 voting rights). 3.08 % of the voting rights
­(representing 1,382,846 voting rights) are attributed via Norges Bank
to the country of Norway represented by the Ministry of Finance
­pursuant to Section 22 (1) sentence 1 No. 1 German Securities Trading
Act (WpHG).
J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc., New York, USA, informed
us on August 18, 2015 pursuant to Section 21 (1) German Securities
Trading Act (WpHG) that their voting rights in Aurubis AG had
exceeded the 3 % voting rights threshold on August 17, 2015 and on
that day amounted to 3.32 % of the voting rights (representing
1,491,858 voting rights).
3.07 % of the voting rights (representing 1,381,984 voting rights) are
attributed to the company pursuant to Section 22 (2) German
­Securities Trading Act (WpHG).
0.24 % of the voting rights (representing 109,874 voting rights) are
attributed to the company pursuant to Section 22 (1) sentence 1 No. 6
German Securities Trading Act (WpHG).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited, London, United Kingdom,
informed us on August 18, 2015 pursuant to Section 21 (1) German
Securities Trading Act (WpHG) that their voting rights in Aurubis AG
had exceeded the 3 % voting rights threshold on August 17, 2015 and
on that day amounted to 3.32 % of the voting rights (representing
1,491,858 voting rights).
0.32 % of the voting rights (representing 145,894 voting rights) are
attributed to the company pursuant to Section 22 (2) German
­Securities Trading Act (WpHG).
2.99 % of the voting rights (representing 1,345,964 voting rights) are
attributed to the company pursuant to Section 22 (1) sentence 1 No. 6
German Securities Trading Act (WpHG).
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, Columbus, Ohio, USA,
informed us on August 18, 2015 pursuant to Section 21 (1) German
Securities Trading Act (WpHG) that their voting rights in Aurubis AG
had exceeded the 3 % voting rights threshold on August 17, 2015 and
on that day amounted to 3.32 % of the voting rights (representing
1,491,858 voting rights).
3.24 % of the voting rights (representing 1,455,838 voting rights) are
attributed to the company pursuant to Section 22 (2) German
­Securities Trading Act (WpHG).
0.08 % of the voting rights (representing 36,020 voting rights) are
attributed to the company pursuant to Section 22 (1) sentence 1 No. 6
German Securities Trading Act (WpHG).
Section 25 German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) includes a comparable notification obligation corresponding to Section 21 (1) German
Securities Trading Act (WpHG) with respect to financial instruments
that grant their owner an unconditional right to unilateral acquisition
of shares with voting rights. Moreover, Section 25a German Securities
Trading Act (WpHG) introduced an additional notification obligation
as of February 1, 2012: this extends to financial and other instruments
that enable their owner, virtually or commercially, to purchase shares
connected with voting rights. The notifications submitted to the
­Company in accordance with Sections 25 and 25a German Securities
Trading Act can be accessed on the Company’s website or on the
online platform of the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Ad-hoc-Publizität.

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

193
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

Auditors’ fees
The following fees were recorded as expenses for fiscal year 2014/15
or the prior year for services rendered by the group auditors,
­PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft:
o T 114
in € thousand

2014/15

2013/14

1,036

1,076

Audit services
Other assurance and valuation services
Tax services
Other services
Total

34

10

194

120

51

105

1,315

1,311

Hamburg, December 10, 2015
The Executive Board

Erwin Faust
(Spokesman)

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

194

Consolidated Financial Statements

Investments
pursuant to Section 313 (2) German Commercial Code (HGB)
as at September 30, 2015
o T 115

Company name and registered office
1

% of capital
held directly
and indirectly

Held directly by

Aurubis AG
Fully consolidated companies

2

Aurubis Belgium nv/sa, Brussels

100

1

3

Aurubis Holding Sweden AB, Stockholm

100

2

4

Aurubis Sweden AB, Finspång

100

3

5

Aurubis Finland Oy, Pori

100

2

6

Aurubis Holding USA LLC, Buffalo

100

2

7

Aurubis Buffalo Inc., Buffalo

100

6

8

Aurubis Netherlands BV, Zutphen

100

2

9

Aurubis Mortara S.p.A., Mortara

100

2

10

Cumerio Austria GmbH, Vienna

100

1

11

Aurubis Bulgaria AD, Pirdop

99.86

10

12

Aurubis Engineering EAD, Sofia

100

10

13

Aurubis Italia Srl, Avellino

100

1

14

Aurubis Switzerland SA, Yverdon-les-Bains

100

1

15

Aurubis Stolberg GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg

100

1

16

Aurubis U.K. Ltd., Smethwick

100

15

17

Aurubis Slovakia s.r.o., Dolny Kubin

100

15

18

CABLO Metall-Recycling & Handel GmbH, Fehrbellin

100

1

19

Peute Baustoff GmbH, Hamburg

100

1

20

RETORTE GmbH Selenium Chemicals & Metals, Röthenbach

100

1

21

E.R.N. Elektro-Recycling NORD GmbH, Hamburg

100

1

22

Aurubis Product Sales GmbH, Hamburg

100

1

23

Deutsche Giessdraht GmbH, Emmerich

60

1

50

15

Companies included at equity
24

Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Consolidated Financial Statements
110	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 1	Consolidated Statement of
­Comprehensive Income
112	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

195
114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
115	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
116	Notes to the
Financial Statements

Company name and registered office

% of capital
held directly
and indirectly

Held directly by

Non-consolidated companies
25

Aurubis Stolberg Verwaltungs-GmbH, Stolberg

100

1

26

Hüttenbau-Gesellschaft Peute mbH, Hamburg

100

1

27

Aurubis Hong Kong Ltd., Hong Kong

100

2

28

Aurubis Metal Products (Shanghai) Co., Ltd, Shanghai

100

27

29

Aurubis Rus LLC, St. Petersburg

100

2

30

Aurubis Canada Metals Inc., Vancouver

100

1

31

BCPC B.V., Zutphen, Netherlands

100

1

32

Retorte do Brasil, Joinville

51

20

33

C.M.R. International N.V., Antwerp

50

1

34

Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH, Stolberg

50

15

35

JoSeCo GmbH, Kirchheim/Swabia

33

20

36

Aurubis Middle East FZE, Dubai

100

22

37

Aurubis Turkey Kimya Anonim Sirketi, Istanbul

100

11

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

196

Auditors’ Report

Auditors’ Report
We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by
the Aurubis AG, Hamburg, comprising the statement of financial position, the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes
in equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated
financial statements, together with the group management report,
which is combined with the management report of the Aurubis AG for
the business year from 1 October 2014 to 30. September 2015. The
preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report in accordance with the IFRSs, as adopted
by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial
law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) and supplementary provisions of the articles of incorporation are the responsibility of the parent Company’s Board of Managing Directors. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and the
combined management report based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in
accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards
for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der
Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that
misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets,
financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework and in the combined management report are detected
with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and
the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations
as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related
internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements and in the combined management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual financial
statements of the companies included in consolidation, the determination of the companies to be included in consolidation, the

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by the Company’s Board of Managing Directors, as well
as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial
statements and the combined management report. We believe that
our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.
In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated
financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and
the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to
§ 315a Abs. 1 HGB and supplementary provisions of the articles of
incorporation and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial
position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with
these provisions. The combined management report is consistent with
the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
Hamburg, December 10, 2015
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Matthias Kirschke		
Wirtschaftsprüfer		
(German Public Auditor)

ppa. Alexander Fernis
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

197

Responsibility Statement

Responsibility Statement
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable
reporting principles, the Consolidated Financial Statements give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit
or loss of the Group, and the Combined Management Report includes
a fair review of the development and performance of the business and
the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal
opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of
the Group.
Hamburg, December 10, 2015
The Executive Board

Erwin Faust
(Spokesman)

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

198

Further Information

Glossary
Anodes
The end product of pyrometallurgical copper production. Positive
polarized electrodes of a tankhouse cell. Copper content about 99.5 %
Anode furnace
A furnace used in pyrometallurgical copper refining
Anode slimes
A product of the copper tankhouse which settles on the bottom of a
tankhouse cell. Contains precious and non-soluble components of the
anode, including silver, gold, selenium and lead in particular
Blister copper
Unrefined porous copper. During solidification, dissolved gases form
small blisters in the copper. Blister copper is also purchased as a raw
material
Cathode premium
Surcharge for high-quality cathodes (Grade A) and premium for
cathode delivery paid by the customer; reflects scarcity in structurally
undersupplied markets
CDP
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a non-profit organization with
the objective of encouraging companies and towns to publish their
environmental data. Once a year, the CDP collects data and information about CO2 emissions, climate risks and reduction targets and
strategies from companies on a voluntary basis with the use of questionnaires
COMEX
Commodity exchange located in New York on which copper and
other materials are traded. Especially important for the American
market
Commodity
A term for materials mostly traded on the exchanges, including
non-ferrous metals such as copper, tin and lead as well as precious
metals, but also crude oil, grain and coffee

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Complex raw materials
Both primary and secondary raw materials are becoming more
­complex, i.e. their copper contents are decreasing and their con­
centrations of tramp elements and impurities are increasing
Compliance
Compliance means conforming to certain rules. Apart from laws,
directives and other standards, it also refers to corporate guidelines
(e.g. codes of conduct)
Contango
The normal status of commodity futures contracts on the exchange in
which the price for prompt deliveries is below the forward price for
future delivery (taking storage costs into account). The opposite of
backwardation
Continuous casting
Continuous casting produces a continuous strand. During the casting
process, a flying saw separates individual bars in different lengths.
These so-called continuous cast products with varying cross-sections
are processed by rolling and extrusion into plates, foils and tubes
Continuous cast wire rod
Semi-finished product produced in a continuous process and used for
the fabrication of copper wire. Standard diameter: 8 mm. Other
dimensions can also be supplied
Converter
Metallurgical furnace in which metal production or refining processes
are typically carried out through oxidation. Copper matte from the
flash smelter is treated in the converter and becomes blister copper
Copper cathodes
Quality product of the copper tankhouse (copper content 99.99 %)
and the first marketable product in copper production which can be
sold on the metal exchanges

Further Information
198	Glossary
202	List of Graphics
202 List of Tables

199
204
205
206

2-year Overview
Financial Calendar
Imprint

Copper concentrates
A product resulting from the processing (enriching) of copper ores,
the Aurubis Group’s main raw material. Since copper is found almost
exclusively in ores in compound form and in low concentrations (usually below 1 % copper content), the ores are enriched in processing
facilities into concentrates (copper content of 25 to 40 %) after
extraction from the mine
Copper tankhouse
In the copper tankhouse an electrochemical process, the last refining
stage in copper recovery, takes place. Anodes and cathodes are hung
in a sulfuric acid solution (electrolyte) and connected to an electric
current. Copper and baser elements (e.g. nickel) are dissolved in the
electrolyte. Copper from the solution is deposited on the cathode
with a purity of 99.99 %. More precious metals (e.g. silver and gold)
and insoluble components settle as so-called anode slimes on the
bottom of the tankhouse cell
CSR reporting obligation
Corporate Social Responsibility Directive 2014/95/EU on the
­disclosure of non-financial and diversity information
DAX
The DAX (an abbreviation of “Deutscher Aktienindex”, or “German
Stock Index”) is the main German stock index. It reflects the development of the 30 largest and strongest companies (related to free float
market capitalization and order book volume) that are listed in the
Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange
EEX
The European Energy Exchange is an energy exchange in Leipzig. As a
public institution, it is subject to German energy exchange law. With
over 240 exchange participants from 24 countries, it is the leader in
continental Europe. Electricity, natural gas, CO2 emission allowances,
coal and proofs of origin for green electricity are traded on the EEX

EMAS
Eco-Management and Audit Scheme, also known as the EU eco-audit.
EMAS was developed by the European Union and is a joint system
comprising environmental management and environmental auditing
for organizations that want to improve their environmental performance. The EMAS Regulation (Eco-Audit Regulation) gives companies
a key role in responsibly handling their direct and indirect environmental impacts
(Employee) locker room
Changing area and washroom for mine and smelter workers
Flash smelter
First phase in the processing of copper concentrate. The concentrate,
which is suspended in a reaction shaft, reacts with oxygen and is
melted through the heat released. Sulfur and iron are separated into
intermediate products. The copper is then enriched in the copper
matte (copper content about 65 %)
GRI
(Global Reporting Initiative) Participatory procedure for developing
regulations for the sustainability reports of large companies, small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), governments and NGOs
Iron silicate
A by-product of copper production in the refining process. Formed
using sand from iron chemically bonded to copper concentrates and
recycling raw materials. Is mainly used in the construction industry as
granules/sand or in a lumpy form
KRS
Kayser Recycling System; a state-of-the-art recycling plant in Lünen
for the treatment of a wide range of copper-bearing secondary raw
materials
KRS-Plus
Expansion of the existing KRS facility that includes a top blown rotary
converter and a slag separation and holding furnace

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

200

Further Information

LME
London Metal Exchange: the most important metal exchange in the
world with the highest turnover

Settlement price
Official cash selling rate on the LME. Price basis in annual sales
­agreements

LTIFR
Lost time injury frequency rate

Shape surcharge
Fee for processing copper cathodes into copper products

MDAX
The MDAX (derived from “mid-cap DAX”) is a German stock index
introduced on January 19, 1996. It includes 50 stocks – primarily from
classic industries – that follow the DAX stocks in the ranking of free
float market capitalization and stock market turnover. The MDAX thus
reflects the price trend of shares in medium-sized companies located
or primarily active in Germany (mid-caps)
Metal gain
The quantity of metals that a smelter is able to bring out of the raw
material input beyond the metal content paid for
PRIMA
Performance, Responsibility, Integrity, Mutability, Appreciation. The
first letters of these values spell the German word “prima”, meaning
“great”
Primary copper
Copper recovered from copper ores
Recycling materials
Materials in a closed loop economy. They arise as residues from
­production processes or during the preparation of end-of-life
­products and rejects and are ideal for recycling
Secondary copper
Copper produced from recycled material

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Spot market
Daily business; market for prompt deliveries
Supply Chain Management
SCM is a process-oriented management approach that comprises all
of the flows of raw materials, semi-finished products, final products
and information along the value and supply chain, from raw material
suppliers to final customers, and pursues the objective of resource
optimization for all of the divisions in the Company that are part of
the supply chain
Treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs), refining charges (RCs)
Fees that Aurubis receives for processing ore concentrates and
­recycling raw materials into copper
Top blown rotary converter (TBRC)
A single-stage pyrometallurgical facility for the recovery of precious
metals from the anode slimes in the copper tankhouse

Further Information
198	Glossary
202	List of Graphics
202 List of Tables

201
204
205
206

2-year Overview
Financial Calendar
Imprint

Glossary of financial terms
Capital employed
Capital employed is the sum of equity, provisions for pension
­liabilities and financial liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents.
EBIT
EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) is an indicator of a
­company’s operative earning power, ignoring its capital structure.
EBITDA
EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) is an indicator of a company’s operative earning power, ignoring
its capital structure and propensity to invest.
EBT
EBT (earnings before taxes) is an indicator of a company’s earning
power.

Free cash flow
Free cash flow is the generated surplus of cash and cash equivalents
taking into account cash-related changes in working capital and after
deducting capital expenditure. It is available for the company’s dividend and interest payments as well as for the redemption of financial
liabilities.
Net cash flow
Net cash flow is the generated surplus of cash and cash equivalents
after taking into account cash-related changes in working capital. It is
available for payments in conjunction with the company’s investing
and financing activities.
Net financial liabilities
Net financial liabilities consist of long and short-term financial liabilities less cash and cash equivalents.
ROCE
ROCE (return on capital employed) is the ratio of EBIT to capital
employed as at the balance sheet date. It describes the efficiency with
which capital was utilized during the reporting period.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

202

Further Information

List of Graphics
Page

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares on the Capital Market
G 01	Aurubis share performance compared
with the DAX and MDAX, from October 1,
2014 to September 30, 2015
G 02 Shareholder structure
G 03 Overview of analyst recommendations

43
44
45

Consolidated Management Report
Foundations of the Group

Page
G 07	R&D employees
G 08	R&D expenditures
G 09 Aurubis Group employees
G 10 Aurubis Group personnel structure
G 11	Capital expenditure for environmental
protection at Aurubis, copper production
G 12	Topics in Group environmental
protection until 2015
G 13 Dust emissions
G 14 Accident frequency

52
53
54
54
58
59
60
63

Economic Report

G 04	Business model: integrating copper
production and processing
G 05	Organizational structure: two operating
Business Units with central management
G 06	Pricing along the value chain

48
49
50

G 15 Expected GDP growth in 2015 	
G 16	Copper price and metal exchange
copper inventories
G 17 Development of revenues by product groups

64

Page
G 18 Source and application of funds
G 19 Concentrate throughput
G 20 Silver output
G 21 Gold output
G 22 Capital expenditure in BU Primary Copper
G 23	Copper scrap input in the Group
G 24 Continuous cast wire rod output
G 25 Continuous cast shape output
G 26 Cathode output in the Group
G 27 Cathode output in the Group by sites
G 28 Capital expenditure in BU Copper Products
G 29	Development of Aurubis AG revenues by
product groups

75
78
78
79
79
81
82
82
83
83
83
86

67
69

List of Tables
Page

Overview

Economic Report

T 001 The Group in Figures

K2

Corporate Governance
Compensation report for the Executive Board
and the Supervisory Board of Aurubis AG
T 002 Benefits granted
T 003 Inflow
T 004	Compensation of the individual members of
the Supervisory Board

38
40
42

Aurubis Shares on the Capital Market
T 005 Key figures of Aurubis shares
T 006 Information on Aurubis shares
T 007 Analyst coverage 2014/15

Page

45
46
46

T 009	Reconciliation of the
consolidated income statement
T 010 Breakdown of revenues
T 011 Consolidated income statement
T 012	Reconciliation of the
consolidated balance sheet
T 013	Operating return on capital
employed (ROCE)
T 014 Balance sheet structure of the Aurubis Group
T 015 Group financial ratios
T 016 Net borrowings in the Group
T 017	Business Unit Primary Copper:
Key figures
T 018	Business Unit Copper Products: Key figures
T 019	Development of the annual result and
significant income statement items (HGB)
T 020 Balance sheet structure of Aurubis AG
T 021	Liabilities to banks and their terms to maturity

Consolidated Management Report
Foundations of the Group

Risk and Opportunity Report

T 008 Operating return on capital employed (ROCE) 51

T 022 External risk reporting

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Page

Consolidated Financial Statements
68
69
70
72
73
74
75
76

T 023	Consolidated Income Statement
T 024	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
T 025	Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:
Assets
T 026	Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:
Equity and liabilities
T 027 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
T 028 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

110
111
112
113
114
115

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

77
80

T 029	Expected economic useful lives of the assets
within the Group
122

85
87
88

Changes in accounting and measurement
methods due to new standards and
interpretations

90

T 030	Standards and interpretations applied
for the first time
T 031	Standards and interpretations
not adopted early
T 032	Corrections pursuant to IAS 8 to the
consolidated statement of financial position
(previous year)

125
126
128

Further Information
198	Glossary
202	List of Graphics
202 List of Tables

203
204
205
206

2-year Overview
Financial Calendar
Imprint

Page
T 033	Corrections pursuant to IAS 8 to the
consolidated statement of financial position
T 034 Corrections pursuant to IAS 8 to the the
consolidated income statement

130
132

Notes to the income statement
T 035 Revenues
T 036	Changes in inventories of finished goods
and work in process
T 037	Other operating income
T 038	Cost of materials
T 039	Personnel expenses and human resources
T 040	Average number of employees
T 041	Other operating expenses
T 042 Interest
T 043	Other financial result
T 044	Income taxes
T 045 Reconciliation
T 046 Recognition and measurement differences in
individual items in the statement of financial
position, from tax loss carryforwards and
from outside basis differences (OBD)
T 047 Deferred and current taxes that directly
decreased or increased the other
comprehensive income (OCI) and
accordingly equity
T 048	Earnings per share

134
134
134
134
134
135
135
135
136
136
137

138

139
140

Notes to the statement of financial position
T 049	Intangible assets:
Costs of acquisition or generation
T 050	Intangible assets:
Amortization and impairment losses
T 051	Intangible assets: Carrying amount
T 052	Intangible assets:
Costs of acquisition or generation
(previous year)
T 053	Intangible assets:
Amortization and impairment losses
(previous year)
T 054	Intangible assets: Carrying amount
(previous year)
T 055	Property, plant and equipment:
Acquisition or construction cost
T 056	Property, plant and equipment:
Depreciation and impairment losses
T 057	Property, plant and equipment:
Carrying amount
T 058	Property, plant and equipment:
Acquisition or construction cost
(previous year)
T 059	Property, plant and equipment:
Depreciation and impairment losses
(previous year)
T 060	Property, plant and equipment:
Carrying amount (previous year)
T 061	Summarized statement of financial position
T 062	Summarized statement of
comprehensive income

141
141
141
142
142
142
144
144
145
146
146
147
149

Page
T 063	Reconciliation of the combined
financial information
T 064 Inventories
T 065	Age structure of the trade
accounts receivable
T 066	Movements on the allowances for
trade accounts receivable
T 067	Non-current receivables and other assets
T 068	Current receivables and other assets
T 069	Allowances on other financial assets
T 070	Proposed appropriation of earnings
T 071	Market discount rates, salary and
pension trends used to calculate the
pension obligations
T 072	Net pension provision for defined
benefit plans
T 073	Development of the present value of
the pension obligations
T 074	Development of the plan assets
T 075	Development of the net liability
T 076	Plan assets in the Group
T 077	Sensitivity analysis
T 078	Duration terms expected for undiscounted
pension payments in the future
T 079	Other provisions
T 080	Liabilities
T 081	Liabilities under finance leases
T 082	Undiscounted interest and redemption
payments for non-derivative financial
liabilities and the discounted net cash flows
of the derivative financial instruments with
negative fair values
T 083	Undiscounted interest and redemption
payments for non-derivative financial
liabilities and the discounted net cash flows
of the derivative financial instruments with
negative fair values (previous year)
T 084	Non-financial liabilities
T 085	Other financial commitments
T 086	Financial commitments under leases
T 087	Foreign currency risk
T 088	Currency sensitivity
T 089	Variable interest risk positions
T 090	Interest rate sensitivities
T 091	Nominal volumes of the derivatives
T 092 Commodity price sensitivity
T 093 Financial derivatives
T 094	Cash flow hedges as at September 30, 2015
T 095	Cash flow hedges as at September 30, 2014
T 096	Additional disclosures for
financial instruments
T 097	Financial instruments from Level 1 measured
at fair value
T 098	Financial instruments from Level 2 measured
at fair value
T 099	Financial instruments from Level 2 not
measured at fair value
T 100	Financial instruments from Level 3 measured
at fair value

150
150
151
151
152
152
153
155
156
156
157
158
158
159
160
160
161
162
163

164

Page
T 101	Hierarchical classification of fair values of
financial instruments in accordance with
IFRS 7 as at September 30, 2015
T 102	Hierarchical classification of fair values of
financial instruments in accordance with
IFRS 7 as at September 30, 2014
T 103	Reconciliation of financial instruments in
Level 3 as at September 30, 2015
T 104	Reconciliation of financial instruments in
Level as at September 30, 2014
T 105	Offsetting options for derivative financial
assets and liabilities
T 106	Net earnings by measurement categories

178
179
180
180
181
182

Segment reporting
T 107 Segment reporting
T 108	Revenues by regions based on the location
of the customers
T 109	Capital expenditure and non-current
assets by regions
T 110	Disclosures concerning relationships to
related parties as at September 30, 2015
T 111	Disclosures concerning relationships to
related parties as at September 30, 2014
T 112	Amounts related to non-consolidated related
companies as at September 30, 2015
T 113	Amounts related to non-consolidated related
companies as at September 30, 2014
T 114 Auditors’ fees
T 115 Investments
		

184
186
187
189
189
190
190
193
194

Further Information

164
165
165
166
167
167
168
169
169
170
171
172
172

T 116	2-year Overview
T 117 Financial Calendar

204
205

174
176
177
177
177

149

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

204

Further Information

2-year Overview
Aurubis Group (IFRS)
in € million

o T 116

2014/15 1)

2013/14 1) 2)

Results
10,995

11,241

EBITDA

336

216

Operating EBITDA

500

288

EBIT

200

88

Operating EBIT

370

167

EBT

170

58

Operating EBT

343

137

Consolidated net income

134

44

Operating consolidated net income

257

99

Net cash flow

365

401

Total assets

4,044

3,943

Fixed assets

Revenues

Consolidated statement of financial position
1,440

1,468

Capital expenditure

112

128

Depreciation and amortization

136

128

1,969

1,877

Equity
1)

2)

Values have been “operationally” adjusted for measurement effects deriving from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, from copper price-related
­ easurement effects on inventories and from purchase price allocation impacts, primarily on property, plant and equipment, commencing from fiscal year 2010/11 onwards.
m
Prior-year figures have been adjusted pursuant to IAS 8 (more detailed information can be found on p. 127 et seq. of this Annual Report).

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Further Information
198	Glossary
202	List of Graphics
202 List of Tables

205
204
205
206

2-year Overview
Financial Calendar
Imprint

Financial Calendar
o T 117

December 11, 2015

Annual Report 2014/15

December 11, 2015

Press Conference on Fiscal Year 2014/15

December 11, 2015

Analyst Conference in Frankfurt

February 10, 2016

Interim Report on the First 3 Months 2015/16

February 24, 2016

Annual General Meeting

May 10, 2016

Interim Report on the First 6 Months 2015/16

August 10, 2016

Interim Report on the First 9 Months 2015/16

December 14, 2016

Annual Report 2015/16

December 14, 2016

Press Conference on Fiscal Year 2015/16

Our fiscal year starts on October 1 and ends on September 30.

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

206

Further Information

Imprint
If you would like more information, please contact:
Aurubis AG
Hovestrasse 50, 20539 Hamburg, Germany
info@aurubis.com
www.aurubis.com
Investor Relations
Angela Seidler
Phone + 49 40 7883-3178
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3130
a.seidler@aurubis.com
Dieter Birkholz
Phone + 49 40 7883-3969
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3130
d.birkholz@aurubis.com
Elke Brinkmann
Phone + 49 40 7883-2379
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3130
e.brinkmann@aurubis.com
Corporate Communications & External Affairs
Ulf Bauer
Phone + 49 40 7883-2387
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3003
u.bauer@aurubis.com
Michaela Hessling
Phone + 49 40 7883-3053
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3003
m.hessling@aurubis.com

Aurubis ⋅ Annual Report 2014/15

Concept, consulting & design
Kirchhoff Consult AG
Photos/illustrations
Thies Rätzke (page 2)
Getty Images (page 10)
Ivan Lulchev (page 11)
Aurubis AG (pages 7, 9, 12–13, 15, 16, 18)
Salzgitter AG (page 24)
Print
omb2 Print GmbH, Munich
Paper
Printed on FSC-certified paper. By using FSC paper, we
are actively supporting the preservation of our forests,
promoting plant and wildlife protection and are taking a
stand against human exploitation of forest resources.

Disclaimer:
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements based on
current assumptions and forecasts. Various known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors could have the impact that the actual
future results, financial situation or developments differ from the estimates given here. We assume no liability to update ­forward-looking
statements.

Our Copper for your Life
The positive development in fiscal year 2014/15 pushes us to continue on our
successful path. The 150th anniversary of the Company’s founding on April 28, 2016
will be a notable milestone. Many things have happened over the course of time.
From its modest beginnings, the Company has become one of the world’s leading
copper groups. With the upgrade 149.0, we have put Aurubis on track to continue
its success story in the coming years as well. However, many things that were
initiated and addressed during the reporting year to make Aurubis fit for the future
have yet to be implemented and to unfold. The new fiscal year 2015/16 therefore
won’t be just a notable anniversary year but also a year of further development.

aurubis.com
Aurubis AG
Hovestrasse 50
D-20539 Hamburg
Phone +49 40 7883-0
Fax
+49 40 7883-2255
info@aurubis.com

