ALL THE BEST FOR
THE FUTURE
Annual Report 2015/16

THE AURUBIS GROUP IN FIGURES
o T 001
IFRS

2015/16 3)

2014/15 3)

Change

Results
Revenues
EBITDA
Operating EBITDA
EBIT
Operating EBIT
EBT
Operating EBT 1)
Consolidated net income
Operating consolidated net income
Net cash flow
Operating ROCE 1)

€ million
€ million
€ million
€ million
€ million
€ million
€ million
€ million
€ million
€ million
%

9,475
312
358
177
229
159
213
124
165
236
10.9

10,995
336
500
200
370
170
343
134
257
365
18.7

–14 %
–7 %
–28 %
–12 %
–38 %
–6 %
–38 %
–7 %
–36 %
–35 %
–

Aurubis shares
Market capitalization
Earnings per share
Operating earnings per share
Dividend per share 2)

€ million
€
€
€

2,242
2.71
3.64
1.25

2,558
2.95
5.68
1.35

–12 %
–8 %
–36 %
–7 %

1) Corporate control parameters.
2) 2015/16 figure is the proposed dividend.
3) Values have been “operationally” adjusted for measurement effects deriving from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, from copper price-related
­measurement effects on inventories and from purchase price allocation impacts, primarily on property, plant and equipment, commencing from fiscal year 2010/11 onwards.

Input/output

Human resources

in thousand t (previous year in parentheses)

Number of employees (personnel expenses in € million in parentheses)
6,372
(421)

2,156
(2,295)

6,359 1) 6,321 1) 6,454 1)
(415)
(431)
(449)

Co
n

1)

15
/1
6
20

4

14
/1
5
20

13
/1
20

20

12
/

13

218
(216)

12

172
(170)

11/

758
(764)

ce
nt
ra
te
th
ro
Co
ug
pp
hp
er
ut
sc
ra
p
in
Ca
pu
th
t
od
Co
e
nt
ou
W
in
t
p
ire
uo
ut
us
ro
d
ca
ou
st
tp
sh
Fla
ut
ap
t
es
sp roll
ou
ec ed
tp
ial p
ut
ty rod
wi u c
re ts
ou an
tp d
ut

253
(294)

20

1,084
(1,138)

6,563
(429)

Excluding Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG.

REASONS TO INVEST IN AURUBIS SHARES

1.
Good earnings history;
stable balance sheet
structure and robust
cash flows

2.
Risk-averse business
model with first-class risk
­management systems

3.
Sustainable investment,
stable shareholder­
structure and a consistent
dividend policy

4.
Diversified business
model with leading
position along the
copper value chain

5.
Innovative, strong
company with extensive
­expertise in metal
­extraction, processing
and recycling

1

AURUBIS – ALL THE BEST FOR THE FUTURE
We are 150 years young and still have many good years ahead of us. That’s because we supply high-purity
copper, a material that is essential for many emerging technologies, and thus a key element in modern
society. ­It’s because we take the expectations of our employees, suppliers, customers and other interest
groups seriously and learn from these stakeholders. And it’s because we are increasingly creating real
closed cycles in the copper value chain, making our production processes even more sustainable and
environmentally friendly.
The next 150 years of Aurubis have just begun – read about our successful start in this report.

2016 SITES
Entire Aurubis Group
33 sites worldwide

USA
2 sites

EUROPE
22 sites

ASIA
9 sites

TABLE OF CONTENTS
2 Letter from the Management Board

22 Company Management

4 Interview with Jürgen Schachler

26

Supervisory Board Report

8 All the Best for the Future

31

Corporate Governance

10

All the Best for the World

14

All the Best for Our Group

18

All the Best for People

45 	Aurubis Shares on the
Capital Market
51 Combined Management Report

111 Consolidated Financial Statements
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements
192 Responsibility Statement
193 Auditors’ Report
195 Further Information

Detailed tables of contents for the Combined Management Report and the Consolidated Financial Statements can be found on pages 51 and 111.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

2

Dr. Stefan Boel

Jürgen Schachler

Erwin Faust

Executive Board Member for
Business Unit Copper Products

Executive Board Chairman

Chief Financial Officer

3

We successfully concluded Aurubis AG’s fiscal year 2015/16 at the end of September
and are wrapping up our anniversary year 2016 as well. The past several months have
been very poignant. We received many words of congratulation – from employees
and their families, from business partners around the world, from representatives
of government and society, from institutions and interest groups and, not least,
from our company’s shareholders. Feeling the strength of these bonds during our
anniversary year moved us, and pushes us to continue adding chapters to the Aurubis
success story.
Times have not become easier, and uncertainties have increased. The past fiscal year
showed once again that the international commodity markets are influenced by
political and economic events. Pure market data is not enough to provide accurate
analyses and assessments.
The year 2016 was marked in particular by the historic vote of the British people to
remove their country from the European Union. The reduced economic growth of
commodity giant China was on market analysts’ risk list yet again. We followed the
development of the US interest rate policy and the US dollar as well as the polarizing
election of the US president just as closely as we did the escalation of tensions in the
Middle East.
The uncertain overall economic and political conditions were also reflected in
an unusually varied price trend for industrial and precious metals. While gold
and zinc were the big price winners in 2016, the price recovery bypassed
copper this time. This is notable because the global copper market indicated
a distinct production deficit in the first half of 2016. From our perspective,
the fact that there wasn’t another, more dramatic price decline on the
London Metal Exchange up to the end of the year is only a small
consolation.
The trend on the markets for our raw materials and products
was also varied. While the supply of copper concentrates
allowed for good volume levels and high treatment and
refining charges, the supply situation for copper scrap

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

2

Dr. Stefan Boel

Jürgen Schachler

Erwin Faust

Executive Board Member for
Business Unit Copper Products

Executive Board Chairman

Chief Financial Officer

3

was unsatisfactory for long periods of the fiscal year. Sales of sulfuric acid were not very
convincing either, as prices on the market were weak. In contrast, the copper products
business was satisfactory overall, with a good trend in rod sales.
The results of fiscal year 2015/16 were good when compared with past years, allowing
for a suitable dividend for our shareholders. However, it did not come close to the record
results of the previous year, in which all of the relevant factors developed positively. So
we ask ourselves if we are satisfied by this – the answer is a clear “no”.
To set the course for a successful future, we have to remove ourselves from a shortterm­mindset, now more than ever. For this reason, we started several different
initiatives in late July 2016. We want to know: What do we do well? How do we compare
to the competition? First and foremost, what can we improve? External consultancies
are supporting us in answering these questions. The results will lead to concrete
improvements starting in 2017. At the same time, we are working within the Executive
Board on developing a clear vision for Aurubis with an internal management team.
Based on this vision, we will adjust the company strategy before spring 2017.
We will therefore create a starting point from which to continue successfully
developing­the company. So fiscal year 2016/17 will be a year of change. We will
improve Aurubis from the inside out to prepare ourselves for all of the changes
in our business environment. We hope that you will continue to join us on this
path. We will of course update you about the progress we make along the way.
Sincerely,

Jürgen Schachler

Executive Board CVs

Dr. Stefan Boel

»

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

2

Dr. Stefan Boel

Jürgen Schachler

Erwin Faust

Executive Board Member for
Business Unit Copper Products

Executive Board Chairman

Chief Financial Officer

3

EXECUTIVE BOARD
Jürgen Schachler
started his career in the chemical industry after studying economics. He then switched
to the metal processing industry, where he initially held positions in marketing and sales.
Starting in 1993, he served in the management of various companies of ArcelorMittal
­Luxembourg. He has worked in management positions abroad in the USA, Thailand and
Canada. In 2013 Jürgen Shachler assumed the position of CEO of ArcelorMittal ­Europe, Flat
Product, Business Division South West, where he was responsible for 10,000 employees.
Effective July 1, 2016, he was appointed Chairman of the Aurubis AG Executive Board. In
addition, he oversees BU Primary Copper and serves as Director of Industrial Relations.
Dr. Stefan Boel
worked from 2001 in Product Development and Marketing in the former Copper Division
of Umicore and subsequently became the commercial director of the Umicore plant
in Bulgaria. After the demerger of Cumerio from the Umicore Group, Dr. Boel became
Vice President Copper Refining and Mining Projects and a member of the Executive
Committee. As part of the integration of Cumerio in the Aurubis Group, he joined the
Executive Board in 2008. He is responsible for BU Copper Products.
Erwin Faust
held managerial positions in the Volkswagen Group, at VAW Aluminium
and from 2003 at Novelis Europa, a sub-group of Novelis Inc. (formerly
Alcan Inc.). As the Chief Financial Officer there, he served on the
supervisory committees of the European companies and for a time
as the ­commercial director of the German company. Erwin Faust was
­appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Aurubis Executive Board
in 2008. He was interim Executive Board Spokesman from
­November 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

4

5

INTERVIEW WITH JÜRGEN SCHACHLER
Jürgen Schachler assumed the role of Aurubis AG
Executive Board Chairman on July 1, 2016. The 62-yearold manager comes from the steel sector and worked
for the steel group ArcelorMittal for many years.
He has extensive management experience and most
recently oversaw ArcelorMittal’s flat product line in
southwest Europe with 10,000 employees.
Mr. Schachler, the post of Aurubis Executive Board
Chairman was vacant for a while, so in the interim
Dr. Drouven from the Supervisory Board stepped
in, and later Mr. Faust from the Aurubis Executive
Board. How did Aurubis find you?
An HR consultant established contact initially. The
non-ferrous metals industry is relatively small, and
the search for a suitable manager quickly reaches
its limits based on that fact alone. So it makes sense
to look to the steel industry, which, despite all the
differences, is also a metal sector. And that’s where
they found me.
It’s the first time that the position of Executive Board
Chairman has been filled by someone from outside
the company. Does this provide a special kind of
motivation for you?
I can’t deny that it does. In my new job, I can
certainly contribute a great deal of experience from
my long career, the international business and my

involvement with many nations and employees in a
global company. What I find especially exciting about
this new role is that the possibilities for shaping
things are different in a company in the copper
industry than they were in my earlier work in steel
– an industry driven by circumstances that can’t be
controlled. Aurubis is a company with a solid business
model, a leading market position and healthy
corporate development. The 150-year history speaks
for itself. However, a new phase begins for Aurubis
with this anniversary – and in times that aren’t
exactly calm. We have to adjust to this and make the
Group even more crisis-proof and fit for the future.
There is potential for this in many areas.
That sounds like a lot of work.
Do you have any particular focal points for this
process?
I’ve now been in the company for a good half-year
and have had many discussions during this period
that have helped me get to know people better
and gain a good overview. I’ve seen many positive
approaches and a strategy that, in my opinion,
makes a lot of sense. Nevertheless, I think that
previously established strategies shouldn’t be viewed
as guidelines that are set in stone but should be
critically assessed and questioned again and again
as they are implemented. This can’t be done by one
person from above but only works in a controlled

“We have to make the Group even more crisis-proof
and fit for the future. There is potential for this in
many areas.” – Jürgen Schachler

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

6

process involving different levels and divisions. This
process started in the fall and is expected to deliver
initial results in spring 2017. Furthermore, we have
a number of other projects in the company that
tangibly serve to make Aurubis even more crisisproof. This report includes a few details about these
projects.
So you want to make the company even more
successful. What is needed to achieve that?
First and foremost, our employees. I’ve already
spoken with many of them, and not just at the
headquarters in Hamburg. I’ve been able to form
an idea of employees’ ways of thinking and their
views at the other sites as well. Furthermore, we’ve
started a group-wide employee survey that should
provide us with indications about the “health” of
the organization. When I talk about employees as a
success factor, I think about their qualifications, their
motivation. Do I sense some kind of enthusiasm
for the work that they do? What are the attitudes
towards management and collaboration within the
company? Appreciative, cooperative? And above
all: Do I see a willingness to learn with the goal of
improving the situation? If this is the case, then
success should be attainable.

And you yourself?
How do you view yourself in this process?
I rarely take extreme positions. Instead, I like to build
bridges and seek out direct contact with people.
I enjoy listening, balancing ideas and trying in
discussions to collaborate and establish a common
position from different opinions. I’m a strong
advocate of teamwork and ultimately think that it
is more successful than an “every man for himself”
mentality.
Mr. Schachler, Aurubis is a stock corporation and the
shares are listed on the German stock index MDAX.
Would you invest in Aurubis shares even if you
weren’t Aurubis’ CEO?
When I introduced myself at the last Annual General
Meeting, I mentioned that I had already invested in
Aurubis shares before my initial contact with the
HR consultant. At that time, the shares fit into my
investing strategy, which, among other things, is
focused on shareholding in companies that have
a solid business model and a real history. This was
true of Aurubis then, and it still applies today.

“I enjoy listening, balancing ideas and trying in discussions
to collaborate and establish a common position from
different opinions.” – Jürgen Schachler

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

7

8

9

ALL THE BEST FOR THE FUTURE
The first 150 years of Aurubis are behind us. We marked this milestone in
appropriate style during 2016 at a number of events and with a comprehensive
anniversary book. There were countless talks and we received many good
wishes – for what we have already achieved, but first and foremost for a
successful future. And this is what ultimately matters.
Fiscal year 2015/16 wasn’t just a year of celebration and recollection for
­Aurubis, but also a year of transition, of defining our position, of taking a
deep breath before starting on a new chapter in our story, into the next
150 years. Because Aurubis will change just as much as the world around us
in the coming years. It is a world full of possibilities, but also of challenges –
for the employees and for the company. Together, it is up to us to make the
best of it.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

10

ALL THE BEST FOR THE WORLD
Sought-after qualities

Square yet versatile

For 150 years we have supplied the
world with copper – a basic material
that is crucial for the development of
modern societies. The diverse qualities
of the “red metal” are what make it so
valuable: copper conducts electricity
and heat better than any other metal
apart from silver; it is easily processed
and alloyed; it is exceptionally durable
and corrosion-resistant, and it can
be reprocessed an infinite number
of times – without any reduction in
quality.

Demand for copper is increasing
strongly in regions where living
standards are rising. For example,
China in particular has become a
leading driver of growth in the copper
market. But the further developed
industrialized countries have also
stayed true to the metal and are
recording demand growth. We
reach the international markets via
a global marketing and distribution
network that is guided centrally
from the Group headquarters in
Hamburg. Continuous cast wire
rod, continuous cast shapes, rolled
products for industry and architecture,
bars and profiles are marketed and
sold – all in different compositions
and dimensions. The classic starting
product for the manufacture of
all of these products is the copper
cathode, a square copper plate of the
highest purity, which is the format
for the international copper trade
on the metal exchanges. Surplus
volumes from the four tankhouses in
the Aurubis Group, i.e. volumes that
aren’t used to manufacture products
internally, are therefore easily
marketed internationally as well.

Whenever electricity production,
conversion and distribution or
electronic applications are involved,
copper is indispensable: in developing
energy grids in newly industrialized
countries, as well as in converting
existing grids to accommodate
alternative energies and decentralized
structures. From wind turbines to
power plants to electrical outlets –
copper transports energy efficiently.
Whether in building technology, in
machines and equipment, or in cars
present and future, copper always
plays a part.

CONNECTED WITH THE WORLD
It’s a long way from the mine to
our smelters. After thousands of
nautical miles, the raw material,
copper concentrate, reaches us from
countries such as Chile, Peru and
Canada. Once it arrives in maritime
vessels, it is transported to our plants
in Pirdop and Hamburg by rail or by
water with smaller barges.

US$ 4,832
was the official settlement price
for a ton of copper cathodes
on the London Metal Exchange
on September 30, 2016

>
More information about the
London Metal Exchange:
www.lme.com

11

12

AURUBIS ALSO DRIVES WITH ELECTRICITY
Jan-Philip Drzymalla and the Environmental
Protection Department’s electric car

13

The future contains copper
Copper is timeless. It was already in
use before our modern calendar was
established, and new applications
are continually being developed.
Entire growth sectors rely on copper
as a basic material. The German
Raw Material Agency confirms this
trend, stating in a recent study:
“Most emerging technologies are
inconceivable without copper.” In

the year 2035, a total of 5,000,000 t
of copper will be needed for electric
transaction engines in hybrid, electric
and fuel cell vehicles alone. Wind
turbines and 3D printing are two other
growth areas with copper demand.
And yet another feature makes copper
especially viable for the future: it
is a sustainable metal thanks to its
optimal recyclability.

Copper demand in selected emerging technologies
in t

Engines for electric cars

2013
2035
Marginal 5,000,000

3D printing

2013
46

2035
9,380

RFID chips

2013
162

2035
10,800

Wind power

2013
103,000

2035
244,098

Source: Marscheider-Weidemann, F., Langkau, S., Hummen, T., Erdmann, L., Tercero Espinoza,
L., Angerer, G., Marwede, M. & Benecke, S. (2016): Raw Materials for Emerging Technologies 2016.
DERA Raw Material Information 28, Berlin

Up to 100 kg
of copper are used in an electric car on
average, and about 25 kg can be
found in any mid-range car

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

14

ALL THE BEST FOR
OUR GROUP
Our place in a new world
There has been more change in the
last 10 years than during the 90 years
before, and developments are
progressing more and more quickly.
We are orienting ourselves to this
reality. Our corporate strategy was last
updated in fiscal year 2012/13, when
we recognized that our business is
especially influenced by megatrends:
energy is being generated using
increasingly decentralized methods,
transferred in new ways and consumed
in larger and larger volumes worldwide.
The global population is growing –
and, along with it, large urban centers.
The world’s expanding middle class is
using more and more electronics and
new forms of transportation. All of
these developments have one thing in
common: copper. Copper resources are
not infinitely available. The importance
of recycling as a copper production

method will therefore increase. Since
the complexity of products and raw
materials is rising, however, expertise
is in high demand. Expertise that we
have in spades.

Issues that move us
Even as conditions are shifting, some
established truths remain constant:
our expertise in copper production and
processing, our innovative strength,
our qualified employees and our
knowledge about copper. Building
on this solid foundation, we want to
pursue new paths to an even larger
extent in the future – for example, the
stronger orientation towards value
in the sourcing and processing of
complex raw materials.

23 million t
of refined copper are needed worldwide each
year, and demand is growing steadily

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

15

16

17

Furthermore, we will regularly review
our well-functioning business model
to ensure that it is equipped for the
future. In what areas are we better
than our competitors? Where do
opportunities present themselves?
How are our suppliers and customers
changing? How do we approach these
changes? Where will the boundaries
between suppliers, competitors and
customers be in the years to come?
A single company could assume all
of these roles in the future – and also
be our partner at the same time,
for instance in strategic raw material
procurement, brokering of project
financing or technical product
development.

As part of the “closing the loop”
concept, we are investigating ways
that we can connect the sale of our
copper products directly with the
return of production residues to us.
These kinds of closed cycles offer
advantages for all participants when it
comes to efficiency, predictability and
supply security.
Issues that move us – these topics
will be considered intensively when
we put the Aurubis Group’s vision and
strategy to the test again in fiscal year
2016/17.
All the best for Aurubis: a wish and
a standard that will guide us in our
strategy discussion.

Ready to be reused after an average of 30 years – the recycling potential
of copper is increasing
Processed copper in products and infrastructure worldwide, in million t Cu
400

300

200

100

15
20

10
20

05
20

00
20

95
19

90
19

85
19

19

80

0

Source: Fraunhofer Institute, Aurubis

No victory ceremonies
without copper
A total of 2,448 medals were produced for the
Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. The main
goal for all athletes: the gold medal. ­Strictly­
speaking, its name is a little misleading
because each gold medal is 98.8 % silver and
only 1.2 % gold, although the silver medals in
Rio were actually 100 % silver. And copper
is always on the winners’ podium as well, as
bronze medals are 95 % “red gold” and 5 % tin.

>
Additional information:
www.compoundchem.com

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

18

PLEASE TOUCH!

ALL THE BEST FOR PEOPLE
Copper is good for you
Did you know that you have a little
bit of copper inside you? Copper is an
essential element for all organisms.
The recommended daily allowance for
an adult is 1.4 mg, which is normally
ingested through food – such as
avocados, nuts, dark chocolate,
granola and oysters. And copper is
also good for human health outside
of the body, as it is antimicrobial, i.e. it
provides protection from bacteria. This
is the main reason why water pipes
in houses are made of copper. The
same feature can also improve health
in public buildings, as a majority of all
contagious illnesses are transmitted
through contact. It therefore makes
sense to produce door handles, light
switches and handrails from copper –
especially in locations where many
people are present and in sensitive
facilities such as hospitals. For
example, hospital bacteria are reduced
by over 90 % with the use of copper.
Handles made of antimicrobial copper
are already being used in public
transport as well.

Furthermore, the antimicrobial effect
of copper surfaces never decreases –
even when they are used intensively.

Benefits for our employees,
too
We thus produce a product that
promotes human health. Health
promotion is a key topic for Aurubis
as an employer as well. At all Group
sites, we have initiated occupational
safety programs to limit the risk
of accidents as much as possible.
Avoiding injuries is the minimum
target, while ensuring employees’
health is the larger objective. Our
company health management is part
of the Group strategy; it has been
established sustainably and is linked
to clearly defined goals. For instance,
we have set up a number of preventive
programs to maintain employees’
health, including flu vaccinations,
expanded preventive check-ups and
analysis-based intensive training
for the stomach and back muscles.
Ultimately, there can only be one
goal: zero work-related accidents,
injuries and illnesses.

>
Additional information about
copper’s antimicrobial properties:
www.antimicrobialcopper.org

90 %
less bacteria in hospitals
as a result of copper’s
antimicrobial properties

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Hospitals including, for example,
Charité in Berlin, the Niederberg
Velbert Clinic, Hagen General Hospital
and the Asklepios Clinic in Hamburg
have all had good experience with
contact surfaces made of copper.
A US study showed that in intensive
care units, copper surfaces can reduce
infections caused by hospital stays
by 58 %.

19

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

20

180
apprentices at the Hamburg
plant alone are learning
skills to equip them for
their future work

21
FIT FOR THE FUTURE
Robin Brasch and Eloge Lossa
­Sossou, first-year apprentices, take
measurements. Our comprehensive
vocational program to train young
people as experts in various fields
is also a good fit. We focus on
continuity and thus take on the
demographic challenges of the
future.

Our commitment doesn’t
end at the plant gates
We are aware of our responsibility as
a manufacturing company. It is selfevident to us that the impact of our
business activities on the environment
and people should be kept as low as
possible. It is a complex challenge
in light of the high throughput
volume and energy consumption
necessarily associated with copper
production. To fulfill this responsibility,
we integrate sustainability directly
into our corporate strategy. It starts
with sustainability monitoring in the
supply chains and is also evident in
the fact that we spend large sums on
environmental protection in copper
production every year. In general,
one-third of all Group investments is
spent on related measures. This is why
we are one of the most progressive
copper producers in the world when it
comes to climate and environmental
protection.

Resources are finite and must be
managed sustainably. The importance
of recycling processes is therefore
growing steadily for us. This applies to
copper first and foremost, which is in
countless products and can be reused
without a loss of quality. However,
we can also process a number of
other elements through multi-metal
recycling, including precious metals,
nickel, tin, lead and zinc. Last year
alone, we directed up to 700,000 t
of material to suitable recycling
processes in this way. We therefore
close the material cycle for many raw
materials, open up new business areas
and contribute to conserving natural
resources at the same time.
Incidentally, there is not only
competition for resources. On the
labor market, too, we have to
continuously prove ourselves to be an
attractive employer. Demographic
change is intensifying this competition
for skilled employees. Training and
continuing education are central for
the sustainable success of our Group.
Our high training and apprentice
retention rates are therefore not only
good for our employees, but also for
Aurubis as a whole.

Our targets don’t only apply to the
Group as a whole. We have also set
targets for individual sites – both in
terms of environmental protection
and energy efficiency. We utilized
scheduled production shutdowns at
our plants in Hamburg and Pirdop
Highest environmental standard
not just to overhaul certain facilities
worldwide
and optimize processes – but also
Copper smelters’ SO 2 emissions
/t copper output
in kg SO 2174
174174
to implement more extensive
environmental protection measures.
42 42
42
6 6
174
4 4 6
In Hamburg, for example, a new 174 174
42
42 42
facility was installed to optimize
6
6 6
4 4
the recovery of silver and gold from
anode slime, an intermediate product.
This allows us to reduce energy
Ø460
Kupferhütten
Ø Kupferhütten
Ø Kupferhütten Aurubis
Aurubis
consumption by 35 % and CO2 ØbyKupferhütten
Ø International
ØAurubis
EuropeanAurubis
Aurubis
t.
Welt
Welt

Europa
copper Europa
smelters

Pirdop
Pirdop
Hamburg
Hamburg
copper
smelters
Pirdop

4
4

Aurubis
Hamburg

Ø Kupferhütten
Aurubis
Ø Kupferhütten
Ø Kupferhütten Ø Kupferhütten
Ø Kupferhütten
Ø Kupferhütten Aurubis
Aurubis Aurubis
Aurubis

Aurubis

ImIm
internationalen
internationalen
Vergleich
Vergleich
nimmt
nimmt
Aurubis
Aurubis
eine
eine
Spitzenposition
Spitzenposition
Welt
Europa
Hamburg
Welt
Welt
Europa
Europa
Pirdop
Pirdop
Hamburg
Hamburg
When compared
internationally,
Aurubis
has Pirdop
a top position
in
beibei
derder
Verminderung
Verminderung
derder
spezifischen
spezifischen
Schwefeldioxidemissionen
Schwefeldioxidemissionen
decreasing specific sulfur dioxide emissions, which are formed
ein,Im
ein,
die
die
beibei
derder
Kupfererzeugung
Kupfererzeugung
ausaus
Kupfererzkonzentraten
Kupfererzkonzentraten
Im
internationalen
Vergleich
nimmt
Aurubis
eine Spitzenposition
Im
internationalen
internationalen
Vergleich
Vergleich
Aurubis
Aurubis
eine
eine
Spitzenposition
Spitzenposition
when
coppernimmt
isnimmt
produced
from
copper
concentrates.
entstehen.
entstehen.
bei der
derSchwefeldioxidemissionen
spezifischen Schwefeldioxidemissionen
bei
bei
derder
Verminderung
Verminderung
derVerminderung
der
spezifischen
spezifischen
Schwefeldioxidemissionen
ein,
die bei der Kupfererzeugung
aus Kupfererzkonzentraten
ein,ein,
diedie
beibei
derder
Kupfererzeugung
Kupfererzeugung
ausaus
Kupfererzkonzentraten
Kupfererzkonzentraten
entstehen.
entstehen.
entstehen.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

22

Company Management

Executive Board
Jürgen Schachler, Hamburg
Born: July 31, 1954
Chief Executive Officer, Director of Industrial Relations and
Executive Board Member for Business Unit Primary Copper
since July 1, 2016,
appointed until June 30, 2019
Dr. Stefan Boel, Hamme, Belgium
Born: June 9, 1966
Executive Board Member for Business Unit Copper
­Products, from November 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016
Executive Board Member for Business Unit Primary
Copper on an interim basis,
appointed until April 30, 2021
»» Aurubis Belgium nv/sa, Brussels, Belgium
Chairman of the Board of Directors

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Erwin Faust, Hamburg
Born: January 4, 1957
Chief Financial Officer,
from November 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016 Executive Board
Spokesman, Director of Industrial Relations and responsible
for Corporate Functions on an interim basis,
appointed until September 30, 2018
»» Aurubis Belgium nv/sa, Brussels, Belgium
Director
The Supervisory Board passed a resolution to temporarily
release Mr. Faust, by mutual agreement, from his duties and
­obligations as CFO of Aurubis AG due to illness.
Dr. Bernd Drouven, Hamburg, until October 31, 2015
Born: September 19, 1955
Chief Executive Officer and
Executive Board Member for Business Unit
Primary Copper, from July 1, 2015 to October 31,
2015 Director of Industrial Relations
(dispatched from the Supervisory Board to the Executive
Board from November 1, 2014 to October 31, 2015)
»» NITHH gGmbH, Hamburg
Chairman of the Supervisory Board

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

23
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Supervisory Board
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann, Salzgitter
Chairman,
Chairman of the Executive Board of Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter
»» Hüttenwerke Krupp Mannesmann GmbH, Duisburg +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board since July 2, 2016
»» Ilsenburger Grobblech GmbH, Ilsenburg +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» KHS GmbH, Dortmund +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Mannesmannröhren-Werke GmbH, Mülheim/Ruhr +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Öffentliche Lebensversicherung Braunschweig,
Braunschweig
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Öffentliche Sachversicherung Braunschweig,
Braunschweig
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Peiner Träger GmbH, Peine +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Flachstahl GmbH, Salzgitter +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Mannesmann Grobblech GmbH,
	Mülheim/Ruhr +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Mannesmann Handel GmbH, Düsseldorf +
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
»» TÜV Nord AG, Hanover
Member of the Supervisory Board
Renate Hold-Yilmaz, Hamburg *
Deputy Chairwoman,
clerical employee,
Chairwoman of the Works Council of Aurubis AG

Burkhard Becker, Hattingen
Member of the Executive Board of Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter
»» EUROPIPE GmbH, Mülheim/Ruhr +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Ilsenburger Grobblech GmbH, Ilsenburg +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» KHS GmbH, Dortmund +
Member of the Supervisory Board since July 1, 2016
»» Mannesmannröhren-Werke GmbH, Mülheim/Ruhr +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Nord/LB Asset Management AG, Hanover
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Peiner Träger GmbH, Peine +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Flachstahl GmbH, Salzgitter +
Member of the Supervisory Board
until September 30, 2016
»» Salzgitter Mannesmann Grobblech GmbH,
Mülheim/Ruhr +
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Salzgitter Mannesmann Handel GmbH, Düsseldorf +
Member of the Supervisory Board since July 1, 2016
»» Salzgitter Mannesmann Precision GmbH,
Mülheim/Ruhr +
Member of the Supervisory Board
Dr. Bernd Drouven, Hamburg
Returned to the Supervisory Board on November 1, 2015,
former Chief Executive Officer of Aurubis AG
»» NITHH gGmbH, Hamburg
Chairman of the Supervisory Board

+ group companies of Salzgitter AG
* elected by the employees

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

24

Company Management

Jan Koltze (formerly Eulen), Kummerfeld *
District Manager of the Mining, Chemical and
Energy ­Industrial Union Hamburg-Harburg
»» ESSO Deutschland GmbH, Hamburg
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» ExxonMobil Central Europe Holding GmbH, Hamburg
Member of the Supervisory Board
Dr.-Ing. Joachim Faubel, Hamburg *
Employee in Corporate Controlling at Aurubis AG
Dr. Sandra Reich, Singapore
Member of the Executive Board of BÖAG Börsen AG,
­Hamburg and Hanover, until March 31, 2016
Director, Head of German Desk, NORD/LB Singapore
Branch, Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, Singapore,
since August 1, 2016
Dr. med. Dipl.-Chem. Thomas Schultek, Lübeck *
Head of Corporate Health Protection at Aurubis AG,
Member of the Committee of Executive Representatives
at Aurubis AG, Hamburg
Rolf Schwertz, Datteln *
Bricklayer and boiler operator,
Member of the Works Council of Aurubis AG, Lünen, and
Chairman of the Central Representative Council of
­Employees with Disabilities of Aurubis AG

+ group companies of Salzgitter AG
* elected by the employees

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Prof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt, Hamburg
Chairman of the Deutsche Wildtier Stiftung, Hamburg
»» Capital Stage AG, Hamburg
Member of the Supervisory Board
»» Putz & Partner Unternehmensberatung AG, Hamburg
Member of the Supervisory Board until March 31, 2016
Ralf Winterfeldt, Hamburg *
Power electronics technician,
Chairman of the General Works Council of Aurubis AG,
Deputy Chairman of the Works Council of Aurubis AG
Dr.-Ing. Ernst J. Wortberg, Dortmund
Self-employed consultant

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

25
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Supervisory Board Committees
Conciliation Committee in accordance with
Section 27 (3) Law on Co-determination
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann (Chairman)
Renate Hold-Yilmaz (Deputy Chairwoman)
Dr. Sandra Reich
Ralf Winterfeldt
Audit Committee
Dr.-Ing. Ernst J. Wortberg (Chairman)
Burkhard Becker
Jan Koltze (formerly Eulen)
Renate Hold-Yilmaz
Personnel Committee
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann (Chairman)
Dr. Bernd Drouven (returned to the committee on
November 1, 2015)
Renate Hold-Yilmaz
Dr. med. Dipl.-Chem. Thomas Schultek
Prof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt
Ralf Winterfeldt
Nomination Committee
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann (Chairman)
Burkhard Becker
Prof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt
Dr.-Ing. Ernst J. Wortberg
Technology Committee
Dr. Bernd Drouven (Chairman)
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann
Renate Hold-Yilmaz
Dr. med. Dipl.-Chem. Thomas Schultek

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

26

Company Management

Supervisory Board Report
Collaboration between the Supervisory Board and
Executive Board
The joint target of the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board is to increase the enterprise value of Aurubis AG and
its Group companies in the long term.
The Executive Board notified the Supervisory Board regularly, promptly and comprehensively on all issues concerning
the Company, both verbally and in two written reports per
month. These issues included the corporate strategy, the
planning process and important business transactions in the
Company and the Group, the associated opportunities and
risks, and issues of compliance.

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann

The Aurubis Group generated operating earnings before
taxes (operating EBT) of € 213 million in fiscal year 2015/16.
The accomplishments of the Executive Board, management
and employees in every department deserve our acknowledgement once again.
See Glossary,
page 197.

High sales of wire rod and shapes products, improved treatment and refining charges for copper concentrates and the
optimized input mix had a positive impact. The strong dollar
also contributed to the result.
The result was negatively influenced in particular by the
scheduled shutdown in Pirdop, a lower copper scrap supply,
a surplus of sulfuric acid with corresponding price pressure,
a lower metal yield with falling metal prices and a lower
­cathode premium.

With respect to Company management, the Supervisory
Board and its committees closely supervised, carefully monitored and advised the Executive Board once again during
fiscal year 2015/16, and performed the functions incumbent
upon it by law, the Articles of Association and rules of
­procedure. The Supervisory Board is confident that the
Company was managed lawfully and appropriately. The
Supervisory Board was promptly and directly included in
all decisions of fundamental importance for the Company,
as explained in more detail below.
The Supervisory Board discussed in detail all transactions
that were of importance for the Group on the basis
of the Executive Board’s reports. The Supervisory Board
agreed on the Executive Board’s suggested resolutions
after thorough review and consultation.
The Supervisory Board continuously received detailed
information about the Group’s earnings and employment
developments, the individual Business Units and the
Company’s financial position. The Executive Board provided
extensive explanation of any deviations from established
plans in terms of business performance, discussed their
underlying causes and initiated measures in conjunction
with the Supervisory Board.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board was also in contact
with the Executive Board, in particular the Executive Board

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

27
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Chairman, outside meetings, and communicated with them
about current developments.
Consultations in the Supervisory Board
Four scheduled Supervisory Board meetings (on December 10,
2015; February 23, 2016; June 7, 2016; and September 28, 2016)
and one extraordinary Supervisory Board meeting (on October 2, 2015) were held in fiscal year 2015/16. Two resolutions
were adopted by written consent in lieu of a meeting.
Dr. Faubel was unable to participate in the extraordinary meeting (October 2, 2015) and was excused. In the Super­visory
Board meeting of February 23, 2016, Prof. Vahrenholt participated by telephone due to illness. The average participation
rate for Supervisory Board members was over 98 %. The
Executive Board was not present for part of one Super­visory
Board meeting. Dr. Drouven’s mandate was put on hold until
October 31, 2015 due to his dispatch to the Executive Board.
Meeting topics which arose regularly for Supervisory Board
consultation included the performance of the business,
Group human resources, development of results and the raw
material, foreign exchange and energy markets. The Supervisory Board also dealt with the financial situation and the status of capital expenditure. In particular, the Super­visory
Board oversaw the planning of the Future Complex Metallurgy (FCM) and Metallurgical Slag Opti­mization (MSO) projects, the earnings trend of Business Line Flat Rolled products
and various optimization and development projects (Step
Up) that were presented by employees at the first and second management levels below the Executive Board. The
chairmen of the Personnel Committee, the Audit Committee
and the Technology Committee also reported at meetings
on the committees’ work, suggestions made and the results
achieved.
In the Supervisory Board’s extraordinary meeting of October 2, 2015, Mr. Schachler was appointed Executive Board
­Chairman from April 1, 2016 and Ms. Renate Hold-Yilmaz
was elected Deputy Chairwoman of the Supervisory Board.
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board filled the positions in
the Conciliation, Personnel and Audit Committees that had
opened up due to the retirement of the former Deputy
Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Grundmann. The

Supervisory Board adopted a resolution, by written consent
in lieu of a meeting, to appoint Mr. Erwin Faust as Executive
Board Spokesman until Mr. Schachler took office. In the
same process, the responsibilities of the individual Executive
Board members were redistributed on an interim basis until
Mr. Schachler took office. Likewise, the Supervisory Board
passed a resolution, using equitable discretion, to grant the
two Executive Board members special compensation for
their temporary additional responsibilities.
In the meeting of December 10, 2015, the Supervisory
Board determined compensation levels for the Executive
Board members for fiscal year 2014/15 contingent on
the established objectives. Details are explained as part
of this Annual Report in the Compensation Report.
In the same meeting, consultations focused on reviewing
the consolidated financial statements and the separate
financial statements for Aurubis AG for 2014/15, including
the corporate governance report, and the preparations for
the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
In the meantime, Mr. Schachler had notified the Company
that he would only be available to serve as Executive Board
Chairman starting July 1, 2016. Accordingly, the Supervisory
Board made the required resolutions to accommodate the
new situation. In this context, the Supervisory Board made a
modest increase to the Executive Board’s special compensation. The Executive Board reported on the development of
­Business Line Flat Rolled Products and the planning for the
FCM project. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board approved
the amendment to the “Catalogue of Transactions Requiring
Approval”.
In the meeting of February 23, 2016, the Supervisory Board
addressed the results of operations following the end of the
first quarter of the fiscal year, as well as the developments in
Business Line Flat Rolled Products. The employee responsible for monitoring the Step Up program provided the Supervisory Board with a general status overview of the optimization and development projects established in the scope of
this ­program.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

28

Company Management

The chairman of the Technology Committee reported on
the committee’s first meeting and addressed the status of
the FCM project planning and the SCOPE (Supply Chain
Optimization and Excellence) project’s degree of implementation, among other topics. The Supervisory Board
approved a long-term contract with a Bulgarian service provider that encompasses the construction of tank capacities
and transshipment facilities for external sulfuric acid logistics in the Burgas, Bulgaria harbor starting in late 2017.
In the meeting of June 7, 2016, the Supervisory Board
­discussed the progress of the shutdown in Pirdop and the
effects of a lower concentrate throughput on the Aurubis
Group’s earnings. The Executive Board and the respective
project managers reported to the Supervisory Board on
the status of the plans for the MSO and FCM projects.
The Supervisory Board approved the proposal for
Aurubis AG to supply parts of the city of Hamburg with
­district heating (Hamburg District Heating project). The
permit is subject to the conditions that the expected public
funding is received and that a corresponding supply line is
built. The head of the Legal Affairs Department communicated detailed updates to the Supervisory Board regarding
the Market Abuse Regulation and its implementation.
The Supervisory Board meeting of September 28, 2016 took
place at the Pirdop site in Bulgaria. Significant investments
have been made at this site in recent years, and the Supervisory Board took the opportunity to have intensive discussions about the site during their visit. An extensive tour of
the site enabled the Supervisory Board to witness the
plant’s successful status firsthand.
The MSO and FCM projects were key topics at the Super­
visory Board meeting once again. The Supervisory Board
approved the Group’s investment and financial planning
during this meeting. ­Furthermore, they discussed the
budget for the next fiscal year and established the target
EBT for Executive Board compensation.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Committees
The Supervisory Board set up a total of five committees,
which effectively support the work done in the meetings, to
fulfill its duties in fiscal year 2015/16. The committees prepared the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the topics to
be considered in the meetings. The Conciliation Committee
in accordance with Section 27 (3) Law on Co-determination
(MitbestG) did not meet during the reporting year.
General statements on the composition and working
­procedures of the Supervisory Board and its committees
can be found in this year’s declaration on corporate
­governance as part of Aurubis AG’s Management Report.
All of the members participated in all of the committee
meetings.
Personnel Committee work
The Personnel Committee met twice during the reporting
period. During these meetings, it dealt with the postponement of Mr. Schachler’s start at the Company, going on
to develop the recommendation to appoint Mr. Faust as
Executive Board Spokesman for the interim period, a new
temporary division of responsibilities and a recommendation for the arrangement of special compensation for the
Executive Board.
Audit Committee work
The Audit Committee met four times in the reporting
period to review the quarterly reports, the separate financial
statements for Aurubis AG and the consolidated financial
statements for the past fiscal year, and it discussed them
with the Executive Board. The Audit Committee also
addressed the monitoring of accounting processes, the
effectiveness of the internal control and auditing system,
and compliance management in the Group. In all of its
meetings, the committee discussed the Group’s earnings
trend.

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

29
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

The Audit Committee Chairman, Dr. Ernst Wortberg, has
special expertise and experience in the application of
accounting principles and internal control procedures.
He is independent and not a former member of the
­Company’s Executive Board.
Apart from the appointment of the auditors and the
­agreement of the fee with the auditors, the committee
established the focuses of the annual 2015/16 audit,
­specifically:

Technology Committee work
The Technology Committee met twice during the reporting
period. In addition to overseeing various optimization
and development projects, the committee was primarily
involved with the MSO and FCM projects. The Executive
Board and project managers presented the current status
of the technical planning for these two projects to the committee. Apart from the technical concepts, the committee
also discussed the respective investment plans and the
profitability calculations of the individual projects.

»» Reviewing the derivation of the operating result
»» Reviewing the measurement of the carrying amounts
of Aurubis investments
»» Reviewing the introduction of Aurubis Bulgaria AD’s
SAP Treasury System

Corporate governance and Declaration of Conformity
The regular effectiveness review was performed by the
Supervisory Board at its meeting of September 28, 2016.
The Supervisory Board confirmed its effectiveness after
extensive discussion.

The Audit Committee furthermore monitored the independence of the auditors, obtained declarations of independence
from them as recommended by the German Corporate
Governance Code and addressed the additional services
performed by the auditors. In this regard, the designated
auditors were obligated to inform the chairman of the Audit
Committee without delay about any possible grounds for
exclusion or lack of impartiality arising during the audit.

The Executive Board reports on corporate governance at
Aurubis AG, also on behalf of the Supervisory Board, in
accordance with Section 3.10 of the German Corporate
Governance Code in the declaration and report on corporate governance, which are parts of the Management
Report.

The Audit Committee authorized the Executive Board to
commission the auditors of the annual financial statements
with permissible non-audit services, to a limited extent,
starting October 1, 2016.
The auditors’ representatives attended one Audit Committee meeting and reported on the audit of the annual
accounts.

On November 4, 2016 the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board issued the updated Declaration of Conformity to the
Corporate Governance Code in accordance with Section 161
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made it permanently accessible to the public at www.aurubis.com.
Aurubis AG complies with the code recommendations with
two exceptions. Additional information can be found in the
Declaration of Conformity.

>
www.aurubis.com

Conflicts of interest
There were no conflicts of interest among Executive Board
or Supervisory Board members that should have been
­disclosed to the Supervisory Board or announced at the
Annual General Meeting. There were no significant transactions with an Executive Board member or parties related to
an Executive Board member.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

30

Company Management

Audit of the separate financial statements of Aurubis AG
and the consolidated financial statements
The Company’s financial statements prepared by the
­Executive Board in accordance with the German GAAP, the
consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance
with IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) for
the fiscal year from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016
and the Combined Management Report for the Company
and the Group have been audited by Pricewaterhouse­
Coopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, in
accordance with the resolution passed at the Company’s
Annual General Meeting on February 24, 2016 and their
subsequent appointment as auditors by the Supervisory
Board. The auditor responsible was Mr. Matthias Kirschke,
who audited the Group and the Company in this capacity for
the fourth year in a row. The auditors issued an unqualified
auditors’ report in each case.
The meeting of the Supervisory Board to approve the
­financial statements was held on December 13, 2016. All
members of the Supervisory Board received copies of the
financial statements and audit reports, as well as the Executive Board’s recommendation on the appropriation of net
earnings and all other documents, in good time before
this meeting. These documents were discussed in detail
at the Supervisory Board meeting to approve the financial
statements. The auditors participated in this meeting,
reporting in detail on how the audit had been performed
and on their main audit findings, and they were available to
provide the Supervisory Board with further information,
discuss the documents and make additional comments.
Following a detailed discussion regarding the auditors’
findings and a thorough consideration of the auditors’
report and the recommendation of the Executive Board on
the appropriation of net income, and on the basis of its own
review of and discussion on the separate financial statements of Aurubis AG, the consolidated financial statements
and the Combined Management Report for the Company
and the Group, the Supervisory Board concurred with the

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

results of the audit. The Supervisory Board concluded that
no objections needed to be raised and, in accordance with
the recommendations of the Audit Committee, approved
the separate financial statements of Aurubis AG, which
went on to be adopted, as well as the consolidated financial
statements and the Combined Management Report, at the
meeting on the financial statements. The Supervisory Board
concurred with the Executive Board’s recommendation on
the utilization of the unappropriated earnings.
Changes in the Supervisory Board and Executive Board
Dr. Bernd Drouven was dispatched to the Executive Board
from November 1, 2014 to October 31, 2015 pursuant to
­Section 105 (2) German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and
was appointed Executive Board Chairman. His Supervisory
Board mandate was put on hold during this period.
Dr. Drouven has returned to being an active member of the
Supervisory Board since November 1, 2015. The Supervisory
Board thanks Dr. Drouven for his willingness to step in and
for his strong commitment to Aurubis AG. Mr. Erwin Faust
served as Executive Board Spokesman from November 1,
2015 to June 30, 2016 and managed the Group with
Dr. Stefan Boel on an interim basis. Mr. Jürgen Schachler
became the new Executive Board Chairman of Aurubis AG
on July 1, 2016.
Mr. Ralf Winterfeldt succeeded Mr. Hans-Jürgen Grundmann in the Supervisory Board on October 1, 2015. The
Supervisory Board elected Ms. Renate Hold-Yilmaz as the
new Deputy Supervisory Board Chairwoman on October 2,
2015.
Hamburg, December 2016
The Supervisory Board

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann
Chairman

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

31
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Corporate Governance
Report and declaration on corporate
governance (part of the Management
Report)
The principles of responsible and sustainable corporate
­governance determine the actions of the management and
controlling bodies of Aurubis AG. In this declaration, the
Executive Board reports – also on behalf of the Supervisory
Board – in accordance with Section 3.10 of the German
­Corporate Governance Code and in accordance with
­Section 289a (1) German Commercial Code (HGB) about
­corporate governance.
Declaration of Conformity and reporting on corporate
governance
In accordance with Section 161 German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG), the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of a
company listed in Germany are obliged to issue an annual
declaration to the effect that the recommendations of the
“Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code” published by the German Federal Ministry of
Justice in the official section of the electronic Federal Gazette
(Bundesanzeiger) were, and continue to be, complied with, or
to list the recommendations that were not followed or which
are not being followed currently, and to explain why.
The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board have dealt
on several occasions in fiscal year 2015/16 with the topic of
corporate governance, and jointly issued the updated Declaration of Conformity in accordance with Section 161 German
Stock Corporation Act (AktG) on November 4, 2016. The
declaration has been made permanently accessible to the
public on the Aurubis AG website in the Investor Relations/
Corporate Governance section. All Declarations of Conformity from the past five years are also permanently accessible
to the public there.
Text of the Declaration of Conformity
“The Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Aurubis AG
declare that the recommendations of the ‘Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code’ in the
version dated May 5, 2015 have been applied since October
1, 2015 and will be applied with the following exceptions:

»» C
 ontracts concluded with new Executive Board members do not include a severance pay cap amounting to
maximum two years’ compensation in the event of
premature termination of the contract without good
cause, including in the form of (modified) ‘connection
clauses’. The first contracts of newly appointed Executive Board members only have a term of three years,
and so a severance pay cap for Executive Board
­members would not make sense. Furthermore, in many
related cases a severance pay cap would not be legally
enforceable for Executive Board members. If there is
neither good cause for revoking the appointment in
terms of Section 84 (3) sentence 1 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) nor good cause for ­terminating
the employment contract without notice in terms of
Section 626 German Civil Code, the service contract
with the respective Executive Board member can only
be terminated by mutual consent. In this case, the
Executive Board member is not obliged to agree to a
severance pay cap in terms of the code recommendation. (Modified) connection clauses that tie termination of the Executive Board employment contract to
the revocation of the appointment for good cause,
and which provide for a corresponding severance pay
cap for this case cannot be unilaterally enforced by
the Supervisory Board against the will of the Executive
Board member concerned (deviation from code
Section 4.2.3 paragraph 4).
»» When proposing candidates at the Annual General
Meeting, the Supervisory Board has focused and will
continue to focus on the professional and personal
­qualifications of the candidates within the framework
of the applicable legal regulations, in particular with
respect to the German Gender Equality Act. It is naturally very r­ elevant that the Company’s international
activities, potential conflicts of interest, the number of
independent Supervisory Board members established
by the Supervisory Board and diversity are taken into
account. In doing so, it is neither necessary to establish
a regu­latory limit for the length of membership in the ­

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

32

Corporate Governance

Supervisory Board nor to specify concrete objectives
and publish them in the corporate governance report
(deviation from Code Section 5.4.1 paragraphs 2 and 3).

Hamburg, November 4, 2016
For the Executive Board

Jürgen Schachler
(Chairman)

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

For the Supervisory Board:

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann
(Chairman)”
Working procedures of the Executive Board and
Supervisory Board
Aurubis AG is a company subject to German law, on which
the German Corporate Governance Code is also based.
A basic principle of German stock corporation law is the
dual management ­system, enacted in the two bodies of the
Executive Board and Supervisory Board, strictly separated
in terms of personnel between the Executive Board as the
board of management, and the Supervisory Board as the
monitoring organ, and each provided with independent
responsibilities. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board
of Aurubis AG work together closely and in a spirit of trust
in the governance and super­vision of the Company for the
benefit of the Company.
The Executive Board
The Executive Board runs the Company on its own responsibility without instructions from third parties in accordance
with the law, the Articles of Association and the Executive
Board’s rules of procedure, taking into account the resolutions passed at the Annual General Meeting. The Executive
Board represents the Company in dealings with third parties.
Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

As the management body, the Executive Board runs the
­Company’s business on its own responsibility with the aim of
achieving long-term added value in the Company’s interests
while taking the needs of all stakeholders into account. The
principle of overall responsibility applies, i.e. the members of
the Executive Board collectively bear responsibility for the
­management of the entire Company. They work together in a
spirit of cooperation and continuously communicate with one
another about important measures and occurrences in their
areas of responsibility. The overall responsibility of all Executive Board members notwithstanding, the individual members of the Executive Board oversee the areas of responsibility assigned to them in the Executive Board resolutions on
their own responsibility. The principles of the collaboration
between Aurubis AG’s Executive Board members are stated
in the rules of procedure for the Executive Board issued by
the Supervisory Board. These regulate, in particular, the allocation of responsibilities between individual Executive Board
members, matters reserved for the full Executive Board, the
passing of resolutions, i.e. the required majority for resolutions, and the rights and obligations of the Chief Executive
Officer.
Certain Executive Board decisions of particular importance
require the approval of the Supervisory Board. These decisions
are stipulated in a catalogue. For example, the Super­visory
Board makes decisions about investments in other companies
if the measure is of great significance for the Group, as well as
about substantial capital expenditure ­measures.
The Executive Board of Aurubis AG consisted of two or
three members during the fiscal year. Pursuant to Section
105 (2) German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), Dr. Bernd
Drouven was dispatched from the Supervisory Board to the
Executive Board of Aurubis AG and was appointed Executive Board Chairman until October 31, 2015. Dr. Drouven
also oversaw Business Unit Primary Copper. Mr. Jürgen
Schachler has been Executive Board Chairman since July 1,
2016 and oversees Business Unit Primary Copper as well. In
the interim period between November 1, 2015 and the start
of Mr. Schachler’s term, Aurubis was led by Mr. Erwin Faust,
Executive Board Spokesman, and Dr. Stefan Boel. Starting
July 1, 2016, Mr. Erwin Faust resumed his full-time role as

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

33
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Chief Financial Officer, with Dr. Stefan Boel responsible for
Business Unit Copper Products. Mr. Erwin Faust has been
on sick leave since November 1, 2016 and is expected to
return to the Company in the second quarter of 2017. For
this reason, with the Supervisory Board resolution of
November 24, 2016, Mr. Faust was released from his duties
and obligations as CFO of Aurubis AG by mutual agreement. Mr. Jürgen Schachler and Dr. Stefan Boel have
assumed Mr. Faust’s responsibilities for the time being.
The Executive Board keeps the Supervisory Board informed
promptly and comprehensively, through written and verbal
reports, as well as in the scheduled meetings, about the
strategy, planning, business development, important business transactions and the Group’s risk situation, including
risk management and compliance, i.e. the measures taken
to ­comply with legal requirements and internal corporate
guidelines. The Executive Board undertakes detailed discussions regarding any business performance deviations from
previously prepared budgets and targets, and provides reasons for them.
The Executive Board takes diversity into account when filling management positions in the Company. Due to the German law on equal participation of women and men in management positions in the private and public sectors from
May 2015, certain companies in Germany are obligated for
the first time to establish targets for the quota of women in
the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board and the next
two management levels and to determine the deadline by
which the respective quotas should be achieved. The companies concerned were required to establish their targets,
including the implementation deadlines, by September 30,
2015. The first implementation deadline is not permitted to
extend past June 30, 2017. The next time an implementation
deadline is set, the period can extend to five years. The law
includes one exception, for the quota of women in the
Supervisory Boards of exchange-listed companies that are
also subject to co-determination, such as Aurubis AG: these
boards must include a legal minimum of 30 % women and
30 % men for new members taking up open Supervisory
Board mandates starting January 1, 2016.

On August 17, 2015 the Executive Board set targets for the
proportion of women in the two management levels below
the Executive Board for the first time and established an
implementation deadline of June 30, 2017. The target for the
­relatively short period until June 30, 2017 is 20 % for each
level. Currently, the proportion of women is 19 % for the first
management level, follwing 20 % in the previous year, and
20 % for the second management level, previously 17.4 %.
The Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board advises and monitors the Executive
Board in the management of the Company. It appoints and
rescinds the contracts of Executive Board members, decides
on the compensation system for Executive Board members
and specifies their respective total compensation. In the process, the Supervisory Board takes the relationship between
Executive Board compensation and the compensation of the
upper management level and the relevant workforce, in addition to the Company’s market position, into account. It also
defines the target pension level for Executive Board members. The Personnel Committee submits corresponding suggestions to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board
established an age limit for the election of Supervisory Board
members. The Supervisory Board did not place a limit on the
length of membership in the Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board is included in strategy and planning,
as well as all aspects of major significance for the Company.
The Supervisory Board has defined rights of veto in favor of the
Supervisory Board for transactions of fundamental importance,
in particular those that would significantly change the Company’s net assets, financial position and results of operations. In
the case of important events, an extraordinary Supervisory
Board meeting is convened if deemed necessary. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates the work within the
Supervisory Board, chairs their meetings and attends to the
affairs of the Supervisory Board externally. The Supervisory
Board meets without the Executive Board as necessary.
The Supervisory Board has defined rules of procedure for
its work. The representatives of the shareholders and the
employees generally meet separately to prepare for the
meetings.
Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

34

Corporate Governance

Composition of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board of Aurubis AG formed on the basis
of co-determination has twelve members in accordance
with the Articles of Association, of which six are elected by
the shareholders and six by the employees in accordance
with the German Law on Co-determination (MitbestG). The
periods of office are identical. In accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code,
the shareholders’ representatives were elected individually
to the Supervisory Board in the last election at the Annual
General Meeting on February 28, 2013. Dr. Drouven’s Supervisory Board mandate was put on hold during the period
from November 1, 2014 to October 31, 2015, during which he
was dispatched to the Executive Board.
The Supervisory Board has not specified any concrete
objectives regarding its composition. When proposing candidates at the Annual General Meeting, the Supervisory
Board will continue, in the future, to orient itself to the
­statutory provisions while focusing on the professional and
personal qualifications of the candidates within the framework of the applicable legal regulations, in particular with
respect to the German Gender Equality Act. It is naturally
very relevant that the Company’s international activities,
potential conflicts of interest, length of membership in the
Supervisory Board, age limit for Supervisory Board members, number of independent Supervisory Board members
in terms of Section 5.4.2 of the German Corporate Governance Code and diversity are all taken into account.
Dr. Bernd Drouven, a former member of the Aurubis AG
Executive Board, is now a member of the Supervisory Board.
His appointment as an Executive Board member ended less
than two years ago. Dr. Bernd Drouven was elected to the
Aurubis AG Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 100 (2)
sentence 1 No. 4 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) at
the recommendation of Salzgitter Mannesmann GmbH. In
the Supervisory Board’s analysis, the Supervisory Board has a
suitable number of independent members who do not have a
personal or professional ­relationship with the Company, its
Supervisory Board or Executive Board, a controlling shareholder or someone c­ onnected with an associated company,

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

which could be cause for a significant conflict of interest that
is not merely temporary. The Supervisory Board’s term of
office amounts to five years; the current term of office ends
at the close of the Annual General Meeting during which the
resolution regarding the exoneration of the Supervisory
Board members is passed for fiscal year 2016/17.
Pursant to Section 96 (2) German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG), the Supervisory Board of an exchange-listed stock
corporation that is also subject to co-determination, such as
Aurubis AG, must include a minimum of 30 % women and a
minimum of 30 % men. These minimum quotas apply to
new members taking up open Supervisory Board mandates
starting January 1, 2016. The quotas are therefore expected
to be taken into consideration for the first time in the election of new Supervisory Board members at the Annual General Meeting during which the resolution regarding the
exoneration of the Supervisory Board members is passed
for fiscal year 2016/17.
Pursuant to the German law on equal participation of
women and men in management positions in the private
and public sectors from May 2015, on September 11, 2015
the Supervisory Board established a target of 0 % for the
quota of women in the Aurubis AG Executive Board and an
implementation deadline of June 30, 2017 since at that time
no new appointments were expected.
Supervisory Board committees
The Supervisory Board has formed five long-term committees in order to complement the work of the Supervisory
Board and enable its members to prepare work for it: the
Personnel Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Conciliation Committee and the Technology Committee. Some of the committees’ tasks as well
as their composition and work are specified in the rules of
procedure of the Supervisory Board.
Personnel Committee
The six-member Personnel Committee has equal numbers of
representatives for the shareholders and employees.
For the duration of Dr. Drouven’s dispatch to the Executive

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

35
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Board, his Personnel Committee mandate was put on
hold in addition to his Supervisory Board mandate.
The Personnel Committee therefore temporarily had only
five members until October 31, 2015. It concerns itself with
the structure and level of compensation paid to all members
of the Executive Board, the preparation of Executive Board
contracts and the selection of qualified candidates for
­Executive Board positions in the preparation of the necessary Supervisory Board resolutions. The chairman of the Personnel Committee is the chairman of the Supervisory Board.
Audit Committee
The four-member Audit Committee with equal representation
has the primary task of monitoring accounting and accounting
processes, the effectiveness of the internal control system and
the internal auditing system, the annual audit and especially
the independence of the auditors, the additional ­services performed by auditors, the appointment of auditors, the focuses
of the audit and the agreement of the fee, as well as compliance. The Audit Committee Chairman during the reporting
year, Dr. Ernst J. Wortberg, is an independent financial expert
whose business career has p
­ rovided him with special expertise
and experience in the application of accounting principles and
internal control ­procedures. He is not a former member of the
Company’s Executive Board whose appointment ended less
than two years ago.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee did not meet during the
­reporting year.
The Nomination Committee only contains representatives
for the shareholders in accordance with the German Corporate Governance Code. The Nomination Committee has the
duty of proposing suitable candidates for election to the
Supervisory Board at the Annual General Meeting.
Conciliation Committee
The Conciliation Committee did not meet during the
­reporting year.

Technology Committee
The Supervisory Board formed a Technology Committee on
November 1, 2015. The four-member committee has equal
numbers of representatives for the shareholders and
employees. The Technology Committee’s duty is to strate­
gically support and monitor the Executive Board in the
implementation of significant capital expenditure projects.
Dr. Drouven chairs this committee.
All the committees’ members are given in the list of the
­Executive and Supervisory Boards in this Annual Report.
The mandates of the Supervisory Board members in other
legally formed Supervisory Boards and comparable German
and foreign controlling bodies are included in the list of the
Executive and Supervisory Boards in this Annual Report.
Avoiding conflicts of interest
The mandates of the Supervisory Board and Executive
Board members in other legally formed Supervisory Boards
and comparable German and foreign controlling bodies are
included in the list of the Executive and Supervisory Boards
in this Annual Report. No Executive Board member holds
more than three Supervisory Board mandates at public
­limited companies that are not part of the Group, or in
supervisory committees of non-Group companies with
comparable requirements. Related parties are presented
in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In transactions with Executive Board members, the Supervisory Board represents the Company. Significant transactions with parties related to an Executive Board member
were and are only carried out with the agreement of the
Supervisory Board.
In the last fiscal year no conflicts of interest occurred
among Executive Board or Supervisory Board members
that should have been disclosed to the Supervisory Board
Chairman and the other Executive Board members.
Nor were there any consulting or other service or work
contracts between Supervisory Board members and the
Company in the reporting year.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

36

Corporate Governance

Retention in the D&O insurance
Aurubis AG has taken out D&O insurance (pecuniary loss/
third-party indemnity) for the Executive Board and the
Supervisory Board with a reasonable retention. Retention of
10 % of the damage or one and a half times the fixed annual
compensation has been agreed.

>
www.aurubis.com

Disclosures on relevant corporate governance practices
For Aurubis AG, the applicable legal regulations, in particular stock market law, the German Law on Co-determination
(MitbestG), capital market law, the Articles of Association,
the German Corporate Governance Code and the rules of
procedure of the Supervisory Board and the Executive
Board, provide the basis for the structure of management
and controlling in the Company. Over and above the legal
obligations, Aurubis has defined values and has derived a
Code of Conduct from these, which regulates the framework of behavior and decisions and which provides guidance for corporate activities. The values and the Code of
Conduct are published on the Company’s website. Each
employee is briefed on these group-wide applicable values
and the Code of Conduct, as well as the corporate guidelines stemming from them. Mandatory instruction is given
on special topics to (potentially) affected employees (e.g.
antitrust law, anticorruption, environmental protection and
occupational safety).
Shareholders and Annual General Meeting
The shareholders of Aurubis AG exercise their co-­
determination and supervisory rights at the Annual General
Meeting, which occurs at least once a year. Resolutions are
passed at the AGM on all matters defined by law that are
binding for all shareholders and the Company. Each share
grants the holder one vote in the AGM voting processes.
The participants of the Annual General Meeting elect the
members of the Supervisory Board and pass a resolution
regarding the exoneration of the members of the Executive
Board and Supervisory Board. They decide on the utilization
of the unappropriated earnings and on capital measures and
give approval to company agreements. Furthermore, they
make decisions about the compensation of the Supervisory
Board and amendments to the Company’s Articles of

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Association. An Annual General Meeting is held once a year,
in which the Executive Board and Supervisory Board give an
account of the past fiscal year. The German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) stipulates that an extraordinary General
Meeting can be convened in special cases.
Each shareholder who has registered in good time and can
provide proof of his or her entitlement to participate in the
Annual General Meeting and exercise his voting rights is entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders who
cannot or do not wish to attend the Annual General Meeting
in person may authorize a bank, a shareholders’ association,
the proxies designated by Aurubis AG, who are bound to follow the shareholders’ instructions, or another person of their
choice to exercise their voting rights. The shareholders also
have the option of submitting their votes online before the
Annual General Meeting. Aurubis AG will give further details
in the invitation to the Annual General Meeting.
The invitation to the Annual General Meeting and the
­relevant reports and information for the resolutions are
published in accordance with German stock corporation
law and made available in English and German on the
Aurubis AG website.
Controlling and risk management
It is also part of good corporate governance that the Company handles risks responsibly. As part of our value-­oriented
Group management, adequate risk management ensures that
risks are identified early on and risk positions are minimized.
Risk Management reports regularly to the Executive Board
and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee. Compliance
management was expanded across the Group in the fiscal
year so as to comply with the requirements resulting from the
relevant legal stipulations and the Code of Conduct. The
Chief Compliance Officer reported regularly to the Executive
Board and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee.
Details of risk management at Aurubis AG are given in the
risk report, which includes the mandatory report on the
accounting-related internal control and risk management
system issued in accordance with Section 289 (5), Section
315 (2) German Commercial Code (HGB).

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

37
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Transparency
Aurubis AG regularly informs capital market participants and
the interested general public about the Group’s economic
situation and new facts. The Annual Report, half-yearly
reports and the quarterly interim reports are published
within the stipulated periods. Press releases and, if necessary, ad hoc announcements provide information on current
events and new developments. Information is made available
in German and English and is published in printed form or
via suitable electronic media. Meetings are arranged on a
­regular basis with analysts and institutional investors as part
of our Investor Relations activities. Apart from an annual
analysts’ conference, conference calls are also held for
­analysts, especially in connection with the publication of
quarterly figures. We have also immediately made available
to shareholders, on the Company website, any new matters
that were disclosed to financial analysts and similar contacts.

Directors’ dealings
In accordance with Section 15a of the previous version of
the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) until July 2,
2016, and in accordance with Art. 19 of the European Market
Abuse Regulation effective since July 3, 2016, members of
the Executive and Supervisory Boards, certain employees in
management positions and people closely associated with
them have to disclose acquisitions and sales of Company
shares and related financial instruments. This does not apply
if the total transactions per person do not reach an amount
of € 5,000 per calendar year.

The Company’s Articles of Association, the current Declaration of Conformity and the Declarations of Conformity from
the past five years are likewise available on the website.

The following members of the Executive Board informed
the Company that they had acquired or sold no-par-value
shares in the Company in the period from October 1, 2015
to September 30, 2016:

Furthermore, immediately after receipt of a relevant notification pursuant to Section 21 German Securities Trading
Act (WpHG), the achieving, exceeding or falling below of
3, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 50 or 75 % of the voting rights in the
Company is published in an information system that is
­distributed throughout Europe.
Financial calendar
The scheduled dates of the main recurring events and publications – such as the Annual General Meeting, the Annual
Report, interim reports, press conferences on the annual
financial statements and analyst conferences – are listed in
a financial calendar. The calendar is published sufficiently in
advance and made permanently available on the Aurubis AG
website.

One member of the Supervisory Board carried out share
transactions from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016:
»» P
 rof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt: purchased 1,000 no-par-value
shares.

»» Mr. Erwin Faust: purchased 5,000 no-par-value shares,
»» Dr. Stefan Boel: purchased 2,750 no-par value shares,
»» Mr. Erwin Faust: sold 5,000 no-par-value shares.
The Executive Board and Supervisory Board held less
than 1 % of the shares issued by the Company as at
September 30, 2016.
Financial reporting and annual audit
Aurubis AG prepares its consolidated financial statements
and the consolidated interim reports in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as they
should be applied in the European Union. The financial
statements of Aurubis AG are issued in compliance with the
German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG). The financial statements of
Aurubis AG and the consolidated financial statements are
compiled by the Executive Board and examined by the
auditors and the Supervisory Board. Aurubis AG released a
Combined Management Report for the AG and the Group
Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

38

Corporate Governance

for fiscal year 2015/16. The interim reports and the halfyearly financial reports are discussed by the Audit Committee and the Executive Board before publication.

Compensation report for the Executive
Board and the Supervisory Board of
Aurubis AG

The Company’s auditor was elected at the Annual General
Meeting in compliance with the provisions of the German
Stock Corporation Act (AktG). PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, was appointed
auditor of the 2015/16 consolidated financial statements and
the 2015/16 German Commercial Code (HGB) financial
statements of Aurubis AG. Before submitting the proposal
for the election of the auditors, the Supervisory Board
obtained the declaration of independence from PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft as specified by the German Corporate Governance Code. The audits
were performed in accordance with German auditing regulations, taking into account the generally accepted standards
for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the
German Institute of Public Auditors; in addition, the International Standards on Auditing were also observed. The audits
also covered risk management and compliance with reporting obligations on corporate governance in accordance with
Section 161 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).

The following compensation report is part of the Combined
Management Report. It outlines the structure and level
of Aurubis AG’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board
compensation.

Furthermore, it was also agreed with the auditors that they
would inform the Supervisory Board without delay about
any possible grounds for exclusion or lack of impartiality
and about the main findings and incidents arising during the
audit.
Hamburg, December 2016

The Executive Board

Jürgen Schachler
(Chairman)

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

Compensation for the Executive Board
The Supervisory Board defines the total compensation for
the individual Executive Board members on the basis of
­proposals from the Personnel Committee, and decides on
and reviews the compensation system for the Executive
Board at regular intervals.
The principle of the compensation provisions is to orient
the Executive Board’s contracts more strongly to long-term
corporate development.
The compensation of individual Executive Board members
is defined in their employment contracts and consists of a
series of components, comprising fixed compensation,
variable compensation, fringe benefits and pension plans.
The various compensation components are as follows: the
compensation of Executive Board members is made up of
fixed and variable components. The fixed parts consist of
fixed compensation, fringe benefits and pension plans. The
annual fixed compensation amounts to € 570,000 for the
Chief Executive Officer and € 399,000 for the ordinary
members of the Executive Board and is paid out monthly in
equal installments. In the past fiscal year, Dr. Drouven (Executive Board Chairman until October 31, 2015) received fixed
compensation of € 47,500. As Executive Board Chairman
from July 1, 2016 to September 30, 2016, Mr. Jürgen Schachler
earned fixed compensation of € 142,500. Because Mr. Erwin
Faust (Executive Board Spokesman from November 1, 2015
to June 30, 2016) and Dr. Stefan Boel assumed additional
responsibilities in the Executive Board on an interim basis
during the period mentioned, they received special compensation in addition to their fixed compensation of € 399,000

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

39
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

each. This special compensation amounted to € 120,000 for
Mr. Faust and € 105,000 for Dr. Boel.
In addition, the Executive Board members receive fringe
benefits in the form of benefits in kind, mainly comprising
the value of insurance premiums in accordance with the
tax guidelines, and the use of a company car. The individual
Executive Board members must pay tax on these fringe
benefits as components of their compensation.
The system for variable compensation consists of two components, which are paid out each year. The first component
(Component 1) is dependent on achieving an annual target
related to adjusted average consolidated EBT (earnings
before taxes of the Group) of three years, in each case
related to the current and the two prior fiscal years before
the respective fiscal year. The target is EBT derived from
ROCE of 15 %. The target bonus of Component 1 amounts to
about 60 % of the variable compensation in relation to
Component II and can reach a cap of 100 %. If EBT is less
than 40 % of the target, Component 1 will not be paid. The
maximum amount that can be reached from these components is € 712,500 for the Chief Executive Officer and
€ 475,000 for ordinary members of the Executive Board.
Component II stipulates that an annual assessment of the
joint (Component II a) and individual (Component II b)
­performance of the Executive Board will be carried out by
the Supervisory Board. Both components are based on a
qualitative, criteria-supported assessment of the long-term
Company management.
The target bonus of Component II has a cap of 100 %. At least
50 % of the target bonus is always paid out unless the granting
of same would be unreasonable in the sense of Section 87 (2)
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). The maximum amount
to be reached from Components II a and II b amounts to
€ 237,500 for the Chief Executive Officer and € 166,250 for
each of the ordinary members of the Executive Board.
Mr. Faust has a defined benefit pension plan. The pension
benefits are determined as a percentage of the fixed compensation. The percentage increases based on the length of

service on the Board. The pension is payable once the
­Executive Board member reaches the age of 65 or in the
event of his disability.
Mr. Schachler and Dr. Boel have a defined contribution
­pension plan, for which an amount of € 140,000 is paid for
Mr. Schachler and € 100,000 is paid for Dr. Boel to an
­insurance company each year.
The employment contracts of Executive Board members
include no change of control clauses. In the event of non-­
renewal of his Executive Board contract, Mr. Faust will,
under certain conditions, receive an early retirement
­pension. These conditions are fulfilled if the Executive Board
member has completed at least five years of service as an
Executive Board member at Aurubis AG and is at least
55 years old. Dr. Drouven fulfilled these conditions during
his previous Executive Board membership and received a
pension. These claims were put on hold during his dispatch
from the Supervisory Board to the Executive Board. The
assessment basis for the pension increased slightly due to
his new Executive Board membership.
Pensions paid to Executive Board members before they reach
65 years of age have the character of an interim payment.
Compensation paid to an Executive Board member for activities outside the Aurubis Group after termination of his contract
is offset against the pension until he reaches the age of 65.
All members of the Executive Board also have a defined
contribution company pension plan. This pension plan is
based on a lump-sum single payment. At the end of each
fiscal year, € 120,000 for the Chief Executive Officer and
€ 80,000 for the other three Executive Board members is
paid into liability insurances.
Each Executive Board member may use the accumulated
capital at the earliest when he has reached 60 years of age,
but not before ceasing to be employed by the Company.
The total compensation paid to active members of the
­Executive Board for activities in fiscal year 2015/16
amounted to € 3,325,289 including pension expenses.
Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

40

Corporate Governance

The following table provides details of the compensation of
the individual members:
Benefits granted

in €
Jürgen Schachler
Executive Board Chairman
starting July 1, 2016

2014/15

Fixed compensation

Fringe benefits

Total
0

0

0

2)

142,500

3,465

145,965

Min.

142,500

3,465

145,965

2015/16

Max.

142,500

3,465

145,965

Dr. Stefan Boel
Executive Board member
since April 19, 2008

2014/15

378,000

17,813

395,813

2015/16

399,000

18,177

417,177

Min.

399,000

18,177

417,177

Max.

399,000

18,177

417,177

Erwin Faust
Executive Board member
since October 1, 2008

2014/15

378,000

18,365

396,365

2015/16

399,000

19,139

418,139

Min.

399,000

19,139

418,139

Max.

399,000

19,139

418,139

Dr. Bernd Drouven
Executive Board Chairman
from November 1, 2014 to
October 31, 2015

2014/15

495,000

4,112

499,112

2015/16 3)

47,500

1,042

48,542

Min.

47,500

1,042

48,542

Max.

47,500

1,042

48,542

2014/15

1,251,000

40,290

1,291,290

2015/16

988,000

41,823

1,029,823

Min.

988,000

41,823

1,029,823

Max.

988,000

41,823

1,029,823

Total

	Pension expenses in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) amounted to € 230,041 (previous year: € 429,361) for Erwin Faust,
€ 180,000 (previous year: € 160,000) for Dr. Stefan Boel, € 10,000 (previous year: € 232,607) for Dr. Bernd Drouven and € 260,000 for Jürgen Schachler.
Variable compensation for the period from July 1, 2016 to September 30, 2016.
3)
Due to Dr. Drouven’s departure, the table shows 1/12 of the compensation previously granted.
4)
	Mr. Erwin Faust (Executive Board Spokesman from November 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016) and Dr. Stefan Boel assumed additional Executive Board
responsibilities on an interim basis during the period mentioned. As a result, they received additional special compensation amounting to
€ 120,000 for Mr. Faust and € 105,000 for Dr. Boel. The variable compensation for several years for fiscal year 2015/16 is calculated according to
the ratio of actual EBT to the target EBT of the Aurubis Group and the average of fiscal years 2013/14, 2014/15 and 2015/16.
The average actual EBT amounts to € 231 million, a 66 % target achievement.
1)

2)

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

41
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

¤ T 002

Variable compensation Variable compensation
for one year
for several years

Total

Pension expenses 1)

Total compensation

0

0

0

0

0

118,750

157,106

421,821

260,000

681,821

59,375

0

205,340

260,000

465,340

118,750

178,125

442,840

260,000

702,840

275,625

90,450

761,888

160,000

921,888

332,500 4)

418,950

1,168,627

180,000

1,348,627

166,250

0

583,427

180,000

763,427

332,500

475,000

1,224,677

180,000

1,404,677

275,625

90,450

762,440

310,852

1,073,292

332,500 4)

418,950

1,169,589

321,506

1,491,095

166,250

0

584,389

321,506

905,895

332,500

475,000

1,225,639

321,506

1,547,145

360,938

124,369

984,419

110,000

1,094,419

39,583

52,369

140,494

10,000

150,494

19,792

0

68,334

10,000

78,334

39,583

59,375

147,500

10,000

157,500

912,188

305,269

2,508,747

580,852

3,089,599

823,333

1,047,375

2,900,531

771,506

3,672,037

411,667

0

1,441,490

771,506

2,212,996

823,333

1,187,500

3,040,656

771,506

3,812,162

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

42

Corporate Governance

Inflow

Fixed compensation

in €
Jürgen Schachler
Executive Board Chairman
starting July 1, 2016

2014/15
2015/16 2)

Fringe benefits

Total

0

0

0

142,500

3,465

145,965

Dr. Stefan Boel
Executive Board member
since April 19, 2008

2014/15

378,000

17,813

395,813

2015/16

399,000

18,177

417,177

Erwin Faust
Executive Board member
since ­October 1, 2008

2014/15

378,000

18,365

396,365

2015/16

399,000

19,139

418,139

2014/15

495,000

4,112

499,112

Dr. Bernd Drouven
Executive Board Chairman
from November 1, 2014 to
October 31, 2015

2015/16 3)

47,500

1,042

48,542

Total

2014/15

1,251,000

40,290

1,291,290

2015/16

988,000

41,823

1,029,823

	Pension expenses in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) amounted to € 230,041 (previous year: € 429,361) for Erwin Faust,
€ 180,000 (previous year: € 160,000) for Dr. Stefan Boel, € 10,000 (previous year: € 232,607) for Dr. Bernd Drouven and € 260,000 for Jürgen Schachler.
2)
Variable compensation for the period from July 1, 2016 to September 30, 2016.
3)
Due to Dr. Drouven’s departure, the table shows 1/12 of the compensation previously granted.
4)
	Mr. Erwin Faust (Executive Board Spokesman from November 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016) and Dr. Stefan Boel assumed additional Executive Board
responsibilitieson an interim basis during the period mentioned. As a result, they received additional special compensation amounting to
€ 120,000 for Mr. Faust and € 105,000 for Dr. Boel. The variable compensation for several years for fiscal year 2015/16 is calculated according to
the ratio of actual EBT to the target EBT of the Aurubis Group and the average of fiscal years 2013/14, 2014/15 and 2015/16.
The average actual EBT amounts to € 231 million, a 66 % target achievement.
1)

Dr. Schneider resigned from the Executive Board on
June 30, 2015. The termination agreement foresaw a lumpsum compensation, which included the fixed compensation
until April 30, 2016, as well as the variable compensation for
fiscal year 2014/15 and the proportional variable compensation for fiscal year 2015/16. The payout was in January 2016.
The contributions to the additional defined contribution
company pension plan were paid until April 30, 2016.
The Company has set up pension provisions on the basis of
IFRS for the Executive Board members. Allocations to the
pension provisions for active members of the Executive
Board in the year under review amounted to € 771,506. This
amount comprises the service cost and contributions to an
external pension fund.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Former members of the Executive Board and their surviving
dependents received a total of € 2,210,800, while
€ 24,608,243 has been provided for their pension entitlement.
Compensation for the Supervisory Board
The compensation paid to the Supervisory Board was established at the Annual General Meeting. It went into effect on
October 1, 2015 and is covered by Section 12 of Aurubis AG’s
Articles of Association. It is based on the different workloads in the Supervisory Board and its committees.
In addition to the reimbursement of expenses incurred
while carrying out his/her office, each member of the
Supervisory Board receives a fixed fee of € 75,000 per fiscal
year. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives three
times this amount and his deputy twice this amount.

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

43
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

¤ T 003

Variable compensation Variable compensation
for one year
for several years

Total

Pension expenses 1)

Total compensation

0

0

0

0

0

118,750

117,563

382,278

260,000

642,278

295,313

230,400

921,526

160,000

1,081,526

290,9384)

313,500

1,021,615

180,000

1,201,615

295,313

230,400

922,078

310,852

1,232,930

290,9384)

313,500

1,022,577

321,506

1,344,083

412,500

316,800

1,228,412

110,000

1,338,412

39,583

39,188

127,313

10,000

137,313

1,003,126

777,600

3,072,016

580,852

3,652,868

740,209

783,751

2,553,783

771,506

3,325,289

Supervisory Board members who belong to the Personnel
Committee or the Audit Committee of the Supervisory
Board receive additional fixed compensation of € 15,000
per fiscal year and committee. Supervisory Board members
who belong to the other Supervisory Board committees
receive additional fixed compensation of € 7,500 per fiscal
year and committee. Supervisory Board members who serve
as a Supervisory Board committee chairman receive double
this amount per fiscal year and committee chairmanship.
The fixed compensation for committee work is limited to
€ 25,000 per fiscal year for each Supervisory Board
­member pursuant to Section 12 (2) Articles of Association.
The limit for each committee chairman amounts to
€ 50,000 per fiscal year.

Supervisory Board members who do not serve a complete
fiscal year on the Supervisory Board or one of its committees receive compensation corresponding to the duration of
their office.
Furthermore, Supervisory Board members receive an attendance fee of € 1,000 for each meeting of the Supervisory
Board and of its committees attended.
The following table provides details of the compensation of
the individual members of the Supervisory Board for fiscal
year 2015/16:

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

44

Corporate Governance

¤ T 004

in €
Name

Fixed
compensation

Variable
compensation

Compensation
for committee
membership

Attendance
fees

Total

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg
­Fuhrmann

2014/15

80,000

60,000

20,000

5,000

165,000

2015/16

225,000

0

50,000

10,000

285,000

Renate Hold-Yilmaz

2014/15

40,000

30,000

10,000

5,000

85,000

2015/16

149,795

0

25,000

14,000

188,795

2014/15

40,000

30,000

10,000

4,000

84,000

2015/16

75,000

0

22,500

10,000

107,500

2014/15

3,397

2,548

425

0

6,370

2015/16

68,648

0

20,595

8,000

97,243

2014/15

40,000

30,000

0

2,500

72,500

2015/16

75,000

0

0

5,000

80,000

2014/15

40,000

30,000

5,000

4,000

79,000

2015/16

75,000

0

15,000

10,000

100,000

2014/15

40,000

30,000

5,000

1,000

76,000

2015/16

75,000

0

7,500

6,000

88,500

2014/15

40,000

30,000

5,000

5,000

80,000

2015/16

75,000

0

21,865

10,000

106,865

2014/15

40,000

30,000

0

2,500

72,500

2015/16

75,000

0

0

6,000

81,000

2014/15

40,000

30,000

10,000

5,000

85,000

2015/16

75,000

0

22,500

7,000

104,500

Burkhard Becker
Dr. Bernd Drouven
Dr. Joachim Faubel
Jan Koltze
Dr. Sandra Reich
Dr. Thomas Schultek
Rolf Schwertz
Prof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt
Ralf Winterfeldt
Dr.-Ing. Ernst J. Wortberg
Total

2014/15

0

0

0

0

0

2015/16

75,000

0

22,439

8,000

105,439

2014/15

40,000

30,000

15,000

4,000

89,000

2015/16

75,000

0

37,500

10,000

122,500

2014/15

443,397

332,548

80,425

38,000

894,370

2015/16

1,118,443

0

244,899

104,000

1,467,342

On this basis, the Supervisory Board members received a
total of € 1,467,342.
Hamburg, December 13, 2016
The Supervisory Board

The Executive Board

Jürgen Schachler
(Chairman)

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Heinz Jörg Fuhrmann
(Chairman)

45

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Aurubis Shares on the Capital Market
High volatility on stock markets
Developments on the stock markets were strongly impacted
by the policies of the world’s leading central banks during
fiscal year 2015/16. Hopes for both additional monetary easing measures from the European Central Bank and a postponement of the US interest rate reversal drove the DAX to
11,382 points in November 2015. At the turn of 2015/16,
uncertainties related to the US interest rate reversal, the
weak commodity markets with a massive oil price decline
and renewed concerns about the Chinese economy strained
stock markets. The DAX reached the fiscal-year low of 8,753
points on February 11, 2016. The upward trend on the markets that took effect in mid-February was dampened again
by the Brexit decision of the British people on June 23, 2016.
The DAX fell below the 10,000-point mark. Supported by
more robust economic data from the eurozone and the US,
as well as the US Federal Reserve’s postponement of the
interest rate increase, however, the markets recovered in
the following months and the DAX closed at 10,511 points
on September 30, 2016. The development of the MDAX, in
which Aurubis is listed, was aligned with the DAX.

Aurubis shares strained by profit-taking and volatile
market developments after very good start
Aurubis shares had a very good start to fiscal year 2015/16.
Supported by our good results in 2015, the stock markets’
upswing and the resulting positive analyst assessments, it
reached a new all-time high of € 61.68 on October 23, 2015.
After the record results of fiscal year 2014/15 were published
on December 11, 2015, the share price nevertheless fell by 19 %
compared to the previous day, to € 46.79. The prospect of
much lower results in fiscal year 2015/16, primarily due to our
large-scale shutdown scheduled in Pirdop and the weakening
scrap and sulfuric acid markets, led to profit-taking in a nervous market environment. The general negative market trend
in the commodity sector and the profit warning on January 27,
2016 placed additional pressure on the Aurubis share price,
causing it to hit the fiscal-year low of € 37.54 on January 29,
2016. With the upward tendency on the capital markets starting in mid-February, and our business development fulfilling
the expectations of capital market actors, the shares gained
ground again as the year went on and recovered to € 50.99 on
September 23, 2016. The shares ended the fiscal year at
€ 49.88 on September 30, 2016. The price decrease compared
to the record-breaking year 2014/15 was therefore 12 %. During

Aurubis share performance compared with the DAX and MDAX, from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016
indexed to 100 %

See Glossary,
page 197.

¤ G 01

140

120

100

80

60
October

November

Aurubis share (Xetra)

December
MDAX

January

February

March

April

May

June

July

August

September

DAX

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

46

Aurubis Shares

See Glossary,
page 198.

Trading volume of Aurubis shares exceeds previous year
The share price volatility was reflected in the trading
­volume: the daily average Xetra trading volume increased by
6 % to 204,776 shares (previous year: 193,641 shares).

the same period, the MDAX rose by 12 % and the DAX
increased by 9 %. Market capitalization was € 2,242 million
as at fiscal year-end (previous year: € 2,558 million).
Aurubis shares remain an attractive investment. Shareholders who invested a converted amount of € 1,000 at the time
of Aurubis’ initial public offering in 1998 and reinvested the
dividends they received (without a tax deduction) into
Aurubis shares had a portfolio value of € 6,693 at the end
of September 2016. This is a 570 % increase in value or a
total annual return of 10.99 %. The MDAX recorded a 356 %
increase in value during the same period.

Proportion of institutional investors increases slightly
Aurubis maintained its stable and well-diversified shareholder structure in fiscal year 2015/16. Salzgitter AG continues to hold 25 % of the share capital. An analysis of the
shareholder structure carried out in October 2016 showed
that the proportion of institutional investors increased to
46 % (previous year: 40 %). This category grew in North
America and Germany in particular. Most institutional
investors are located outside Germany. The proportion
of shares held by retail shareholders decreased to 29 %
(previous year: 35 %).

Key figures of Aurubis shares

¤ T 005

2015/16 2)

2014/15 2)

2013/14 2)

2012/13 2)

2011/12 2)

Closing price as at fiscal year-end 1)

in €

49.88

56.90

39.16

44.80

45.35

Year high (close) 1)

in €

61.68

59.68

49.49

57.24

46.60

Year low (close) 1)

in €

37.54

36.43

36.19

38.68

35.44

Market capitalization as at
fiscal year-end 1)

in € million

2,242

2,558

1,761

2,014

2,039

Number of shares as at
fiscal year-end

in thousand
units

44,956.7

44,956.7

44,956.7

44,956.7

44,956.7

Dividend or recommended dividend

in €

1.25

1.35

1.00

1.10

1.35

Payout ratio

in %

46

53

51

46

54

Dividend yield

in %

2.5

2.4

2.6

2.5

3.0

Operating earnings per share

in €

3.64

5.68

2.17

2.06

4.58

13.70

10.02

18.05

21.75

9.90

Operating price/earnings ratio as at
fiscal year-end
1)
2)

Xetra disclosures.
 alues “operationally” adjusted by valuation results from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, by copper price-related valuation
V
effects on inventories and by effects from the purchase price allocation, mainly property, plant and equipment, from fiscal year 2010/11 onwards.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

47
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Executive Board and Supervisory Board suggest
dividend of € 1.25
The objective of our dividend policy is to allow our shareholders to participate in the Company’s success adequately
and continuously. The Executive Board and Supervisory
Board intend to recommend a dividend of € 1.25 at the
Annual General Meeting on March 2, 2017. This corresponds
to a payout ratio of 46 % of Aurubis AG’s earnings (previous
year: 53 %). The return on the share based on the closing
price as at September 30, 2016 amounts to 2.5 % (previous
year: 2.4 %).

Dialogue with institutional investors was once again a significant pillar of our capital market communication. At a number
of capital market conferences and roadshows at the main
financial centers in Europe and North America, we presented
the Aurubis Group’s business situation and potential to institutional investors and financial analysts. When the quarterly
reports were published, the Executive Board explained the
results and future outlook for the fiscal year in conference
calls and in a live event. Moreover, investors visited our
sites in Hamburg and Lünen to learn about our operating
processes, plants and products.

Intensive dialogue with institutional and retail investors
The volatile market environment, the varying developments
on our sub-markets and the Company’s resulting earnings
trend led to a high demand for information among capital
market participants in fiscal year 2015/16. We therefore continued to expand our intensive communication with institutional and retail investors and other interested individuals
about developments in our business promptly, continuously
and purposefully using different channels.

In September 2016 we invited analysts and institutional
investors to the “Aurubis Capital Market Day” in Hamburg.
With technical presentations and a plant tour, we provided
participants with firsthand, comprehensive insights into our
operating business.

For example, we expanded the features of the online Annual
Report on our website and made it even more user-friendly.
Shareholder structure
in % (prior-year figures in parentheses)

¤ G 02

Aurubis AG is observed by a number of international
­financial analysts. A total of 21 financial institutions regularly
­published recommendations and analyses about Aurubis’
shares during fiscal year 2015/16. Berenberg and Credit
Suisse, two renowned international banks, began covering
Aurubis for the first time. The ratings were as follows at
the end of the fiscal year:
Overview of analyst recommendations
Number of analysts as at September 30, 2016

46 (40)
Institutional
investors

15.4 Germany
8.6 Rest of Europe
   5.7 UK/Ireland
15.8 North America
   0.5 Others

25 (25)
Salzgitter AG

29 (35)
Retail
investors

9
Hold/
neutral

¤ G 03

12
Buy/
outperform

0
Sell/
underperform

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

48

Aurubis Shares

We had the opportunity to speak with our retail shareholders during two dialogue events in Hamburg and Lünen.
This provided them with the opportunity to get to know the
sites and to receive information about the Group’s current
development and economic environment in discussions
with the Executive Board and other employees. We also
held additional presentations for retail shareholders at
events organized by private shareholder associations. The
high level of interest in our shares was also evident at our
well-attended Annual General Meeting on February 24,
2016, in which 1,500 shareholders participated.
We used ad hoc announcements to keep the capital
­markets informed about notable developments. These
included an announcement on October 2, 2015 about the
appointment of Mr. Jürgen Schachler as the new Executive
Board Chairman of the Aurubis Group, a profit warning on
January 27, 2016 and a positive profit alert on April 25, 2016.

>
www.aurubis.com

Current information on the development of the Company
is available on our website. We provide financial reports,
­analyst presentations and additional publications in the
download center.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Information on Aurubis shares

¤ T 006

Security identification number:

676650

International Securities
­Identification Number (ISIN):

DE 000 67 66 504

Stock market segment:

MDAX

Stock exchanges:

Regulated market: Frankfurt am
Main and Hamburg; unofficial
market: Berlin, Düsseldorf,
Hanover, Munich, Stuttgart,
Tradegate

Market segment:

Prime Standard

Issue price:

€ 12.78

Average daily trading volume:

204,776 shares in Xetra trading

Deutsche Börse code:

NDA

Reuters code:

NAFG

Bloomberg code:

NDA_GR

Company Management
22
Executive Board
23
Supervisory Board
26
Supervisory Board Report

49
31
45

Corporate Governance
Aurubis Shares

Analyst coverage 2015/16

¤ T 007

Baader Bank

Christian Obst

Bankhaus Lampe

Marc Gabriel

Bank of America/Merrill Lynch

Cedar Ekblom

Berenberg

Fawzi Hanano

Commerzbank

Ingo-Martin Schachel

Credit Suisse

James Gurry

Deutsche Bank

Katja Filzek

DZ Bank

Dirk Schlamp

Exane BNP Paribas

Daniel Lurch

Goldman Sachs

Eugene King

Haspa

Ingo Schmidt

Hauck & Aufhäuser

Henning Breiter

Independent Research GmbH

Sven Diermeier

Kepler Cheuvreux

Rochus Brauneiser

LBBW

Jens Münstermann

Macquarie Research

Alon Olsha

Morgan Stanley

Dan Shaw

NordLB

Holger Fechner

Quirin Bank AG

Klaus Soer

Steubing AG

Michael Broeker

M.M. Warburg

Eggert Kuls

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

50

51

COMBINED
MANAGEMENT REPORT

52

66

90
90

99

106

Foundations of the Group
52 Business model of the Group
54 Corporate control
56 Research, development and innovation
57
Human resources
60	Sustainability, environmental protection, energy and
climate, occupational health
Economic Report
66 General economic conditions
67 Conditions specific to the industry
69 Economic development in the Aurubis Group
78 Business performance in the Business Units
85	Executive Board assessment of the
Aurubis Group during fiscal year 2015/16
86 Results of operations, financial position and net assets of Aurubis AG
Subsequent Events
Risk and Opportunity Report
90 Integrated risk and opportunity management
90 Risk Management System
91
Independent monitoring
91
Explanation of relevant risks
95	Internal control system relating to the consolidated
accounting process/accounting process
96 Opportunity management system
96 Explanation of relevant opportunities
98 Assessment of the Group’s risk and opportunity situation
Forecast Report
99 Overall economic development
100 Development on the markets relevant to our business
102 Business and earnings expectations for the Aurubis Group
104 General statement on the future development of the Aurubis Group
Legal Disclosures
106	Declaration on corporate governance pursuant to
Section 289a German Commercial Code (HGB)
106 Takeover-related disclosures and explanations

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

52

Combined Management Report

Foundations of the Group
Business model of the Group
See Glossary,
page 197.

Business activities
Aurubis AG is an integrated copper group whose main
activities are copper concentrate processing, metal recycling
and fabrication of a variety of copper products. Precious
metals and specialty products complete our product range.
The company’s headquarters, which is also home to key
production facilities, is located in Hamburg, Germany.
The Group’s sites are primarily located in Western Europe,
with larger production centers in Germany, Belgium and
Bulgaria. Outside Europe, Aurubis also has a production
site in the USA and a global sales and service network.
About 6,450 employees work for Aurubis worldwide.

See Glossary,
page 196.

See Glossary,
page 198.

See Glossary,
page 196.

Business model
The Aurubis Group’s business model links the production
and processing of copper. The necessary raw materials are
purchased, as the company doesn’t have its own mines or
stakes in mines. Aurubis primarily processes copper
concentrates that are mined from ores and sourced on the
global market. The processing of purchased intermediates,
copper scrap and other metal-bearing recycling materials
plays an important role as well.
The product portfolio mainly comprises standard and
specialty products made of copper and copper alloys.
These include copper cathodes, the product format traded
on the international metal exchanges. They are the starting
product for fabricating additional copper products, but they
can also be sold directly. Aurubis processes copper into
continuous cast copper wire rod, shapes, rolled products,
strip, specialty wire and profiles.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Other elements found in copper raw materials are
processed into additional products, in particular precious
metals, sulfuric acid and iron silicate.
Aurubis’ direct customers include companies in the
copper semis industry, the electrical and electronics sector,
the chemical industry and suppliers in renewable energies,
construction and the automotive business.
Group structure
The Aurubis Group’s organizational structure is oriented
towards its underlying business model. The Group’s
organizational structure is made up of two operating
Business Units (BUs): BU Primary Copper and BU Copper
Products. The segment reporting pursuant to IFRS 8 is
also based on this structure.
BU Primary Copper is made up of the production facilities
for processing copper concentrates and producing copper
cathodes at the Hamburg and Pirdop sites. Furthermore, the
precious metals division in Hamburg, which is centralized for
the entire Group, is part of this BU.
BU Copper Products produces and markets continuous cast
wire rod, continuous cast shapes, rolled products and
specialty products. From an organizational perspective, the
product business is divided into the following Business Lines
(BLs): Rod & Shapes, Flat Rolled Products, Bars & Profiles and
Marketing Cathodes. Recycling is also part of this BU within
the organization.
The main sites are Hamburg, Lünen, Stolberg, Emmerich
(Germany), Olen (Belgium), Zutphen (Netherlands), Pori
(Finland), Avellino (Italy) and Buffalo (USA). Processing
centers in the United Kingdom, Slovakia and Italy, as well

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

53
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Business model: integrating copper production and processing

¤ G 04

Raw materials

»» Copper concentrates
»» Blister copper

BU Primary Copper

»» Copper scrap
»» E-scrap

»» O
 ther materials for
recycling

BU Copper Products

Cathodes

Cathodes

Sulfuric acid

Wire rod

Precious metals

Shapes

By-metals

Flat rolled products

Iron silicate

Specialty profiles
Recycling

as a global sales and distribution network, complete the
product business.
Group-wide functions support the operating Business
Units. The Supply Chain Management division, which is
responsible for raw material management, as well as the
sale of sulfuric acid and other specialty products across the
Group, should be emphasized in particular.
A list of investments pursuant to Section 313 (2) German
Commercial Code (HGB) as at September 30, 2016 is
provided in the notes to the financial statements.

Processors and end users

»» Cable and wire industry
»» Construction
»» Machinery and
plant engineering
»» Transport
»» Chemistry
»» Other applications

Significant parameters relevant to the business
The significant parameters specific to the business are
the treatment and refining charges for raw materials, the
copper price, cathode premiums and product surcharges for
copper products, as well as sales revenues for sulfuric
acid. Moreover, efficient metal gains in our facilities also
lead to an earnings effect.
The copper price is set first and foremost on the
London Metal Exchange (LME), which facilitates physical
transactions, hedging and investment business. The price
represents a benchmark beyond exchange trading, and
is the basis for establishing prices in the raw material and
product business.

See Glossary,
page 198.

See Glossary,
page 197.

>
www.lme.com

See Glossary,
page 198.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

54

Combined Management Report

Treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs) are negotiated
with suppliers when purchasing copper-bearing raw
materials. The TC/RC trend depends on the supply and
demand structure on the global markets. TC/RCs are
essentially surcharges on the purchase price of metals,
charged for turning these raw materials into the commodity
exchange product – copper cathodes – as well as other
metals.
The metal exchange and market quotation for copper serves
as the price basis for our copper product sales. The Aurubis
cathode premium and product surcharges, which are
charged for converting cathodes into copper products, are
also part of the sales price.
Pricing along the value chain

¤ G 05

(schematic illustration)

See Glossary,
page 199.

Corporate control
Control system
The main objective of the management control system is to
increase the Aurubis Group’s corporate value by generating
a positive overall contribution to the enterprise beyond the
costs of capital.
Corporate control parameters
In order to measure financial success for the medium
and long term within the scope of value-oriented corporate
control, Aurubis uses the following central control
parameters:
»» O
 perating consolidated earnings
(operating EBT = earnings before taxes)
»» Operating return on capital employed
­(operating ROCE) in the Group
These parameters are regularly presented to the entire
Executive Board and are utilized for internal control
purposes. The Executive Board’s variable compensation
is also oriented to these parameters.

Procurement
price for
concentrates
and recycling
raw materials

Treatment
and refining
charges

LME
copper
price

Cathode
premium
and product
surcharge

Sales price
for copper
product

External factors that also influence business development
include economic performance in key countries and
activities on the international financial markets; the political,
legal and societal conditions; changes in the exchange rate
and interest rate level; and the situation on our relevant
markets.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

The Aurubis Group reports in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). When the average
cost method is applied in accordance with IAS 2, metal
price fluctuations systematically lead to considerable
discontinuities in the presentation of the Aurubis Group’s
results of operations, financial position and net assets.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

55
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

In our view, these measurement effects lead to an
economically inaccurate presentation in the Management
Report. Furthermore, a purchase price allocation resulted
in one-time effects that would also lead to a distortion in
the Aurubis Group’s presentation of the results of
operations, financial position and net assets.
In order to present the Aurubis Group’s operating success
more independently of these measurement effects on
internal control systems, internal Group reporting and
control are carried out on the basis of the operating result.
The operating result is derived from the IFRS results of
operations by:
»» A
 djustment for measurement effects deriving from
the use of the average cost method in accordance with
IAS 2,
»» Adjustment for copper price-related measurement
effects on inventories and
»» Adjustment by impacts from purchase price allocations,
primarily on property, plant and equipment, from fiscal
year 2010/11 onwards.

Operating return on capital employed (ROCE)

¤ T 008

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Fixed assets

1,343

1,327

Inventories

1,494

1,374

Trade accounts receivable

242

307

Other receivables and assets

211

212

– Trade accounts payable

(798)

(761)

– Provisions and other liabilities

(379)

(480)

Capital employed as at the balance
sheet date

2,114

1,979

213

343

16

27

Earnings before interest and
taxes (EBIT)

229

370

Return on capital employed
(operating ROCE)

10.9 %

18.7 %

in € million

Earnings before taxes (EBT)
Financial result

Operating ROCE shows the ratio of operating earnings
before interest and taxes (EBIT) to operating capital
employed as at the balance sheet date, and indicates the
return on capital employed.
Corresponding to the calculation of the operating result,
operating capital employed is derived by adjusting the
­balance sheet items in accordance with IFRS by the effects
previously mentioned.
A reconciliation of the balance sheet and income statement
from IFRS to operating figures is provided in the Economic
Report of the Management Report.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

56

Combined Management Report

Research, development and innovation
At Aurubis, research, development and innovation are
primarily oriented towards developing sustainable solutions
for our internal company processes and therefore increasing
our competitive edge. We also work on developments in the
product business, often in collaboration with customers.
A key focus of our activities is the metal production sector.
We require sustainable processes and excellent multi-metal
generation rates to ensure the economic efficiency of our
methods.
A total of 56 employees work in research and development
at Aurubis, collaborating first and foremost with the
production sector, Production Planning and Supply Chain
Management.
We primarily worked on the following topics during the
fiscal year:

»» In Business Line Flat Rolled Products, we continued
to focus on developing BlueBrass, our lead-free
machinable alloy family. Together with customers,
we were able to enhance performance, especially with
regards to machinability. Two other topics were the
alloys’ good formability and relaxation resistance.
The progress achieved with BlueBrass was transferred
to strip products as well.
»» We developed new products related to electric cars.
In particular, high-conductivity and relaxation-resistant
materials were successfully implemented in the
connector sector.
»» Moreover, a new copper strip product was developed
for power electronics.
»» We achieved further quality and performance
optimizations in the Alloyed Wire project.
»» Likewise, the long-term performance of tin-plated
connectors for the automotive industry was also
improved.
R&D expenditures

See Glossary,
page 196.

»» O
 ne work area was creating models of process
operations. We achieved crucial improvements in
material flow optimization, laying important
foundations for quicker and better supply chain
decisions with complex mathematical processes.
»» We continued to address the topic of digitalization/
Industry 4.0 in order to identify future areas of action
for Aurubis.
»» Increasingly complex raw materials, combined with
the demand for higher and faster metal gains, require
ongoing optimization of the metallurgical processes.
We continued to work on process enhancements
and new developments.
»» An improved metal gain and stricter environmental
regulations in the future demand development work on
sustainable processes related to primary metallurgical
slags. We worked intensively on this issue as well.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

¤ G 06

in € million
16
13
12
10
8

8

8

11/12

12/13

11

4

0
13/14

14/15

15/16

The Aurubis Group’s R&D expenditures in fiscal year
2015/16 amounted to € 13 million, compared to € 11 million
in reporting year 2014/15.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

57
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Human resources
Personnel strategy
Aurubis’ business success is founded to a significant degree
upon the company’s capable, productive and committed
employees, meaning the personnel strategy is of central
importance. It is continuously developed on the basis of
the business strategy and corporate values, together with
the operating entities. In the process, internal areas of
improvement are taken into account, as well as changes
and trends on the employment markets and in society.

Personnel structure
A total of 6,454 employees worked in the Aurubis Group
worldwide as at September 30, 2016. Of this number, 56 %
were employed at German sites and 44 % worked in other
countries.
Aurubis Group personnel are mainly dispersed among the
following countries: Germany (3,621), Bulgaria (841),
USA (655), Belgium (570), Netherlands (314), Finland (237)
and Italy (130).
Aurubis Group employees

In fiscal year 2015/16, our strategic HR work has focussed
on various areas, including the targeted development of our
employees’ skills through modern training and continuing
education, and through up-to-date personnel development
formats. The development of management skills in light of
changing roles and responsibilities was especially significant.
Furthermore, the identification of talent was another key
issue within the scope of reliable personnel and successor
planning. We revised the performance management system
across the Group and developed new formats for targeted
feedback and performance evaluations, which are now
being implemented.
We are improving communication among our specialists
and managers through cross-site and cross-functional
projects and initiatives. In this way, we promote
collaboration in the Group, create synergies and establish
a culture of learning from one another for the purpose of
continuous improvement.

¤ G 07

Number as at September 30
8,000
6,372

6,563

6,359 1)

6,321 1)

6,454 1)

11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

15/16

6,000

4,000

2,000

0
1)

Excluding Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG.

Aurubis Group personnel structure
Number as at September 30, 2016

4,044
Blue collar

¤ G 08

2,112
White collar

298
Apprentices

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

58

Combined Management Report

Diversity and promotion of female employees
Staff diversity is an important factor for the Aurubis Group’s
sustainable economic success. This refers not only to
diversity from a cultural perspective, but also from the
perspective of national background, professional expertise,
age group, as well as a gender-balanced workforce.
Aurubis employs people from many different countries.
This diversity gives Aurubis access to an extensive talent
pool and the benefit of the different perspectives and
greater strength in problem-solving and innovation that
come with cultural diversity.

>
www.aurubis.com

>
http://www.ccre.org/
docs/charte_egalite_
en.pdf

>
www.mintpink.de

A commitment to equal opportunities among male and
female employees is not only enshrined in Aurubis’ Code of
Conduct (Verhaltenskodex) but has been further reinforced
by the signing of the Gender Equality Charter as part of the
social partnership with employee representatives.
With the German law regarding equal participation of men
and women in management positions in the private sector
and in public service, a target of 20 % female managers was
set for each of the first two management levels under the
Executive Board. We missed this by a small margin at the
first management level, in which six of 32 managers were
female, for a proportion of 19 %. We achieved the target at
the second management level, which currently comprises
nine female employees out of 45 in total, equal to 20 %.
The proportion of female applicants for technical jobs is still
low. Aurubis therefore continues to pursue the goal of
raising awareness of technical occupations among women
and recruiting them for these roles. We promote this by
participating in initiatives such as mint:pink, for example.
The proportion of female employees in the Group is 12.1 %,
slightly higher than the prior-year level of 11.9 %.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Employee compensation and profit-sharing
Aurubis has a consistent compensation system for its
management. This compensation system is based on an
analytical job evaluation, clearly established income
brackets and a target bonus model with defined levels of
performance measurement and weighting. These factors
allow managers to assess what performance is required on
the Group, function and individual levels, and how they
should be evaluated.
Employees participate in the Aurubis Group’s success.
Performance and success-oriented compensation is a
fundamental element of the remuneration system at
Aurubis AG. Motivated, high-performing employees make a
decisive contribution to the company’s achievements and
value. The performance of an individual is always assessed
in connection with the performance of the team, the
department or the production sector. Individual
performance and collective team performance serve as
parameters in this case.
In 2016, we once again gave employees at the German
sites the opportunity to acquire a limited number of
Aurubis AG shares at favorable conditions. Overall, 1,338
employees participated, purchasing a total of 26,240 shares.
Personnel recruitment
Demographic change continues to be a challenge for
Aurubis. We respond to this by recruiting skilled personnel.
We have implemented a targeted expansion of our
marketing in universities in relation to technical and
commercial professions. Our collaboration with partner
universities has remained intensive. Moreover, we annually
provide about 50 student internships in Hamburg, while
scholarships and supervised thesis papers complete our
offering to young potential employees. The new Aurubis
Campus department has also played a role, expanding our
collaboration with universities.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

59
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Education and training
Attracting specialists and managers who are appropriately
skilled to meet the company’s needs is of central
importance for Aurubis.
We once again took part in various fairs and events this
year, for example the Talent Campus in cooperation with
Hamburg-Harburg Technical University. The objective is to
raise interest and recruit young people for technical
vocations in the so-called MINT subjects (mathematics,
informatics, natural sciences and technology).
The “Your Future Starts Here” career information day took
place in Hamburg for the fifth time on June 18, with the
purpose of attracting apprentices. Three apprentices were
recruited directly and 60 additional invitations to interviews
and long tests were distributed. Our sites in Stolberg and
Lünen took part in the Apprenticeship Night once again.

Staff and organizational development
The targeted personal development of our employees has
high priority. The training offerings in our leadership and
qualification program were developed and adjusted to the
Group’s needs. Options for managers and foremen were
expanded in particular. Furthermore, employees took part in
a number of technical/specialist training measures as well.

>
www.nachwuchs
campus.de

In addition to individual, personal development, we also
focus on professionally supporting change processes in
different company divisions.
Thanks from the Executive Board
We would like to thank our employees for their work and
dedication in fiscal year 2015/16. Only with the commitment
and motivation of our employees was it possible to develop
the Group successfully. Our thanks also go to the employee
representatives, with whom we worked closely and
constructively.

At a reception on September 6, 2016, Hamburg Mayor
Olaf Scholz and Aurubis AG Executive Board Chairman
Jürgen Schachler welcomed 78 young people who began
apprenticeships at Aurubis in Hamburg, Lünen and
Fehrbellin in 2016. The Aurubis Group offers apprenticeships
in 19 different vocations to young people. The integration
and training of registered refugees is important to us. In
the AV 10-Plus internship model, 12 school-age participants
were introduced to various vocations and were supported in
the attainment of a school certificate three days a week at
Aurubis.
As of September 30, 2016, we employed 180 apprentices in
Hamburg, making up a total of 8 % of the workforce.
The proportion of apprentices with foreign citizenship was
roughly 12 %.
To reinforce collaboration within Aurubis AG, there was an
apprentice exchange across sites this year.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

60

Combined Management Report

Sustainability, environmental protection,
energy and climate, occupational health
Sustainability as part of the company strategy
Sustainable conduct and economic activities are central
components of Aurubis’ company strategy and management. This involves having a conscientious attitude
towards the environment and limited natural resources.
It also includes responsible interactions with employees,
suppliers, customers, neighbors, and the plant areas and
communities where Aurubis is active.
Responsible business practices are also the foundation of
our operating business. Together with growth, this forms
the foundation for sustainable economic success and a
secure future for the company.
See Glossary,
page 198.

>

Internal regulations and management systems, the PRIMA
company values and statutory provisions create the basis of
our sustainable activities. PRIMA represents the Group’s
corporate values: Performance, Responsibility, Integrity,
Mutability and Appreciation.
Aurubis respects human rights and advocates for their
protection. Compliance with the internationally recognized
core labor standards of the International Labour
Organization (ILO) are of fundamental significance for us.
Aurubis has participated in the United Nations Global
Compact since December 2014, thereby committing to
implement the principles of the Global Compact.
Aurubis is also listed in the Global Challenges Index, a
sustainability index.

www.cdp.net

See Glossary,
page 196.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Sustainability as part of the corporate culture
We integrate sustainability into our corporate culture
throughout the Group and across business processes. We
have initiated a variety of measures to minimize the possible
impact of our business activities on the environment, but
also on employees and society, as much as possible.
Sustainability is also a fixed component of vocational
training in the Group.
Aurubis developed a comprehensive Sustainability Strategy
in fiscal year 2012/13, which establishes the main areas of
activity for the coming years. Based on this strategy, we have
developed targets in the categories of economy,
environment and people, as well as action plans and
measures for individual areas. Many of these have already
been implemented. For example, various copper-based
materials and innovations were developed, the emissions
targets for water and air were met and the proportion of
complex recycling materials processed was expanded
further. Additionally, we increased occupational safety
measures again, dealt more intensively with responsibility in
the supply chain and reinforced dialogue with our interest
groups around Europe, for instance regarding the topic of
the circular economy.
The increasing number of questions and requirements
from our stakeholders validates our efforts. For instance,
customers are increasingly placing a stronger emphasis on
environmentally friendly products and climate protection,
but also on modern production processes and a secure and
responsible raw material supply. This is also demonstrated
by the fact that it’s not just investors, but also customers
who value Aurubis’ participation in the investor initiative for
climate protection, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). After
the CDP named Aurubis Best Newcomer Germany in 2015,
the company was given an “A-” rating in the 2016 CDP
Climate Performance Leadership Index. At the same time,
the CDP classified Aurubis as one of the top seven
companies in the MDAX.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

61
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Recycling expectations from suppliers, policymakers and
interest groups have also increased. In this area, resource
efficiency, environmentally friendly recycling management
and multi-metal recycling solutions play a role. The Aurubis
Sustainability Day, which has taken place annually since
2014, once again provided a dialogue platform for
representatives of government, business and society in
November 2015. We addressed the topics of the circular
economy and the prevention of illegal waste transports.
Organizational structure
Sustainability is a Group responsibility at Aurubis and is
part of Corporate Communications & External Affairs.
Sustainability Management carries out the daily work in
this area together with representatives from all of the
Group’s departments.
Comprehensive sustainability reporting
The fifth Aurubis Group Sustainability Report was published
in April 2016. It provides an extensive and detailed
sustainability balance of the two previous fiscal years,
2013/14 and 2014/15, and is supplemented with
online reporting.

Aurubis is therefore also well positioned to fulfill the EU
Directive on Non-Financial Information Disclosure (“CSR
Directive”), which will be transposed into German law by
December 6, 2016 and will then impact fiscal years that
start after December 31, 2016. The Sustainability Report and
Annual Report are already produced with close cooperation
between the relevant departments.
Environmental protection in the Group
Raw material processing and production in the Aurubis Group
are carried out using state-of-the-art plant technologies that
reflect very high environmental protection standards and
conserve natural resources. New investments are aligned with
these principles. The environmental protection issues include
constantly improving air quality, energy efficiency and water
pollution control, as well as conserving natural resources for
future generations. These topics are established Group
standards, but there are also concrete targets for individual
sites (see the Environmental Report and the Aurubis AG
Environmental Statement).
Capital expenditure for environmental protection in
Aurubis copper production

The current Sustainability Report follows the reporting
requirements of GRI G4, and simultaneously serves as the
Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact
(UNGC). In the course of producing the report, the
company’s main sustainability issues were addressed in a
targeted manner. A materiality analysis that was conducted
after surveying internal and external stakeholders in fall
2015 confirmed the action areas and targets included in the
Aurubis Sustainability Strategy.

>
www.aurubis.com

¤ G 09

in € million

The report’s a­ lignment with the internationally recognized
reporting standard Global Reporting ­Initiative (GRI)
makes the company’s reporting on sustainability and the
Sustainability Strategy more transparent and easier to
compare. In addition to the relevant key parameters, the
Sustainability Report outlines successes, targets, the degree
of target achievement and challenges.

See Glossary,
page 197.

100
See Glossary,
page 197.

81.5

80
60

51.6
38.4

40
20

34.4

29.6 27.4

27.5

23.1

19.6
15.2

0
‘06

‘07

‘08

‘09

‘10

‘11

‘12

‘13

‘14

‘15

At € 15.2 million, capital expenditure for environmental
protection in calendar year 2015 was lower than the
previous year (€ 34.4 million). This is due to the fact that
capital expenditure is often related to larger facility
standstills, which weren’t carried out in calendar year 2015.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

62

Combined Management Report

See Glossary,
page 197.

>
http://ec.europa.eu/
environment/eussd/
smgp/policy_footprint.
htm

>
www.eci.org

See Glossary,
page 198.

Environmental management systems (in accordance with
ISO 14001 in particular; supplemented by the participation
of Aurubis AG in the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme,
EMAS) support the implementation of the targets. Standards
are continuously recorded, deviations are evaluated and
corrective measures are initiated and monitored for
effectiveness. Moreover, we have implemented and certified
energy management systems in accordance with ISO 50001
at several sites. The annual external audit offers us the
opportunity to have our environmental protection and
energy efficiency measures validated by an independent
third party in order to identify and utilize potential for
improvement.
Environmentally sound copper production from primary
raw materials, such as copper concentrates, and multi-metal
recycling underpin the establishment of a responsible and
demand-oriented copper supply in Europe. Copper is a
crucial raw material that is also used for renewable energies
in the expansion of electricity grids. Demand is rising, but
resources are limited. Metal recycling is therefore not an
end in itself but an important source of raw materials.
Aurubis has globally recognized expertise in this area and
the suitable technologies to recycle copper scrap and
complex materials for recycling, such as electrical and
electronic scrap. The objective is to return not just copper,
but the by-metals to the economic cycle as well.
The group-wide environmental protection standards
have been achieved in all areas; the expected emission
reductions were significantly exceeded.
For example, specific dust emissions for primary and
secondary copper production have fallen by 96 %, while
SO2 emissions in primary copper production have been
reduced by 85 % (reference year: 2000). When compared
internationally, the Group is therefore a forerunner in
reducing specific sulfur dioxide emissions.
We have also made significant improvements in water
pollution control. We have reduced metal emissions to
water in copper production processes from 7.2 to 1.0 g per
ton of copper output since 2000, or by 87 %.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Compared to the previous year alone, emissions to water
were reduced once again by more than a fifth. Our goal now
is to maintain this low level into the future as well.
The following measures were implemented in fiscal year
2015/16 and are examples of actions that contributed
significantly to improvements in environmental protection:
»» T he emission reductions established in voluntary
agreements with the city of Hamburg were achieved,
and the success of the implemented course of action
was validated with measurements.
»» A new off-gas treatment plant was commissioned at the
Bulgarian site in Pirdop. It has been in normal operation
since March 2016 and contributes to reducing sulfur
dioxide and fugitive emissions further.
»» At Aurubis Stolberg, the consumption of purified water
was significantly decreased through optimizations in the
processes. It was more than 40 % lower in 2015
compared to the previous year. Once implemented
measures have fully taken effect, further reductions can
be expected.
Aurubis continued its open dialogue with authorities and
citizens across the Group again in 2015/16, in addition to
various environmental projects: for example, we are
participating in the three-year testing and development
phase of the European Commission’s Product Environmental
Footprint (PEF) together with the overarching European
metal industry association Eurometaux and the European
Copper ­Institute (ECI). The goal of this collaboration is to
develop and test the methods for determining the
environmental footprint. On this basis, the European
Commission is striving to create a single market for
“environmentally friendly products” and “environmentally
friendly organizations”.
In Hamburg, we have been a member of the Environmental
Partnership since 2003, and a member of the Partnership
for Air Quality and Low-emission Mobility, which is
coordinated by the city of Hamburg. The goal of the latter
partnership is to reduce nitrogen dioxide emissions, which
are caused by transport in particular. For this purpose, we

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

63
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Corporate Environmental Protection topics

Climate protection
»» Continued reduction in CO₂ emissions
»» E xample: Constructing turbines to use waste heat
in Hamburg and Lünen

Noise
»» Reducing noise emissions
»» Example: Erecting a noise barrier in Olen

¤ G 10

Climate
protection

Air
»» Reducing SO₂ emissions by over 80 % in primary
copper production since 2000
(86 % reduction achieved in 2014)
»» Reducing dust emissions in copper production
by over 90 % since 2000
(96 % reduction achieved in 2014)

Air

Noise

Water

Waste
Waste
»» Increasing recycling rates
»» Examples: Stronger marketing of fayalite in Pirdop
»» Optimizing the separation plant at E.R.N.

Water
»» Reducing metal emissions to water in copper
production by about 70 % since 2000
(83 % reduction achieved in 2014)
»» E xample: Operating new water treatment
plants in Pirdop and Lünen

Soil
Soil
»» Reducing soil contamination
»» E xample: Paving large parts of the plant premises
in Lünen and collecting rainwater

>
also participated in the German model project M
­ obil.Pro.
Fit® in collaboration with the environmental organization
B.A.U.M. e. V. The goal of the project is to develop a
sustainable and climate-friendly mobility concept.

Our Environmental Report contains more information on
environmental protection in the Aurubis Group. It is
available on the company website in the Responsibility
section.

We continue to raise employees’ awareness of all issues
connected to environmental protection. A high level of
individual environmental awareness is ultimately a key
condition for successful environmental protection in the
entire company.

Energy supply, energy efficiency and climate change
issues are of fundamental importance
Copper production entails very energy-intensive processes,
meaning that developments in the energy sector were once
again of great relevance to Aurubis in 2015/16. The German
energy turnaround, the implementation of the EU Energy
Efficiency Directive and the third European emissions trading
period took center stage yet again.

Striving for energy and resource efficiency and environ­
mental protection can nevertheless lead to conflicting
goals. For instance, while processing complex recycling
materials is very resource-efficient, it usually requires high
energy consumption. To reduce our environmental impact
to a minimum, we continuously work on further developing
our environmental and climate protection measures.

www.mobilprofit.de

>
www.aurubis.com

Companies that emit carbon dioxide must have the
appropriate permissions to do so. The competitiveness of
European industry is impaired by additional local CO2 costs.
To balance these effects, so-called carbon leakage sectors
were established, including the copper industry. This status
currently softens the effect of the general reduction of
allocated CO2 certificates to a great extent.
Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

64

Combined Management Report

>
www.cdp.net

Aurubis has participated in the survey distributed by the
Carbon Disclosure Project investor initiative since 2015.
We were placed in the initiative’s leadership category in
2016. This distinction includes those copper products that
contribute to increasing efficiency in applications, as well as
effective production processes, energy management and
investment in energy and CO2 efficiency optimizations.
As an energy-intensive company, the efficient use of energy
isn’t just an environmental responsibility for Aurubis, but
also an economic one. All of the Group sites thus utilize
energy as sparingly as possible.

of about 60 MW and roughly 500 GWh p. a. were identified
for district heating delivery in the sulfuric acid facility. The
HafenCity East building development area is located close
to the plant and is well-suited for taking one-third of our
waste heat for its heat supply. Currently, we are negotiating
with the relevant heat provider regarding heat delivery, and
are also in discussions with additional interested parties
and funding providers regarding ways to utilize all the
extracted heat in a sensible way, achieving potential CO2
savings of around 140,000 t p. a. and reducing discharge
into the Elbe River.

In 2007 the EU member states agreed to reduce primary
energy consumption by 20 % by 2020. The EU Energy
Efficiency Directive (EED) went into effect on December 4,
2012. It outlines activities to strengthen energy efficiency
that must be implemented by the member states.
This includes the execution of mandatory energy audits.
Currently, all of the main German sites in the Aurubis Group
have developed an energy management system, carry out
energy audits and are certified in accordance with DIN EN
ISO 50001. We therefore fulfill the basic conditions to
continue being subject to a lower German Renewable
Energies Act (EEG) reallocation charge and lower energy/
electricity taxes.

Exceedingly volatile electricity from renewable energy
already makes up about 30 % of gross electricity production
in the German electricity mix and suppresses conventional
electricity since it is preferentially fed in. The result is that
expensive gas power plants are rarely key to pricing these
days, with the focus instead on mainly brown and hard coal
power plants. Electricity exchange prices in the countries
bordering Germany are also affected. The Aurubis Group
bases its electricity supply in Germany on a virtual “power
plant slice” based on hard coal. We therefore don’t benefit
from the price reduction effects of renewable energies, but
from falling coal prices worldwide and the low CO2 price
level. The coal price fluctuated in the course of the fiscal
year but remained at the same level overall.

To enable the plants to communicate with each other
about their experiences, we regularly carry out energy
management and energy efficiency workshops, take part in
the energy efficiency network of the German association
WirtschaftsVereinigung Metalle and the Hamburg Industrial
Association, and are also active within the networks at
other Aurubis sites.
The city of Hamburg is striving to reduce its CO2 emissions
by 40 % in 2020 compared to 1990 and by 80 % in 2050.
The city is also seeking to make its district heating supply
more climate-compatible in the medium term, and has
hopes of using industrial waste heat to achieve this. At the
Aurubis plant in Hamburg, a CO2-free waste heat potential

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

The level of fees, especially those of the northern
transmission grid operators and thus indirectly the
distribution system operators, has increased significantly in
the last several years. In light of scheduled grid expansions
and increasing bottleneck measures (renewable energy
load reductions, decreases in power plant capacities,
international load balancing), a considerable increase
should still be anticipated. Because of its consistent
electricity consumption profile, Aurubis pays an individual
grid charge, which is why general increases in charges don’t
impact us fully.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

65
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

In order to protect international sectors like the copper
industry from competitive disadvantages, the EU has
already authorized limited compensation for electricity
price increases stemming from CO2 emissions trading.
Some EU member states, such as Germany, have passed
corresponding funding guidelines. However,
the compensation approved in Germany is only 50 %
effective due to EU regulations in the copper industry.
After the wholesale prices for natural gas decreased by
nearly half in the previous fiscal year, the downward trend
continued in the past fiscal year as well. The reason for
falling prices was first and foremost the good supply
situation in Europe as well as the effects of lower oil prices.
Due to the start of LNG (liquefied natural gas) imports from
the US in 2016, we also expect a good natural gas supply in
Europe in the future, despite decreasing production in the
region. Experts thus expect natural gas prices to stay at the
current level for the next few years.
By comparing key figures between different sites, significant
savings potential has been calculated and developed for the
water supply and water treatment. In addition to technical
optimizations, an improved approach to water consumption
has also led to lower water and water treatment costs
without additional investments.

Health protection in the Group
The responsibility of Corporate Occupational Safety &
Health is to provide technical, organizational and personal
conditions that prevent all work-related accidents and
illnesses.
Among Aurubis employees, the accident frequency in fiscal
year 2015/16, LTIFR (1-n) (Lost Time Injury F­ requency Rate =
number of work-related accidents with at least one lost shift
per one million hours worked), decreased by 27 % compared
to the previous year. The LTIFR (1-n) fell to 4.6, from 6.3 in the
previous fiscal year, while the absolute number of accidents
declined from 64 to 45.

See Glossary,
page 198.

With great sadness, we had to report a fatal accident
involving an employee from an external company in fiscal
year 2015/16.
We have been setting short-term and medium-term
occupational safety targets since 2010 and are working
towards Vision Zero, a completely accident-free work
environment. In the medium term, an LTIFR (1-n) of ≤ 3.0
should be achieved by 2022 at the latest. In light of the
favorable development in recorded accidents, we intend to
adjust this objective and reach Vision Zero even faster.
Accident frequency

¤ G 11

LTIFR = Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
15
11.7
10

9.1
7.2

6.7

7.8
6.5

5

6.3

5.3

4.6 4.4

0
11/12
LTIFR (1-n)

12/13

13/14

14/15

15/16

LTIFR (4-n)

LTIFR (1-n) – accidents with lost time of at least one whole shift
LTIFR (4-n) – accidents with lost time of more than three whole shifts

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

66

Combined Management Report

Economic Report
General economic conditions
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) corrected its fall
forecast for economic growth in 2016 downward from its
April estimate and now expects an increase of 3.1 %,
following a 3.2 % increase in 2015. While the global economy
lost momentum, this was relatively marginal in light of the
uncertainties and differences in individual countries
and regions.
World trade also suffered in 2016. The World Trade
Organization (WTO) recently forecast a 1.7 % increase in
global trade volume, following a much more optimistic
estimate of 2.8 % in April 2016.
The mood on the global financial markets improved with
regards to the assessment of emerging markets, with a
good overall view of Asia apart from China, and robust
growth in India. However, political tensions and
consequent uncertainties have increased in the
industrialized economies. The IMF predicts economic
growth of 1.6 % in these economies in 2016, following
2.1 % in 2015.
Expected GDP growth in 2016

¤ G 12

in %
8

7.6
6.6

6

4

3.1

2

1.6

1.7

1.7
0.5

0
World

USA

Eurozone

Germany

Japan

Source: International Monetary Fund, Oct. 2016

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

China

India

In the US, the expected increase in the gross domestic
product (GDP) in 2016 was corrected from 2.2 % in the
July forecast to 1.6 % now. The strong US dollar is perceived
as a strain for exports, which has led to a lack of investment;
uncertainty also arose in the course of the presidential
campaign and as a result of the Federal Reserve’s interest
rate policy.
For the eurozone, the IMF anticipates 1.7 % growth in 2016
after 2 % in the previous year. The driving force behind the
recovery, private consumption, lost momentum in the
second quarter. In addition, the British people voted to
leave the European Union in a referendum on June 23.
The economy in the eurozone nevertheless remained on a
growth course – in the second quarter of 2016, GDP
increased by 0.3 % according to the Eurostat statistical office.
In China, whose economic development is exceptionally
important for the global economy and the copper market,
growth in the first three quarters established itself roughly in
the middle of the 6.5 to 7 % range that had been planned for
2016. An official growth rate of 6.7 % was achieved in all three
quarters. The IMF expects 6.6 % for the entire year 2016.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

67
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Conditions specific to the industry
Aurubis’ business largely takes place on the international
copper market and its sub-markets. These vary considerably
in some cases.
Copper concentrates are offered on the global market by
mining companies and traders. Here, Aurubis is a buyer
competing with other primary copper smelters, most
significantly from China and Japan.
Aurubis primarily procures copper and metal-bearing raw
materials for recycling on the European market. Metal trading
companies are the main actors on the supplier side, though
some recycling materials also reach us directly from product
manufacturers. On the demand side, we mainly compete with
other copper and metal smelters, as well as metal processors
that also utilize materials for recycling.
The market for copper cathodes is global. Copper cathodes
serve as the basis for trade on the international metal
exchanges. While Aurubis is one of the largest producers with
an annual output of 1.1 million t, it doesn’t hold a significant
position relative to the overall market of about 24 million t.
The markets for copper products are also distinctly
fragmented, with a number of companies that mainly belong
to the cable and wire industries, as well as the semi-finished
product sector.
Sulfuric acid, which is produced in the course of our
processes, is a particularly important by-product. Customers
and competitors in this area are very diverse. The customers
include companies in the chemical, fertilizer and mining
industries.

Aurubis’ individual markets were subject to various
developments during fiscal year 2015/16:
The international copper concentrate market was once
again characterized by good availability. This was due first
and foremost to the start-up of new projects and
expansions at mines, especially in Peru and Mexico, where
copper ore mining, and therefore copper concentrate
production, increased. The production climate, which was
largely without disruptions overall, was also decisive. There
were only larger reductions in the Democratic Republic of
Congo and Zambia, and export restrictions on concentrates
in Indonesia caused some uncertainty. In contrast, there
were no larger strikes or extreme weather impacts for the
most part. Mining companies reacted to lower copper prices
with cost reductions and therefore only saw a need to
adjust production due to prices in isolated cases. On the
demand side, refined copper output from Chinese smelters
increased, but this didn’t lead to a tightening of the market
for the raw material, copper concentrate.
On the European market for raw materials for recycling, the
fiscal year started with reduced availability of copper scrap.
Lower copper prices negatively impacted metal traders’
willingness to sell. An unsatisfactory business trend for other
metal scraps also caused collection and processing activities
to decline. The situation changed starting in summer 2016,
however. The supply improved somewhat as metal traders’
activity increased, a development that initially continued
until the end of September 2016. In contrast to copper scrap,
the supply of complex raw materials for recycling, such as
electrical and electronic scrap, didn’t show any larger
fluctuations during the fiscal year.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

68

Combined Management Report

On the international market for copper cathodes, a good
supply of concentrates supported good production results.
According to the International Copper Study Group (ICSG),
capacity utilization during the first seven months of 2016
was 83 %, almost the level of the previous year. Global
output of refined copper rose by 2.8 % in this period
compared to the same period of the previous year. China,
the USA and Mexico played a significant part in this
increase. Outages in central Africa were more than
compensated for. Global demand for refined copper
increased by about 4 % in the first seven months of 2016.
China was the driving force once again, demonstrating a
level of economic development in line with the state
forecast. Investments in expanding the electricity grid rose
by 33 % in the first eight months of 2016, while car sales
increased by 13 % in the first nine months. Both sectors are
crucial for the use of copper products.

The market environment for sulfuric acid was weak during
parts of the fiscal year. This was partly due to the demand
side, which indicated lower demand in South American
copper production and in European fertilizer production.
On the other hand, a surplus partially triggered by the
expansion of sulfur burner capacities strained the market
in some cases. Furthermore, there was high sulfuric acid
output in the smelter sector despite maintenance
shutdowns.

Exchange inventories of copper cathodes increased by
roughly 31,000 t to 543,000 t during the fiscal year, and
copper inventories in Chinese bonded warehouses were
up by 150,000 t to 520,000 t.

Copper price and metal exchange
copper inventories

According to the ICSG, there was a production deficit of
264,000 t on the global market for refined copper in the
first seven months of 2016. After taking seasonal effects
and changes to the bonded warehouse inventories in China
into account, the deficit was 139,000 t.
See Glossary,
page 196.

On the international market for continuous cast wire
rod, which utilizes about 74 % of global cathode output
worldwide, there were notable differences country by
country, though the aggregated regional view showed a
more uniform picture. Demand rose by 2.6 % in both Asia
and Europe, and by 2.0 % in North America in the first
three quarters of 2016.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

The copper price on the London Metal Exchange was under
pressure in fiscal year 2015/16. After starting at US$ 5,178/t,
the price hit the fiscal-year low of US$ 4,311/t on January 15.
As the year went on, copper was usually quoted between
US$ 4,500/t and US$ 4,900/t and ended the fiscal year at
US$ 4,832/t. The average for the fiscal year was US$ 4,767/t
(previous year: US$ 5,933/t).

¤ G 13

up to September 30, 2016
in thousand t

US$/t

1,500

6,000

1,000

5,000

500

4,000

0
09/15

3,000
11/15

01/16

03/16

LME copper price
Metal exchange copper inventories

05/16

07/16

09/16

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

69
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Economic development in the
Aurubis Group
Results of operations of the Aurubis Group
Results of operations (operating)
In order to portray the Aurubis Group’s operating success
independently of measurement influences – deriving from
the use of the average cost method for inventory
measurement purposes in accordance with IAS 2, from
copper price-related measurement effects on inventories
and from the impact of purchase price allocations, primarily
on property, plant and equipment, from fiscal year 2010/11

onwards – for internal management purposes, the
presentation of the results of operations, net assets and
financial position in accordance with IFRS is supplemented
by the results of operations and net assets explained on the
basis of operating values.
The following table shows how the operating result for
fiscal year 2015/16 and for the comparative prior-year period
are determined.

Reconciliation of the consolidated income statement

in € million
Revenues
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in process
Own work capitalized
Other operating income

¤ T 009

2015/16
IFRS

2015/16
­adjustment 1)

2015/16
operating

2014/15
operating

9,475

0

9,475

10,995

97

23

120

76

9

0

9

6

58

0

58

60

(8,635)

23

(8,612)

(9,964)

Gross profit

1,004

46

1,050

1,173

Cost of materials

Personnel expenses

(449)

0

(449)

(431)

Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment

(135)

6

(129)

(130)

Other operating expenses

(243)

0

(243)

(242)

Operational result (EBIT)

177

52

229

370

Result from investments measured using the equity method

6

2

8

4

Interest income

3

0

3

4

(27)

0

(27)

(31)

Interest expense

0

0

0

(4)

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

159

54

213

343

Income taxes

(35)

(13)

(48)

(86)

Consolidated net income

124

41

165

257

Other financial expenses

1)

Adjustment for measurement effects deriving from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, from copper price-related
measurement effects on inventories and for impacts from purchase price allocations, primarily on property, plant and equipment, from
fiscal year 2010/11 onwards.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

70

Combined Management Report

The Aurubis Group (Aurubis) generated operating
consolidated earnings before taxes (EBT) of € 213 million
in fiscal year 2015/16 (previous year: € 343 million). Business
performance was influenced by an overall difficult situation
on the copper scrap and sulfuric acid markets. The refining
charges for copper scrap and revenues for sulfuric acid were
at a much lower level compared to the previous year. On
the copper concentrate markets, good availability and an
improved input mix led to higher treatment and refining
charges. Overall, copper product sales were slightly higher
than the previous year with lower cathode premiums.
Only strip product sales volumes were at the prior-year
level. Business performance continued to be influenced by
the lower metal yield with reduced metal prices compared
to the previous year. Additionally, the scheduled shutdown
at our site in Pirdop, Bulgaria in the spring also had a
negative impact. As in the previous year, Aurubis was able
to benefit from the EUR/USD development in this year.

Breakdown of revenues

IFRS earnings before taxes, which amounted to € 159 million,
were adjusted for inventory measurement effects
of € 48 million (previous year: € 167 million), as well as for
impacts of € 6 million (previous year: € 6 million) deriving
from a purchase price allocation from 2010/11 onwards,
resulting in operating earnings before taxes of € 213 million
(previous year: € 343 million).

After taking the change in inventories, own work capitalized
and other operating income into account, the residual gross
profit was € 1,050 million (previous year: € 1,173 million).

The Group’s revenues decreased by € 1,520 million to
€ 9,475 million during the reporting period (previous year:
€ 10,995 million). This development was primarily due to the
lower average copper price compared to the previous year.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

¤ T 010

2015/16

2014/15

Germany

35

32

European Union

38

38

in %

Rest of Europe

3

2

Other countries

24

28

100

100

Total

The change in inventories amounted to € 120 million
(previous year: € 76 million), mainly because of an increase
in copper and precious metal inventories.
In a manner corresponding to the development for revenues,
the cost of materials decreased by € 1,352 million, from
€ 9,964 million in the previous year to € 8,612 million.

Personnel expenses rose from € 431 million in the previous
year to € 449 million in the current reporting period. The
increase was due in particular to higher collective wage
agreement rates, a slightly higher number of employees and
higher personnel costs, expressed in euros, at the Buffalo,
USA site.
Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets amounted
to € 129 million and was therefore similar to the prior-year
level (€ 130 million).

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

71
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Development of revenues by product groups

¤ G 14

in € million
4,000

3,945
3,319

3,000
2,392

2,276
2,000

2,376

1,690
1,272

1,000

720

1,121

653

390

316

14/15

15/16

0
14/15

15/16

Wire rod

14/15

15/16

Cathodes

14/15

15/16

Precious metals

14/15

15/16

Shapes

14/15

15/16

Pre-rolled strip,
strip and profiles

Chemicals
and other

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

At a level of € 243 million, other operating expenses were
also similar to those of the previous year (€ 242 million).
The operational result before interest and taxes (EBIT)
therefore amounted to € 229 million (previous year:
€ 370 million).
The net interest expense was € 24 million compared to
€ 27 million in the previous year. The decrease was primarily
due to lower interest rates.
After taking the financial result into account, operating
earnings before taxes (EBT) were € 213 million (previous
year: € 343 million). The following significant factors were
decisive for the reported fiscal year’s development
compared to the previous fiscal year:
»» T he scheduled shutdown in Pirdop, Bulgaria with a
lower resultant throughput
»» Higher treatment and refining charges for copper
concentrates with an improved input mix

»» C
 onsiderably reduced refining charges for copper
scrap accompanied by a lower copper scrap supply
»» Significantly weaker sales prices for sulfuric acid
due to a surplus on the global markets
»» A lower metal gain accompanied by
decreased metal prices
»» A lower cathode premium
»» Stable sales volumes for continuous cast
wire rod and shapes
»» The strong US dollar
Operating earnings before taxes were significantly below
those of the previous year, and thus corresponded to the
expectation provided in the Forecast Report at the start of
the fiscal year.
Operating consolidated net income of € 165 million
remained after tax (previous year: € 257 million). Operating
earnings per share amounted to € 3.64 (previous year: € 5.68).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

72

Combined Management Report

Results of operations (IFRS)
The Aurubis Group generated consolidated net income
of € 124 million in fiscal year 2015/16 (previous year:
€ 134 million).
Consolidated income statement

In a manner corresponding to the development for
revenues, the cost of materials decreased by € 1,432 million,
from € 10,067 million in the previous year to € 8,635 million.

¤ T 011

in € million

2015/16
IFRS

2014/15
IFRS

Revenues

9,475

10,995

106

21

Changes in inventories/own
work capitalized

58

60

(8,635)

(10,067)

Gross profit

1,004

1,009

Other operating income
Cost of materials

Personnel expenses

(449)

(431)

Depreciation and amortization of
intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment

(135)

(136)

Other operating expenses

(243)

(242)

Operational result (EBIT)

177

200

Financial result

(18)

(30)

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

159

170

Income taxes

(35)

(36)

Consolidated net income

124

134

After taking the change in inventories, own work capitalized
and other operating income into account, the residual gross
profit was € 1,004 million (previous year: € 1,009 million).
In addition to the effects on earnings described in the
explanation of the operating results of operations, the
change in gross profit was also due to the metal price trend.
The use of the average cost method leads to metal price
valuations that are close to market prices. Metal price
volatility therefore has a direct effect on the change in
inventories/cost of materials and thus on the IFRS gross
profit. This is independent of the operating performance
and is not relevant to the cash flow.
Personnel expenses rose from € 431 million in the previous
year to € 449 million in the current reporting period.
The increase was due in particular to higher collective wage
agreement rates, a slightly higher number of employees
and higher personnel costs, as expressed in euros, at the
Buffalo, USA site.
At a level of € 135 million, depreciation and amortization of
fixed assets was similar to the previous year (€ 136 million).
At a level of € 243 million, other operating expenses were
also similar to those of the previous year (€ 242 million).

Group revenues decreased by € 1,520 million to € 9,475
million during the reporting period (previous year: € 10,995
million). This development is primarily due to the lower
average copper price compared to the previous year.
The change in inventories increased by € 82 million
compared to the previous year, to € 97 million (previous
year: € 15 million), mainly because of an increase in copper
and precious metal inventories.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) were therefore
€ 177 million (previous year: € 200 million).
The net interest expense was € 24 million compared to
€ 27 million in the previous year. The decrease was primarily
due to lower interest rates.
After taking the financial result into account, earnings
before taxes amounted to € 159 million (previous year:
€ 170 million). A consolidated net income of € 124 million
remained after tax (previous year: € 134 million). Earnings
per share amounted to € 2.71 (previous year: € 2.95).

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

73
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Net assets of the Aurubis Group
Net assets (operating)
The following table shows the derivation of the operating
balance sheet as at September 30, 2016 and September 30,
2015.
Reconciliation of the consolidated balance sheet

in € million

¤ T 012

9/30/2016
IFRS

9/30/2016
adjustment 1)

9/30/2016
operating

9/30/2015
operating

ASSETS
1,450

(46)

1,404

1,387

Deferred tax assets

10

48

58

29

Non-current receivables and other assets

26

0

26

15

1,700

(206)

1,494

1,374

Current receivables and other assets

369

0

369

495

Cash and cash equivalents

472

0

472

453

0

0

0

6

4,027

(204)

3,823

3,759

Fixed assets

Inventories

Assets “held-for-sale”
Total assets
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

1,991

(162)

1,829

1,765

Deferred tax liabilities

151

(42)

109

102

Non-current provisions

386

0

386

281

Non-current liabilities

357

0

357

509

32

0

32

35

Current liabilities

1,110

0

1,110

1,067

Total equity and liabilities

4,027

(204)

3,823

3,759

Equity

Current provisions

1)

Adjustment for measurement effects deriving from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, from copper price-related
­ easurement effects on inventories and for impacts from purchase price allocations, primarily on property, plant and equipment,
m
from fiscal year 2010/11 onwards.
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

74

Combined Management Report

Return on capital (operating)
ROCE refers to the return on capital employed.

Total assets increased from € 3,759 million as at
September 30, 2015 to € 3,823 million as at September 30,
2016, primarily due to higher inventories.
The Group’s equity increased by € 64 million, from € 1,765
million as at the end of the last fiscal year to € 1,829 million
as at September 30, 2016, mainly due to the operating
consolidated net result of € 165 million. The dividend
payment of € 62 million and effects from the remeasurement
of pension obligations recognized in equity had an opposite
impact. Overall, the operating equity ratio (the ratio of
equity to total assets) was 47.8 % compared to 46.9 % as at
the end of the previous fiscal year.

¤ T 013

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

9/30/2015

Fixed assets

1,343

1,327

Inventories

1,494

1,374

Trade accounts receivable

242

307

Other receivables and assets

211

212

­– Trade accounts payable

(798)

(761)

– Provisions and other liabilities

(379)

(480)

Capital employed as at the
balance sheet date

2,114

1,979

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

213

343

16

27

229

370

10.9 %

18.7 %

Financial result
Non-current bank borrowings

321

464

Non-current liabilities under
finance leases

16

17

Non-current borrowings

337

481

Current bank borrowings

156

23

2

2

Current borrowings

158

25

Borrowings

495

506

Current liabilities under
finance leases

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

¤ T 014

9/30/2016

in € million

Borrowings decreased slightly from € 506 million as at
September 30, 2015 to € 495 million as at September 30,
2016. The following table shows the development of
borrowings as at September 30, 2016 and September 30,
2015:

in € million

Aurubis achieved a significantly lower ROCE due to
the considerably lower operating result in the fiscal year
reported. This figure was, however, within the expected
range as outlined in the Forecast Report at the start of
the fiscal year.
Operating return on capital employed (ROCE)

The increase in non-current provisions resulted from an
increase in pension liabilities due to the effects deriving
from remeasurement mentioned above.

Development of borrowings

Operating ROCE (taking operating EBIT for the last
12 months into account) decreased from 18.7 % in the
previous year to 10.9 % in the reporting year due to the
lower operating result.

Earnings before interest and
taxes (EBIT)
Return on capital employed
(operating ROCE)

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

75
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Net assets (IFRS)
Total assets decreased slightly from € 4,044 million as at
the end of the previous fiscal year to € 4,027 million as at
September 30, 2016.
Balance sheet structure of the Aurubis Group

Borrowings decreased slightly from € 506 million as at
September 30, 2015 to € 495 million as at September 30,
2016. The following table shows the development of
borrowings as at September 30, 2016 and September 30,
2015:

¤ T 015

Development of borrowings

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Fixed assets

36

36

Inventories

42

40

Non-current bank borrowings

Receivables, etc.

10

13

Cash and cash equivalents

12

11

Non-current liabilities under
finance leases

100

100

Equity

49

49

Provisions

14

12

in %

in € million

Liabilities

37

39

100

100

The Group’s equity increased slightly by € 22 million,
from € 1,969 million as at the end of the last fiscal year
to € 1,991 million as at September 30, 2016, mainly due to
the consolidated net result of € 124 million. The
dividend payment of € 62 million and effects from the
remeasurement of pension obligations recognized in equity
had an opposite impact. Overall, the equity ratio (the ratio
of equity to total assets) was 49.4 % compared to 48.7 % as
at the end of the previous fiscal year.

¤ T 016

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

321

464

16

17

Non-current borrowings

337

481

Current bank borrowings

156

23

Current liabilities under
finance leases

2

2

Current borrowings

158

25

Borrowings

495

506

Return on capital (IFRS)
The operating result is used for control purposes within
the Group. The operating ROCE is explained in the section
“Return on capital (operating)”.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

76

Combined Management Report

Financial position of the Aurubis Group
The Group’s liquidity sourcing is secured through a
combination of the Group’s cash flow, short-term and longterm borrowings, as well as lines of credit available from
our banks. Fluctuations in cash flow developments can be
compensated at any time by existing credit resources and
available lines of credit.
The development of the Aurubis Group’s liquidity position
is monitored regularly on a timely basis. The control and
monitoring functions are carried out on the basis of defined
key financial ratios.

See Glossary,
page 199.

The main key financial ratio for controlling debt is debt
coverage, which calculates the ratio of net borrowings
(borrowings less cash and cash equivalents) to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
(EBITDA) and shows the number of periods required to
redeem the existing borrowings from the Group’s income –
assuming an unchanged earnings situation.
The interest coverage ratio expresses how the net interest
expense is covered by earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (EBITDA).
Our long-term objective is to achieve a well-balanced
debt structure. In this context, we consider debt coverage
< 3 and interest coverage > 5 to be well balanced.
Since we use the operating result for control purposes in
the Group, the Group’s key operating financial ratios are
presented as follows:

Operating Group financial ratios

Debt coverage =
net borrowings/EBITDA
Interest coverage =
EBITDA/net interest

¤ T 017

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

0.1

0.1

14.6

18.3

Additional control measures related to liquidity risks
are outlined in the Risk and Opportunity Report in the
Combined Management Report.
Analysis of liquidity and funding
The cash flow statement shows the cash flows within the
Group and highlights how funds are generated and used.
The net cash flow as at September 30, 2016 was € 236
million, compared to € 365 million in the previous year.
The decrease in net cash flow was due to the lower result
as well as higher inventories of intermediates.
Investments in fixed assets (including financial fixed assets)
totaled € 143 million in the reporting period (previous year:
€ 112 million). The largest individual investment was made in
connection with the shutdown in Pirdop, Bulgaria.
After deducting investments in fixed assets from the net cash
flow, the free cash flow amounted to € 93 million (previous
year: € 253 million). The cash outflow from investing activities
totaled € 128 million (previous year: € 104 million).
The cash outflow from financing activities amounted to
€ 89 million, compared to a cash inflow of € 4 million in the
previous year.
Cash and cash equivalents of € 472 million were available to
the Group as at September 30, 2016 (previous year: € 453
million). Cash and cash equivalents are utilized for operating
business activities, investing activities and the redemption of
borrowings.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

77
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Source and application of funds

¤ G 15

in € million
+236

(128)
(89)
472

453

Cash and cash
equivalents
9/30/2015

Cash inflow from
operating activities
(net cash flow)

Cash outflow from
investing activities

Cash outflow from
financing activities

Cash and cash
equivalents
9/30/2016

Net borrowings amounted to € 23 million as at September
30, 2016 (previous year: € 53 million). The following table
shows the development as at September 30, 2016 and
September 30, 2015:
Net borrowings in the Group
in € million

Borrowings
– Cash and cash equivalents
Net borrowings

¤ T 018

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

495

506

(472)

(453)

23

53

In addition to cash and cash equivalents, the Aurubis Group
has unutilized credit line facilities and thus has adequate
liquidity reserves. Parallel to this, within the context of
­factoring agreements, the Group makes use of the sale of
receivables without recourse as an off-balance-sheet
financial instrument.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

78

Combined Management Report

Business performance in the Business Units

maintenance and repair shutdown at our smelter site in
Pirdop, Bulgaria in Q2 of calendar year 2016. ­

Business Unit Primary Copper
Key figures

¤ T 019

in € million

2015/16
operating

2014/15
operating

Revenues

5,325

5,914

EBIT

154

271

EBT

143

256

Capital expenditure

104

70

Depreciation and amortization

(83)

(86)

16.4 %

33.2 %

2,750

2,730

Operating ROCE
Avg. number of employees
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Business performance and earnings trend
Business Unit (BU) Primary Copper produces pure copper
cathodes from copper concentrates and recycling materials
and processes intermediates from other smelters. The BU
also produces and markets precious metals, sulfuric acid
and iron silicate.
See Glossary,
page 198.

See Glossary,
page 197.

The main production sites are Hamburg (Germany) and
­Pirdop (Bulgaria), which both have smelting facilities and
copper tankhouses.
The main factor driving earnings in BU Primary Copper
is treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs) that are
negotiated as surcharges on the purchase price of the
metals for converting raw materials into the exchange
product – copper cathodes – and other metals. Additional
earnings components include revenues from precious
metal and sulfuric acid sales, the cathode premium
and the metal gain.
Operating earnings in BU Primary Copper in fiscal year
2015/16 were significantly below the previous year’s
earnings. One reason was the extensive scheduled

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Furthermore, market-related factors, such as reduced
revenues for sulfuric acid, low refining charges for copper
scrap and lower premiums for copper cathodes, strained the
BU’s result. A lower metal gain with lowe r metal prices also
had an impact.
In total, BU Primary Copper generated operating earnings
before taxes (EBT) of € 143 million. Compared to the
previous year, this was a € 113 million decline. At € 5,325
million, the BU’s revenues were € 589 million below the
previous year, primarily due to lower copper prices.
Treatment and refining charges at a high level
The international copper concentrate market was
characterized by good supply overall during the past fiscal
year. This was largely due to high output from mines with
no notable production losses.
Treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs) for long-term
business in 2016 were somewhat lower than the previous
year but still high. In the course of the year, TC/RCs in the
spot market even exceeded the level for long-term contracts.
New projects in Latin America and a low number of
production disruptions contributed to this development.
Demand pressure for concentrates of a purer quality
decreased considerably. The availability of more complex
concentrates remained good.
We were able to secure a good concentrate supply for our
smelting operations in Hamburg and Pirdop and continued to
be in a position to enter into additional long-term supply
contracts.
The copper scrap market was impacted by declining and
simultaneously volatile metal prices, as well as lower refining
charges. The supply was secured despite difficult market
conditions.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

79
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Difficult sulfuric acid business
Fiscal year 2015/16 started with weak global demand on
the sulfuric acid market in an environment influenced by
seasonal factors. The market surplus, especially in South
and Central America, weighed on the price trend as well.
In addition, the sales options for sulfuric acid from smelters’
production processes weakened due to the expansion of
sulfur burner capacities. The negative price trend on the
spot market continued until the end of the fiscal year.
Throughput and output volumes down on
previous year due to shutdown
A good supply of copper concentrates and recycling
materials ensured that our production facilities were utilized
during the entire fiscal year. BU Primary Copper processed a
total of 2.2 million t of copper concentrate (previous year:
2.3 million t). The copper scrap input in the BU was 91,000 t
­(previous year: 102,000 t).
Concentrate throughput

¤ G 16

in million t
2.5
2.1

2.2

2.2

2.3

2.2

2.0

The Hamburg site processed more than 1.1 million t of
copper concentrate, thus reaching the prior-year level.
The throughput of 1.0 million t at the Pirdop site was
below the previous year (1.2 million t). This was due to the
scheduled shutdown that was carried out in Q2 of calendar
year 2016.
At 584,000 t, the cathode output in BU Primary Copper
missed the prior-year level of 615,000 t. This was also due
primarily to the shutdown in Pirdop.
The tankhouse in Hamburg produced 370,000 t of cathodes
during the fiscal year (previous year: 383,000 t), due in part
to lower copper anode deliveries from Pirdop and slightly
lower copper contents in the processed concentrate.
The tankhouse in Pirdop produced a lower output volume of
214,000 t due to the shutdown (previous year: 232,000 t).
The development in precious metal production varied: silver
output was 961 t, above the prior-year level of 958 t, while
gold output decreased from 45 t to 42 t. This was due to the
lower throughput of copper concentrates and lower gold
content in the raw materials.
Silver output

1.5

¤ G 17

in t
1.0

See Glossary,
page 197.

1,600

0.5
1,200

1,222

0
11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

15/16

1,038

1,000

958

961

12/13

13/14

14/15

15/16

800

400

Corresponding to the concentrate throughput, the sulfuric
acid output was 2.1 million t, slightly below the previous year
(2.2 million t).

0
11/12

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

80

Combined Management Report

Gold output

¤ G 18

in t
50
43
40

37

45

39

42

30
20

Business Unit Copper Products
Key figures

¤ T 020

in € million

2015/16
operating

2014/15
operating

Revenues

7,531

8,586

EBIT

106

138

EBT

101

130

40

41

(44)

(44)

Operating ROCE

9.7 %

12.4 %

Avg. number of employees

3,335

3,330

Capital expenditure

10

Depreciation and amortization

0
11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

15/16

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in BU Primary Copper amounted
to € 104 million in the past fiscal year.
The focus of the capital expenditure was the scheduled
production shutdown in Bulgaria.
Additional investments were made in the BU to improve
environmental protection and infrastructure at the sites.
Capital expenditure in BU Primary Copper
in € million

104

¤ G 19
104

100
86

821)

75

70

50

25

0
1)

11/12
12/13
13/14
Adjusted due to change in Group structure.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

14/15

15/16

Business performance and earnings trend
Business Unit (BU) Copper Products produces and markets
high-quality copper products, such as continuous cast
wire rod, shapes, pre-rolled and finished strip, and specialty
profiles, primarily from internally produced copper
cathodes. We also use the copper recycling process to
fabricate rolled products. Recycling and the Lünen and Olen
sites belong to BU Copper Products as well.
The AURUBIS ROD brand of continuous cast copper wire
rod is the strongest copper product in the portfolio by
volume. It exhibits high electrical conductivity, very good
workability and an excellent surface, making it a preferred
feedstock for the cable and wire industry, as well as special
semi-finished products. Aurubis is a world leader in this
market segment and produces AURUBIS ROD with state-ofthe-art plant technology at four sites: Hamburg (Germany),
Olen (Belgium), Avellino (Italy) and Emmerich (Germany).

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

81
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

The AURUBIS SHAPES brand includes various continuous
cast copper shapes that serve as preliminary products for
semi-finished product fabricators and tube rolling mills.
Large piece weights, unique dimensions and special copper
grades are our specialty. A significant part of our AURUBIS
SHAPES output is directly delivered to our subsidiary
Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH (50 % Aurubis holding),
which produces pre-rolled strip for a number of semis
fabricators worldwide.
Finished strip is produced in Stolberg (Germany), Pori
(Finland) and Buffalo (USA). We fabricate shaped wire for
the electrical industry in Stolberg. Moreover, Aurubis
Belgium in Olen produces copper bars and profiles.
At the recycling plant in Lünen, we produce high-quality
copper cathodes from a variety of raw materials for
recycling, including electrical and electronic scrap, as well
as other complex materials. The Olen site also performs
recycling activities and has a tankhouse for the production
of copper cathodes.
In addition to the cathode premium, another significant
earnings component within BU Copper Products is the
so-called product surcharge for processing copper cathodes
into copper products. In the recycling business, earnings are
primarily generated through refining charges (surcharges on
the purchase price of the metals) and the metal gain.
Overall, BU Copper Products generated operating earnings
before taxes (EBT) of € 101 million in fiscal year 2015/16
(previous year: € 130 million).

The following developments contributed to BU Copper
Products’ result, which was lower than that of the previous
year:
The cathode premium for 2016 was lowered from US$ 110/t
in the previous year to US$ 92/t.
Sales of wire rod reflected a stable trend until the third
quarter of the fiscal year and weakened in the fourth
quarter. The shapes sector was slightly above the prior year.
Product surcharges were at a good level in both areas. The
sales volume in Business Line Flat Rolled Products was also
at the prior-year level.
Recycling in Lünen and Olen was influenced by a short
supply of copper scrap, with low refining charges accordingly.
The lack of volumes was more than compensated for by
blister copper, though refining charges in this area were
also low.

See Glossary,
page 196.

Product markets
High demand for copper products was recorded during the
first half of fiscal year 2015/16. Southern European markets
continued to recover, and the German market environment
was stable. As the year went on, however, the impact of the
lower crude oil price and the related economic crisis in the
Middle East became evident.
Demand for copper wire rod remained very strong,
supported by all key sectors. We recorded positive sales of
shapes, though the rolled products business was initially
subdued.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

82

Combined Management Report

Demand for flat rolled products developed differently in
individual markets. While the automotive and electronics
industries grew in particular, demand in the radiator
segment declined due to a lack of investment momentum.

Copper scrap input in the Group
400
334

331
299

300

Recycling markets
The conditions on the copper scrap market were difficult
during the fiscal year. Due to low prices for steel and
aluminum scrap, collection activities declined overall. This
was also true for copper, which is collected together with
aluminum and steel scrap.

Despite the difficult market situation, the production facilities
were sufficiently supplied.

294
253

200

100

0
11/12

The decrease in the copper price, the growing uncertainty
about the further metal price trend and lower availability at
the upstream stages of the recycling chain led to limited
willingness to sell among traders. The attainable refining
charges came under pressure and stagnated at a low level.

¤ G 20

in thousand t

12/13

13/14

14/15

15/16

Production
Stable output of AURUBIS ROD
The Group’s four AURUBIS ROD plants produced 758,000 t
in fiscal year 2015/16 (previous year: 764,000 t).
Continuous cast wire rod output

¤ G 21

in thousand t

In the case of complex recycling materials, which have lower
amounts of copper and contain additional non-ferrous and
precious metals, stronger demand was observed from the
competition, especially in Asia. This raw material category
includes industrial residues and electrical and electronic
scrap, for example. There were no significant fluctuations in
availability.

800
646
600

742

764

758

13/14

14/15

15/16

608

400

200

0
11/12

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

12/13

83

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

AURUBIS SHAPES output slightly higher
All in all, AURUBIS SHAPES had an output of 172,000 t
during the fiscal year, a 1 % increase compared to the
previous year (170,000 t). We further reinforced our focus
on specialty alloys.

Bars and profiles output develops positively
The output of bars and profiles rose by 9 % to 12,400 t
(previous year: 11,400 t). Improvements in operating
performance and a reinforcement of the market position
contributed to this development.

Continuous cast shape output

Cathode output unable to reach prior-year level
Cathode output in BU Copper Products was behind
expectations in fiscal year 2015/16. Output was 177,000 t
(previous year: 187,000 t) at the Lünen plant and 322,000 t
(previous year: 336,000 t) in Olen. The decrease was caused
by a lower output of copper anodes (Pirdop shutdown) and
the insufficient availability of copper scrap on the market.

¤ G 22

in thousand t
250
200
164
150

183

170

172

149

100

Cathode output in the Group

50

in thousand t, BU Primary Copper and BU Copper Products

0

1,200
11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

15/16

1,147

1,148

1,126

1,138

11/12

12/13

13/14

14/15

¤ G 23

1,084

1,000
800

Flat rolled products stable
At 208,000 t, the output of flat rolled products was at the
prior-year level during fiscal year 2015/16 (previous year:
207,000 t). All of the sites continue to work on implementing
programs to improve efficiency and to enhance productivity
and quality.

600
400
200
0
15/16

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

84

Combined Management Report

Cathode output in the Group by sites

¤ G 24

in thousand t, fiscal year 2015/16
400

370
322

300
214

200

177

Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in BU Copper Products was
€ 40 million in fiscal year 2015/16.
Capital expenditure in the BU was focused on
improvements in the areas of efficiency, energy,
environmental protection, product quality and
infrastructure.

100

Capital expenditure in BU Copper Products

¤ G 25

in € million

0
Hamburg

Lünen

Olen

Pirdop

60
471)
45

41

40

14/15

15/16

36

Recycling impacted by short supply of copper scrap
The availability of material on the copper scrap market was
limited in fiscal year 2015/16. This negatively affected the
input volume in our recycling facilities, so the copper scrap
input was only 162,000 t (previous year: 192,000 t). The use
of blister copper more than compensated for the lack of
volumes.

See Glossary,
page 197.

The input of complex recycling materials in the Kayser
Recycling System (KRS) reached 254,000 t in fiscal year
2015/16 and was therefore also below the prior-year amount
of 269,000 t. This was due to a shift in the input mix towards
more profitable materials.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

30

27

15

0
1)

11/12
12/13
13/14
Adjusted due to change in Group structure.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

85
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Executive Board assessment of the
Aurubis Group during fiscal year 2015/16
The Aurubis Group generated a result in fiscal year 2015/16
that was significantly below the record result of the previous
year. This confirmed what we had already anticipated in the
outlook included in our last Annual Report. Operating
consolidated earnings before taxes (EBT) reached € 213
million (previous year: € 343 million). This was caused by
unfavorable developments in the relevant sub-markets,
especially the markets for sulfuric acid and copper scrap.
The scheduled shutdown in Bulgaria and lower cathode
premiums reduced the result further. With lower metal
prices overall, the very good metal gain of the previous year
couldn’t be repeated. In the meantime, the group-wide
optimization and efficiency enhancement program that was
initiated in the previous year continued.
Both Business Units achieved a positive result, but with
considerable downturns in each case. In the process, the
unfavorable trends in individual markets impacted the
Business Units to different degrees. The internal operating
ROCE target of 15 % for the entire Group was not achieved,
reaching 10.9 %.

Business development in BU Primary Copper was
characterized by good ongoing conditions on the
concentrate markets, which enabled not only a good
supply, but also high treatment and refining charges.
The extensive scheduled maintenance and repair
shutdown at our smelter site in Pirdop, Bulgaria weighed
on earnings. Concentrate throughputs were slightly
down on the previous year due to the shutdown.
Furthermore, market-related factors, such as reduced
revenues for sulfuric acid, lower refining charges for
copper scrap, decreased premiums for copper cathodes
and a reduced metal gain overall with lower metal
prices, strained the BU’s result.
Development in BU Copper Products varied. The recycling
business was strained by declining refining charges for copper
scrap, lower cathode premiums and reduced metal prices.
Rod and shapes business was high, and sales remained stable
compared to the prior year. The restructuring of Business Line
Flat Rolled Products continued. The results increased slightly
with a sales volume at prior-year level.
Despite the lower business result, the net cash flow was
at a good level at € 236 million, though it was significantly
below the € 365 million of the previous year.
The Aurubis Group’s balance sheet structure is very robust.
The equity ratio (operating) is 47.8 % (previous year: 46.9 %).
Net borrowings were reduced further to € 23 million
(previous year: € 53 million).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

86

Combined Management Report

Results of operations, financial position and
net assets of Aurubis AG
General information
In order to supplement our Aurubis Group reporting, we
explain the development of Aurubis AG in the following
section. Aurubis AG is the parent company of the Aurubis
Group and is based in Hamburg with production sites in
Hamburg and Lünen. Apart from managing the Aurubis
Group, the business activities of Aurubis AG also particularly
include primary copper production and recycling, as well as
copper product and precious metal production. The separate
financial statements of Aurubis AG have been prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the German
Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, HGB) and the
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz, AktG). The
primary differences from the Group financial statements
prepared in accordance with IFRS principles are in the
accounting treatment of fixed assets, the measurement of
inventories, the measurement of financial instruments and
the accounting treatment of pension provisions.
The Aurubis Group is managed across all companies at
Group level through Business Units (BUs), using operating
EBT and operating ROCE as the financial performance
indicators. These indicators are also used for Aurubis AG’s
operating activities, which are a significant component of
the Group. To this extent, the development and forecast of
the financial performance indicators at BU and Group levels
at the same time represent the development and forecast
for Aurubis AG as an individual company.
The analysis of the development for the financial
performance indicators outlined above during the fiscal year
and the related forecast for the following year are provided
in the Economic Report and the Forecast Report for the
entire Group. Statements regarding the risk situation and
opportunities can be found in the Group’s Risk and
Opportunity Report.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Results of operations
Development of the annual result and significant
income statement items (HGB)

¤ T 021

in € million

2015/16

2014/15

Revenues

6,709

7,528

Changes in inventories/
own work capitalized

53

52

Other operating income

71

59

(6,302)

(7,064)

531

575

(220)

(257)

(48)

(45)

Cost of materials
Gross profit
Personnel expenses
Depreciation and amortization of
intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment

0

(60)

Other operating expenses

(131)

(117)

Operational result (EBIT)

132

96

Write-downs of current assets

34

111

Result of normal business
­activities (EBT)

166

207

Taxes

(32)

(62)

Net income for the year

134

145

Financial result

Compared to the previous year, Aurubis AG’s business
performance was positively influenced by higher treatment
and refining charges, while concentrate throughput was at
the prior-year level. In contrast, lower refining charges on
the copper scrap markets and reduced sulfuric acid
revenues compared to the previous year had a negative
impact on the result. A lower metal gain compared to the
previous year, accompanied by lower metal prices,
influenced the result negatively.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

87
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Development of Aurubis AG revenues by
product groups

¤ G 26

in € million
2,908

3,000

2,535

2,400 2,398

Taking other operating expenses into account, the
operational result (EBIT) therefore amounted to € 132
million (previous year: € 96 million).

2,000

1,000

1,088

876

780

Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets increased
by € 3 million to € 48 million (previous year: € 45 million).
In particular, the increase is the result of infrastructure
projects that were completed in the previous year.

653
352

247

0
14/15 15/16

14/15 15/16

14/15 15/16

14/15 15/16

14/15 15/16

Cathodes

Wire rod

Shapes

Precious
metals

Sulfuric acid
and other

Revenues decreased by € 819 million to € 6,709 million
during the reporting period (previous year: € 7,528 million).
The reason for the decrease was primarily lower sales
revenues deriving from copper products.
With a cost of materials ratio (cost of materials/
(revenues + changes in inventories)) at the prior-year level,
and taking into account the change in inventories, own work
capitalized and other operating income, the gross profit
decreased by a total of € 44 million to € 531 million during
the reporting year (previous year: € 575 million).

The financial result for the reporting year was € 34 million
(previous year: € 111 million). This figure included dividends
from subsidiaries in the amount of € 35 million (previous
year: € 83 million), as well as a write-up of an investment
carrying amount in the amount of € 15 million. Furthermore,
write-ups of € 5 million were recorded as at the balance
sheet date in respect of securities classified as fixed assets.
The financial result also includes net interest expenses of
€ 22 million.
After taking a tax expense of € 32 million (previous year:
€ 62 million) into account, the reported annual net income
amounted to € 134 million (previous year: € 145 million).
At a level of 19 %, the effective tax rate was below that of
the previous year (29 %) due to a change in the earnings
structure.

Personnel expenses decreased by € 37 million to € 220
million (previous year: € 257 million). While wages and
salaries rose, due primarily to increases in collective wage
agreement rates and higher profit participation bonuses
based on the results, pension expenses were lower
compared to the previous year. In the previous year, the
dissolution of a support fund and the associated assumption
of pension benefit obligations for Aurubis AG employees
burdened the result.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

88

Combined Management Report

Net assets
At a level of € 1,954 million, fixed assets were slightly up on
the prior year (€ 1,940 million). The increase in inventories
to € 805 million (previous year: € 739 million) primarily
resulted from higher inventories of intermediates.
Overall, total assets rose by € 92 million to € 3,553 million.
Therefore, fixed assets accounted for 55 % (previous year:
56 %) of total assets, inventories accounted for 23 %
(previous year: 21 %) and receivables and other assets
remained unchanged at 10 %.
Equity increased by € 74 million to € 1,364 million (previous
year: € 1,290 million). The equity ratio remained at the prioryear level of 38 %.
Provisions decreased in total by € 40 million to € 249 million,
mainly due to lower tax provisions.
Liabilities to banks decreased slightly by € 8 million to
€ 479 million. Trade accounts payable decreased by
€ 50 million to € 479 million as at the balance sheet date.
Borrowings from affiliated companies increased from
€ 730 million to € 845 million within the context of normal
financial transactions. Sundry liabilities increased slightly
from € 15 million to € 17 million.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Balance sheet structure of Aurubis AG
in %

¤ T 022

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Fixed assets

55

56

Inventories

23

21

Receivables, etc.

10

10

Cash and cash equivalents

12

13

100

100

38

37

Equity
Provisions

7

8

Liabilities

55

55

100

100

Aurubis uses assets under the terms of leasing agreements
that are not recognized as assets in the balance sheet.
Financial commitments deriving from leases amounted to
€ 7 million. Apart from this, financial commitments under
long-term storage and handling agreements amounted to
€ 132 million.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

89
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Financial position
Liabilities to banks amounted to € 479 million as at
the balance sheet date (previous year: € 487 million).
Their terms to maturity are as follows:
¤ T 023
in € million

2015/16

2014/15

Less than 1 year

156

22

1 to 5 years

207

344

More than 5 years

116

121

Total

479

487

After including receivables and payables to subsidiaries
deriving from refinancing, amounting to € 615 million
(previous year: € 568 million), and deducting cash and cash
equivalents of € 433 million (previous year: € 426 million),
net borrowings amounted to € 661 million as at September
30, 2016 (previous year: € 629 million).
Analysis of liquidity and funding
There was a positive net cash flow of € 71 million in fiscal
year 2015/16, which resulted from the positive result for
the period. A cash outflow, particularly deriving from an
increase in the inventories of intermediates, had an opposite
effect.

The cash outflow for investments in fixed assets was
€ 43 million (previous year: € 54 million). Investments in
property, plant and equipment of € 49 million (previous
year: € 51 million) related to various infrastructure and
improvement measures.
The cash outflow of € 22 million (previous year: cash inflow
of € 103 million) from financing activities was related both
to the payout of the dividends for fiscal year 2014/15 as well
as the take-up of loans from subsidiaries in conjunction with
the existing cash pooling arrangements, which had an
opposite effect.
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting
period amounted to € 433 million (previous year:
€ 426 million). In addition to cash and cash equivalents,
Aurubis AG had unutilized credit line facilities and thus had
adequate liquidity reserves. Furthermore, within the context
of factoring agreements, Aurubis AG sold receivables
without recourse as a financing instrument.
Capital expenditure
At the Hamburg and Lünen sites, € 51 million (previous
year: € 54 million) was invested in infrastructure, energy
efficiency and environmental protection.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

90

Combined Management Report

Subsequent Events
No significant events have occurred since the balance sheet
date.

Risk and Opportunity Report
Integrated risk and opportunity
management
Risks and opportunities are key elements of our business
activities and are essential to the company’s success. As
part of our operating business activities and our strategic
management, we weigh opportunities and risks against one
another and ensure that they remain balanced. We try to
identify and evaluate opportunities as early as possible.
Aurubis AG’s risk situation depends significantly on the
Aurubis Group’s risk situation. Statements from the
company’s management on the overall assessment of the
risk s­ ituation also summarize Aurubis AG’s risk situation.

Risk Management System
Our objective in risk management is to manage and monitor
the risks associated with our business with the help of a
Risk Management System (RMS) suited to our activities.
The early identification and monitoring of risk development
is of major importance. Furthermore, we strive to limit
negative effects on earnings caused by risks with
appropriate and economically sound countermeasures.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Risk management is an integral component of the
centralized and decentralized planning, management and
monitoring processes and covers all of the Aurubis Group’s
main sites, business sectors and central functions. The
planning and management system, risk reporting, an open
communication ­culture and risk reviews at the sites create
risk awareness and make our risk situation transparent.
Risk management officers have been appointed for all
sites, business sectors and central functions, and they
form a network within the Group. The Group headquarters
in Hamburg ­manages the network. Corporate Risk
Management reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer.
The RMS is documented in a corporate policy.
Standard risk reporting takes place bottom-up each quarter
using a uniform, group-wide reporting format. Within this
format any identified risks, and any risks beyond a defined
threshold, are explained and evaluated on the basis of their
probability of occurrence and their business significance, and
measures to manage them are outlined. The risks registered
with Group headquarters are qualitatively aggregated into
significant risk clusters by Corporate Risk Management and
reported to the entire Executive Board. The report also
establishes the basis for the report to the Audit Committee,
as well as external risk reporting.

91

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Potential effect on earnings
in € million

>1

¤ T 024

>5

> 20

> 50

medium medium

Likelihood
high

high

high

medium

low medium medium

high

low

low

low medium medium

unlikely

low

low

Explanation of relevant risks
The risks associated with our business are described in
the following sections according to our risk clusters.
Furthermore, the main measures and instruments we use
to counter these risks are also outlined. We have separately
indicated risks and risk-relevant issues that we currently
classify as medium to high potential occurrence.

low medium

In the report to the Executive Board and the Audit
Committee, the qualitatively aggregated risk clusters are
assessed with due regard to risk management measures (net
perspective) based on their probability of occurrence and the
potential effect on earnings pursuant to the spreads included
in the table and are classified as low, medium or high.

Independent monitoring
The RMS is subject to routine monitoring and review. The
Internal Audit Department monitors risk management and
compliance with the internal control system using systematic
audits. As a process-independent authority, they contribute
to the i­ntegrity and improvement of business procedures
and the effectiveness of the installed systems and controls.
In addition, the auditors review our early risk detection
system to ensure that it adheres to legal requirements. They
report the audit results to the Executive Board and the Audit
Committee.
Furthermore, the Audit Committee deals intensively with risk
management issues. The risk management officer regularly
communicates current developments to the committee and
the Executive Board.

Supply and production
The ability to keep the production facilities supplied with
raw materials, and the availability of these facilities, are of
central importance for the Aurubis Group. We mitigate the
related risks using the following measures:
To ensure the supply of copper concentrates for Business
Unit Primary Copper, we have concluded long-term
agreements with a number of concentrate suppliers from
various countries. In this way, we are able to reduce the
risk of production interruptions caused by possible delivery
failures significantly. The risk of volatile treatment and
refining charges on the spot markets is also limited by the
long-term nature of the agreements.
The recycling facilities were sufficiently supplied overall
during the fiscal year due to our extensive international
supplier network, despite weak availability of copper scrap
in some cases. From today’s standpoint, we expect the
facilities to continue being supplied and utilized at the same
level. Nevertheless, there are ongoing refining charge
volatilities due to the general metal price trend, metal
traders’ collecting activity and inventory management, the
European economic situation and competition for the
secondary raw materials relevant for Aurubis.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

92

Combined Management Report

The material supply in the copper product fabrication
facilities is mainly covered with the copper cathodes
produced within the Group. In addition to higher added
value, this allows for quality control for copper products
during the entire process. We were able to meet most of the
demand for copper cathodes for BU Copper Products
internally during the fiscal year, therefore ensuring delivery
reliability and the quality of our products. We also procured
a sufficient volume of copper-bearing raw materials for the
production plants of Business Line Flat Rolled Products. We
expect a situation comparable to that of the past fiscal year
in this area as well.

We deal with logistics risks by implementing a thorough,
multi-step acceptance process for service providers, by
avoiding single sourcing and by preventively developing
back-up solutions. We have an international network of
skilled service providers at our disposal and, for instance,
can avoid weather-related risks in the transport chain by
minimizing contingency risks through contractual
arrangements regarding appropriate alternatives.

Plant availability was satisfactory overall, considering that
it was reduced at times due to scheduled and unscheduled
maintenance measures.

The delivery volumes of copper wire rod and shapes
products increased slightly in fiscal year 2015/16 compared
to the previous year. All relevant customer industries
developed positively, and as the market leader in Europe,
Aurubis benefited from this trend. We assume that the
development will be stable in the next year. Because of
the continued overcapacities on the market, the pressure
on conditions in our long-term contracts is unlikely to
subside.

As a matter of principle, we undertake organizational
measures (including alarm plans and employee drills) to
handle potential incidents such as flooding or fire. We also
address the risk of malfunctions by carrying out regular
maintenance work and keeping critical replacement
parts on hand.
From the current perspective, and taking the measures
described above into consideration, we classify the risk
of an insufficient supply as “medium” and the risk of
significantly limited availability of our production facilities
as “low”.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Sales
In addition to supply and production risks, the Aurubis
Group also faces sales risks, which we classify as “medium”.

For sulfuric acid sales, the fiscal year started at a weak level
owing to seasonal factors. Due to a surplus from South
America, the prices on the spot market were under pressure
during the entire fiscal year.
Cathodes produced by Aurubis which were not processed
internally were sold on the international copper cathode
market.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

93
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Energy
Energy prices tended to decrease in the course of the
fiscal year. We are safeguarded against unplanned cost
fluctuations from unpredictable and volatile prices on the
electricity exchange owing to our electricity contract which
has been in effect since 2010. This safeguard corresponds
to most of our electricity demand and covers the main
German sites. We also address fundamental supply security,
as well as the potential and limitations of more flexible
energy sourcing that arise due to the increasing, volatile
feed-in of renewable energies.
Burdens resulting from changes in potential cost drivers
such as the German Renewable Energies Act (EEG), the
emissions trade, grid charges and the eco-tax are generally
difficult to quantify reliably because of the still-uncertain
legal situation and changing political conditions. We expect
the tax burden to remain at the current level in the medium
term due to the 2016 amendment to the EEG. According to
current information, there will be no significant additional
charges from the state aid investigation regarding the
network charge exemption in past periods.
The fundamental retention of the special carbon leakage
status for certain sectors starting in 2021 with regards
to the allocation of emission trading allowances and CO2
electricity price compensation is currently being discussed
by policymakers. From today’s perspective, it is difficult
to predict the result. We expect costs to increase in the
medium term overall, which could lead to significant strains.
The topic of energy and the associated risks, currently
classified as “medium”, will remain important for Aurubis as
an energy-­intensive company in the future as well.

Finance and financing
Metal price and exchange rate fluctuations represent a
potential risk in the buying and selling of metals. This risk
is substantially reduced through foreign exchange and metal
price hedging. Metal backlogs are hedged daily using
financial instruments such as spot and forward contracts.
The same effect occurs by using spot and forward exchange
contracts to hedge foreign currencies. Foreign exchange
risks from exchange rate fluctuations are also minimized
on a daily basis in this way. We have only selected strong,
credit-worthy firms as partners for hedging transactions
to minimize the credit risk.
We hedge expected receipts from foreign currencies,
especially the US dollar, with options and forward exchange
transactions in some cases. We will continue this in the
future as well, and expect that we can reduce the risks from
metal price and exchange rate fluctuations to a reasonable
level with these measures.
Credit risks from trade accounts receivable are largely
hedged by commercial credit insurances. Internal risks
were only permitted to a very limited extent and after
review. The development of the outstanding receivables
is monitored closely. During the reporting period there
were no significant bad debts. We do not foresee any
threatening trends in the future.
The liquidity supply is very important for the Aurubis
Group and was secured during the past fiscal year. Credit
lines at the banks were also sufficient. From the current
perspective, we expect a corresponding trend for the new
fiscal year as well. We currently classify risks that could
result from the resurgence of the sovereign debt
crisis in the eurozone as “medium”.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

94

Combined Management Report

See Glossary,
page 196.

Environmental protection and other aspects
There is always a risk that environmental or regulatory
provisions could become more stringent, leading to added
costs or limitations in product fabrication and marketing.
For example, there is a risk that increasingly strict
environmental legislation will restrict the marketing of iron
silicate. We have started the MSO project (Metallurgical Slag
Optimization) in the Hamburg primary smelter to counter
this development. One target is to reduce the unwanted
elements in the iron silicate with an additional preparation
stage. We also want to achieve greater flexibility on the sales
market by expanding our granulation capacities.
In addition, environmental risks resulting from the possible
failure to comply with limit values and violations of
requirements can have legal consequences. We ensure
the environmentally sound operation of our production
facilities to counter this, among other things. We are an
international leader in environmental protection, which is
confirmed by annual certifications in accordance with
ISO 14001 and EMAS, for example. We consider ourselves
to be well positioned for the future in this regard.
Nevertheless, operational incidents that could have an
adverse impact on the environment cannot be completely
ruled out. Overall, we classify the environmental risks as
“medium”.
In a plant with complex processes, employees’ specialist
knowledge is an important factor to ensure performance
quality. Different measures are intertwined with each
other so that Aurubis can continue to count on employees’ ­
expertise. We build connections to skilled young people
through our collaboration and contact with universities,
and we foster development among professionals and
managers through qualification processes.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Occupational safety and health protection take high priority
for us. We focus on individual responsibility, detailed hazard
assessments, training, and short-term and medium-term
goals with the objective of Vision Zero, i. e. no accidents.
We counter legal, tax and compliance risks with
organizational procedures and clear management structures.
We are closely following political discussions about tax
issues, for example the financial transaction and capital tax,
and their possible effects. In the course of the antitrust
proceedings that had been pending against us in Bulgaria,
the authorities ruled in favor of Aurubis. However, a
customer contacted the responsible court and objected to
this decision. The Aurubis Group continues to consider the
allegations unfounded.
Furthermore, Aurubis is subject to IT risks that can impact
the supply, production and sales areas, for example, and
these were considered accordingly in the risk assessment.
From the current perspective, these risks are nevertheless
insignificant due to the risk reduction measures in place
that are described below:
We limit the risks of decreased IT system availability
through continuous monitoring, technical precautions
and implementing necessary adjustments. The redundant
design of our IT infrastructure, as well as data recovery and
continuity plans, counter the risks of possible incidents or
disasters. In order to prevent the risks of unauthorized
access to company data, we restrict the issuing of access
rights, carry out security reviews and use modern security
technologies.
Furthermore, selected risks are largely covered by insurance
policies. We rely on the expertise of an external insurance
broker for this purpose.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

95
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Internal control system relating to the
consolidated accounting process/accounting
process
(Report pursuant to Section 289 (5) and Section 315 (2)
No. 5 German Commercial Code (HGB))
The objective of the internal control system (ICS) for the
accounting process is to ensure that financial statements are
prepared in compliance with regulations. Aurubis has
an internal control and risk management system in which
structures and processes related to the accounting process
are defined and implemented in the organization. This
ensures that the Group accounting procedures are reliable
and performed correctly, that business transactions are
thoroughly reported in a timely manner as prescribed by law
and in the Articles of Association, and that legal norms and
internal guidelines on accounting are observed. Amendments
to laws and accounting standards are continuously analyzed
for their relevance to the consolidated financial statements,
and resultant changes are incorporated into the Group’s
internal processes and systems.
Principles of the internal control system related to
accounting policies
As the parent company, Aurubis AG prepares the Aurubis
Group’s consolidated financial statements. The financial
reporting of the consolidated Group companies that are
included in the consolidated financial statements takes
place prior to this process. These Group companies prepare
their financial statements locally and transfer them via a
group-wide, defined and consistent data model to the
Corporate Accounting Department. The Group companies
are responsible for compliance with the valid group-wide
guidelines and procedures, as well as for the correct and
timely implementation of accounting-relevant processes
and systems.

The internal control system includes the following main
principles:
»» E nsuring standardized accounting procedures in the
preparation of the separate financial statements of
Aurubis AG, with systematically implemented controls
supported by manual accounting controls and other
authorization and approval procedures (separation of
functions, access regulations and limitations, the use of
the dual control principle, guidelines on payment
transactions)
»» Ensuring consistent Group accounting procedures in
­accordance with IFRS by applying accounting
regulations and work instructions uniformly, centrally
auditing reporting packages, analyzing deviations from
the ­budget and providing reports as part of the
quarterly finance meetings
»» Inclusion of external accounting and internal reporting
by all Group companies in a consolidation and reporting
system
»» Overall consolidation of the consolidated financial
­statements by the Corporate Accounting Department,
which centrally performs consolidation measures,
coordination and monitoring of the timely and
procedural input
»» Giving Group companies support in accounting
­procedures by having a central contact person in
Corporate Accounting
»» Clarification of special technical questions and complex
issues related to specific cases with an external
consultant

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

96

Combined Management Report

Internal Audit as process-independent risk observation
The Internal Audit Department examines the reliability of
the accounting practices, among other things. In particular,
existing internal accounting policies and the adherence to
them in practice are assessed. Internal Audit additionally
provides information about risks that arise from identifiable
deviations and advises on adjustment measures.

Opportunity management system
In addition to risk management, opportunity management
is an important element of the Aurubis Group’s centralized
and decentralized planning, management and control
processes. The objective is to identify early on any internal
and external potential that could positively impact our
economic success. This potential is assessed and weighed
against the risks associated with it. The next step is to
define initiatives and measures to help utilize this potential.
The process of identifying and assessing opportunities is
part of our annual integrated strategy and planning process.
Making the best use of opportunities is a daily management
responsibility – both at the segment level and the Group
level. The basis for recognizing opportunities is continuous
observation and analysis of our markets on the supply and
demand side, of the competitive environment and of global
trends.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Explanation of relevant opportunities
Rising global demand for copper and copper products
Copper is one of the most important metallic raw materials.
Demand for copper is aligned with world economic growth,
especially in the electrical, electronics, construction and
automotive industries. Global trends such as increasing
energy scarcity, rising urbanization, electric cars and the
growth of the world’s middle class will continue to drive
copper demand upwards. If the economy and the demand
for our copper products develop more favorably than
currently expected in the markets relevant to us, this could
have a positive influence on the Aurubis Group’s earnings.
Positive trend in treatment and refining charges and
market prices for our products
The Aurubis Group’s earnings situation will be largely
determined by the treatment and refining charges for
copper concentrates, copper scrap and recycling materials,
and by the market prices for our products, such as sulfuric
acid. If treatment and refining charges and market prices
for our products develop more favorably than currently
forecast, this could positively impact the Aurubis Group’s
earnings.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

97
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Increasing significance of sustainability and resource
efficiency
Aurubis is a leading global copper recycler. In light of the
rising importance of resource efficiency and sustainability,
we expect demand for recycling solutions to continue
growing. This is also supported and promoted by national
and international law. Thanks to our recycling activities and
proximity to our copper product customers, we consider
ourselves to be in a position to offer expanded solutions
for closed recycling systems. If national and international
recycling regulations become stricter, and if demand for
recycling solutions in our markets increases more strongly
than expected, this could positively affect the Aurubis
Group’s procurement situation and therefore its earnings.
Development of expertise in processing
complex raw materials
Primary and secondary raw materials are becoming more
complex, insofar as their contents of copper are decreasing
and their concentrations of by-elements and impurities are
increasing. One of Aurubis’ strengths is in processing
complex materials, e. g. electronic scrap. Aurubis is
continuously developing this expertise to devise effective
and resource-efficient processing methods for the raw
materials of the future in the FCM (Future Complex
Metallurgy) project. If even more progress is achieved in
developing our skills than currently forecast, this could
positively influence the Aurubis Group’s earnings.

Continuous improvement of processes and cost position
and achievement of synergies
Our markets are globally competitive. Operating excellence
is therefore exceedingly important. We continuously work
on optimizing our processes and improving our cost position.
Furthermore, we are always identifying and implementing
the synergy potential arising from our position along the
copper value chain. If we exceed the targets relating to
initiated improvement measures, this could have a positive
impact on the Aurubis Group’s earnings.
Capacity expansion linked with internationalization
We see growth potential in the expansion of our processing
capacities in regions that have favorable conditions and are
in proximity to our procurement and sales markets. We will
continue investing in our existing sites, but will also strive
to further expand our production network. If we are in a
position to expand our capacities even more and/or with
lower capital expenditure than expected, this could
positively affect the Aurubis Group’s earnings.

See Glossary,
page 196.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

98

Combined Management Report

Developing solutions for customers and suppliers
We work closely with our suppliers and customers at all
levels of our value chain. This includes developing individual
customer products, providing extra services, processing
specific raw materials and offering additional closed
recycling solutions. If demand from our customers and
suppliers for our solutions is stronger than forecast, this
could have a positive effect on the Aurubis Group’s earnings.
Innovations from future research and development
activities
In the scope of our research and development activities,
we work on innovations that create a competitive advantage
for us in the future. For example, we’re working on making
our processing methods more resource-efficient, and on
expanding our expertise in complex material processing.
For example, we have initiated a project in the Hamburg
primary smelter (MSO, Metallurgical Slag Optimization), the
goal of which is to reduce the unwanted elements in iron
silicate with an additional processing step. Furthermore,
we want to achieve broader flexibility on the sales market
by expanding our iron silicate granulation capacities.
Our activities in the product sector focus on developing
production technologies to reduce throughput times, and on
the technical implementation of recycling solutions for our
customers, for instance. If there is more progress in our
research and development activities than currently expected,
this could positively impact the Aurubis Group’s earnings.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Assessment of the Group’s risk and
opportunity situation
No substantial risks arose in the reporting year. There
were no particular structural changes in the Group’s risks.
According to our current assessment, there are no risks
that endanger the company’s continued existence.
Both the Audit Committee and the auditors ascertained
that the Executive Board and Supervisory Board have taken
the measures prescribed by Section 91 (2) German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG) in an appropriate manner and that
the legally required risk management and monitoring
system fulfills all the requirements.
For a complete overview of company activities, the
opportunities for the Group must be considered in addition
to the risks. The existing opportunities for the Aurubis
Group are comparable to those of the previous year.
We are confident that we will be able to make use of the
opportunities presented by our business portfolio, our
expertise and our ability to innovate. At the same time,
these factors put us in a position to successfully counter
existing risks. Furthermore, we are convinced that we have
the appropriate processes, measures and instruments in
place to identify important opportunities and to manage
relevant risks.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

99
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Forecast Report
The statements made in the Forecast Report are based on
our assessment of overall economic conditions, and the trend
on both the global copper market and Aurubis’ raw material
and product markets, which are based on analyses by
economic research institutes, organizations and industry
associations as well as internal market analyses. The forecasts
for future business performance provided here are aligned
with the BU targets as well as the opportunities and risks
posed by expected market conditions and competitive
situations in the forecast period of October 1, 2016 to
September 30, 2017. The opportunities and risks affecting the
Aurubis Group are explained in detail in the Risk and
Opportunity Report. Our forecasts are regularly adjusted.
The following statements are based on our knowledge in
December 2016.
From the current perspective, the following uncertainties
could influence the Aurubis Group’s markets: in particular,
the result of the presidential election in the USA, the
subsequent developments and the Federal Reserve’s
pending interest rate decision could have an impact. In
Europe, the Brexit decision, i.e. the British people’s vote
to leave the EU, and the accompanying events and
consequences, as well as the constitutional referendum
in Italy in December 2016, could affect the markets. There
will be key elections in several countries in 2017, including
Germany and France, that have the potential to bring
about changes. Political crises are still an influential factor
in the MENA region (Middle East and North Africa).

Overall economic development
The global economy was in a moderate recovery phase in fall
2016. According to an IMF estimate, the economy could gain
traction in 2017 and grow somewhat faster, with plus 3.4 %
compared to 2016. Nevertheless, the IMF pointed out that
this forecast is based on a number of assumptions and that
there are still risks.

The assumed progress in emerging markets and developing
countries contributes positively to this assessment. A return
to more normalized conditions in individual countries is
necessary, though. Rising commodity prices benefit
development in countries that export raw materials. First
and foremost, however, the decisive condition is that China’s
economic transformation proceeds without any significant
growth slumps, with a growth rate that considerably exceeds
that of other emerging markets.
For the industrialized countries, on the other hand, the
outlook is subdued overall, though the upswing should
continue in general and individual countries should see an
improved trend. The industrialized countries’ growth in
productivity is rather low, and investment activity is too
weak in some cases. The tendency towards protectionism
holds risks in particular. Weak global trade is a cause for
concern in those economies with strong exports. There is
also uncertainty regarding the very expansive monetary
policy that supports global growth.
In the regional markets that are important for the world
copper market, the following tendencies are evident for 2017:
The IMF assumes that the USA will achieve economic
growth of 2.2 % (previous year: 1.6 %) in 2017. Nevertheless,
insecurity has increased following the election, which could
lead to changes in the country’s political direction.
A growth rate of 6.2 % (previous year: 6.6 %) is expected for
China, assuming that the transformation towards more
consumption-oriented growth and to an economy more
strongly supported by services continues in an orderly
fashion. In the eurozone, the IMF anticipates economic
growth of 1.5 % (previous year: 1.7 %), which takes into
account uncertainties about the economic consequences of
the Brexit vote. Despite lower growth of 1.4 % (previous year:
1.7 %), Germany is still viewed as a pillar of stability in the
region overall.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

100

Combined Management Report

Development on the markets relevant
to our business
General copper market
Many see potential for moderate price recovery in the
copper market in 2017. Already in the first several weeks of
the new fiscal year, the copper price on the London Metal
Exchange recovered to up to US$ 5,600/t (settlement) in
mid-November.
The key factor for the fundamental situation on the copper
market overall in 2017 will be whether this year’s
disproportionately good production trend can continue
in the coming year. The International Copper Study Group
(ICSG) anticipates a roughly 2 % increase in the global
output of refined copper. A handful of analysts view the
production side as likely to be less stable than in 2016,
quoting possible strikes, technical disruptions or maintenance
shutdowns that could have unfavorable impacts. On the
other hand, the market supply of the raw material, copper
concentrate, should ensure good production capacity
utilization once again. Furthermore, there will be new or
expanded smelter capacities in China that will contribute
to refined copper production. This could compensate for
possible breakdowns.
China remained the leader on the demand side of the copper
market: the country accounts for about 45 % of the global
refined copper demand. The International Copper Association
thinks an increase of up to 15 % in Chinese copper demand
is possible in the current five-year plan, in light of ambitious
economic growth plans. For 2017, analysts expect an increase
of 4 to 5 %. The country’s energy sector, which is looking to
renewable energies, will be a key industry once again.
Momentum is also coming from the real estate sector and
from rising demand for electric cars. The country’s demand was
underestimated in 2016. On the whole, the global demand
increase in 2017 is estimated at about 1 to 3 %.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

The visible copper inventories at the metal exchanges weren’t
classified as excessively high at the start of the new fiscal
year, particularly since in October 2016 higher volumes from
the previously-supplied Asian LME warehouses were being
deducted again. At the same time, copper volumes in Chinese
bonded warehouses decreased.
Larger production surpluses of refined copper aren’t
expected in 2017. The ICSG estimates a production surplus
of about 160,000 t, which is barely significant in light of the
market volume of nearly 24 million t. This also applies to
similar estimates by other market research institutes. The
International Wrought Copper Council (IWCC) and other
groups largely anticipate balanced production and demand
on the international copper market in 2017.
On this basis, the 2017 copper price should be safeguarded
at the lower end for the most part, with limited upward
potential. It was already apparent in 2016 that prices dipping
below US$ 4,600/t consistently stimulated buying interest.
However, price volatility will remain a feature of the market.
Markets for copper concentrates and sulfuric acid
Copper concentrates make up a large part of the supply of
raw materials for copper production at Aurubis. There is a
global market for copper concentrates in which mining
companies, traders and primary smelters are active. The
primary smelters are largely those that don’t have their own
mines or mine stakes. Copper concentrates are generally
sourced through long-term supply contracts. The treatment
and refining charges agreed in these contracts are oriented
to annual benchmarks for purer qualities, but deviate from
these benchmarks depending on complexity. The first larger
delivery contract between a mine and a concentrate smelter
for 2017 can be taken as a benchmark in this case.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

101
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

The supply on the international copper concentrate markets
is likely to continue to be good during the new fiscal year.
The commissioning of expansion capacities and new mine
projects will positively impact the availability of volumes
once again. Production difficulties at mines or unpredictable
events such as strikes, technical disruptions, energy
bottlenecks and extreme weather could negatively
influence supply, however.
Treatment and refining charges for spot shipments of copper
concentrates were high at the start of the new fiscal year.
The current contract negotiations for 2017 haven’t been
concluded yet.
In the case of sulfuric acid, which we produce as a by-product
in the course of concentrate processing, an accurate price
forecast for the year isn’t possible. The market trend is volatile
and depends on the supply situation and demand from the
fertilizer industry and the mining industry. Good capacity
utilization of sulfur burners and of the metal industry’s
­concentrate smelters influences the production side. Price
changes at short notice, including those due to seasonal
effects, are therefore not unusual.
Markets for copper products and recycling
In the coming months, the situation on the copper product
markets will likely depend strongly on how the overall
economy in Europe develops and how the individual sector
economies perform. The following developments are evident:
The German Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers’
Association (ZVEI) anticipates 4 % growth for the global
electrical and electronics market in 2017. The industrialized
countries contribute to this with plus 2 %, though the main
momentum comes from the emerging markets, where 5 %
growth is anticipated. In the key market of Europe, which
accounts for 19 % of the global market, the ZVEI anticipates
sector growth of 3 %.

Demand for cars in Europe rose by 8 % in the first nine
months of 2016, according to the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association. The five largest individual
regional markets showed solid growth. At the moment,
it seems that this won’t change fundamentally in 2017.
The upswing in the German construction industry
continues. As the main German construction association
reports, the duration of the orders on hand was most
recently at an average of 3.6 months, with demand for
construction services described as consistent. The order
plus for the first seven months of 2016 was at a nominal
level of 16.9 %. In this area as well, the encouraging trend
can currently be expected to continue.
Based on these forecasts, we expect stable economic
development in 2017 in the three main sectors in which
copper is used. However, political and economic risks
continue and could change the market situation in each case.
The US economy, the development of which is crucial for
our plant there, could continue to recover in 2017 according
to the IMF. This could support the US copper business.
Wire rod business is generally somewhat weaker in the
first quarter of a new fiscal year due to seasonal factors.
We expect this for the new fiscal year 2016/17 as well.
Furthermore, projects in the Middle East have been delayed
due to the low crude oil price. This affected the business of
local cable producers, which slightly weakened demand in
the region. Nevertheless, we expect stable conditions to
return starting January 2017. For the entire fiscal year, we
also anticipate largely stable demand in the cable and wire
industry, as well as the automotive sector.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

102

Combined Management Report

With regards to market development for copper shapes, we
expect the demand trend to continue towards high-quality
specialty products. The increasing market consolidation for
standard products will likely continue. We assume a stable
development in demand across this entire sector as well.
On the European market for flat rolled products, we
anticipate slightly improved demand with growth
opportunities in individual sectors. We don’t expect the
market environment to change much in North America.
In Business Line Bars & Profiles, the focus is on new product
developments to improve our market presence. The
objective is to expand the product portfolio with higherquality specialty products.
In the area of recycling, which is part of BU Copper Products
from an organizational perspective, a forecast is difficult
because key sub-markets are influenced by spot
transactions. Changes in this area can take effect very
quickly.
For copper scrap, the market situation improved after the
end of fiscal year 2015/16 due to the increase in copper
prices. Because of our market penetration, we expect to
be able to supply our facilities even when the availability
of volumes is limited.
The availability of complex recycling materials, including
electrical and electronic scrap, is fundamentally subject
to other conditions and to changes that don’t take effect
so quickly. The satisfactory situation for complex recycling
materials has not changed significantly up to this point.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Business and earnings expectations for
the Aurubis Group
As indicated by the remarks about the overall economic
trend and development on the markets relevant to our
business, the Aurubis Group’s fiscal year 2016/17 will be
accompanied by uncertainties that will impact our business
activities.
We expect different developments in the two Business
Units:
In BU Primary Copper, a maintenance shutdown that is
legally mandated every three years was carried out in
October/November 2016, which will strain the result of
Q1 2016/17. We expect high plant availability for the rest
of the fiscal year.
At the same time, we anticipate continued good availability
of copper concentrates on the global market. Due to the
commencement of new projects and expansions, the supply
is expected to be satisfactory in 2017 as well. Supported by
our broad position on the market and our supplier
diversification, we are confident that we will be able to
secure a good supply once again. We assess the expected
treatment and refining charges as relatively high in light of
the current market situation.
The likely development of the copper scrap supply can’t be
gauged. Business in this area is conducted with short
timelines, and is therefore dependent on influences that are
difficult to forecast. The higher copper prices that are
expected in some cases could nevertheless help improve the
supply. Our broad market position absorbs supply risks in
this case as well.

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

103
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Sulfuric acid sales are also dependent on short-term
developments. The terms of the contracts used are
therefore also short. In addition, sales possibilities are very
different from region to region, with varying conditions
accordingly. Aurubis supplies the global sulfuric acid market,
with a focus on Europe and South America. The relationship
between local sales and exports fluctuates depending on
market circumstances.

using blister copper as a substitute. Due to our presence on
the recycling and blister copper markets and our good
relationships with suppliers, we are nevertheless confident
that we will be able to secure the supply of copper scrap/
blister copper in the Group. With the closing-the-loop
approach, which we developed more intensively in the
previous fiscal year, we want to utilize product customers as
suppliers of production scrap. We will continue to pursue
this approach in 2017.

The sub-markets in BU Copper Products are mixed.
Sales of free cathode volumes on the market are oriented
to the processing plans of our cathode production sector in
the Group.
Adequate statements about the development of the
copper product business in the new fiscal year are only
possible to a limited extent since the negotiation season
for 2017 sales contracts hasn’t ended yet. One factor
that is already clear is the cathode premium Aurubis has
established for European customers for the coming calendar
year. This premium is related to annual contracts for
cathodes and copper products and was reduced from
US$ 92/t to US$ 86/t. This takes expected customer demand
for annual contracts into account.
In light of the positive economic situation in the relevant
sectors and the fact that it is not expected to undergo any
larger slumps in 2017, we expect to be able to conclude the
negotiation season for copper products with satisfactory
contracts. Good customer relationships in our key markets
support this. We will also continue expanding our business
with new customers.
In copper scrap recycling, the same assumptions that were
outlined in the statements on BU Primary Copper should be
assumed in BU Copper Products as well. All in all, it can be
said that a reliable overall assessment of the future copper
scrap supply in 2017 isn’t possible. Likewise, it is not possible
to make a long-term statement about the possibilities of

Overall, there could be quarterly differences as in previous
years. This is due to seasonal factors, but may also be
caused by disruptions in equipment or operating processes.
The business performance of the first quarter of a fiscal year
in particular is shaped by special features related to the
period, including reduced customer orders or changes in
raw material deliveries. It is not possible to predict the
individual influences of European and German energy and
environmental policy, which is important for us.
At the end of fiscal year 2015/16, different initiatives were
kicked off within the Group to strengthen Aurubis further.
Aurubis is currently the market leader in many areas –
these positions should at least be maintained, and even
expanded in the long term. Three key initiatives were
started for this purpose:
a) An opinion survey distributed to more than 1,000
employees
b) A diagnostic process based on financial and operating
KPIs (key performance indicators), central processes,
organizational structures and existing IT systems
c) Projects for in-depth continuous improvement.
We will present the initial results at our Annual General
Meeting on March 2, 2017 and as the first half of 2017
goes on.
The future development and forecast for Aurubis AG
coincides with the general statement on the Aurubis Group.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

104

Combined Management Report

Expected financial situation
Net cash flow in the past fiscal year was € 236 million.
Burdens from cash outflows from investing activities
reached € 128 million during the fiscal year (previous year:
€ 104 million). Overall, net borrowings decreased slightly to
€ 23 million, following € 53 million in the previous year. Gross
borrowings declined slightly in the past fiscal year, from € 506
million in the previous year to € 495 million in the reporting
year, as a result of scheduled repayments. Available cash
increased slightly from € 453 million to € 472 million. The
company has additional liquidity due to available lines of credit
amounting to € 350 million from a syndicated loan agreement
running until 2021. Aurubis therefore has sufficient liquidity
that is not at risk from today’s perspective. We don’t expect
any significant negative impacts on the financial position from
the operating business in the coming fiscal year. We intend to
use existing liquidity to settle the scheduled payments of
€ 142 million due in fiscal year 2016/17.

General statement on the future
development of the Aurubis Group
In fiscal year 2015/16, the Aurubis Group generated a result
that was below the outstanding prior-year result. This was
due to unfavorable developments in the relevant submarkets, especially the markets for sulfuric acid and copper
scrap. The scheduled shutdown in Bulgaria and a lower
cathode premium reduced the result as well. This confirmed
what we had already anticipated in the outlook included in
our last Annual Report. For 2017, the market trend for
copper scrap and sulfuric acid is difficult to forecast overall.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

We expect positive contributions from the Results
Improvement Program, which we transitioned to a
Continuous Improvement Program at the start of the
new fiscal year. It will lead to additional optimizations
at all of the sites.
In BU Primary Copper, a maintenance shutdown that is
legally mandated every three years was carried out in ­
October/November 2016, which will strain the result of
Q1 2016/17. We expect high plant availability for the rest
of the fiscal year.
We expect both operating EBT and operating ROCE to be
significantly higher for fiscal year 2016/17 in BU Primary
Copper.
In BU Copper Products, we anticipate slightly higher
operating EBT and operating ROCE at the prior-year level.
Overall, we expect significantly higher operating EBT and
slightly higher operating ROCE for the Group in fiscal year
2016/17 compared to the reporting year.
Qualified comparative forecast according to
Aurubis’ definition
Change in
operating EBT
At prior-year level
Slight
Significant

¤ T 025

ROCE delta as
a percentage

± 2%

±1

± 3 to 10 %

± 1 to 5

> ±10 %

> ±5

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

105
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

Forward-looking statements
This document contains forward-looking statements
about our current forecasts of future events. Words such
as “anticipate”, “assume”, “believe”, “predict”, “expect”,
“intend”, “can/could”, “plan”, “project”, “should” and
similar terms indicate such forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties. Some examples include unfavorable
developments in the global economic situation,
especially political developments in the USA, Europe and
China, a tightening of the raw material supply and a
decline in demand in the main copper sales markets.
Further risks include a deterioration of our refinancing
options on the credit and finance markets, unavoidable
events beyond our control such as natural disasters, acts
of terror, political unrest and industrial accidents, and
their effects on our sales, purchasing, production or
financing activities, changes in exchange rates, a drop in
acceptance for our products resulting in impacts on the
establishment of prices and the utilization of processing
and production capacities, price increases for energy
and raw materials, production interruptions due to
material bottlenecks, employee strikes or supplier
bankruptcies, successful implementation of measures to
reduce costs and enhance efficiency, the business
outlook for our significant holdings, the successful
implementation of strategic cooperation and joint
ventures, amendments to laws, ordinances and official
regulations, as well as the outcomes of legal proceedings
and other risks and uncertainties, some of which are
described in the Risk and Opportunity Report in this
Annual Report. If one of these uncertainties or
difficulties occurs, or if the assumptions underlying the
forward-looking statements prove to be wrong, the
actual results could deviate considerably from the results
mentioned or implicitly expressed in these ­statements.
We do not intend, nor do we assume the obligation, to
update forward-looking statements continuously, as
these statements are based solely on the circumstances
on the day of publication.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

106

Combined Management Report

Legal Disclosures

>
www.aurubis.com

Declaration on corporate governance
pursuant to Section 289a German
Commercial Code (HGB)

Shareholdings exceeding 10 % of the voting rights
One indirect shareholding in Aurubis AG exceeds 10 % of
the voting rights:

The declaration on corporate governance and the
compensation report are part of the Combined Management
Report. Both are printed at the beginning of this Annual
Report and are available on the Company’s website.

Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter, notified the Company in accordance
with Section 21 (1) German Securities Trading Act (WpHG)
on August 29, 2011 that its voting interest in Aurubis AG had
exceeded the threshold of 25 % of the v­ oting rights on
August 29, 2011 and amounted to 25.002 % of the voting
rights (representing 11,240,000 votes). Of this total, 25.002 %
of the voting rights (representing 11,240,000 votes) are
attributed to Salzgitter AG via Salzgitter ­Mannesmann
GmbH, Salzgitter.

Takeover-related disclosures and
explanations
Explanatory report by the Executive Board of Aurubis AG,
Hamburg, in accordance with Section 176 (1) sentence 1
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) regarding
disclosures of takeover provisions pursuant to Section
289 (4) and Section 315 (4) German Commercial Code
(HGB) as at the balance sheet date of September 30, 2016
The following disclosures as at September 30, 2016 are
presented in accordance with Section 289 (4) and Section
315 (4) German Commercial Code (HGB).
Composition of the subscribed capital
The subscribed capital (share capital) of Aurubis AG
amounted to € 115,089,210.88 as at the balance sheet date
and was divided into 44,956,723 no-par-value bearer shares,
each with a notional value of € 2.56 of the subscribed
capital.
Each share grants the same rights and a single vote at the
Annual General Meeting. There are no different classes of
shares.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Accordingly, one direct investment in the capital of
Aurubis AG exceeds 25 % of the voting rights: according to
the notification from Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter, dated August
29, 2011, Salzgitter Mannesmann GmbH, Salzgitter, has held
25.002 % of the voting rights (representing 11,240,000
votes) since August 29, 2011.
Appointment and removal of Executive Board members
and amendments to the Articles of Association
The appointment and removal of members of the Executive
Board of Aurubis AG are covered by Sections 84 and 85
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and Section 31 Law on
Co-determination (MitbestG) in conjunction with Section 6
(1) of the Articles of Association. Amendments to the Articles
of Association are subject to the approval of the Annual
General Meeting. The resolution at the Annual General
Meeting is passed by a majority that must comprise at least
three quarters of the subscribed capital represented in the
vote; Sections 179 et seq. German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG) apply. In accordance with Section 11 (9) of the Articles
of Association, the Supervisory Board is authorized to resolve
amendments to the Articles of Association that only relate to
their wording. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board is
empowered to adjust Section 4 of the Articles of Association

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

107
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

after the complete or partial execution of the subscribed
capital increase in accordance with the respective claim to
the authorized capital and after the authorization expires.
It is also empowered to adjust the wording of Section 4 (1)
and (3) of the Articles of Association in accordance with the
respective issuing of new no-par-value bearer shares to the
holders or creditors of convertible bonds and/or bonds with
warrants, profit ­participation rights or participating bonds (or
combinations of these instruments), which are issued by the
Company or companies in which it has an i­ndirect or direct
majority interest for a cash contribution as a result of the
authorization resolved at the Annual General Meeting on
March 1, 2012 under item 8 of the agenda, and grant a
conversion or option right to new no-par-value bearer shares
in the Company or establish a conversion obligation.
The same applies if the authorization to issue bonds with
warrants or convertible bonds is not used after the
authorization period expires or if the conditional capital is
not used after the deadlines for exercising option or
conversion rights or for fulfilling conversion or option
obligations have expired.
Power of the Executive Board to issue shares
In accordance with Section 4 (2) of the Articles of
Association, the Executive Board is empowered, with the
approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the Company’s
subscribed c­ apital in the period until February 23, 2021 by
issuing up to 22,478,361 new no-par-value shares in exchange
for a cash contribution and/or a contribution in kind, as a
one-off or in several installments, by up to € 57,544,604.16.
The shareholders shall always be granted a subscription right.
The new shares can also be acquired by one or more credit
institutions with the obligation of offering them to
shareholders for subscription. The Executive Board is,
however, authorized, subject to the approval of the
Supervisory Board, to exclude shareholder subscription rights
once or on several occasions,

a) inasmuch as it is necessary to exclude subscription rights
for possible fractional amounts,
b) up to an arithmetical nominal value totaling
€ 23,017,840.64 if the new shares are issued for a
­contribution in kind,
c) in the case of capital increases against cash contributions
up to an arithmetical nominal value totaling € 11,508,920.32
or, if this amount is lower, by a total of 10 % of the
subscribed capital (the “maximum amount”) existing when
this power was exercised for the first time (in each case
offsetting any utilization of other authorizations to exclude
the subscription right pursuant to or in corresponding
application of Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG)), if the issuing price of the new
shares is not significantly lower than the price of Company
shares in the same category on the stock exchange at the
time when the price is finally fixed.
The subscribed capital allotted to any shares that are
issued or must be issued in order to fulfill convertible
bonds and/or bonds with warrants, that are issued after
February 24, 2016 in the corresponding application of
Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG) excluding the subscription rights, or that are sold
after February 24, 2016 in the corresponding application
of Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG), must be included in this maximum amount.
An inclusion that has been carried out is canceled if
powers to issue convertible bonds and/or bonds with
warrants in accordance with Section 221 (4) sentence 2
and Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG), or to sell own shares in accordance with
Section 71 (1) No. 8 and Section 186 (3) sentence 4
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), are granted again
at the Annual General Meeting after exercising such
powers that have led to inclusion.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

108

Combined Management Report

d) u
 p to an arithmetical nominal value totaling
€ 23,017,840.64 insofar as it is necessary to grant holders
or creditors of bonds with warrants or convertible bonds
issued by the Company to which the shares relate a
subscription right for new shares to the same extent as
they would be entitled after exercising their option or
conversion rights.

shares acquired by the Company based on this authorization
shall at no time exceed 10 % of the Company’s current
subscribed capital. The acquisition of shares for the purpose
of trading with own shares is excluded. The Executive Board
is empowered to use Company shares that are purchased
using this power for all legally permitted purposes, and in
particular also for the following purposes:

In the resolution dated February 9, 2016 the Executive
Board of Aurubis AG declared in the scope of a voluntary
commitment that it would only make use of the
authorizations to exclude shareholders’ subscription rights if
the issued shares did not exceed 20 % of the share capital,
neither at the time the authorization went into effect nor at
the time it was exercised. Any owned shares that are sold
under the exclusion of subscription rights, and shares that
are to be issued to service bonds with a conversion and/or
option right or a conversion obligation, if the bonds have
been issued excluding the shareholders’ subscription rights,
must be offset against the 20 % limit previously mentioned
up to the issuance of new shares without subscription
rights. If and to the extent that the shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting reissue this authorization to
exclude subscription rights after an authorization to exclude
subscription rights has been exercised, leading to offsetting
against the 20 % limit previously mentioned, the offsetting
that has been carried out is no longer included.

a) Own shares that have been acquired can also be sold
by means other than a sale via the stock exchange, or by
means of an offer to all of the shareholders, if the shares
are sold in return for a cash payment at a price that is
not materially lower than the stock market price of the
Company’s shares of the same category at the time of
the sale; the subscription rights of the shareholders are
excluded. This power shall, however, only apply on the
condition that the shares sold excluding the subscription
right may not, in accordance with Section 186 (3) sentence
4 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), exceed 10 % of
the subscribed capital, either at the time this becomes
effective or at the time this power is exercised (the “upper
limit”), in each case taking into account the possible use of
other authorizations to exclude the subscription right in
accordance with, or in the corresponding application of,
Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG). An inclusion that has been carried out is canceled if
powers to issue new shares from authorized capital in
accordance with Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG), or to issue convertible bonds and/
or bonds with warrants in commensurate application of
Section 186 (3) sentence 4 German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG), are granted again at the Annual General Meeting
after exercising such powers that have led to inclusion.

This voluntary commitment was made accessible on
Aurubis AG’s website for the duration of the authorization.
Power of the Executive Board to repurchase shares
With a resolution of the Annual General Meeting on
February 28, 2013, the Company was empowered until
February 27, 2018 to repurchase its own shares (treasury
shares) up to a total of 10 % of the current subscribed
capital. Together with other own shares held by the
Company or attributable to it in accordance with Sections
71a et seq. German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), the

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

b) Own shares that have been acquired can also be sold by
means other than a sale via the stock exchange, or by
means of an offer to all of the shareholders, if this is carried
out in return for a contribution in kind by a third party,
especially in conjunction with the acquisition of business

Combined Management Report
52 Foundations of the Group
66 Economic Report
90 Subsequent Events

109
90
99
106

Risk and Opportunity Report
Forecast Report
Legal Disclosures

entities, parts of business entities or participating interests
in business entities by the Company itself or by a business
entity dependent on it or majority-owned by it, and in
conjunction with business combinations or to fulfill
conversion rights or obligations relating to conversion or
option rights issued by the Company or Group entities of
the Company; the subscription rights of shareholders are in
each case excluded.
c) Own shares acquired can be withdrawn entirely or in part
without a further resolution of the Annual General
Meeting. They can also be withdrawn applying simplified
proceedings without a reduction in capital by adjusting
the proportionate notional share of the remaining no-­
par-value shares in the subscribed capital of the Company.
The complete text of the resolution dated February 28, 2013
can be referenced under agenda item 7 in the invitation to
the Annual General Meeting 2013 published in the German
Federal Gazette on January 15, 2013.
Power of the Executive Board to issue convertible bonds
and shares from conditional capital
In accordance with Section 4 (3) of the Company’s Articles
of Association, the subscribed capital is conditionally
increased by up to € 52,313,277.44 through the issuing of
up to 20,434,874 new bearer shares without a nominal
amount (no-par-value shares), each with notional interest
in the subscribed capital of € 2.56 (conditional capital). The
conditional increase in capital will be used to grant no-parvalue bearer shares to the holders or creditors of convertible
bonds and/or bonds with warrants, profit participation
rights and/or participating bonds (or combinations of these
instruments), which are issued by the Company or companies
in which it has an indirect or direct majority interest, for a
cash contribution as a result of the authorization passed at
the Annual General Meeting on March 3, 2012 under item 8
of the agenda, and grant a conversion or option right to new
no-par-value bearer shares in the Company or establish a

conversion obligation. The conditional increase in capital will
only be carried out to the extent that option or conversion
rights are used, or those holders or creditors that are required
to convert fulfill their obligation to convert, and to the extent
that the Company’s own shares or new shares from the
utilization of authorized capital are not used for this purpose.
The holders of new no-par-value bearer shares are entitled to
participate in the profits from the beginning of the fiscal year
in which they come into existence, through the exercise of
option or conversion rights, or the fulfillment of conversion
obligations. The Executive Board is authorized to define the
further details of how the conditional capital increase shall be
performed.
The complete text of the resolution dated March 1, 2012
can be referenced under agenda item 8 in the invitation to
the Annual General Meeting 2012 published in the German
Federal Gazette on January 19, 2012. The intention is to renew
this authorization at the next Annual General Meeting.
Significant conditional agreements concluded by the
Company
In the event that a single person or a group of persons acting
together should acquire more than 50 % of the shares or the
voting rights in Aurubis AG, every syndicate lender from the
agreement with a banking syndicate (“the Syndicated Loan”)
on a credit line totaling € 350 million, which primarily serves
to finance the working capital of the Group, shall be entitled
to cancel its participation in the Syndicated Loan and to
demand immediate repayment of the amounts owed to it.
Within the scope of various bonds totaling € 436 million,
every lender has an extraordinary right of cancellation if
control over the borrower changes.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

110

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

111

112
113
114
116
117
118

192
193

Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
118 General disclosures
118 Significant accounting principles
127 Changes in accounting and measurement methods
due to new standards and interpretations
130 Notes to the income statement
137 Notes to the statement of financial position
179 Notes to the cash flow statement
180 Segment reporting
185 Other disclosures
190 Investments
Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Financial Statements

CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

112

Consolidated Income Statement

Consolidated Income Statement
for the period from October 1 to September 30 (IFRS)

¤ T 026

Note

12 months
2015/16

12 months
2014/15

Revenues

1

9,474,706

10,995,202

Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in process

2

97,546

15,281

Own work capitalized

3

8,752

6,383

Other operating income

4

57,801

59,749

Cost of materials

5

(8,635,277)

(10,067,396)

1,003,528

1,009,219

in € thousand

Gross profit
Personnel expenses

6

(448,584)

(431,295)

Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

7

(134,803)

(136,406)

Other operating expenses

8

(243,322)

(242,237)

176,819

199,281
1,403

Operational result (EBIT)
9

6,351

Interest income

10

2,868

3,591

Interest expense

10

(27,373)

(30,940)

Other financial income

11

257

225

Other financial expenses

11

(107)

(4,116)

158,815

169,444

(35,296)

(35,876)

123,519

133,568

Result from investments measured using the equity method

Earnings before taxes (EBT)
Income taxes

12

Consolidated net income

121,852

132,435

Consolidated net income attributable to non-controlling interests

13

1,667

1,133

Basic earnings per share (in €)

14

2.71

2.95

Diluted earnings per share (in €)

14

2.71

2.95

Consolidated net income attributable to Aurubis AG shareholders

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

113
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the period from October 1 to September 30 (IFRS)

¤ T 027

in € thousand

Consolidated net income

12 months
2015/16

12 months
2014/15

123,519

133,568

28,050

(12,189)

Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss in the future
Measurement at market of cash flow hedges

5,092

(1,585)

Changes deriving from translation of foreign currencies

(1,127)

3,778

Income taxes

(6,786)

1,761

Measurement at market of financial investments

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
(95,103)

17,449

30,692

(5,553)

(39,182)

3,661

Consolidated total comprehensive income

84,337

137,229

Consolidated total comprehensive income attributable to Aurubis AG shareholders

83,258

135,981

Consolidated total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests

1,079

1,248

Remeasurement of the net liability deriving from defined benefit obligations
Income taxes
Other comprehensive income/(loss)

Explanations relating to the Statement of Comprehensive Income are provided in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

114

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
(IFRS)

Assets
in € thousand

¤ T 028

Note

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Intangible assets

15

84,740

83,898

Property, plant and equipment

16

1,288,155

1,287,082

Investment property

17

8,515

0

Financial fixed assets

18

23,414

26,572

Investments measured using the equity method

19

45,012

42,877

Deferred tax assets

25

10,418

8,080

Non-current financial assets

22

23,080

14,227

Other non-current non-financial assets

22

Non-current assets

2,468

1,176

1,485,802

1,463,912

Inventories

20

1,700,205

1,626,440

Trade accounts receivable

21

242,106

306,905

Other current financial assets

22

75,503

138,898

Other current non-financial assets

22

51,487

49,504

Cash and cash equivalents

23

471,874

452,971

Assets “held-for-sale”

17

0

5,955

Current assets

2,541,175

2,580,673

Total assets

4,026,977

4,044,585

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

115
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Equity and liabilities

¤ T 029

Note

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Subscribed capital

24

115,089

115,089

Additional paid-in capital

24

343,032

343,032

Generated Group earnings

24

1,520,781

1,523,444

Accumulated other comprehensive income components

24

in € thousand

Equity attributable to shareholders of Aurubis AG
Non-controlling interests

24

Equity

9,465

(15,764)

1,988,367

1,965,801

2,769

2,778

1,991,136

1,968,579
221,772

Pension provisions and similar obligations

26

322,000

Other non-current provisions

27

64,038

59,751

Deferred tax liabilities

25

150,847

182,986

Non-current borrowings

28

337,112

480,678

Other non-current financial liabilities

28

18,788

27,616

Non-current non-financial liabilities

28

1,201

1,179

893,986

973,982

Non-current liabilities
Current provisions

27

32,310

34,749

Trade accounts payable

28

797,710

761,409

Income tax liabilities

28

4,522

53,926

Current borrowings

28

158,131

25,421

Other current financial liabilities

28

109,756

187,024

Other current non-financial liabilities

28

39,426

39,495

Current liabilities

1,141,855

1,102,024

Total liabilities

4,026,977

4,044,585

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

116

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the period from October 1 to September 30 (IFRS)

¤ T 030

in € thousand

Note

Earnings before taxes

12 months
2015/16

12 months
2014/15

158,815

169,444

134,803

136,406

Change in allowances on receivables and other assets

1,994

391

Change in non-current provisions

2,180

(2,486)

Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets

7

Net losses on disposal of fixed assets
Measurement of derivatives
Other non-cash items

17

Financial result
Income taxes received/paid
Change in receivables and other assets
Change in inventories (including measurement effects)

909

2,714

(39,672)

16,149

(2,530)

0

15,440

30,048

(98,641)

(46,355)

88,790

59,000

(68,009)

92,633

Change in current provisions

(2,364)

2,360

Change in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities)

44,547

(95,397)

236,262

364,907

(143,143)

(111,747)

Cash inflow from operating activities (net cash flow)
Payments for investments in fixed assets
Proceeds from the disposal of fixed assets

8,530

346

Interest received

2,868

3,567

Dividends received

11, 19

Cash outflow from investing activities
Proceeds deriving from the take-up of financial liabilities
Payments for the redemption of bonds and financial liabilities
Interest paid
Dividends paid

24

Cash outflow (cash inflow in the prior year) from financing activities
Net change in cash and cash equivalents

3,865

4,174

(127,880)

(103,660)

42,029

486,935

(54,891)

(413,648)

(14,806)

(23,262)

(61,780)

(46,496)

(89,448)

3,529

18,934

264,776

(31)

913

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

452,971

187,282

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

471,874

452,971

Changes resulting from movements in exchange rates

Explanations relating to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement are provided on p. 179 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

117
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
¤ T 031

Accumulated other
comprehensive income components 1)

in € thousand

Balance as at
9/30/2014

Subscribed
capital

Additional
paid-in
capital

Generated
Group
equity

Measurement at
market of
cash flow
hedges

Measurement at
market of
Currency
financial translation
assets differences

Equity
attributable to
Aurubis AG
Income
share­
taxes
holders

Non-­
controlling
interests

Total
equity

115,089

343,032

1,424,185

(21,805)

1,585

7,910

4,781

1,874,777

3,069

1,877,846

Dividend payment

0

0

(44,957)

0

0

0

0

(44,957)

(1,539)

(46,496)

Consolidated total
comprehensive
income/(loss)

0

0

144,216

(12,189)

(1,585)

3,778

1,761

135,981

1,248

137,229

of which consolidated
net income

0

0

132,435

0

0

0

0

132,435

1,133

133,568

of which other comprehensive income/(loss)

0

0

11,781

(12,189)

(1,585)

3,778

1,761

3,546

115

3,661

Balance as at
9/30/2015

115,089

343,032

1,523,444

(33,994)

0

11,688

6,542

1,965,801

2,778

1,968,579

Balance as at
9/30/2015

115,089

343,032

1,523,444

(33,994)

0

11,688

6,542

1,965,801

2,778

1,968,579

Dividend payment

0

0

(60,692)

0

0

0

0

(60,692)

(1,088)

(61,780)

Consolidated total
comprehensive
income/(loss)

0

0

58,029

28,050

5,092

(1,127)

(6,786)

83,258

1,079

84,337

of which consolidated
net income

0

0

121,852

0

0

0

0

121,852

1,667

123,519

of which other comprehensive income/(loss)

0

0

(63,823)

28,050

5,092

(1,127)

(6,786)

(38,594)

(588)

(39,182)

115,089

343,032

1,520,781

(5,944)

5,092

10,561

(244)

1,988,367

2,769

1,991,136

Balance as at
9/30/2016
1)

The items included here will be reclassified to profit or loss in the future.

The explanations relating to equity are provided in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

118

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
General disclosures
Aurubis AG is a quoted corporate entity with a registered office in
Germany.
As required by Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European
Parliament and the Council dated July 19, 2002 on the application
of international accounting standards and Section 315a (1) of the
German Commercial Code (HGB), the accompanying consolidated
financial statements as at September 30, 2016 have been prepared
in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) approved and published by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB), as adopted by the European Union. The
interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee (IFRIC) have been taken into account.
The Supervisory Board released the consolidated financial statements
for publication after they were approved on December 13, 2016.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros.
If nothing to the contrary is indicated, all amounts are shown in
thousands of currency units.

financial liabilities are now disclosed as two separate reporting lines,
“Non-current borrowings” and “Other non-current financial liabilities”.
This is consistent with the presentation of current liabilities. In
addition, this also allows the total amount of borrowings to be directly
determined from the statement of financial position.
As a general rule, assets and liabilities have been measured at
amortized acquisition or construction cost. Derivative financial
instruments, investment property and “available-for-sale” financial
assets are measured at fair value.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance
with IFRS furthermore requires the Executive Board and authorized
employees to make estimates and assumptions in significant areas
that have an impact on the measurement and reported amount of the
assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position, and on
related income and expenses.
Sectors which particularly require the application of estimates and
assumptions are presented under “Main estimates and assumptions”
on page 129.
This report may include slight deviations in the totals due to rounding.

Current and non-current assets and liabilities are presented as
separate categories in the statement of financial position. In this
context, current assets and current liabilities are expected to be
realized within 12 months of the balance sheet date or are held
primarily for trading purposes.
During the reporting year, smaller adjustments were made in the
presentation/classification of items in the statement of financial
position. This mainly concerned the recognition of income tax
receivables as “Other current non-financial assets”. The separate
disclosure of income tax receivables has been discontinued as the
related amounts are immaterial. In a similar manner, a more detailed
analysis of financial fixed assets is no longer provided as these
primarily comprise fixed asset securities. Furthermore, non-current

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Significant accounting principles
Scope of consolidation
As in the previous fiscal year, in addition to the parent company,
Aurubis AG, Hamburg, 22 further companies in which Aurubis AG,
Hamburg, holds the majority of the voting rights either directly or
indirectly, and thus has control, were included in the consolidated
financial statements as at the balance sheet date by way of full
consolidation. The consolidated balance sheet date corresponds to
the balance sheet date of Aurubis AG, Hamburg, and all consolidated
­subsidiaries, with the exception of three consolidated companies,
whose balance sheet date is December 31. Interim financial

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

119
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

statements were prepared by these companies as at the consolidated
­balance sheet date for consolidation purposes.
Accordingly, the financial statements of all significant subsidiaries
which Aurubis AG controls are included in these consolidated
financial statements.
Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg, a producer
of pre-rolled strip, has been accounted for using the equity method
in accordance with IFRS 11.24 in conjunction with IAS 28. A 50 %
investment is held in this entity, which is managed jointly with another
partner (joint venture).
Consolidation principles
The separate financial statements of all companies included in
consolidation are prepared in accordance with the uniform accounting
policies that are applied within the Aurubis Group. The financial
statements of the main companies included in the consolidated
financial statements have been audited by independent auditors.
Capital consolidation is performed as at the acquisition date using
the acquisition method, whereby the acquisition cost of the acquired
interest is offset against the fair values of acquired assets and
liabilities of the subsidiary at that time. Any unallocated difference on
the asset side is recognized as goodwill and tested at least annually
for impairment. In accordance with IAS 36, goodwill is not amortized
on a scheduled basis. Negative goodwill is recognized immediately in
profit or loss following a reassessment of the fair values.
Receivables, liabilities and contingent liabilities, and revenues, other
income and expenses between group companies are eliminated.
Profits resulting from transactions between group companies are
eliminated, if material.

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

In addition to eight German companies, 15 foreign companies are
included in the consolidated financial statements. In accordance
with the functional currency concept, the financial statements of
subsidiaries prepared in foreign currencies were translated into euros,
as the euro is Aurubis AG’s reporting currency. Transactions in foreign
currencies are converted into the functional currency at the exchange
rate at the time of the transaction or, in the case of subsequent
measurement, at the time of such measurement. Foreign currency
transactions are primarily designated in US dollars. The average
US dollar exchange rate during fiscal year 2015/16 was 1.11091 US$/€.
The exchange rate as at September 30, 2016 was 1.1161 US$/€. Gains
and losses resulting from the fulfillment of such transactions as well
as from the conversion of monetary assets and liabilities designated in
a foreign currency as at the balance sheet date are recorded in profit
and loss in the cost of materials unless they have to be accounted for
in equity as qualified cash flow hedges or net investments in foreign
business operations. In fiscal year 2015/16, foreign currency
conversion differences totaling € 1.9 million (net) were recognized as
an expense. In accordance with IAS 21, assets and liabilities in the
balance sheets of subsidiaries reporting in a foreign currency are
translated at the mid-market rates on the balance sheet date and the
income statement is translated at the average rates for the fiscal year.
Any resultant translation differences are recognized directly in equity
until the possible disposal of the subsidiary.
Joint ventures are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 11 using
the equity method. Profits deriving from upstream/downstream
transactions with Group companies are eliminated proportionally.
Recognition of revenues
Revenues are mainly generated from the sale of metals and copper
products. The revenues are recognized when control and the significant
risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are transferred to the
customer if the amount of revenues can be reliably determined and the
economic benefit deriving from the transaction is probable. Bonuses
granted in the fiscal year are deducted from revenues.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

120

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Financial instruments
A financial instrument is a contract that simultaneously gives rise
to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity
instrument of another entity.
In this connection, financial assets particularly comprise cash and
cash equivalents, equity instruments held in other entities (e.g.
investments or share portfolios), trade accounts receivable, other
loans and receivables granted, and primary and derivative financial
instruments that are held for trading. Financial liabilities generally
establish a c­ ontractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial
assets. These include in particular bonds and other securitized
liabilities, liabilities to banks, trade accounts payable, finance lease
liabilities and derivative financial instruments. Within the Group,
regular way purchases and sales of primary financial instruments are
generally recorded as of the ­settlement date, i.e. at the date of
delivery and transfer of title. D
­ erivative financial instruments are
recognized as of the trade date. Financial assets and financial liabilities
are generally reported gross (i.e. without being netted).
Financial assets are recognized if Aurubis has a contractual right
to receive cash and cash equivalents or other financial assets from
another company. Financial assets are always recognized initially
at fair value. Thereby, in the case of financial assets that will not be
measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss, the
transaction costs directly attributable to the purchase have to be
taken into account. The fair values recognized in the statement of
financial position represent the market prices of the financial assets
to the extent that these can be determined directly by reference to
an active market. Otherwise, they are measured using normal market
procedures (valuation models), applying the market parameters
specific to the instrument. Non-­interest-bearing financial assets with
a term exceeding one year are discounted. For financial assets
with a residual term of less than one year, it is assumed that the fair
value corresponds to the nominal value. Financial assets designated
in foreign currency are measured on initial recognition with the
valid rate applicable at the date of the transaction and as at the
balance sheet date with the mid-market rate as at the balance sheet
date. Financial assets are derecognized if the contractual rights to

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

payments from the financial assets no longer exist or all opportunities
and risks are essentially transferred. Any financial assets sold without
recourse were derecognized.
The non-current receivables reported as “Other financial fixed
assets” are assigned to the category “loans and receivables” and, if
significant, are measured at amortized cost, applying the effective
interest method.
On account of their short terms to maturity, trade accounts
receivable are measured at nominal value, less allowances for doubtful
debts. The allowances take adequate account of credit default risks,
which are determined on the basis of past experience and individual
assessments of the risks. Actual defaults result in derecognition of the
receivables affected.
Impairment losses relating to trade accounts receivable are recorded in
an allowance account. The decision as to whether a credit default risk
is recorded using an allowance account or through direct reduction of
the receivables depends on how reliable the assessment of the risk
situation is.
Financial assets held for trading are measured at fair value. These
include derivative financial instruments that are not included in an
effective hedging relationship in accordance with IAS 39 and therefore
have to be classified as “held for trading”.
In addition, delivery contracts are concluded in the Aurubis Group
for non-ferrous metals to cover the expected requirement for raw
materials and also for the sale of finished products. In the process,
physical delivery contracts may be terminated by making
compensation payments due to changes in demand. Price-fixed
metal delivery contracts are therefore also recognized as derivative
financial instruments. Since these are not included in an effective
hedging relationship in accordance with IAS 39, they are similarly
classified as “held for trading”.
Gains or losses resulting from the subsequent measurement of
“held for trading” financial assets are recognized in profit or loss.

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

121
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Other financial assets are allocated to the category “loans and
receivables” and, to the extent that they are non-current, are
measured at amortized cost, applying the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents have a remaining term on initial
recognition of up to three months and are measured at nominal value.
Within the Aurubis Group, the “available-for-sale” category
represents the residual amount of primary financial assets that fall
under IAS 39 and are not assigned to another category. They include
the interests in affiliated companies that are reported under financial
fixed assets, other investments and securities classified as fixed
assets. They are generally measured at fair value, which is derived
from the stock market price, provided a price quoted in an active
market is available. Subsequent gains and losses resulting from
measurement at fair value are recognized in equity as a component
of other comprehensive income. This does not apply if these are
permanent or significant impairment losses and also if these are
foreign-currency-related changes in the value of debt instruments,
which are recognized in profit or loss. The accumulated gains or
losses deriving from measurement at fair value that are recorded as a
component of other comprehensive income are only recognized in
profit or loss upon disposal of the financial assets. If the fair value of
non-quoted equity instruments cannot be reliably determined, the
interests are measured at acquisition cost (net of impairment losses,
if appropriate).
No financial instruments were reclassified into other measurement
categories either in fiscal year 2015/16 or in fiscal year 2014/15.
Within the Aurubis Group, an impairment loss is recognized if
the carrying amount of a financial asset is higher than the present
value of the future cash flows. The test of whether impairment
exists is carried out at every balance sheet date. Indications such
as considerable financial problems on the part of the debtor are
taken into account in order to determine objectively whether
evidence of impairment exists.

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

In order to resolve the question of impairment, the existing credit
relationships that are assigned to the category “loans and receivables”
need to be analyzed and then measured subsequently at amortized
cost. At every balance sheet date, an investigation is required in order
to assess whether there are objective indications of impairment that
should be recognized in the financial statements. The amount of the
loss is calculated as the difference between the carrying amount of
the asset and the present value of the expected future cash flows,
discounted with the original effective interest rate of the financial
instrument (recoverable amount). In this connection, for the sake of
simplicity, cash flows from short-term receivables are not discounted.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced to the recoverable
amount by means of a direct write-down or by using an allowance
account and the reduction is recognized in profit or loss.
For equity instruments of the “available-for-sale” category, an
impairment loss is recognized if there are considerable adverse
changes in the issuer’s environment or the fair value is significantly
lower than the original cost for a long period. The loss is determined
as the difference between the current fair value and the carrying
amount of the financial instrument. While reversals of impairment
losses on debt instruments are to be recognized in profit or loss, in
the case of equity instruments they may only be recognized in equity.
Financial liabilities are recognized if there is a contractual obligation to
transfer cash and cash equivalents or other financial assets to another
company. Financial liabilities are always initially recognized at fair value.
The directly attributable transaction costs are also deducted for all
financial liabilities that are not subsequently measured at fair value and
are amortized over the term of the liability applying the effective
interest method. Financial liabilities denominated in foreign currency
are measured on initial recognition with the valid rate applicable at
the date of the transaction and as at the balance sheet date with the
mid-market rate.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

122

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Primary financial liabilities, which include borrowings, trade
accounts payable and other primary financial liabilities, are generally
measured at amortized cost. If the interest effect is not insignificant,
non-interest-bearing liabilities, or liabilities bearing low interest rates,
with a residual term exceeding one year, are discounted. In the case of
liabilities with a residual term of less than a year, it is assumed that
the fair value corresponds to the settlement amount.
Liabilities under finance leases are recognized on inception of
the lease at the lower of the present value of the leasing payments
and the fair value of the leased asset. In subsequent periods, the
redemption portions included in the leasing payments reduce the
corresponding liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments that are not included in effective
hedging relationships must be classified as “held-for-trading” and
therefore recognized at fair value through profit and loss. Negative
amounts result in the recognition of a financial liability.
The Aurubis Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge
interest rate and foreign currency risks and to hedge commodity
price risks.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. This
represents the market value and can be both positive and negative.
If the market value is not available, the fair value is calculated utilizing
present value and option price models. As far as possible, relevant
market prices and interest rates observed at the balance sheet date,
which are derived from recognized sources, are used as the opening
parameters for these models.
Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments are
recognized either through profit or loss in the income statement or in
equity as a component of other comprehensive income. The decisive
factor hereby is whether or not the derivative financial instrument is

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

included in an effective hedging relationship. If no cash flow hedge
accounting relationship exists, the changes in fair values are to be
recognized immediately in profit or loss. If, on the other hand, an
effective hedging relationship exists, such changes will be recognized
in equity as a component of other comprehensive income.
In order to avoid fluctuations in the income statement due to the
different measurement of hedged items and hedging instruments,
IAS 39 includes special regulations relating to hedge accounting.
The aim of these hedge accounting regulations is to record gains
and losses on hedging instruments and hedged items so that they
compensate one another as far as possible.
In addition to documentation, as a prerequisite for the application
of the regulations of hedge accounting, IAS 39 requires proof of an
effective hedging relationship. Hedge effectiveness means that
changes in fair value (for fair value hedges) or changes in cash flow
(for cash flow hedges) of the hedged items are compensated by
changes in the opposite direction in the fair value or by changes in
the cash flows of the hedging instruments, in each case relating to
the hedged risk.
The purpose of derivatives that are used as hedging instruments in
conjunction with a cash flow hedge is to hedge future cash flows. A
risk with regard to the amount of future cash flows exists in particular
for loans at floating interest rates and planned transactions that are
highly likely to occur. Derivative financial instruments used in
conjunction with cash flow hedge accounting are recognized at fair
value. The gain or loss on measurement is split between an effective
and an ineffective portion. The effective portion is the portion of
the gain or loss on measurement that represents an effective hedge
of the cash flow risk. This is recognized directly in equity under a
special heading (cash flow hedge reserve), after taking deferred taxes
into account. The ineffective portion deriving from measurement is
recognized on the other hand in profit or loss in the income statement.

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

123
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

The general accounting rules applicable to the transactions underlying
the hedged cash flows remain unchanged. Following the termination
of the hedging relationship, the amounts recorded in the reserve are
always transferred to the income statement when gains or losses in
connection with the hedged item are recognized in profit or loss or
when the underlying transaction is not actually expected to occur
anymore.
The Aurubis Group furthermore enters into hedging relationships
that do not satisfy the strict requirements of IAS 39 and cannot
therefore be accounted for in accordance with the hedge accounting
regulations. Nevertheless, from an economic point of view, these
hedging relationships comply with the principles of risk management.
Moreover, hedge accounting is also not applied in the case of the
monetary assets and liabilities recognized in connection with foreign
currency hedging, because the foreign currency translation gains and
losses on the hedged items that need to be realized in profit or loss in
accordance with IAS 21 are accompanied by gains and losses on the
derivative hedging instruments and more or less compensate one
another in the income statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities that fall under the scope of
IAS 39 could under certain circumstances be allocated irrevocably to
the subcategory “fair value option” upon initial recognition. The
Aurubis Group has not made use of the fair value option either for
financial assets or for financial liabilities.
The fair value of financial instruments is determined pursuant to the
regulations of IFRS 13 covering measurement at fair value. The fair
value of financial instruments quoted in active markets is calculated
based on the price quotation insofar as these are prices used in routine
and current transactions. Where no prices quoted in active markets are
available, the Aurubis Group uses measurement procedures to
determine the fair value of financial instruments. Consequently, the
input parameters applied in measurement procedures are based where

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

possible on observable data derived from the prices of relevant
financial instruments traded in active markets. The use of these
measurement procedures requires estimates and assumptions on the
part of the Aurubis Group, the scope of which depends on the price
transparency of the financial instrument and its market, and the
complexity of the instrument. Management regularly analyzes the
methods and influencing factors used to determine the fair value to
ensure that they are appropriate. Additional information about the
main estimates and assumptions used to determine the fair value can
be found in the section “Additional disclosures on financial
instruments”.
Intangible assets
If intangible assets are acquired, they are recognized at acquisition
cost. Internally generated intangible assets that provide future
economic benefits are recognized at their cost of generation if the
criteria for their recognition as an asset are fulfilled. They are
amortized on a scheduled straight-line basis over their expected
useful lives of generally three years. With the exception of goodwill,
the consolidated financial statements do not include any intangible
assets with indefinite useful lives.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment used in the business
operations for more than one year are measured at acquisition or
construction cost less scheduled depreciation. Such assets also
include spare parts and maintenance equipment used for more than
one period. Technical minimum stocks are recognized as components
of the respective technical equipment and machinery. These stocks
are quantities of materials that contain metals and are necessary to
establish and ensure a production facility’s functionality for its
intended use. Minimum stocks are not subject to scheduled
depreciation, as they do not deteriorate or age.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

124

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Construction costs include all costs that can be directly atttributed
to the asset. Borrowing costs that can be directly allocated to
the purchase, construction or production of a qualifying asset are
capitalized. Borrowing costs of € 138 thousand (previous year:
€ 125 thousand) were capitalized in the fiscal year reported, applying
a respective financing cost rate of 2.7 % (previous year: 2.7 %).
Scheduled depreciation is charged using the straight-line method.
In this context, depreciation periods used correspond to the
expected economic useful lives of the assets, as applicable within
the Group. The following main useful lives are applied:
¤ T 032

Buildings

25 to 40 years

Site installations

10 to 25 years

Technical equipment and machinery
Technical minimum stock
Factory and office equipment

5 to 20 years
unlimited useful life
3 to 20 years

General overhauls or maintenance measures resulting in the
replacement of components are recognized as an asset if it is
probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group
and the costs can be measured reliably.
Leasing
Leased items of property, plant and equipment that satisfy the
criteria of IAS 17 for a finance lease are recognized as fixed assets.
This is the case if all significant risks and rewards of economic
ownership lie with the respective group company. Such items of
property, plant and equipment are recognized at fair value or, if
lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, and are
depreciated using the straight-line method over the lease term or,
if it is expected that ownership will be obtained at the end of the
lease term, over the economic useful life of the respective assets.
The future lease installment payment obligations are recognized as
a liability at their present value or current market value. The lease
installment is divided into an interest component and a repayment
component, to ensure that the lease liability bears interest at a
constant rate. The non-current part of the net leasing obligation is

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

recorded under non-current financial liabilities and the current part is
recorded under current financial liabilities. The interest component of
the leasing rate is recognized in the income statement, leading to a
constant interest charge over the term of the leasing agreement.
Investment property
Investment property is property that is held for the purpose
of earning rental income and/or increasing value, and not for
producing or delivering goods, performing services or carrying
out administrative tasks; or it is held to be sold by the company
in the course of its usual business activities.
Aurubis’ investment property represents a property site consisting
of land and buildimgs belonging to Aurubis Switzerland, SA. The real
estate is accounted for at its fair value.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill,
are not amortized on a scheduled basis, but are subjected to an annual
impairment test. Furthermore, an assessment is made at every balance
sheet date to determine whether there are any indications that the
asset could be impaired. In the same way, items of property, plant and
equipment are tested for impairment if there are any indications of
such impairment.
Since the metals contained in the minimum stock can be recovered and
the utilization potential of the minimum stock is not subject to wear
and tear as it is not used in the production process, an unlimited useful
life is assumed. The minimum stocks are therefore not amortized on a
scheduled basis but are instead tested for impairment in conjunction
with the respective production facilities if there are any indications of
such impairment.
Assets that are amortized on a scheduled basis are tested for
impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount might not be recoverable. Impairment losses are
recorded in the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair
value of the asset less costs to sell and its value in use. For impairment

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

125
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

tests, assets are combined at the lowest level for which cash flows can
be separately identified (so-called cash-generating units). With the
exception of goodwill, non-monetary assets on which impairment
losses were recognized in the past are reviewed as at each balance
sheet date to ascertain whether the impairment losses possibly need
to be reversed.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at acquisition or production cost.
Production cost includes all direct costs as well as a systematically
allocated share of the production-related overheads.
The acquisition costs of copper concentrates and raw materials for
recycling are determined by deducting the treatment and refining
charges negotiated with the supplier from the purchase value of the
metal. Treatment and refining charges are fees that are charged for
processing ore concentrates and raw materials for recycling into
copper and precious metals.
In the smelters, work in process is measured by initially measuring
the metal content. The equivalent cost of the processing that is still
required for production of the fine metal is deducted from this figure.
In this manner, the costs incurred during the production process are
successively recognized as a component of the total production cost.
This procedure applies to the production of copper and precious
metals.
In the case of copper products, both the metal components and
the costs incurred for further processing the copper into special
formats – such as continuous cast rod, shapes and rolled products –
are taken into consideration for the measurement of finished goods
by applying a calculated surcharge.
Inventories are measured using the average cost method in
accordance with IAS 2. This is recognized as at the reporting date at
the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is
determined on the basis of quoted commodity exchange or market
prices as at the balance sheet date.

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Assets held for sale
A non-current asset is classified as held for sale if the corresponding
carrying amount is mainly realizable through a sales transaction and a
sale is highly likely. Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of
the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. If the criteria for
classifying an asset as held for sale no longer apply, it is returned to
fixed assets at the lower value of its amortized cost and the
recoverable amount.
In the previous year, the statement of financial position included ­
non-current assets held for sale amounting to € 5,955 thousand.
Other non-financial assets
Other non-financial assets are recognized at amortized cost. Writedowns are made to the extent that the non-financial assets are at risk.
Income taxes
The tax expense of a period is made up of current and deferred
taxes. Taxes are recognized in the income statement unless they
are related to items that were recognized as a component of other
comprehensive income. In this case, the taxes are also recognized
as a component of other comprehensive income.
The Aurubis Group companies are subject to taxation in many
countries around the world. The actual tax expense is calculated
by applying the tax regulations of the individual countries that
are applicable as at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxes result from temporary differences between the
tax-­related carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and those taken
into account in the IFRS financial statements as well as from tax loss
carryforwards. They are calculated using the balance sheet-oriented
liability method by applying the tax rates expected in the individual
countries at the time of realization. These rates are generally based on
legislation that has been enacted, or substantially enacted, as of the
balance sheet date and which are expected to be applicable at the
time of realization of the deferred tax receivable or the settlement of
the deferred tax liability.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

126

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Deferred tax assets deriving from temporary differences, tax loss
carryforwards and tax credits are recognized by the respective
company entities to the extent that deferred tax liabilities exist. If
deferred tax assets exceed deferred tax liabilities, they are recognized
to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will be
available in the future to ensure the utilization of these tax assets.
The recoverability of the recognized deferred taxes is reviewed on an
individual basis each year.
Deferred tax liabilities that arise due to temporary differences in
connection with investments in subsidiaries and associated
companies are recognized unless the point in time for the reversal
of the temporary differences can be determined by the Group
and it is likely that the temporary differences will not reverse in the
foreseeable future due to this determining influence.
Changes in deferred taxes in the balance sheet generally lead to
deferred tax expense or income. If circumstances that entail a change
in deferred taxes are recognized directly in equity or in other
comprehensive income, the change in deferred taxes is also taken
into account directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if they relate
to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and they can
be set off against each other.

Provisions
Provisions for pension and similar obligations are determined in
accordance with the projected unit credit method prescribed by IAS 19,
based on actuarial reports. In this connection, the demographic
assumptions applied, as well as expected salary and pension trends and
the discount rate to be used, are determined on the basis of current
estimates as of the balance sheet date. Accordingly, actuarial gains and
losses can result from deviations between the actual parameters as at
the balance sheet date and the assumptions used for the calculation.
These actuarial results – as well as revenues from plan assets that are
not included in net interest – are recognized immediately and
completely as they arise and are disclosed as generated Group earnings
in equity. Past service cost is recognized immediately as an expense.
To determine the net obligation deriving from defined benefit plans,
the fair value of the plan assets is deducted from the present value of
the pension obligations.
Other provisions are set up for all other uncertain obligations and
risks of the Aurubis Group provided that a related obligation to third
parties results from a past event, the settlement of which is expected
to result in an outflow of cash resources, and the amount of which
can be reliably estimated. If the effect of the time value of money is
material, non-current provisions are recognized at their present value.
Other non-financial liabilities
Other non-financial liabilities are recognized at amortized cost.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

127
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Changes in accounting and measurement methods
due to new standards and interpretations
The following standards which affected the Group were applied for
the first time in fiscal year 2015/16.
Standards and interpretations applied for the first time

Standards/interpretations

¤ T 033

Compulsory
application
in the EU

Adoption by
EU Commission
12/17/2014

Impact
no impacts

IAS 19

Amendments: Defined Benefit Plans:
Employee Contributions

2/1/2015

Various

Improvements to IFRS (2010–12)

2/1/2015

12/17/2014

no impacts

Various

Improvements to IFRS (2011–13)

1/1/2015

12/18/2014

no impacts

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

128

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The following standards are to be applied to all fiscal years beginning
after October 1, 2015. They were not adopted early in the consolidated
financial statements.
Standards and interpretations not adopted early

Standards/interpretations

¤ T 034

Compulsory
application
in the EU

Adoption by
EU Commission

Impact

IFRS 9

Financial Instruments –
Classification and Measurement

1/1/2018

11/25/2016

Includes rules for classifying and measuring financial
­instruments depending on the business model as well as the
cash flows of the financial instrument. Establishes the accounting requirements relating to impairments of financial assets, in
that not only incurred losses (the previous so-called incurred
loss model) but also expected losses (the so-called expected
loss model) are to be recorded. Defines hedge accounting
requirements. The effects of IFRS 9 are currently being
subjected to an impact analysis by the management. We do
not expect any ­significant effects based on the status of the
current investigations.

IFRS 15

Revenue from Contracts with
Customers

1/1/2018

9/22/2016

Description of when and in what amount revenues should be
recorded as well as an explanation of required disclosures in the
notes to the financial statements. Determination of revenues
based on a five-stage model that must be applied to all contracts with customers. The impacts of IFRS 15 are currently
being subjected to an impact analysis by the management. As
Aurubis mainly generates revenues from the sale of metals and
copper products, we don’t expect any significant effects on the
basis of our current understanding.

Various

Improvements to IFRS (2012 – 2014)

1/1/2016

12/15/2015

no impacts

IAS 16
IAS 38

Amendments: Clarification of
­Acceptable Methods of Depreciation
and Amortization

1/1/2016

12/2/2015

no impacts

IFRS 10
IAS 28

Amendments: Sales or contributions
of assets between an investor and its
associate/joint venture

open

open

being investigated by Management

IAS 1

Amendments: Disclosure Initiative

1/1/2016

12/18/2015

Clarifications on the materiality of the presentation and
disclosure of information in IFRS financial statements. S­ tandards
on the presentation of subtotals, the structure of the notes to
the financial statements and disclosures relating to accounting
methods.

IFRS 16

Leases

1/1/2019

open

This standard regulates the accounting treatment of leases.
IFRS 16 replaces the ­previously applicable IAS 17 as well as
three leasing-related interpretations. The application of IFRS 16
is compulsory for all companies using IFRS and is generally
valid for all leases. As Aurubis is only required to apply IFRS 16
in f­ iscal year 2019/20, it is not currently possible to provide
information about possible future impacts.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

129
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Main estimates and assumptions
Accounting and measurement in the consolidated financial statements
are influenced by a large number of estimates and assumptions, which
are based on past experience as well as additional factors, including
expectations about future events. All estimates and assessments are
subject to continuous review and re-evaluation. The use of estimates
and assumptions is especially necessary in the following areas:

The selection and application of suitable parameters and assumptions
require an assessment by management. Extrapolation and
interpolation procedures have to be applied in particular when
data are derived from uncommon market transactions.

Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in line with the
accounting policies. In this context, the recoverable amount is
calculated on the basis of the value in use (Note 15). The calculation
of the value in use in particular requires estimates of the future cash
flow on the basis of calculations made for planning purposes. The
impairment test of the Aurubis Hamburg Copper Products cashgenerating unit (CGU) resulted in no impairment of goodwill either in
the current or past fiscal year. A 10 % reduction in the predicted cash
flow or an increase of 0.5 percentage points in the WACC after taxes –
from 5.7 % to 6.2 % – would also not result in the requirement to
recognize any impairment losses.

Accounting for inventories
Various estimates have to be made in connection with the
accounting treatment of inventories. For example, individual
estimation procedures are applied when quantifying inventories
as well as in the determination of the metal yield content.

Fair values in conjunction with business combinations
Acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognized
with their fair values when accounting for business combinations.
Discounted cash flow (DCF)-based procedures, whose results depend
on assumed future cash flows and other assumptions, are often used
in this context. The measurement of contingent liabilities depends
significantly on the assumptions with respect to the future resource
outflows and the probability of their occurrence.
Fair values of derivatives and other financial instruments
The fair values of financial instruments for which there are no quoted
prices in an active market are determined on the basis of financial
calculation procedures and are influenced by assumptions specific to
the instrument. Estimates have a particularly significant influence
when the fair value needs to be determined for financial instruments
for which at least one significant parameter is not based on
observable market data (Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy).

Detailed information can be found in the section entitled
“Additional disclosures on financial instruments” on page 170.

Pension provisions and other provisions
The employees’ company pension scheme in the Aurubis Group
includes both defined benefit and defined contribution commitments.
Obligations deriving from defined benefit pension plans are measured
in accordance with actuarial procedures. These procedures are based
on several actuarial assumptions, such as, for example, the assumed
interest rate, expected remuneration and pension developments,
employee fluctuations and life expectancy. For the purposes of
determining the assumed interest rate, high-quality corporate bonds
with commensurate terms and currencies are used as a source of
reference. Deviations of the actual development from the assumptions
at the beginning of the reporting period lead to remeasurement of
the net liability.
When recognizing other provisions, assumptions are made with
regard to the probability of the occurrence and the amount and
timing of the outflow of resources, which by their nature are subject
to uncertainty.
Other significant estimates relate to the determination of the useful
lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, the
collectability of receivables and the measurement of inventory risks
within inventories.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

130

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the income statement

4. Other operating income

1. Revenues

¤ T 035

in € thousand

¤ T 037

2015/16

2014/15

22,910

23,446

Income from commissions and
refunded freight payments

7,391

9,890

3,944,808

Damage claims and indemnities

9,134

2,325

2,375,531

2,391,651

Income from the reversal of provisions

Copper cathodes

1,689,657

2,275,680

Other income

Strip, profiles and shapes

By product groups
in € thousand

Cost reimbursements
2015/16

2014/15

Continuous cast wire rod

3,318,489

Precious metals

1,121,388

1,272,393

Continuous cast products

653,388

720,309

Chemicals and other products

316,253

390,361

9,474,706

10,995,202

502

2,621

17,864

21,467

57,801

59,749

5. Cost of materials

¤ T 038

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

2015/16

2014/15

Raw materials, supplies and
merchandise

8,352,990

9,764,655

Cost of purchased services

282,287

302,741

8,635,277

10,067,396

in € thousand

A further breakdown of Aurubis Group revenues by Group segments
is provided in the context of segment reporting.
2. Changes in inventories of finished goods and
work in process

¤ T 036

in € thousand

2015/16

2014/15

Finished goods

(86,800)

76,178

Work in process

184,346

(60,897)

97,546

15,281

The changes in inventories in the year reported were mainly due to
higher inventory volumes in the intermediate product sector.
3. Own work capitalized
Own work capitalized of € 8,752 thousand (previous year: € 6,383
thousand) primarily includes production costs and purchased
materials.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

The cost of materials ratio, represented by the ratio of the cost of
materials to revenues and changes in inventories, was 90.2 % (previous
year: 91.4 %).
6. Personnel expenses and human resources
in € thousand

Wages and salaries
Social security, pension and other
benefit expenses

¤ T 039

2015/16

2014/15

349,592

334,184

98,992

97,111

448,584

431,295

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

131
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

The pension expenses primarily comprise allocations to the provisions
for pensions.

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

8. Other operating expenses
in € thousand

The average number of employees in the Group during the year was
as follows:
¤ T 040

2015/16

2014/15

Blue collar

4,017

4,013

White collar

2,083

2,052

255

252

6,355

6,317

Trainees and apprentices

7. Depreciation and amortization
Depreciation and amortization for the Group on intangible assets and
property, plant and equipment totaled € 134,803 thousand (previous
year: € 136,406 thousand). This comprises depreciation of € 133,051
thousand (previous year: € 134,897 thousand) on property, plant and
equipment and amortization of € 1,752 thousand (previous year:
€ 1,509 thousand) on intangible assets.
No impairment losses were recognized on intangible assets during
the current or previous fiscal year.
Property, plant and equipment of € 2,648 thousand was written down
in value in the previous year in connection with an event-triggered
impairment test.
A breakdown of depreciation and amortization on intangible assets
and property, plant and equipment is provided in the details of
changes in the Group’s fixed assets (see Notes 15 and 16).

Selling expenses
Administrative expenses
Other taxes
Sundry operating expenses

¤ T 041

2015/16

2014/15

100,476

104,930

83,544

77,019

2,703

3,008

56,599

57,280

243,322

242,237

The selling expenses mainly comprise freight costs.
9. Result from investments measured using the equity method
The result from investments measured using the equity method in
the amount of € 6,351 thousand (previous year: € 1,403 thousand)
comprises the 50 % holding in Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH &
Co. KG, Stolberg.
10. Interest
in € thousand

Interest income
Interest expense

¤ T 042

2015/16

2014/15

2,868

3,591

(27,373)

(30,940)

(24,505)

(27,349)

The interest income mainly derives from interest-bearing customer
receivables.
The interest expense primarily results from Aurubis AG’s borrowings.
Amongst other items, the interest expense includes the net interest
from defined benefit plans amounting to € 5,470 thousand (previous
year: € 5,621 thousand).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

132

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

11. Other financial result
in € thousand

Other financial income
Other financial expense

¤ T 043

2015/16

2014/15

257

225

(107)

(4,116)

150

(3,891)

Other financial items during the fiscal year mainly derive from income
from securities. Other financial items during the previous fiscal year
mainly derived from impairment losses recognized against securities
classified as fixed assets (see Note 18).
12. Income taxes
Income taxes comprise income taxes paid or owed and deferred
taxes. Income tax expense including deferred taxes is made up as
follows:
¤ T 044
in € thousand

2015/16

2014/15

Current taxes

44,802

85,923

Deferred taxes

(9,506)

(50,047)

35,296

35,876

The tax expense includes a current tax credit of € 1,665 thousand
relating to prior years (previous year: a current tax expense of € 616
thousand) as well as a deferred tax credit of € –626 thousand (deriving
from corrections to the tax-based figures) relating to prior years
(previous year: a deferred tax expense of € 647 thousand).
The recognition of corporate income tax credits and increases
pursuant to Section 37 of the German Corporate Income Tax Act
(KStG) resulted in net income of € 49 thousand in the year reported
(previous year: € 72 thousand).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

The deferred tax credit in the amount of € 9,506 thousand results
from the change in temporary balance sheet differences as well as
from tax loss carryforwards. The difference between the tax credit in
the year reported and the tax credit in the previous year was
influenced by inventory measurement differences.
Applicable German tax legislation for fiscal year 2015/16 foresees a
statutory corporate income tax rate of 15 % (previous year: 15 %), plus
a solidarity surcharge of 5.5 % (previous year: 5.5 %). The trade tax rate
applicable for Aurubis AG amounts to 16.59 % (previous year: 16.59 %)
of the respective taxable income. Trade tax rates of between 11.09 %
and 17.33 % are applicable for the other German group companies
(previous year: between 11.09 % and 17.33 %). The foreign companies
are subject to their respective national income tax rates, which vary
between 10 % and 35.98 % (previous year: 10 % and 35.98 %).
The Group taxes include tax effects from foreign subsidiaries to a
significant degree. As a consequence, the tax rate of the German
parent company (32.41 %; previous year: 32.41 %) is not applied, but a
group-wide mixed tax rate of 23.07 % (previous year: 19.49 %) instead.
The change in the average group tax rate results from significant
changes in the distribution of the companies’ contributions to total
earnings as compared to the prior year. As in the prior year, the main
contributions to earnings come from Aurubis AG and Aurubis Bulgaria
AD in roughly equal shares.
The disclosed income tax expense of € 35,296 thousand in fiscal year
2015/16 (previous year: € 35,876 thousand) was € 1,349 thousand
higher (previous year: € 2,851 thousand lower) than the expected
income tax expense of € 36,645 thousand (previous year: € 33,025
thousand). The difference between the expected and the disclosed
income tax expense is due to the reasons outlined in the following
reconciliation:

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

133
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Reconciliation
in € thousand

Earnings before taxes
Theoretical tax charge at 23.07 % (previous year: 19.49 %)

¤ T 045

2015/16

2014/15

158,815

169,444

36,645

33,025

Changes in the theoretical tax charge due to:
– changes in tax rate
– non-recognition and correction of deferred taxes

97

11

2,804

2,944

(2,291)

1,263

– non-deductible expenses

2,751

5,352

– non-taxable income

(240)

(317)

(3,963)

(6,274)

– outside basis differences

(296)

(76)

– effects deriving from consolidation of items using the equity method

(233)

(59)

22

7

35,296

35,876

– taxes for previous years

– notional interest deduction (Belgium)

– other
Income taxes

The effects totaling € 2,969 thousand deriving from the nonrecognition of loss carryforwards mainly result from Aurubis
Netherlands BV and Aurubis Switzerland SA. The remaining amount
includes corrections from loss carryforwards not recognized in the
previous year as well as adjustments to tax loss carryforwards and
declining loss carryforwards in the current year.
The “notional interest deduction” is a special feature to be observed
under Belgian tax law, which results in a lower assessment basis for
the current taxes of Aurubis Belgium in the reporting period of
€ 11,660 thousand (previous year: € 18,459 thousand).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

134

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The recognized deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities result
from the following recognition and measurement differences in
individual items in the statement of financial position, from tax loss
carryforwards and from outside basis differences (OBD):
¤ T 046

9/30/2016

in € thousand

Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment

Deferred tax
assets

9/30/2015

Deferred tax
liabilities

Deferred tax
assets

3,372

210

3,717

204

631

111,013

1,062

114,875

Deferred tax
l­iabilities

2

345

2

0

149

2,471

31

2,429

14,022

160,131

27,596

178,156

2,261

22,079

779

42,422

86,815

2,780

55,698

4,152

9,171

489

8,288

400

Liabilities

29,919

1,244

71,030

14,014

Tax loss carryforwards

14,646

0

14,494

0

0

655

0

951

(150,570)

(150,570)

(174,617)

(174,617)

10,418

150,847

8,080

182,986

Financial fixed assets
Financial fixed assets accounted for using the equity method
Inventories
Receivables and other assets
Pension provisions
Other provisions

Outside basis differences
Offsetting
Per consolidated statement of financial position

Altogether, € 16,283 thousand of the deferred tax assets (previous
year: € 28,374 thousand) and € 182,210 thousand of the deferred tax
liabilities (previous year: € 220,578 thousand) will be realized within
the next 12 months. Deferred tax assets of € 144,705 thousand
(previous year: € 154,323 thousand) and deferred tax liabilities of
€ 119,207 thousand (previous year: € 137,025 thousand) will be
realized after more than 12 months. These figures represent the
amounts prior to offsetting.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

135
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

The following table shows the deferred and current taxes that directly
decreased or increased the other comprehensive income (OCI) and
accordingly equity:
¤ T 047

9/30/2016
in € thousand

9/30/2015

Balance

Change

Balance

Change

Deferred taxes
1,651

(5,924)

7,575

1,683

Pension provisions

38,765

30,563

8,202

(5,556)

Total

40,416

24,639

15,777

(3,873)

Current taxes

(1,895)

(862)

(1,033)

78

(593)

293

(886)

(254)

Derivatives

Currency differences

Furthermore, there were changes affecting net income, amounting
to € 39 thousand (previous year: € 693 thousand) in the individual
deferred tax positions of the foreign subsidiaries due to exchange
rates.
Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent to which the
respective benefits will probably be realized. Based on the forecast
profit expectations of the subsidiaries, it is probable that the tax
loss carryforwards will be utilized in conformity with IAS 12.34.

Total tax loss carryforwards amounted to € 165,931 thousand (previous
year: € 156,839 thousand). Deferred tax assets were recognized in
respect of income tax losses of € 58,309 thousand (previous year:
€ 56,836 thousand), although some of the companies involved have a
history of losses. In such cases, corresponding deferred tax liabilities
existed, or these companies had positive future earnings forecasts.
No deferred tax assets were recognized in respect of trade tax loss
carryforwards of € 107,621 thousand (previous year: € 100,003
thousand), as the possibility of utilizing them is believed to be unlikely
from a current perspective. Of the tax loss carryforwards deemed not
to be utilizable, an amount of € 31,806 thousand (previous year:
€ 33,363 thousand) can be carried forward indefinitely, an amount of
€ 22,771 thousand (previous year: € 26,395 thousand) can be utilized
within the next seven years and an amount of € 53,044 thousand
(previous year: € 40,246 thousand) can be utilized within the next
nine years.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

136

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Deferred tax liabilities of € 655 thousand (previous year: € 951
thousand) were set up in respect of the differences between the
proportional equity of subsidiaries recognized in the con­solidated
statement of financial position and the investment carrying amounts
for these subsidiaries shown in the tax-based records of the respective
parent company (so-called outside basis differences) as at the balance
sheet date. No deferred tax liabilities were set up for outside basis
differences deriving from undistributed earnings of subsidiaries,
amounting to € 11,745 thousand (previous year: € 14,144 thousand),
since the reversal of these differences is unlikely in the foreseeable
future.
13. Income attributable to non-controlling interests
Of the reported consolidated net income for 2015/16 of € 123,519
thousand (previous year: € 133,568 thousand), a share of income of
€ 1,667 thousand (previous year: € 1,133 thousand) is attributable to
shareholders other than the shareholders of Aurubis AG, Hamburg.
This relates to the non-controlling interests in Deutsche Giessdraht
GmbH, Emmerich, and Aurubis Bulgaria AD, Pirdop.

14. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the consolidated
net earnings excluding the non-controlling interests by the weighted
average number of shares outstanding during the fiscal year.
¤ T 048

2015/16

2014/15

121,852

132,435

44,957

44,957

Basic earnings per share in €

2.71

2.95

Diluted earnings per share in €

2.71

2.95

Consolidated net income attributable
to Aurubis AG shareholders
(in € thousand)
Weighted average number of shares
(in thousand units)

Diluted earnings per share are determined by augmenting the
weighted average of the shares outstanding during the fiscal year to
include the maximum number of shares that could have been issued
if all conversion rights on convertible bonds had been exercised.
Where applicable, the consolidated net income is increased at the
same time by the interest expense incurred on convertible bonds less
the corresponding taxes.
Since conversion rights on convertible bonds existed neither in the
reporting year nor in the prior year, the diluted earnings per share
for the Aurubis Group correspond to the basic earnings per share.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

137
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Notes to the statement of financial position
15. Intangible assets
The development of the costs of acquisition or generation and the
accumulated amortization and impairment-related write-downs of the
intangible assets are as follows:
Costs of acquisition or generation
in € thousand

¤ T 049

10/1/2015

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2016

103,849

1,068

(134)

1,019

105,802

43,170

0

0

0

43,170

1,086

1,526

1

(1,019)

1,594

148,105

2,594

(133)

0

150,566

Intangible assets
Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses
Goodwill
Payments on account for intangible assets

Amortization and impairment losses

¤ T 050

10/1/2015

Amorti­zation
and impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Disposals

Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses

(39,685)

(1,752)

Goodwill

(24,522)

0

0
(64,207)

in € thousand

Transfers

9/30/2016

133

0

(41,304)

0

0

(24,522)

0

0

0

0

(1,752)

133

0

(65,826)

Intangible assets

Payments on account for intangible assets

Carrying amount

¤ T 051

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses

64,498

64,164

Goodwill

18,648

18,648

1,594

1,086

84,740

83,898

in € thousand

Intangible assets

Payments on account for intangible assets

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

138

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Costs of acquisition or generation
in € thousand

¤ T 052

10/1/2014

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2015

102,418

1,274

(645)

802

103,849

43,170

0

0

0

43,170

976

912

0

(802)

1,086

146,564

2,186

(645)

0

148,105

Intangible assets
Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses
Goodwill
Payments on account for intangible assets

Amortization and impairment losses

¤ T 053

10/1/2014

Amorti­zation
and impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Disposals

Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses

(38,714)

(1,508)

537

0

(39,685)

Goodwill

(24,522)

0

0

0

(24,522)

0

0

0

0

0

(63,236)

(1,508)

537

0

(64,207)

in € thousand

Transfers

9/30/2015

Intangible assets

Payments on account for intangible assets

Carrying amount

¤ T 054

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Franchises, industrial property rights and licenses

64,164

63,704

Goodwill

18,648

18,648

1,086

976

83,898

83,328

in € thousand

Intangible assets

Payments on account for intangible assets

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

139
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Intangible assets comprise licenses acquired for a consideration,
primarily in connection with a contribution made to the investment
costs for a power plant, as well as goodwill on consolidation arising in
the Aurubis Group. As in the prior year, most of the goodwill (€ 17,439
thousand) was attributable to the Aurubis Hamburg Copper Products
cash-generating unit (CGU).
Aurubis carries out an impairment test on goodwill at least annually.
For the impairment test on goodwill, the goodwill acquired in
conjunction with a business combination is allocated to the CGU that
is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
If the carrying amount of the CGU to which the goodwill was allocated
exceeds its recoverable amount, a commensurate impairment loss is
recognized on the allocated goodwill.
As in the prior year, there was no requirement to recognize an
impairment loss for the Aurubis Hamburg Copper Products CGU.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell
and the value in use. Aurubis determines the recoverable amount on
the basis of the value in use. The value in use is determined by means
of discounting future cash flows after taxes with a risk-adjusted
discount rate (WACC) after taxes (discounted cash flow method).

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

The cash flow estimates cover a planning horizon of four years
before transferring to perpetuity. The cash flows were established
within the scope of a qualified planning process including use of
internal company values based on past experience and extensive
market knowledge, and they take into consideration management’s
assessment and estimates regarding the future development of the
regional market.
In addition to the weighted capital costs, the significant assumptions
used to calculate the value in use were the forecast earnings trend
and the sustainable growth rate of the terminal value at a level of 1 %.
The growth rate was derived from future expectations and did not
exceed the long-term average growth rates of the respective markets.
The WACC used for discounting purposes amounted to 5.7 % after
taxes or 8.1 % before taxes as at September 30, 2016 (previous year:
6.5 % after taxes or 9.3 % before taxes).
As in the prior year, there was no requirement to recognize
impairment losses on intangible assets with a limited useful life.
As in the prior year, no capitalized development costs were recognized
in the Group as at September 30, 2016. Research costs were
recognized in profit or loss for the respective periods (see Note 31).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

140

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16. Property, plant and equipment
The acquisition or construction costs and the accumulated
depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and equipment
are as follows:
Acquisition or construction cost

¤ T 055

in € thousand

10/1/2015

Exchange rate
differences

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2016

625,463

(180)

14,277

(6,896)

17,844

650,508

Property, plant and
equipment
Land and buildings
Technical equipment and
machinery

2,006,512

(265)

21,413

(72,391)

102,471

2,057,740

Other equipment, factory
and office e­ quipment

88,396

(47)

6,445

(4,591)

677

90,880

Leased assets

34,671

(1)

773

(765)

0

34,678

Payments on account for
assets under c­ onstruction

89,207

6

98,396

(24)

(120,992)

66,593

2,844,249

(487)

141,304

(84,667)

0

2,900,399

Depreciation and impairment losses

in € thousand

¤ T 056

10/1/2015

Exchange rate
differences

Reversals of
impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Depreciation
and impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2016

(343,898)

172

0

(18,391)

6,548

(1,605)

(357,174)

0

(104,915)

65,714

(448)

(1,174,399)

Property, plant and
­equipment
Land and buildings
Technical equipment and
machinery

(1,135,109)

359

Other equipment, factory
and office equipment

(61,836)

42

0

(7,835)

4,365

2,052

(63,212)

Leased assets

(15,892)

0

0

(1,910)

764

1

(17,037)

Payments on account for
assets under construction

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

(432)

10

0

0

0

0

(422)

(1,557,167)

583

0

(133,051)

77,391

0

(1,612,244)

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

141
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Carrying amount

¤ T 057

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Land and buildings

293,334

281,565

Technical equipment and machinery

883,341

871,403

in € thousand

Property, plant and equipment

Other equipment, factory and office equipment

27,668

26,560

Leased assets

17,641

18,779

Payments on account for assets under construction

66,171

88,775

1,288,155

1,287,082

Technical equipment and machinery includes disposals of minimum
stocks in the amount of € 6,072 thousand (net).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

142

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Acquisition or construction cost

¤ T 058

in € thousand

10/1/2014

Exchange rate
differences

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2015

620,855

1,855

7,886

(2,060)

(3,073)

625,463
2,006,512

Property, plant and
equipment
Land and buildings
Technical equipment
and machinery

1,950,927

4,997

37,658

(30,285)

43,215

Other equipment, factory
and office equipment

84,277

532

6,460

(3,865)

992

88,396

Leased assets

34,783

0

0

(112)

0

34,671

Payments on account for
assets under construction

70,671

229

70,935

(68)

(52,560)

89,207

2,761,513

7,613

122,939

(36,390)

(11,426)

2,844,249

Depreciation and impairment losses

in € thousand

¤ T 059

10/1/2014

Exchange rate
differences

Reversals of
impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Depreciation
and impairment
losses for the
fiscal year

Disposals

Transfers

9/30/2015

(329,793)

(114)

0

(21,201)

1,705

5,505

(343,898)

0

(104,211)

22,834

0

(1,135,109)

Property, plant and
­equipment
Land and buildings
Technical equipment
and machinery

(1,052,254)

(1,478)

Other equipment, factory
and office equipment

(57,633)

(276)

0

(7,553)

3,626

0

(61,836)

Leased assets

(14,071)

0

0

(1,932)

111

0

(15,892)

(446)

14

0

0

0

0

(432)

(1,454,197)

(1,854)

0

(134,897)

28,276

5,505

(1,557,167)

Payments on account for
assets under construction

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

143
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Carrying amount

¤ T 060

9/30/2015

9/30/2014

Land and buildings

281,565

291,062

Technical equipment and machinery

871,403

898,673

Other equipment, factory and office equipment

26,560

26,644

Leased assets

18,779

20,712

Payments on account for assets under construction

88,775

70,225

1,287,082

1,307,316

in € thousand

Property, plant and equipment

Depreciation and impairment losses in fiscal year 2015/16 do not
include any impairment losses. In the previous year, impairment losses
of € 2,648 thousand resulted from an impairment test at Aurubis
Switzerland, SA, in relation to a property with buildings.
Rented or leased items of property, plant and equipment totaled
€ 17,641 thousand (previous year: € 18,779 thousand). The carrying
amount of the leased facilities included carrying amounts of € 5,788
thousand (previous year: € 6,308 thousand) for ships used for
transporting copper concentrates and sulfuric acid and carrying
amounts of € 4,540 thousand (previous year: € 4,983 thousand) for
the warehouse used for storing copper concentrates in Brunsbüttel.
Some of the lease payments are adjusted annually based on the
indexed price trend for industrial products. The lease agreements are
mainly based on fixed rental arrangements. Collateral has not been
provided for them.
No property, plant and equipment was pledged as security for loans
within the Group as at September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015.
Purchase commitments for property, plant and equipment amounted
to € 41,126 thousand as at September 30, 2016 (previous year:
€ 39,807 thousand).

Minimum stocks are recognized in technical equipment and
machinery as components of the respective technical equipment and
machinery. Minimum stocks are quantities of materials that are
necessary to establish and ensure a production facility’s continuing
functionality for its intended use. A total of € 291,381 thousand was
attributable to the technical minimum stock as at September 30, 2016
(previous year: € 297,453 thousand).
17. Investment property
Aurubis’ investment property represents a property site with
buildings belonging to Aurubis Switzerland, SA. The property was
reclassified from the statement of financial position item Assets “heldfor-sale” since it is located in a high-technology park and a sale within
12 months is considered unlikely.
The property is measured at its fair value. The fair value was
determined by an external, independent and qualified real estate
assessor applying RICS Valuation Professional Standards and
amounted to € 8,515 thousand as at September 30, 2016 (previous
year: € 5,955 thousand in Assets “held-for-sale”). The property was
measured on the basis of the investment method, in which the
potential market value is derived from capitalized net income (using
comparable transactions). Due to the limited availability of market

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

144

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

data and/or data and measurement parameters that aren’t directly
observable on the market (such as market rents and rates of return),
the fair value measurement of the investment property was classified
as Level 3 in the measurement hierarchy according to IFRS 13.
The change in fair value led to a gain of € 2,530 thousand. This is
included in the income statement in other operating income.
The following table shows the development in the carrying amount
of investment property:
¤ T 061
in € thousand

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

0

0

Transfers from assets “held-for-sale”

5,956

0

Gain from the change in fair value

2,530

0

29

0

8,515

0

Status at 10/1

Exchange rate changes
Status at 9/30

In the segment reporting, this real estate is disclosed in the Copper
Products segment.
18. Financial fixed assets
in € thousand

Interests in affiliated companies
Investments
Other financial fixed assets

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

¤ T 062

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

1,418

1,418

637

744

21,359

24,410

23,414

26,572

The interests in affiliated companies and investments included in the
financial fixed assets in the amount of € 2,055 thousand (previous
year: € 2,162 thousand) were classified as “available-for-sale”. In the
fiscal year reported, all interests in affiliated companies were
measured at amortized cost since it would only be possible to
ascertain the market value reliably within the context of concrete
sales negotiations. These interests are not quoted and there is no
active market. There is no current intention to sell the interests.
An overview of the investments included in the financial assets of
Aurubis AG, Hamburg, is presented at the end of this report.
Other financial fixed assets primarily include fixed asset securities,
which mainly comprise investments in Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter.
19 . Investments accounted for using the equity method
Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg, is a joint
venture in which Aurubis holds a 50 % interest. It is operated as a joint
venture with a partner and is assigned to BU Copper Products. The
business objective of the company is the fabrication and marketing
of pre-rolled strip made of copper and copper alloys. Pursuant to
IFRS 11.24, in conjunction with IAS 28, Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk
GmbH & Co. KG is accounted for using the equity method.
The next two tables summarize the financial information of
Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG in accordance with
IFRS. Furthermore, the reconciliation of the summarized financial
information to the investment carrying amount can be derived from
the table. The financial information provided in the table represents
the total figures for the Company (i.e. 100 %).

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

145
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Summarized statement of financial position
in € thousand

Current assets

¤ T 063

2015/16

2014/15

106,106

113,693

502

61

Non-current assets

48,736

49,963

Current liabilities

37,096

47,153

of which: cash and cash equivalents

of which: current financial liabilities
(with the exception of trade accounts payable and other liabilities and provisions)
Non-current liabilities
of which: non-current financial liabilities
(with the exception of trade accounts payable and other liabilities and provisions)

16,257

30,789

28,739

31,647

19,838

24,510

Net assets

89,007

84,856

Proportional net assets (50 %)

44,504

42,428

Elimination of unrealized intra-Group profits

149

166

Effects deriving from the supplementary tax balance sheet

359

283

45,012

42,877

Carrying amount of the investment as at September 30, accounted for using the equity method

Summarized statement of comprehensive income
in € thousand

Revenues
Scheduled depreciation and amortization
Interest income
Interest expense

¤ T 064

2015/16

2014/15

315,635

304,466

5,360

5,176

487

490

2,016

2,533

2,957

284

Net income from continuing operations

12,841

2,650

Other comprehensive income/(loss)

(1,490)

(40)

Total comprehensive income

11,351

2,610

Proportional share of total comprehensive income (50 %)

5,676

1,305

Dividends received

3,600

3,950

Income tax expense

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

146

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Reconciliation of the combined financial information

¤ T 065

in € thousand

2015/16

2014/15

Net assets as at 10/1

84,856

90,146

Profit/loss of the period

12,841

2,650

Other comprehensive income/(loss)

(1,490)

(40)

Distribution

(7,200)

(7,900)

Net assets on 9/30

89,007

84,856

Share of associated company (50 %)

44,504

42,428

Elimination of unrealized intra-Group profits

149

166

Effects deriving from the supplementary tax balance sheet

359

283

45,012

42,877

Carrying amount

20. Inventories

¤ T 066

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Raw materials and supplies

654,644

684,296

Work in process

634,927

444,390

Finished goods, merchandise

409,151

491,474

1,483

6,280

1,700,205

1,626,440

in € thousand

Payments on account of inventories

As at the balance sheet date, write-downs of € 13,605 thousand were
recorded against inventories (previous year: € 116,101 thousand).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

147
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

21. Trade accounts receivable
The trade accounts receivable as at September 30, 2016 and as at
September 30, 2015 were due within one year.
The age structure of the trade accounts receivable was as follows:
¤ T 067

in € thousand

Carrying
amount

thereof: neither
impaired nor
overdue as at
the balance
sheet date

242,106

215,133

17,368

6,741

2,864

306,905

276,430

19,167

8,153

3,155

thereof: not impaired as at the balance sheet date
and due in the following time bands
less than between 30 and
30 days
180 days

more than
180 days

as at 9/30/2016
Trade accounts receivable
as at 9/30/2015
Trade accounts receivable

Movements on the allowances for trade accounts receivable that
were not covered by commercial credit insurance were as follows:
¤ T 068

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Specific allowances
Balance as at 10/1

3,505

3,267

Change in allowances during the period

(559)

238

98

265

(652)

(26)

in € thousand

Additions
Reversal
Transfers
Exchange rate impacts
Balance as at 9/30

0

0

(5)

(1)

2,946

3,505

All expenses and income deriving from allowances and write-offs
of trade accounts receivable were shown respectively under other
operating expenses or other operating income.
As regards the balances of trade accounts receivable that are neither
impaired nor overdue, there was no indication as at the balance sheet
date that the debtors will not fulfill their payment obligations.
Default risks on trade accounts receivable are largely covered by
commercial credit insurance.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

148

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

22. Receivables and other assets
Other receivables and other assets comprise both other financial and
other non-financial assets.
Non-current receivables and other assets were made up as follows as
at the balance sheet date:
¤ T 069

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Derivative financial instruments of the “held-for-trading” category

1,539

1,335

Derivative financial instruments held as hedging instruments in the context of hedge accounting

1,516

45

Sundry other non-current financial assets

20,025

12,847

Non-current financial assets

in € thousand

Non-current (with a residual term of more than 1 year)

23,080

14,227

Other non-current non-financial assets

2,468

1,176

Other non-current non-financial assets

2,468

1,176

Derivative financial instruments of the “held-for-trading” category
with a term of more than one year were reported as non-­current due
to their economic hedging relationship.
Current receivables and other assets were made up as follows as at
the balance sheet date:
¤ T 070
in € thousand

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

28,817

60,294

Current (with a residual term of less than 1 year)
Derivative financial instruments of the “held-for-trading” category

972

468

Receivables from related parties

14,484

11,966

Sundry other current financial assets

31,230

66,170

Other current financial assets

75,503

138,898

Derivative financial instruments held as hedging instruments in the context of hedge accounting

6,918

3,303

Sundry other current non-financial assets

44,569

46,201

Other current non-financial assets

51,487

49,504

Income tax receivables

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

149
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

The sundry other current non-financial assets mainly comprise VAT
receivables of Aurubis Bulgaria AD, Pirdop.
The disclosed receivables from related parties primarily comprise
receivables from Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG,
Stolberg, which is accounted for using the equity method, and
receivables from non-consolidated companies.
The sundry other current financial assets included a continuing
involvement arising from del credere risks for factoring transactions
and late payment and currency risks deriving from current trade
accounts receivable in the amount of € 13,881 thousand (previous year:
€ 10,673 thousand). The level of continuing involvement corresponded
to the maximum risk of loss, mainly based on the assumption that all
receivables open on the balance sheet date that were sold remain
outstanding for the entire period for which A
­ urubis can be held
responsible for the late payment risk.
A liability of € 15,322 thousand (previous year: € 12,025 thousand) was
reported in connection with the continuing involvement. All trade
accounts receivable sold to factoring companies have a term of less
than one year, so that the fair value of the continuing involvement and
the associated liability each corresponded to the carrying amount.
All of the receivables covered by two factoring contracts for which the
main opportunities and risks were transferred to the purchaser of the
receivables were completely derecognized. For one of the contracts,
the maximum loss Aurubis has to bear from credit risks is limited to a
purchase price reduction. This is retained by the buyer at the time of
sale of the receivables and is ultimately repaid in the amount of the
unused portion. The purchase price reduction for the sold and
derecognized receivables (nominal volume: € 12,908 thousand)
amounted to € 1,358 thousand as at September 30, 2016 (previous
year: € 1,116 thousand) and is included in sundry other financial assets.
A total of € 382 thousand (previous year: € 345 thousand) was
recorded as an expense deriving from the sale of the receivables.
For the other contract, for which the main opportunities and risks
were transferred to the purchaser of the receivables, a continuing
involvement of € 485 thousand and an associated liability of € 581
thousand were fully derecognized.

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

In total, outstanding receivables in the amount of € 266 million
(previous year: € 270 million) had been sold to factoring companies
as at the balance sheet date.
In the previous year, the sundry other current financial assets
particularly comprised security deposits from brokers, amounting to
€ 45.4 million, for the handling of forward metal commodity and
forward exchange transactions on behalf of Aurubis AG, Hamburg.
With the exception of interest derivatives, there was no interest rate
fluctuation risk deriving from any receivable or other asset. Further
information on the interest derivatives is provided in Note 30 Financial
instruments.
The allowances on other financial assets are reported in the following
table:
¤ T 071
in € thousand

Specific allowances
Balance as at 10/1
Changes in allowances
during the period

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

850

724

302

126

Additions

1,198

0

Reversal

(900)

0

4

126

1,152

850

Exchange rate impacts
Balance as at 9/30

In the fiscal year reported, income of € 900 thousand (previous year:
€ 0 thousand) was recorded deriving from the reversal of write-downs
on other financial assets.
As regards other financial assets that are neither impaired nor overdue,
there was no indication as of the balance sheet date that the debtors
will not fulfill their payment obligations.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

150

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of current account balances with
banks, as well as commercial paper with a term of up to one month,
cash in hand and checks. Cash at banks mainly comprises euro
balances.
24. Equity
The share capital amounted to € 115,089,210.88 and is divided into
44,956,723 no-par-value bearer shares, each with a notional interest
of € 2.56. The share capital is fully paid in.
The Executive Board is empowered, subject to the approval of the
Supervisory Board, to increase the share capital by February 23, 2021
by up to € 57,544,604.16 once or in several installments.
The share capital has been conditionally increased by up to
€ 52,313,277.44 by issuing up to 20,434,874 new no-par-value bearer
shares with a proportionate notional amount per share of € 2.56 of
the share capital (conditional capital increase). It will be used to grant
shares to the holders or creditors of bonds with warrants and/or
convertible bonds and participation rights and/or participating bonds
that can be issued by February 28, 2017.
Generated group equity comprises consolidated net income,
the revenue reserves of all group companies, the accumulated
unappropriated earnings of the subsidiaries since their initial
consolidation and the accumulated amounts resulting from
consolidation adjustments recognized in profit or loss. In addition,
the effects deriving from the remeasurement of the net liability
resulting from the defined benefit pensions plans (after taxes),
which are recorded directly in equity, are also included.

The legal reserve of € 6,391 thousand, which was not available for
distribution, was also included in this amount. The change in generated
group equity from € 1,523,444 thousand as at September 30, 2015 to
€ 1,520,781 thousand as at September 30, 2016 included the dividend
payment of € 60,692 thousand, negative effects of € 63,823 thousand
(after taxes) recognized in equity deriving from the remeasurement of
the net liability resulting from the defined benefit pensions plans and the
consolidated net income for fiscal year 2015/16 of € 121,852 thousand.
Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income amounting in
total to € 25,229 thousand (previous year: € –8,235 thousand) mainly
comprised gains and losses of € 28,050 thousand (previous year:
€ –12,189 thousand) deriving from the measurement of derivative
financial instruments at market prices in conjunction with cash flow
hedges.
An amount of € –33,561 thousand (previous year: € –43,576 thousand)
was transferred during the period from other comprehensive income
to the consolidated income statement in conjunction with cash flow
hedge accounting, which is primarily reflected in the cost of materials.
The non-controlling interests amounting to € 2,769 thousand
(previous year: € 2,778 thousand) comprised the interests of nongroup shareholders in the equity of two companies that are fully
consolidated by Aurubis AG. As at September 30, 2016, the
companies concerned were Deutsche Giessdraht GmbH, Emmerich,
and Aurubis Bulgaria AD, Pirdop. The change in non-controlling
interests includes proportional amounts of the dividend payment
amounting to € 1,088 thousand, effects of € –588 thousand from the
remeasurement of the net liability resulting from the defined benefit
pensions plans (after taxes), which are recorded directly in equity, and
€ 1,667 thousand of the consolidated net income for fiscal year
2015/16.
Changes in equity are presented in detail in the consolidated
statement of changes in equity.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

151
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Proposed appropriation of earnings
The separate financial statements of Aurubis AG, Hamburg, have
been prepared in accordance with German GAAP (HGB – German
Commercial Code).
¤ T 072
in €

Net income for the year
of Aurubis AG
Unappropriated earnings brought
forward from the prior year
Allocations to other revenue reserves
Unappropriated earnings

134,232,732

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

before interest and taxes) to capital employed as at the balance
sheet date. Capital employed comprises equity and interest-bearing
liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents.
The Aurubis Group’s operating ROCE decreased from 18.7 % in the
past fiscal year to 10.9 % in the current fiscal year due to the lower
operating result.
All external requirements under financial covenants were fulfilled
in the fiscal year reported.

54,879,288
67,100,000
122,012,020

25. Deferred tax liabilities
The breakdown of the deferred tax liabilities is presented in Note 12
Income taxes.

A proposal will be made to the Annual General Meeting that
Aurubis AG, Hamburg’s unappropriated earnings of € 122,012,020
are used to pay a dividend of € 1.25 per no-par-value share
(= € 56,195,903.75) and that € 65,816,116.25 be carried forward.

26. Pension provisions and similar obligations
Within the Aurubis Group, retirement benefits for employees are
provided on the basis of both defined benefit plans and defined
contribution plans.

A dividend of € 1.35 per share was paid in fiscal year 2015/16, totaling
€ 60,691,576.05.

The majority of defined benefit plan obligations in the Aurubis Group
relate to Germany and the US. On the one hand, these represent
individual contractual direct obligations. On the other hand, the Group
provides benefits in the form of defined benefit obligations within
collective plans. Both funded and unfunded plans exist.

Additional information on capital management
The main purpose of management control is to increase the corporate
value of the Aurubis Group, in that a positive contribution to the
enterprise as a whole is generated beyond the capital costs. The
Group’s liquidity sourcing is secured through a combination of the
Group’s cash flow, borrowings, as well as lines of credit available from
our banks. Existing credit facilities and lines of credit can compensate
for fluctuations in the cash flow development at any time. The
objective is to keep the Group’s debt structure in equilibrium in the
long term. Control and monitoring are carried out on the basis of
defined key ratios. Net debt and liquidity are controlled in the
medium and short term by means of regular cash flow forecasts.
One of the main key ratios used to determine and compare
profitability is ROCE (return on capital employed), which reflects the
efficiency with which the capital is utilized in the operating business
or for investments. ROCE is defined as the ratio of EBIT (earnings

In Germany, the Group provides eligible employees with pension
benefits as well as disability and surviving dependent benefits. These
are provided to a great extent through pension and support funds
whose assets may solely be utilized to satisfy the Aurubis Group’s
pension obligations.
Generally, the amount of the pension benefit per qualified year of
service is determined as a percentage of a pensionable salary. In
Germany, pensions are reviewed every three years and adjusted, where
necessary, in a manner corresponding to the price index development.
In Germany, the company pension plan for new employees was
converted to the form of defined contribution plans that are
processed by an external pension fund and an insurance company.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

152

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Furthermore, a subsidiary in the US grants employees pension,
health care and life insurance benefits for the period after retirement
under specific conditions related to age and duration of employment
with the company. These pension benefits are based on collective
agreements that only apply to unionized employees. These represent
lifelong pension benefits whose level depends on the duration of
employment. The amount of the benefits does not depend on the
salary. Health care benefits are provided after the employee leaves
the company until an established minimum age. While the pension
plans are mainly financed through the specific assets of a separate
pension fund, there is no separate fund for the health care and life
insurance benefits provided in the US.
Within the Group, actuarial reports were obtained for all pension
obligations. The reports take uniform group-wide accounting policies
into consideration, while nevertheless reflecting special countryspecific circumstances.

A discount rate of 3.37 % (previous year: 4.06 %) was taken as a basis
for the measurement of the pension provision of Aurubis Buffalo, Inc.,
Buffalo. Income and pension trends are not relevant for the
calculation of the pension obligations of the US subsidiary.
The net pension provision recognized in the consolidated statement
of financial position for defined benefit plans as at September 30,
2016 and September 30, 2015 is as follows:
¤ T 074
in € thousand

¤ T 073

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Discount rate

1.10

2.40

Expected salary trend

2.75

3.00

Expected pensions trend

1.60

1.80

in %

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

9/30/2015

638,439

542,981

of which funded

496,440

417,974

– Fair value of plan assets

316,439

321,209

Net carrying amount on September 30

322,000

221,772

0

0

322,000

221,772

Present value of pension obligations

of which: disclosed as assets

In addition to the mortality tables published by Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck
(“Richttafeln 2005G”), the following market discount rates, salary and
pension trends were used as a basis to calculate the pension
obligations in Germany:

9/30/2016

of which: disclosed as liabilities

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

153
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

The net liability for benefit obligations, taking into account separate
reconciliations for the present value of the defined benefit obligation
as well as the plan assets, is derived as follows:
Development of the present value of the pension obligations

¤ T 075

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Present value of unfunded benefit obligations

125,007

123,744

Present value of funded benefit obligations

417,974

431,929

Present value of the pension obligations as at 10/1

542,981

555,673

in € thousand

Effects deriving from the transfer of obligations
Current service cost
Loss from settlements
Interest cost on the pension obligations
Remeasurements
Actuarial gains/losses from demographic assumptions
Actuarial gains/losses from financial assumptions
Actuarial gains/losses from adjustments based on experience

4,982

0

11,186

11,595

82

130

13,954

14,474

103,066

(251)

(360)

3,609

106,797

(979)

(3,371)

(2,881)

Benefits paid

(21,051)

(22,176)

Payments for settlements

(16,910)

(25,422)

149

8,958

638,439

542,981

Exchange rate difference
= Present value of the pension obligations as at 9/30

The present value of the defined benefit pension obligation included
€ 58,930 thousand (previous year: € 66,539 thousand) in obligations
for a US subsidiary, € 16,874 thousand (previous year: € 16,881
thousand) of which related to health care and life insurance benefits.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

154

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The loss from settlements resulted from the transfer of obligations
from the defined benefit pension plans of the US subsidiary to an
external insurance company.
Development of the plan assets
in € thousand

Fair value of the plan assets as at 10/1

¤ T 076

2015/16

2014/15

321,209

325,034

Effects deriving from the transfer of assets

4,460

0

Interest income

8,484

8,853

Remeasurement effects

7,873

16,472

Benefits paid

(14,298)

(16,477)

Payments for settlements

(16,910)

(25,422)

5,376

5,782

245

6,967

316,439

321,209

Contributions made by employer
Exchange rate difference
Fair value of the plan assets as at 9/30

Development of the net liability
in € thousand

Net liability as of 10/1
Loss deriving from the transfer of obligations
Current service cost
Loss from settlements
Net interest result

¤ T 077

2015/16

2014/15

221,772

230,639

522

0

11,186

11,595

82

130

5,470

5,621

Remeasurement effects

95,193

(16,723)

Benefits paid

(6,753)

(5,699)

Employer contributions to the plan

(5,376)

(5,782)

(96)

1,991

322,000

221,772

Exchange rate difference
Net liability as at 9/30

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

155
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

The remeasurement effects are directly recorded in other
comprehensive income and are disclosed under generated group
equity. The net interest result is disclosed under interest expense.
In contrast, the other components of the pension expenses (current
and past service cost and the loss deriving from settlements) are
recorded in personnel expenses.

In the US, the defined benefit plan is financed by outsourced fund
assets. The investment strategy in the US aims at a distribution of
the plan assets comprising 60 % shares and 40 % fixed rate securities.
In order to avoid an uncontrollable risk concentration, investment in
other asset classes (e.g. commodities, real estate, venture capital) is
not permitted.

In Germany, the defined benefit plans are primarily administered
through processes in operation within the pension fund and the
benefit fund. In this context, the pension fund is overseen by the
German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin).

The plan assets in the Group are made up as follows:

Regulations related to the pension fund’s capital investment portfolio
are established by the “Ordinance on the Investment of Restricted
Assets of Insurance Undertakings (Investment Ordinance)”. The
Investment Ordinance regulates the permitted quantitative distribution
and mix of capital investments for the pension fund. A large portion of
the pension fund’s assets are invested in a segmented special fund. The
contributions are calculated in accordance with the current technical
business plan.
The risk capital investments (equity instruments and debt instruments
with a rating lower than investment grade) may account for a maximum
of 35 % of the carrying amount of the coverage assets. The real estate
rate is 25 % of the coverage assets’ carrying amount. Derivatives are
primarily used for hedging purposes. The risk of longevity is taken into
account by the actuary, after performing a review, by adjusting the
biometric parameters where necessary.
The benefit fund is also oriented to the Investment Ordinance with
respect to permitted capital investments. The contributions are within
the range of the tax-related possibilities.

¤ T 078

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Cash and cash equivalents

16,464

10,030

Equity instruments

50,532

56,623

Debt instruments

114,488

126,792

Real estate

in € thousand

127,247

119,160

Reinsurance

3,279

2,875

Other current net assets

4,429

5,729

316,439

321,209

Total plan assets

The plan assets include neither internal financial instruments nor real
estate used internally. The equity and debt instruments held via
security funds are allocated to their corresponding investment classes
in the overview.
Market prices are generally available for the equity instruments
as a result of their respective quotations on an active market. The
fair value of € 50,532 thousand (previous year: € 56,623 thousand)
included € 20,272 thousand (previous year: € 27,054 thousand) for
plan assets for a US subsidiary.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

156

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The debt instruments are also regularly traded on an active market.
The fair value of € 114,488 thousand (previous year: € 126,792
thousand) includes € 13,436 thousand (previous year: € 18,210
thousand) for plan assets of a US subsidiary.

The following duration terms are expected for undiscounted pension
payments in the future:
¤ T 080

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Less than 1 year

21,323

21,532

Between 1 and 5 years

90,550

93,859

More than 5 years

706,955

752,505

Total

818,828

867,896

in € thousand

Real estate is held directly and is located exclusively in Germany.
There is no active market from which market prices can be derived.
The Company is subject to various risks in connection with the
defined benefit plans. The Company is subject to the general actuarial
risks in particular, such as the risk of longevity, the risk of interest rate
changes and, to a small extent, a risk of inflation.
Sensitivity analysis
The following sensitivity analysis shows the effect of changes in
the parameters on the present value of the defined benefit obligations.
Each change in a significant actuarial assumption was analyzed
separately, i.e. if one parameter varied, the other parameters remained
constant. Possible correlation effects between the individual
assumptions were not taken into consideration:
¤ T 079

Effect on obligation
9/30/2016

9/30/2015

in € thousand

Change
in para­
meter

Increase

Decrease

Increase

Decrease

Actuarial
interest rate

± 50
basis
points

(52,939)

59,590

(40,804)

45,396

Expected
salary
development

± 50
basis
points

11,882

(12,325)

9,057

(9,513)

Expected
pension
development

± 50
basis
points

36,471

(34,278)

27,133

(25,783)

Life
expectancy

±
1 year

29,212

(30,242)

22,021

(23,125)

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

The weighted average duration of obligations from defined benefit
plans as at September 30, 2016 was 17.7 years (previous year: 16.2 years).
The expense for defined contribution pension plans amounted to
€ 23,637 thousand in the year reported (previous year: € 22,670
thousand). These include both voluntary commitments and the
employer’s contribution made by the Group to statutory pension
schemes.

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

157
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

27. Other provisions

¤ T 081

Non-current
in € thousand

Personnel provisions
Expected losses on onerous contracts
Environmental provisions
Sundry provisions

Current

Total

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

46,486

42,231

22,755

22,965

69,241

65,196

0

0

3,452

3,201

3,452

3,201

15,885

15,864

2,225

2,856

18,110

18,719

1,667

1,657

3,878

5,727

5,545

7,384

64,038

59,752

32,310

34,748

96,348

94,500

The individual classes of provisions developed as follows during the
fiscal year reported:
¤ T 082

in € thousand

Personnel provisions
Expected losses on
onerous contracts
Environmental provisions
Sundry provisions

Balance per
10/1/2015

Used

Released

Allocated

Interest effect

Exchange rate
difference

Balance per
9/30/2016

65,196

(18,386)

(98)

22,047

517

(35)

69,241

3,201

(2,950)

0

3,201

0

0

3,452

18,719

(1,349)

0

268

470

2

18,110

7,384

(4,513)

(404)

3,107

0

(29)

5,545

94,500

(27,198)

(502)

28,623

987

(62)

96,348

The personnel provisions consisted mainly of obligations to employees
relating to anniversary bonuses, temporary assistance benefits and
those deriving from early retirement agreements. Provisions for
environmental risks primarily related to clean-up measures at the
Lünen site as well as in Buffalo, USA, and Zutphen, Netherlands. The
provisions had terms of up to 24 years. The probable costs were
determined taking into account past experience in comparable cases,
existing appraisals and the clean-up methods that will probably be
used on the basis of present knowledge.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

158

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

28. Liabilities
Financial liabilities as at the balance sheet date were as follows:
¤ T 083
in € thousand

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Non-current (with a residual terms of more than 1 year)
321,225

463,681

Liabilities under finance leases

15,887

16,997

Derivative financial instruments of the “held-for-trading” category

17,122

21,626

Bank borrowings

0

950

1,666

5,040

355,900

508,294

Trade accounts payable

797,710

761,409

Bank borrowings

156,209

23,506

18,110

87,209

Liabilities to related parties

2,157

4,663

Liabilities under finance leases

1,922

1,915

Derivative financial instruments held as hedging instruments in the context of hedge accounting

5,796

25,850

83,693

69,302

1,065,597

973,854

Liabilities to related parties
Derivative financial instruments held as hedging instruments in the context of hedge accounting
Non-current financial liabilities

Current (with a residual terms of less than 1 year)

Derivative financial instruments of the “held-for-trading” category

Sundry other current financial liabilities
Current financial liabilities

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

159
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

The liabilities under finance leases include the present value of the
lease installments and the contractually guaranteed residual values at
the end of the lease term. Payments are due as follows:
¤ T 084

9/30/2016

in € thousand

Expected lease
payments
Interest portion
Redemption portion

less than
1 year

1 to 5 years

9/30/2015

more than
5 years

Total

less than
1 year

1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

Total

23,017

2,546

8,764

9,970

21,280

2,399

8,658

11,960

624

1,843

1,004

3,471

666

2,063

1,375

4,104

1,922

6,921

8,966

17,809

1,733

6,595

10,585

18,913

The finance leasing agreements include both extension and purchase
options, as well as price adjustment clauses.
The following table shows the Aurubis Group’s contractually agreed
undiscounted interest and redemption payments for non-derivative
financial liabilities and the discounted net cash flows of the derivative
financial instruments with negative fair values.
Payments in the amount of € 311.9 million (previous year: € 788.5
million) deriving from forward foreign exchange transactions with a
negative fair value were matched by receipts in the amount of € 304.5
million as at September 30, 2016 (previous year: € 752.0 million).
Derivatives with positive fair values qualify as assets and were
therefore not included.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

160

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

¤ T 085

Payments

in € thousand

Bank borrowings
Liabilities under finance leases
Trade accounts payable
Liabilities to related parties
Derivatives of the “held-for-trading” category
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting purposes
Sundry other financial liabilities
Total

Carrying
amount as at
9/30/2016

up to 1 year

from 1 to
5 years

more than
5 years

477,434

156,209

205,725

115,500

17,809

1,923

3,677

12,209

797,710

797,710

0

0

2,157

2,157

0

0

35,232

18,110

17,122

0

7,461

5,795

1,666

0

83,694

83,694

0

0

1,421,497

1,065,598

228,190

127,709

¤ T 086

Payments
Carrying
amount as at
9/30/2015

up to 1 year

from 1 to
5 years

more than
5 years

487,187

29,193

370,278

125,124

18,913

1,915

4,760

12,210

761,409

761,409

0

0

5,613

4,663

950

0

108,835

87,209

21,626

0

Derivatives designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting purposes

30,889

25,850

5,039

0

Sundry other financial liabilities

69,302

69,302

0

0

1,482,148

979,541

402,653

137,334

in € thousand

Bank borrowings
Liabilities under finance leases
Trade accounts payable
Liabilities to related parties
Derivatives of the “held-for-trading” category

Total

This presentation above does not show any plan figures but only
the financial instruments that were held as at September 30, 2016
or ­September 30, 2015 respectively and for which contractual
agreements on the payments existed. Foreign currency amounts
are translated at the closing rate.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Aurubis had no bank borrowings secured by mortgages and fixed
assets. Financial assets have not been pledged as collateral for bank
borrowings.

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

161
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Non-financial liabilities as at the balance sheet date were as follows:
¤ T 087

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Non-current non-financial liabilities

1,201

1,179

Non-current non-financial liabilities

1,201

1,179

in € thousand

Non-current (with a residual term of more than 1 year)

Current (with a residual term of less than 1 year)
Other tax liabilities

13,223

11,223

Social security obligations

13,704

15,764

Income tax liabilities

4,522

53,926

Advance payments received on orders

5,220

3,385

Other current non-financial liabilities

7,279

9,123

43,948

93,421

Current non-financial liabilities

Other tax liabilities mainly comprise VAT liabilities.
Please refer to the consolidated cash flow statement for information
about the change in liabilities from income taxes.
29. Other financial commitments
in € thousand

¤ T 088

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

41,126

39,807

164,598

179,430

Warranty obligations

1,709

1,997

Contingent liabilities under
discounted bills

1,016

1,289

208,449

222,523

Capital expenditure commitments
Obligations under long-term contracts

Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

162

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The capital expenditure commitments mainly related to property,
plant and equipment.
Obligations under long-term contracts are mainly related to the
provision of transport and handling services by various service
providers.
In addition, an agreement has been concluded with an energy utility
for the cost-based procurement of one billion kilowatt hours of
electricity per annum over a term of 30 years commencing in 2010.

The payments are based on price and performance components, as
well as a contribution to the investment costs of a power plant.
Furthermore, the Group has long-term oxygen supply contracts in
place for various sites.
Financial commitments under leases
As at September 30, 2016, lease commitments under operating leases
amounted to € 30,497 thousand (previous year: € 27,096 thousand).
These are due as follows:

¤ T 089

in € thousand

less than 1 year

1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

Total

8,174

13,170

9,153

30,497

8,321

11,501

7,274

27,096

9/30/2016
Commitments under operating leases
9/30/2015
Commitments under operating leases

Lease payments in fiscal year 2015/16 recognized as expense
amounted to € 7,658 thousand (previous year: € 7,785 thousand).
30. Financial instruments
The Aurubis Group is exposed to market risks, liquidity risks and
default risks as a result of the use of financial instruments.
Market risks
Market risks arise as a result of a possible change in risk factors that
lead to a decrease in the market value of the transactions affected by
these risk factors. The following groups of general risk factors are
relevant for the Aurubis Group: currency exchange rate risks, interest
rate risks and other price-related risks.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Currency exchange rate risks
As a result of its business operations, the Aurubis Group is exposed to
currency exchange rate fluctuations. Changes in exchange rates can
lead to losses in the value of financial instruments. Foreign currency
forward and option contracts are concluded to limit currency risks.
These mainly relate to the US dollar. For this purpose, the daily foreign
currency positions from underlying transactions are offset against
each other each day and any remaining open positions are squared by
means of foreign exchange derivatives. Aurubis works exclusively with
business partners with good credit standing on all foreign exchange
transactions.
Furthermore, foreign currency forward and option contracts were
concluded in the past fiscal year to hedge future receipts. Provided
the criteria for cash flow hedges were fulfilled, the results of these
hedge transactions were recognized in the accompanying financial
statements initially in other comprehensive income in the amount of
the effective part of the hedge transaction.

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

163
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

These results are recognized in profit or loss as soon as the underlying
hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. Fundamental
shifts in currency relationships, in particular between the euro and
the US dollar, can, however, only be hedged for a limited time.
Information on the management of exchange rate risks is provided
in the Risk Report in the Management Report.

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

In order to determine the exchange rate risk, a sensitivity analysis
was performed for the foreign currencies that pose a significant risk
for the business, in this instance, the US dollar. For the purpose of
the sensitivity analysis for the currencies, it was assumed that the
exchange rate of the euro compared with the US dollar would change
by +/–10 %, respectively.

The foreign currency risk constitutes a cash flow risk and represents
the risk position for the following period. This corresponds to the net
amount of the nominal volume of the non-derivative and derivative
financial instruments held, which are exposed to exchange rate risks.
In addition, planned revenue transactions of the following periods are
included to the extent that these are taken into account for currency
risk management purposes to show the risk position for the following
period.

If the euro had been 10 % stronger or weaker against the US dollar on
September 30, 2016 or September 30, 2015 as compared to the rate
prevailing on the balance sheet date, then – from a foreign currency
risk perspective – equity and net income for the year would have
changed to the extent shown in the following table. All relevant
recognized foreign currency items have been included in the
calculation, as well as the budgeted revenues of the following period
that were considered in the foreign currency risk exposure
assessment.

Foreign currency risk

Currency sensitivity

¤ T 090

EUR/USD

EUR/USD

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

(592,946)

(674,465)

Budgeted revenues

768,540

Forward foreign exchange contracts

290,495
(172,028)

(117,826)

in € thousand

Risk position deriving from
recognized transactions

Put option transactions
Net exposure

294,061

¤ T 091

in € thousand

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Closing rate

1.1161

1.1203

631,827

Devaluated rate (EUR against USD)

1.0045

1.0083

327,652

Effect on net income

83,845

68,859

85,393

70,203

167,188

thereof budgeted revenues
thereof non-derivative ­transactions
thereof derivative transactions
Effect on equity

IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis to be performed for each type of
risk to indicate the market risks. The use of sensitivity analyses determines the potential impacts on profit or loss and on equity as at the
balance sheet date of a change in the respective risk variable for each
type of risk. The impacts for the periods are determined by relating
the hypothetical changes in the risk variables to the amount reported
as at the balance sheet date. In doing so, it is assumed that the
amount reported as at the balance sheet date is representative for
the entire year.

Appreciated rate (EUR against USD)
Effect on net income
thereof budgeted revenues
thereof non-derivative transactions
thereof derivative transactions
Effect on equity

9,478

34,647

(11,026)

(35,991)

(32,931)

(35,601)

1.2277

1.2323

(64,491)

(54,676)

(69,867)

(57,439)

(3,645)

(26,683)

9,021

29,446

21,125

26,740

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

164

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Interest rate fluctuation risks
Interest rate fluctuation risks arise due to potential changes in market
interest rates and can result in a change in the fair value of fixedinterest financial instruments and interest payment fluctuations for
variable interest rate financial instruments. Any interest rate risks
that arise are hedged by interest rate swaps. Interest rate fluctuation
risks are of significant importance in the financial sector. Provided the
­criteria for cash flow hedges are fulfilled for the hedging of variable
interest payments, the results of these hedge transactions are initially
recognized in other comprehensive income in the amount of the
effective portion of the hedge transaction. They are recognized in
profit or loss as soon as the underlying hedged transaction is
recognized in profit or loss in the respective fiscal year.
Details of how interest rate fluctuation risks are managed are
provided in the Risk Report in the Management Report.

The table below shows the net exposure for variable interest-­bearing
risk positions.
In accordance with IFRS 7, interest rate fluctuation risks are presented
in a sensitivity analysis, which reflects the effects of a change in
market interest rates on interest income, interest expense and equity.
In the event of an increase (decrease) in all relevant interest rates by
100 basis points (50 basis points), equity and earnings for the year as
at September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015 would change as
shown by the following table. The same items have been included in
the calculation as were considered for the determination of the net
exposure presented above. Furthermore, all interest-bearing financial
instruments that will expire in the following period were included.
In each such case, their substitution applying a sensitivity-adjusted
interest rate was assumed from the date of maturity onwards.

Variable interest risk positions

¤ T 092

Total amount
in € thousand

Loans/time deposits
Other risk items
of which hedged
against the interest
rate risk
Net exposure

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

9/30/2016

up to 1 year

9/30/2015

9/30/2016

1 to 5 years

9/30/2015

9/30/2016

more than 5 years

9/30/2015

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

438,092

427,342

438,092

427,342

0

0

0

0

(303,088)

(319,106)

(232,088)

(248,106)

(58,000)

(58,000)

(13,000)

(13,000)

71,000

71,000

0

0

58,000

58,000

13,000

13,000

206,004

179,236

206,004

179,236

0

0

0

0

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

165
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Interest rate sensitivities

¤ T 093

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

+100 BP

–50 BP

Effect on earnings

2,024

(1,672)

1,792

(899)

Effect on equity

1,846

(954)

2,412

(1,255)

in € thousand

Other price risks
As a result of its business operations, the Aurubis Group is exposed
to commodity price risks. Among other measures, non-ferrous metals
futures contracts are entered into in order to mitigate these risks. The
contracts are mainly focused on the hedging of the copper price. For
this purpose, incoming and outgoing metal quantities from underlying
transactions are offset against each other each day and remaining
open positions are squared by means of metal exchange transactions.
We work exclusively with business partners with good credit standing
on all metal hedge transactions.

+100 BP

The Aurubis Group has secured its electricity consumption by
concluding a long-term agreement with an energy utility. Aurubis is
exposed to an electricity price risk from the measurement of part
of this agreement.
The nominal volumes of the derivative financial instruments covering
copper, silver, gold, as well as electricity, coal and CO₂, which result
from the gross total of the nominal amounts of the individual
purchasing and sales contracts, are as follows.
Nominal volumes of the derivatives

If price-fixed metal delivery agreements for non-ferrous metals are
accounted for as derivative financial instruments to cover the
expected raw material requirement or the expected sale of finished
products, market value changes are recognized in profit or loss.
Gains and losses from the contrary development of the fair value
of the hedged items and the hedge transactions are therefore
recognized directly in profit or loss.
Details of metal price risk management processes are provided in the
Risk Report in the Management Report.

–50 BP

in € thousand

¤ T 094

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

1,015,407

1,794,749

Silver

97,680

104,825

Gold

398,173

398,103

94,598

96,385

1,605,858

2,394,062

Copper

Electricity, coal, CO₂

In accordance with IFRS 7, commodity price risks are shown in the
form of a sensitivity analysis, which reflects the effects of a change
in the commodity prices on the net income for the period.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

166

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

In the event of a 10 % increase (decrease) in all relevant commodity
prices, equity and earnings for the year would be changed as at
September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015 as shown in the following
table. The calculation includes all derivatives for copper, silver, gold, as
well as electricity, coal and CO₂ as at the balance sheet date.
Commodity price sensitivity

¤ T 095

Copper
in € thousand

Silver

Gold

Electricity, coal, CO₂

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

26,637

43,782

5,310

8.735

27,630

26,760

4,118

3,656

(26,637)

(43,782)

(5,310)

(8,735)

(27,630)

(26,760)

(4,118)

(3,656)

Price increase
Effect on earnings
Price decrease
Effect on earnings

The effects on earnings shown in the commodity price sensitivity
table for metals are partially or completely compensated through the
­measurement of the purchase or sales contracts that are not yet fixed,
since these positions are provisionally measured at the respective price
on the reporting date.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

167
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Derivative financial instruments
The Aurubis Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge
exchange rate, interest rate and other price risks. Provided the criteria
for the application of hedge accounting are fulfilled, these are
reflected by cash flow hedges.
Financial derivatives

¤ T 096

Assets

Liabilities

9/30/2016

9/30/2016

9/30/2015

Carrying
amount

Nominal
volume

without a hedging relationship

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

as cash flow hedges

0

0

45

13,000

1,457

71,000

93

58,000

without a hedging relationship

2,646

458,959

25,209

604,582

1,675

225,412

5,988

470,248

as cash flow hedges

2,257

214,263

126

26,851

5,719

80,462

30,483

287,300

in € thousand

Carrying
amount

Nominal
­volume

Carrying
amount

9/30/2015

Nominal
volume

Carrying
amount

Nominal
­volume

Interest rate swaps

Foreign exchange forward contracts

Forward foreign exchange options
without a hedging relationship
as cash flow hedges

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

231

71,385

342

30,380

286

98,377

313

84,587

25,841

774,802

36,420

1,043,090

16,692

777,100

81,061

1,303,316

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1,869

6,171

0

0

16,865

88,427

21,787

96,385

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

Metal futures contracts
without a hedging relationship
as cash flow hedges
Other transactions
without a hedging relationship
as cash flow hedges

The nominal volume of the derivative financial instruments is the
sum of the nominal amounts of the individual purchase and sales
contracts. By contrast, the fair value is based on the measurement
of all contracts at the prices applicable on the measurement date.
It indicates the potential impact on income of the prompt settlement
of all derivatives as at the balance sheet date, without considering
the hedged transactions.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

168

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The impact on earnings of changes in the fair value of financial
derivatives that relate to a cash flow hedge is recognized in equity
through other comprehensive income in the amount of the effective
portion.
The effective portion of the changes in the value of derivative
­financial instruments, which was recognized in equity through other
comprehensive income in the period reported, amounted to € –5,510
thousand (previous year: € –55,675 thousand). The amount that was
transferred during the period from equity into the income statement
in the context of cash flow hedge accounting was € –33,561 thousand

(previous year: € –43,576 thousand) and is mainly included in the
income statement item “Cost of materials”.
The ineffective portion of the fair value change is by contrast
recognized directly in profit or loss.
As was the case in the previous year, no ineffective portions of the
change in fair value of the hedge instruments were identified that had
to be recognized during the fiscal year reported.
The following two tables show when the cash flows from cash flow
hedges will occur and when they will influence the income statement:

Cash flow hedges as at September 30, 2016
Occurrence and impact on income statement
in € thousand

¤ T 097

Carrying
amount

Nominal­
volume

less than
1 year

1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

Interest rate swaps
0

0

0

0

0

1,457

71,000

0

58,000

13,000

Assets

2,257

214,263

129,234

85,029

0

Liabilities

5,719

80,462

80,462

0

0

Assets

232

71,385

28,528

42,857

0

Liabilities

286

98,377

56,442

41,935

0

Assets
Liabilities
Forward foreign exchange contracts

Foreign currency options

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

169
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Cash flow hedges as at September 30, 2015

¤ T 098

Carrying
amount

Nominal
volume

Assets

45

13,000

Liabilities

93

58,000

Occurrence and impact on income statement
in € thousand

less than
1 year

1 to 5 years

more than
5 years

0

0

13,000

0

58,000

0

Interest rate swaps

Forward foreign exchange contracts
126

26,851

26,851

0

0

30,483

287,300

207,768

79,532

0

Assets

342

30,380

30,380

0

0

Liabilities

313

84,587

42,410

42,177

0

Assets
Liabilities
Foreign currency options

Liquidity risks
Liquidity risks represent the risk that the business cannot meet its
own obligations. The contractually agreed undiscounted interest and
redemption payments of the financial liabilities are shown in Note 28.
The adequate sourcing of the Group with cash and cash equivalents is
ensured not only by the Group’s cash flow but also by the existing
short-term and long-term credit lines with our banks. Fluctuations in
cash flow can therefore be cushioned. An autonomous executive
committee monitors the development of Aurubis’ liquidity position on
a timely and regular basis and reports to the Executive Board. Further
management measures taken regarding liquidity risks are described in
the Risk Report in the Management Report.
Default risks
Default risks exist for all classes of financial instruments, in particular
for trade accounts receivable. The concentration of the credit risk is
limited due to the wide-ranging and heterogeneous customer base.
The largest individual customer account receivable balances are
regularly controlled.

The credit risk arising from derivative financial instruments is
limited since the corresponding contracts are only concluded with
contractual parties and banks that have a good credit standing.
The customers were classified by their credit rating within the
context of the credit risk management process and each customer
was given a specific credit limit.
The carrying amounts of the financial assets in the statement of
financial position, less any write-downs, represent the maximum
potential default risk without taking into account the value of any
securities received or other risk-mitigating agreements.
Furthermore, to minimize default risks, we monitor the receivables
from our business associates on a regular basis. Apart from
instruments that are customary within the market, such as letters
of credit and guarantees, we also make particular use of commercial
credit insurance to safeguard against potential bad debts. If receivables
are sold under factoring agreements, this is done without recourse.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

170

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Additional disclosures for financial instruments
2015/16
Measurement in the statement of
financial ­position under IAS 39

Carrying amounts, measurement and fair values analyzed by
­measurement categories
in € thousand

Measurement
­category under
IAS 39

Carrying
amount
9/30/2016

Amortized
cost

Fair value
­recognized in
equity

Fair value
­recognized in
profit or loss

Assets
Interests in affiliated companies

AfS

1,418

1,418

0

0

Investments

AfS

637

637

0

0

Fixed asset securities

AfS

21,311

0

21,311

0

Other financial fixed assets
Other loans
Trade accounts receivable

LaR

48

48

0

0

LaR

242,106

242,106

0

0

Other receivables and financial assets
LaR

14,575

14,575

0

0

LaR

51,147

51,147

0

0

Derivatives without a hedging relationship

FAHfT

30,356

0

0

30,356

Derivatives with a hedging relationship (hedge accounting)

n/a

2,488

0

2,488

0

LaR

471,874

471,874

0

0

Bank borrowings

FLAC

477,434

477,434

0

0

Liabilities from finance leases

n/a

17,809

0

0

0

Trade accounts payable

FLAC

797,710

797,710

0

0

Payables to related parties

FLAC

2.157

2,157

0

0

Other non-derivative financial liabilities

FLAC

83,693

83,693

0

0

Derivatives without a hedging relationship

FLHfT

35,232

0

0

35,232

Derivatives with a hedging relationship (hedge accounting)

n/a

7,462

0

7,462

0

779,750

779,750

0

0

23,366

2,055

21,311

0
30,356

Receivables from related parties
Other financial assets
Derivative financial assets

Cash and cash equivalents
Equity and liabilities

Derivative financial liabilities

thereof aggregated by measurement categories in accordance with IAS 39
Loans and receivables (LaR)
Available-for-sale (AfS)
Financial assets held for trading (FAHfT)
Financial liabilities at amortized cost (FLAC)
Financial liabilities held for trading (FLHfT)

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

30,356

0

0

1,360,994

1,360,994

0

0

35,232

0

0

35,232

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

171
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

¤ T 099

2014/15
Measurement in the statement of
financial position under IAS 39
Measurement
in the statement­
of financial
­position under
IAS 17

Fair value
9/30/2016

Carrying amount
9/30/2015

Amortized cost

0

n/a

1,418

1,418

0

0

n/a

744

744

0

0

21,311

24,318

0

24,318

Fair value
­recognized in
equity

Measurement in
the statement of
financial position
under IAS 17

Fair value
9/30/2015

0

0

n/a

0

0

n/a

0

0

24,318

Fair value
­recognized in
profit or loss

0

48

92

92

0

0

0

92

0

242,106

306,905

306,905

0

0

0

306,905

0

14,575

12,057

12,057

0

0

0

12,057

0

51,147

78,926

78,926

0

0

0

78,926
61,629

0

30,356

61,629

0

0

61,629

0

0

2,488

513

0

513

0

0

513

0

471,874

452,971

452,971

0

0

0

452,971

501,927

0

493,376

487,187

487,187

0

0

0

17,809

17,809

18,912

0

0

0

18,912

18,912

0

797,710

761,409

761,409

0

0

0

761,409

0

2,157

5,613

5,613

0

0

0

5,613

0

83,693

69,301

69,301

0

0

0

69,301

0

35,232

108,835

0

0

108,835

0

108,835

0

7,462

30,889

0

30,889

0

0

30,889

0

779,750

850,951

850,951

0

0

0

850,951

0

21,311

26,480

2,162

24,318

0

0

24,318

0

30,356

61,629

0

0

61,629

0

61,629

0

1,376,936

1,323,510

1,323,510

0

0

0

1,338,250

0

35,232

108,835

0

0

108,835

0

108,835

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

172

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The market value of financial instruments to be recognized at fair
value is as a general rule determined on the basis of quotations on the
metal or other relevant exchanges. If no such quotations are available,
measurement is carried out applying a process that is customary for
the market (measurement methods), based on instrument-specific
market parameters and interest rates drawn from recognized sources.
If observable input parameters are not available or only partially
available, the fair value is calculated on the basis of appropriate
measurement methods. In the Aurubis Group, this applies in particular
to the extrapolation of market data for electricity and coal, with due
regard to market information about price determination and liquidity
considerations. If insufficient market information is available,
management’s best estimate for a certain input parameter is used to
determine the value. Thus, if observable input parameters are not
available or only partially available on the market, the measurement
process is significantly influenced by the use of estimates and
assumptions.
Due to the predominantly short-term nature of cash and cash
equivalents, trade accounts receivable and payable, other receivables
of the category “loans and receivables”, payables to related parties
and other non-derivative financial liabilities, an assumption is made
that the fair values correspond to the carrying amounts.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

An assumption has been made for investments in non-corporate
entities and non-quoted corporate entities that the carrying amount
corresponds to the market value. It would only be possible to reliably
determine the market value in conjunction with specific sales
negotiations.
Pursuant to IFRS 13, the following tables show the measurement
methods used to determine the fair value for Level 1, Level 2 and
Level 3 as well as the main non-observable parameters that were
used for measurement.
In this connection, the individual levels were defined in accordance
with IFRS 13 as follows:
»» L evel 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities
»» Level 2: procedures under which all input parameters with a
significant effect on the fair value are observable either directly or
indirectly in the market
»» Level 3: procedures that use input parameters which have a
significant influence on the fair value and are not based on
observable market data
Financial instruments from Level 1 measured at fair value
Type

Measurement method

Securities classified as fixed assets

Exchange prices

¤ T 100

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

173
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Financial instruments from Level 2 measured at fair value

¤ T 101

Type

Measurement method and applied input parameters

Forward foreign exchange
­contracts

Par method, taking into account actively traded forward rates and the currently valid interest
rate for discounting purposes as at the balance sheet date

Foreign currency options

Black-Scholes model. Calculation based on the exchange rates as at the balance sheet date, taking into account the
expected volatility of the respective exchange rate during the term of the option and customary market interest rates

Interest rate swaps

Discounted cash flow method. This adds together the present value of the expected future
cash flows and discounts them, utilizing a market-conform interest rate

Metal futures contracts

Discounted cash flow method, taking into account actively traded metal forward rates and
customary market interest rates for discounting purposes as at the balance sheet date

Other transactions

Discounted cash flow method. Discounting of the expected future cash flows over the remaining term
of the contracts, based on use of current market interest rates

Financial instruments from Level 2 not measured at fair value

¤ T 102

Type

Measurement method and applied input parameters

Financial liabilities

Discounted cash flow method. Discounting of expected future cash flows with currently
applicable interest rates for financial liabilities with comparable conditions and residual terms

Financial instruments from Level 3 measured at fair value

Type

Measurement method

Energy supply contract

Discounted cash flow method

¤ T 103

Significant non-observable
­measurement parameters
Extrapolation of market data for
electricity and coal

Interdependence between significant
non-­observable measurement parameters
and fair value
The fair value would be higher (lower) if:
– the price for electricity increased more
(less) than expected
– the price for coal increased less (more)
than expected

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

174

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

If the parameters used for measurement fall into different levels of the
measurement hierarchy, the fair value measurement is fully classified
as belonging to the lowest level to which an input parameter is
attributed, where this parameter significantly influences the entire fair
value.

The following overview shows the main measurement parameters
that provide the basis for those financial instruments that are
accounted for at fair value and presented in the notes to the financial
statements.

If there are any reclassifications to other levels in the measurement
hierarchy, the Aurubis Group accounts for these as at the beginning
of the relevant fiscal year.

Hierarchical classification of fair values of financial instruments
in accordance with IFRS 7 as at September 30, 2016
Aggregated by classes
in € thousand

Securities classified as fixed assets

¤ T 104

Fair value
9/30/2016

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

21,311

21,311

0

0

30,356

0

30,356

0

2,488

0

2,488

0

54,155

21,311

32,844

0

493,376

0

493,376

0

35,232

0

18,456

16,776

7,462

0

7,462

0

536,070

0

519,294

16,776

Derivative financial assets
Derivatives without a hedging relationship
Derivatives with a hedging relationship
Assets

Bank borrowings
Derivative financial liabilities
Derivatives without a hedging relationship
Derivatives with a hedging relationship
Liabilities

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

175
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Hierarchical classification of fair values of financial
instruments in accordance with IFRS 7 as at September 30, 2015
Aggregated by classes
in € thousand

Securities classified as fixed assets

¤ T 105

Fair value
9/30/2015

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

24,318

24,318

0

0

61,629

0

61,629

0

513

0

513

0

86,460

24,318

62,142

0

501,927

0

501,927

0

Derivative financial assets
Derivatives without a hedging relationship
Derivatives with a hedging relationship
Assets

Bank borrowings
Derivative financial liabilities
Derivatives without a hedging relationship
Derivatives with a hedging relationship
Liabilities

108,835

0

89,531

19,304

30,889

0

30,889

0

641,651

0

622,347

19,304

There were no reclassifications between the individual levels in fiscal
year 2015/16 or in the previous year.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

176

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The following overview shows a reconciliation of the financial
instruments measured at fair value and classified in Level 3:
Reconciliation of financial instruments
in Level 3 as at September 30, 2016

Aggregated by classes
in € thousand

Derivative liabilities without a hedging relationship

¤ T 106

Status at
10/1/2015

Profits (+)/
losses (–)
recorded in
the income
­statement

Status at
9/30/2016

Profits (+)/
losses (–) for
derivatives held
at the balance
sheet date

(19,304)

2,528

(16,776)

2,528

Reconciliation of financial instruments
in Level 3 as at September 30, 2015

Aggregated by classes
in € thousand

Derivative liabilities without a hedging relationship

Gains and losses deriving from derivative financial instruments
­classified as Level 3, which concern part of an energy supply contract,
are reflected in the income statement reporting line “Cost of
materials”.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

¤ T 107

Status at
10/1/2014

Profits (+)/
losses (–)
recorded in
the income
statement

Status at
9/30/2015

Profits (+)/
losses (–) for
derivatives held
at the balance
sheet date

(15,613)

(3,691)

(19,304)

(3,691)

The value of these financial instruments is partially based on non-­
observable input parameters, which are largely related to the price
of electricity and coal. If the Aurubis Group had taken possible
alternative measurement parameters as a basis for measuring the

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

177
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

relevant financial instruments on September 30, 2016, the recorded
fair value would have been € 7,965 thousand (previous year: € 6,407
thousand) higher in the case of an increase in the electricity price and
a decrease in the coal price by 20 % respectively at the end of the
term or € 6,337 thousand (previous year: € 4,792 thousand) lower in
the case of a decrease in the electricity price and an increase in the
coal price by 20 % respectively at the end of the term. In order to
calculate the maximum impacts which can arise from the relative
uncertainty in the determination of the fair values of financial
instruments whose measurement is based on non-observable
parameters, the Aurubis Group remeasures such financial instruments
by incorporating parameters that are at the outer limits of the range
of possible alternatives for non-­observable input data. Since it is
nevertheless unlikely that a scenario will arise in which all of the nonobservable parameters are at the outer limits of the range of possible

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

alternatives at the same time, the estimated values previously
mentioned should exceed the actual uncertainty factors when
determining the fair value as at the balance sheet date. Thus, the
disclosures shown do not represent a prediction or an indication
of any future changes in the fair value.
Offsetting options for derivative financial assets and liabilities
The financial instruments that Aurubis enters into are subject to
netting agreements with financial institutions that include a mutual
right of offset. However, these agreements do not fulfill the criteria
for offsetting in the statement of financial position, as the netting
right can only be utilized if one of the contracting parties defaults.
The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities in the
Aurubis Group that are subject to offsetting options.

Offsetting options for derivative financial assets and liabilities
in € thousand

¤ T 108

2015/16

2014/15

32,845

62,142

Financial assets
Gross amounts of financial assets in the statement of financial position

0

0

Net values of financial assets in the statement of financial position

32,845

62,142

Offsettable due to framework agreements

(9,994)

(28,112)

Total net value of financial assets

22,851

34,030

(42,694)

(139,724)

Financial instruments that qualify for offsetting in the statement of financial position

Financial liabilities
Gross amounts of financial liabilities in the statement of financial position
Financial instruments that qualify for offsetting in the statement of financial position
Net values of financial liabilities in the statement of financial position
Offsettable due to framework agreements
Total net value of financial liabilities

0

0

(42,694)

(139,724)

9,994

28,112

(32,700)

(111,612)

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

178

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Net earnings by measurement categories
in € thousand

Loans and receivables (LaR)
Available-for-sale (AfS)
Financial instruments held for trading (FAHfT and FLHfT)
Financial liabilities at amortized cost (FLAC)

The net earnings of the financial instruments held for trading mainly
include the gains/losses deriving from metal futures contracts on
the exchanges and forward foreign exchange contracts, as well as
from price-fixed metal delivery transactions treated as derivatives.
Purchase or sales contracts that are not yet fixed, which result in
a partial compensation effect since they are measured provisionally
at the respective price on the reporting date, are not included.
Dividends, but not interest, are included in the calculated earnings.
The foreign currency result of the items accounted for at amortized
cost, which are included in the net result in fiscal year 2015/16,
amounted to € 23,083 thousand (previous year: € 12,155 thousand).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

¤ T 109

2015/16

2014/15

16,033

8,566

183

(3,897)

82,195

(4,641)

5,363

3,753

103,774

3,781

In conjunction with the recognition in equity of the change in value
of “available-for-sale” financial assets, net measurement impacts of
€ 5,092 thousand (previous year: € –1,585 thousand) were recorded
in other comprehensive income in fiscal year 2015/16.
31. Research and development
Research and development costs of € 12,733 thousand were
recognized in profit or loss for the Aurubis Group for fiscal year
2015/16 (previous year: € 10,474 thousand).

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

179
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Notes to the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement reports the cash flows in the Aurubis Group
in fiscal year 2015/16 and in the prior-year comparative period. In
accordance with IAS 7, a distinction was made between the cash
inflow from operating activities, the cash outflow from investing
activities and the cash outflow or inflow from financing activities.
Commencing with earnings before taxes, adjustment was made for
all non-cash expenses and income, the financial result (consisting of
the result from investments measured using the equity method,
interest expense, interest income and other financial expenses and
income), income taxes paid out and changes in working capital to
arrive at the cash inflow from operating activities (net cash flow).

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

A free cash flow of € 93 million (previous year: € 253 million) resulted
after deducting investments in fixed assets from the net cash flow.
The cash outflow from investing activities totaled € 128 million
(previous year: € 104 million).
The cash outflow from financing activities was € 89 million compared
to a cash inflow of € 4 million in the previous fiscal year.
Overall, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of € 472 million
available as at September 30, 2016 (€ 453 million as at September 30,
2015). Cash and cash equivalents are utilized in particular for
operating business activities, investing activities and repayment of
borrowings.

The net cash flow as at September 30, 2016 amounted to € 236
million, compared to € 365 million in the previous year. The decline
in the net cash flow resulted from the lower result and higher
inventories of intermediates.
Investments in fixed assets (including financial fixed assets)
amounted to € 143 million in the reporting period (previous year:
€ 112 million). The largest individual investments were made in
connection with the shutdown in Pirdop, Bulgaria.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

180

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Segment reporting

Primary Copper segment

in € thousand

Copper Products segment

Other

2015/2016
operating

2014/2015
operating

2015/2016
operating

2014/2015
operating

2015/2016
operating

2014/2015
operating

Revenues
Total revenues

5,325,180

5,914,239

7,531,198

8,585,989

11,670

12,492

Inter-segment revenues

2,788,892

3,240,790

601,851

273,658

2,599

3,071

Revenues with third parties

2,536,288

2,673,448

6,929,347

8,312,332

9,071

9,421

EBITDA

237,827

357,207

150,658

181,348

(30,672)

(39,404)

Depreciation and amortization

(83,496)

(85,849)

(44,403)

(43,575)

(974)

(656)

EBIT

154,331

271,359

106,254

137,774

(31,645)

(40,059)

4,346

2,736

8,471

13,561

60

19

(15,925)

(17,870)

(21,416)

(25,641)

(41)

(154)

Result from investments measured
using the equity method

0

0

7,536

4,416

0

0

Other financial income

0

0

5

5

252

220

Interest income
Interest expense

Other financial expense
Earnings before taxes

(100)

0

(7)

0

0

(4,116)

142,652

256,224

100,842

130,115

(31,373)

(44,090)

16.4

33.2

9.7

12.4

103,524

70,203

40,375

41,455

0

0

2,750

2,730

3,335

3,330

270

257

Income taxes
Consolidated net income
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
(in %)
Capital expenditure on intangible
assets and property, plant and
­equipment
Average number of employees
Certain prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

181
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

¤ T 110

Total

Reconciliation/consolidation

2015/2016
operating

2014/2015
operating

9,474,706

10,995,202

357,813

499,152

(128,873)

(130,079)

228,940
12,877

2015/2016
IFRS

Group total

2014/2015
IFRS

2015/2016
IFRS

2014/2015
IFRS

0

0

9,474,706

10,995,202

(46,191)

(163,465)

311,622

335,687

(5,930)

(6,327)

(134,803)

(136,406)

369,073

(52,121)

(169,792)

176,819

199,281

16,316

(10,009)

(12,725)

2,868

3,591

(37,382)

(43,665)

10,009

12,725

(27,373)

(30,940)

7,536

4,416

(1,185)

(3,013)

6,351

1,403

257

225

0

0

257

225

(107)

(4,116)

0

0

(107)

(4,116)

212,121

342,249

(53,306)

(172,805)

158,815

169,444

(35,296)

(35,876)

123,519

133,568

143,899

111,657

0

0

143,899

111,657

6,355

6,317

0

0

6,355

6,317

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

182

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

We report on the operating segments in the same way as in the
internal reporting to the chief operating decision makers. The chief
operating decision makers are defined as the Executive Board of
Aurubis AG.
The Aurubis Group is divided into two reportable segments, which
differ as regards their production processes or their products and
which are managed separately. The “other” column discloses central
administrative income and costs that cannot be directly allocated to
one of the reportable segments.
The internal reporting is generally based on the accounting policies
in accordance with IFRS, which are applied in the consolidated
financial statements. For internal management purposes, the IFRSbased results are reconciled to the operating result. The operating
result of the Group and of the respective Business Unit is determined
by adjusting the IFRS-based results for:
»» M
 easurement impacts deriving from the use of the average cost
method in accordance with IAS 2,
»» Copper price-related measurement effects on inventories,
»» Effects deriving from purchase price allocations, primarily on
fixed assets, commencing in fiscal year 2010/11.
The presentation of the segment reporting corresponds to the
internal reporting.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

The reconciliation to the IFRS-based consolidated financial statements
is shown in the reconciliation/consolidation column. In this connection,
a total of € 524 thousand (previous year: € 452 thousand) of earnings
before taxes derived from consolidation impacts, while € –53,830
thousand (previous year. € –173,257 thousand) derives from
reconciliation to the IFRS EBT.
The Group generates most of its revenues with business associates in
countries within the European Union. The breakdown of revenues by
regions is based on the location of the customers, and is as follows:
¤ T 111

2015/16

2014/15

Germany

3,306,555

3,581,806

Other European Union c­ ountries

3,576,941

4,128,565

in € thousand

316,060

269,375

1,087,737

1,626,442

America

774,556

935,792

Other

412,857

453,222

9,474,706

10,995,202

Rest of Europe
Asia

Group total

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

183
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

The breakdown of capital expenditure and non-current assets by
regions is based on the location of the respective assets:
¤ T 112

Capital expenditure
in € thousand

Assets

2015/16

2014/15

2015/16

2014/15

Germany

59,052

59,947

812,079

819,417

Bulgaria

57,640

29,476

347,287

332,777

Belgium

12,175

9,878

168,754

174,331

Other European countries

8,456

4,729

77,329

68,029

North America

5,819

7,717

44,386

45,875

143,143

111,747

1,449,836

1,440,429

Group total

The locations in other European countries are mainly business sites
within the European Union.
Primary Copper segment
Copper production ranges from the procurement of copper-bearing and
precious metal-bearing raw materials to the production of marketable
metals. In the Primary Copper segment, copper concentrates are mainly
used as the raw material for copper production.

The products are copper cathodes that can be traded on the metal
exchanges, as well as gold and silver products that originate from
additionally processed precious metal-bearing raw materials. During
the copper production process, a variety of products, derived from
the natural by-elements in the raw materials, are produced and
sold in this segment, such as sulfuric acid and iron silicate stone.
Furthermore, the Primary Copper segment produces high-quality
selenium products.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

184

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Revenues in the Primary Copper segment consist both of revenues
generated within the Group (since all of the copper cathodes
produced are sold to the Copper Products segment) and of sales of
precious metals to external customers. In addition, sulfuric acid and
iron silicate stone are sold to external customers.
Copper Products segment
The Copper Products segment includes copper production from
­copper-bearing recycling materials and all sectors involved in the
production and marketing of wire rod, continuous cast shapes, strip
and profiles, as well as specialty products. The copper cathodes
produced in this segment and the Primary Copper segment mainly
serve as the starting products for these products. Products produced
by this segment are sold to customers worldwide.
Segment data
The revenues of the individual segments consist of inter-segment
revenues and of revenues with third parties outside the Group. The
total third party revenues of the individual segments correspond to
the consolidated revenues of the Group. The prices and conditions
for products and services exchanged between Group companies and
segments correspond to those with non-related parties.
A breakdown of the revenues by product groups is provided in the
information on revenues (Note 1).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Operating EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) represents
operating earnings before taxes, adjusted for the financial result
attributable to the segment. Based on this, operating EBITDA
(earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) is
operating EBIT adjusted for depreciation and amortization on
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment belonging
to the segment.
In total, reversals of impairment losses amounting to € 15,773
thousand were made in respect of assets (previous year: impairment
losses of € 14,612 thousand), comprising reversals of impairment
losses of € 10,849 thousand relating to the Primary Copper segment
(previous year: impairment losses of € 9,346 thousand) and reversals
of impairment losses of € 4,924 thousand relating to the Copper
Products segment (previous year: impairment losses of € 5,266
thousand). As was the case with the impairment losses in the
previous year, the reversals of impairment losses in the Primary
Copper segment related exclusively to reversals of impairment losses
(previous year: impairment losses) on current assets. In the Copper
Products segment, current assets accounted for all reversals of
impairment losses; in contrast, in the previous year impairment losses
of € 2,648 thousand had been recognized on fixed assets in
accordance with IAS 36.
The average number of employees for each segment included all the
employees of companies that were fully consolidated in the
accompanying financial statements.

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

185
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Other disclosures
Disclosures concerning relationships to related parties
In accordance with IAS 24, related parties are regarded as all
individual persons and entities that can be influenced by, or that
can themselves influence, the Company.
The employees’ representatives on the Supervisory Board received
compensation for their employment at Aurubis AG at a level that is
normal for the market.
In the Aurubis Group, various group companies purchase different
types of services from and provide different types of services to
related companies as part of their normal business activities. Such
delivery and service relationships are conducted using market prices.
In the case of services, these are charged on the basis of existing
contracts.
The following amounts related to a joint venture accounted for using
the equity method:
9/30/2016

¤ T 113

in € thousand

Income

Expenses

Receivables

Liabilities

Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG

48,667

26,228

3,526

834

9/30/2015

¤ T 114

in € thousand

Income

Expenses

Receivables

Liabilities

Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG

79,654

30,957

3,762

1,132

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

186

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

The following amounts relate to non-consolidated related companies:
9/30/2016
in € thousand

Joint ventures
Subsidiaries

¤ T 115

Income

Expenses

Receivables

49

6,824

48

0

4,296

1,564

2,587

1,233

9/30/2015
in € thousand

Joint ventures
Subsidiaries

With the exception of Salzgitter AG, no individual shareholders of
Aurubis AG exercise a significant influence on the Aurubis Group.
Salzgitter Group companies accounted for € 1,998 thousand in
expenses (previous year: € 3,959 thousand) during the fiscal year.
At the balance sheet date, there were related liabilities of € 116
thousand (previous year: € 243 thousand).

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Liabilities

¤ T 116

Income

Expenses

Receivables

Liabilities

6
3,333

152,977

0

3,240

1,667

1,986

1,195

At the balance sheet date, no letters of comfort (previous year:
€ 6,000 thousand) had been issued to related parties. The letter of
comfort that was in place as at the prior-year balance sheet date to
secure bank liabilities of C.M.R. International N.V., Antwerp, a joint
venture that is not included in the scope of the consolidation, was
revoked.

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

187
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Disclosures concerning the Executive Board and
Supervisory Board
Total compensation
The total compensation of the active Executive Board members
for fiscal year 2015/16 amounted to € 3,325,289 and included a fixed
component of € 988,000, fringe benefits of € 41,823 and a variable
component of € 1,523,960. In addition, expenditures for pension
provisions in the amount of € 771,506 were recognized in the income
statement. Special compensation of € 225,000 was granted as well.
Former members of the Executive Board and their surviving
dependents received a total of € 2,210,800, while € 24,608,243 has
been provided for their pension entitlement.
The compensation of the Supervisory Board for fiscal year 2015/16
amounted in total to € 1,467,342.
Details of the individual compensation of the members of the
Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are provided in the
compensation report.
Share ownership
Members of the Supervisory Board held 5,905 shares (previous year:
4,031 shares) and members of the Executive Board held 6,150 shares
(previous year: 2,400 shares) in Aurubis AG.

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

One member of the Supervisory Board carried out share transactions
in the period from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016:
»» Prof. Dr. Fritz Vahrenholt: purchased 1,000 no-par-value shares.
The following members of the Executive Board informed the
Company that they had acquired or sold no-par-value shares in the
Company in the period from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016:
»» M
 r. Erwin Faust: purchased 5,000 no-par-value shares.
»» Dr. Stefan Boel: purchased 2,750 no-par value shares.
»» Mr. Erwin Faust: sold 5,000 no-par-value shares.
The Executive Board and Supervisory Board hold less than 1 %
of the shares issued by the Company.
Declaration of conformity with the German Corporate
Governance Code in accordance with Section 161 German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG)
The declaration required under Section 161 German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG) has been issued by the Executive Board
and the Supervisory Board and has been made accessible to the
shareholders on the Company’s website.

Reportable securities transactions
Directors’ dealings
In accordance with Section 15a German Securities Trading Act
(WpHG, previous version) and Art. 19 Market Abuse Regulation
(EU No 596/2014), the members of the Executive Board and the
Supervisory Board must disclose the acquisition and sale of shares
in the Company. This does not apply if the total transactions per
person do not reach an amount of € 5,000 per calendar year.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

188

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notifications pursuant to Section 160 (1) No. 8
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
As at September 30, 2016, we had received the following voting rights
notifications from shareholders with respect to exceeding and falling
below the respective notification thresholds of 3 %, 5 % and 25 % in
accordance with Section 21 (1) German Securities Trading Act
(WpHG):

Stake
in %

Relevant
threshold date

Date of
publication

Norges Bank, Oslo, N
­ orway 1)

2.92

4/25/2016

4/29/2016

Norges Bank, Oslo, N
­ orway 1)

3.09

5/2/2016

5/4/2016

Norges Bank ­
(status notification) 1)

3.67

8/19/2016

9/5/2016

Shareholders

T he shares are attributable to the state of Norway, represented by its
Ministry of Finance; the transaction was conducted via the Norges Bank.
Held directly, or indirectly through subsidiaries.
3)
The shares are attributable to Salzgitter AG, Salzgitter.
1)

2)

­Shareholder structure

Shareholders

Dimensional Holdings Inc.,
Santa Monica, USA
Salzgitter Mannesmann
GmbH, Salzgitter 3)

¤ T 117

Stake
in %

Relevant
threshold date

Date of
publication

3.01

1/21/2008

2/4/2008

25.002

8/29/2011

8/29/2011

UBS AG, Zurich, Switzerland

4.99

3/4/2013

3/20/2013

Norges Bank, Oslo, N
­ orway 1)

2.99

11/2/2015

11/5/2015

Norges Bank, Oslo, N
­ orway 1)

3.10

11/20/2015

11/26/2015

Norges Bank, Oslo,
Norway 1)

2.749

12/10/2015

12/14/2015

JP Morgan Asset
Management (UK) Limited

1.96

12/11/2015

12/18/2015

BlackRock, Inc.,
Wilmington, DE, USA 2)

3.03

1/13/2016

1/21/2016

BlackRock, Inc.,
Wilmington, DE, USA 2)

2.997

1/22/2016

1/28/2016

BlackRock, Inc.,
Wilmington, DE, USA 2)

3.0003

1/25/2016

1/29/2016

BlackRock, Inc. (voluntary
company notification) 2)

3.08

1/26/2016

2/1/2016

BlackRock, Inc.,
Wilmington, DE, USA 2)

2.99

1/27/2016

2/2/2016

Norges Bank, Oslo, N
­ orway 1)

3.19

2/15/2016

2/17/2016

Norges Bank, Oslo, N
­ orway 1)

2.998

2/25/2016

2/29/2016

Norges Bank, Oslo,
Norway 1)

3.039

3/14/2016

3/17/2016

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

The voting rights notifications are available at:
www.aurubis.com/en/en/corp/about-aurubis/corporate-governance/
voting-rights-notifications.

Section 25 German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) includes a
comparable notification obligation corresponding to Section 21 (1)
German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) with respect to financial
instruments that grant their owner an unconditional right to unilateral
acquisition of shares with voting rights. Moreover, Section 25a
German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) introduced an additional
notification obligation as of February 1, 2012: this extends to
financial and other instruments that enable their owner, either
effectively or economically, to acquire shares with associated voting
rights. The notifications submitted to the Company in accordance
with Sections 25 and 25a German Securities Trading Act can be
accessed via the Company’s website or via the online platform of the
Deutsche Gesellschaft für Ad-hoc-Publizität.

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

189
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Disclosures concerning auditors’ fees
The following fees were recorded as expenses for fiscal year 2015/16,
or the prior year respectively, for services rendered by the global
PricewaterhouseCoopers network:
¤ T 118
in € thousand

Financial statement auditing services
Other assurance and valuation services
Tax advisory services
Other services
Total

2015/16

2014/15

1,017

1,036

72

34

115

194

63

51

1,267

1,315

The following fees related to services rendered by
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft:
¤ T 119
in € thousand

Financial statement auditing services
Other assurance and valuation services
Tax advisory services
Other services
Total

2015/16

2014/15

596

568

70

34

114

192

9

2

789

796

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

190

Consolidated Financial Statements

Investments
pursuant to Section 313 (2) German Commercial Code (HGB) as at
September 30, 2016

Company name and registered office
1

% of capital
held directly
and indirectly

Held directly by

Aurubis AG
Fully consolidated companies

2

Aurubis Belgium nv/sa, Brussels

100

1

3

Aurubis Holding Sweden AB, Stockholm

100

2

4

Aurubis Sweden AB, Finspång

100

3

5

Aurubis Finland Oy, Pori

100

2

6

Aurubis Holding USA LLC, Buffalo

100

2

7

Aurubis Buffalo Inc., Buffalo

100

6

8

Aurubis Netherlands BV, Zutphen

100

2

9

Aurubis Mortara S.p.A., Mortara

100

2

10

Cumerio Austria GmbH, Vienna

100

1

11

Aurubis Bulgaria AD, Pirdop

99.86

10

12

Aurubis Engineering EAD, Sofia

100

10

13

Aurubis Italia Srl, Avellino

100

1

14

Aurubis Switzerland SA, Yverdon-les-Bains

100

1

15

Aurubis Stolberg GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg

100

1

16

Aurubis U.K. Ltd., Smethwick

100

15

17

Aurubis Slovakia s.r.o., Dolny Kubin

100

15

18

CABLO Metall-Recycling & Handel GmbH, Fehrbellin

100

1

19

Peute Baustoff GmbH, Hamburg

100

1

20

RETORTE GmbH Selenium Chemicals & Metals, Röthenbach

100

1

21

E.R.N. Elektro-Recycling NORD GmbH, Hamburg

100

1

22

Aurubis Product Sales GmbH, Hamburg

100

1

23

Deutsche Giessdraht GmbH, Emmerich

60

1

50

15

Companies accounted for using the equity method
24

Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

191
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

¤ T 120

Company name and registered office

% of capital
held directly
and indirectly

Held directly by

Non-consolidated companies
25

Aurubis Stolberg Verwaltungs-GmbH, Stolberg

100

1

26

Hüttenbau-Gesellschaft Peute mbH, Hamburg

100

1

27

Aurubis Hong Kong Ltd., Hong Kong

100

2

28

Aurubis Metal Products (Shanghai) Co., Ltd, Shanghai

100

27

29

Aurubis Rus LLC, St. Petersburg

100

2

30

Aurubis Canada Metals Inc., Vancouver

100

1

31

BCPC B.V., Zutphen, Netherlands

100

1

32

Retorte do Brasil, Joinville

51

20

33

C.M.R. International N.V., Antwerp

50

1

34

Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH, Stolberg

50

15

35

JoSeCo GmbH, Kirchheim/Swabia

33

20

36

Aurubis Middle East FZE, Dubai

100

22

37

Aurubis Turkey Kimya Anonim Sirketi, Istanbul

100

11

Hamburg, December 13, 2016
The Executive Board

Jürgen Schachler
(Chairman)

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

192

Responsibility Statement

Responsibility Statement
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable
reporting principles, the Consolidated Financial Statements give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit
or loss of the Group, and the Combined Management Report includes
a fair review of the development and performance of the business and
the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal
opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of
the Group.
Hamburg, December 13, 2016
The Executive Board

Jürgen Schachler
(Chairman)

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Dr. Stefan Boel
(Member)

Consolidated Financial Statements
112	Consolidated Income Statement
1 1 3	Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
114	Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

193
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117	Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
118	Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

192
193

Responsibility Statement
Auditors’ Report

Auditors’ Report
We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by
the Aurubis AG, Hamburg, comprising the statement of financial position, the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes
in equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated
financial statements, together with the group management report,
which is combined with the management report of the Aurubis AG
for the business year from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the
combined management report in accordance with the IFRSs, as
adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German
­commercial law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB
(“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) and supplementary provisions of the articles of incorporation are the responsibility
of the parent Company’s Board of Managing Directors. Our respon­
sibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in
accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards
for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der
Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that
misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets,
financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework and in the combined management report are detected
with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and
the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations
as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related
internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures
in the consolidated financial statements and in the combined management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the
framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual

financial statements of the companies included in consolidation, the
determination of the companies to be included in consolidation, the
accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by the Company’s Board of Managing Directors, as well
as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial
statements and the combined management report. We believe that
our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.
In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated
financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and
the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to
§ 315a Abs. 1 HGB and supplementary provisions of the articles of
incorporation and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial
position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with
these provisions. The combined management report is consistent
with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides
a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the
opportunities and risks of future development.
Hamburg, December 13, 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Matthias Kirschke		
Wirtschaftsprüfer		
(German Public Auditor)

Alexander Fernis
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

194

195

FURTHER INFORMATION

196
200
200
202
203
204

Glossary
List of Graphics
List of Tables
3-year Overview
Financial Calendar
Imprint

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

196

Further Information

Glossary
Blister copper
Unrefined porous copper. During solidification, dissolved gases
form small blisters in the copper. Blister copper is also purchased
as a raw material

Compliance
Compliance means conforming to certain rules. Apart from laws,
directives and other standards, it also refers to corporate guidelines
(e.g. codes of conduct)

Cathode premium
Surcharge for high-quality cathodes (Grade A) and premium for
cathode delivery paid by the customer; reflects scarcity in structurally
undersupplied markets

Contango
The normal status of commodity futures contracts on the exchange,
in which the price for prompt deliveries is below the forward price for
future delivery (taking storage costs into account). The opposite of
backwardation

CDP
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a non-profit organization
with the objective of encouraging companies and towns to publish
their environmental data. Once a year, the CDP collects data and
information about CO2 emissions, climate risks, and reduction targets
and strategies from companies on a voluntary basis with the use of
questionnaires
Commodity
A term for materials mostly traded on the exchanges, including
non-ferrous metals such as copper, tin and lead, as well as precious
metals, but also crude oil, grain and coffee
Complex materials
Both primary and secondary raw materials are becoming more
­complex, i.e. their copper content is decreasing and their
­con­centrations of by-elements and impurities are increasing

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Continuous cast shapes
Products manufactured from endless strands produced in a
­continuous casting process. Continuous cast shapes are processed
into sheet, foil, profiles and tubes by rolling and extrusion
Continuous cast wire rod
Semi-finished product produced in a continuous process and used
for the fabrication of copper wire. Standard diameter: 8 mm. Other
dimensions can also be supplied
Copper anodes
The end product of pyrometallurgical copper production. Positive
polarized electrodes of a tankhouse cell. Copper content about 99.5 %
Copper cathodes
Quality product of the copper tankhouse (copper content 99.99 %)
and the first marketable product in copper production which can be
sold on the metal exchanges

Further Information
196 Glossary
200 List of Graphics
200 List of Tables

197
202
203
204

3-year Overview
Financial Calendar
Imprint

Copper concentrates
A product resulting from the processing (enriching) of copper ores,
the Aurubis Group’s main raw material. Since copper is found almost
exclusively in ores, in compound form and in low concentrations
­(usually below 1 % copper content), the ores are enriched in processing
facilities into concentrates (copper content of 25 to 40 %) after
extraction from the mine
Copper tankhouse
In the copper tankhouse an electrochemical process, the last refining
stage in copper recovery, takes place. Anodes and cathodes are hung
in a sulfuric acid solution (electrolyte) and connected to an electric
current. Copper and baser elements (e.g. nickel) are dissolved on the
anode in the electrolyte. Copper from the solution is deposited on the
cathode with a purity of 99.99 %. Precious metals (e.g. silver and gold)
and insoluble components settle as “anode slimes” on the bottom of
the tankhouse cell
CSR Directive
Corporate Social Responsibility Directive 2014/95/EU on the
­disclosure of non-financial and diversity information
DAX
The DAX (an abbreviation of “Deutscher Aktienindex”, or
“German Stock Index”) is the main German stock index. It reflects
the development of the 30 largest and strongest companies (related
to free float market capitalization and order book volume) that are
listed in the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange

EMAS
Eco-Management and Audit Scheme, also known as the EU eco-audit.
EMAS was developed by the European Union and is a joint system
comprising environmental management and environmental auditing
for organizations that want to improve their environmental performance. The EMAS Regulation (Eco-Audit Regulation) gives companies
a key role in responsibly handling their direct and indirect environmental impacts
GRI
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a participatory procedure for
developing regulations for the sustainability reports of large companies, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), governments and
NGOs
Iron silicate
A by-product of copper production in the refining process. Formed
using sand from iron chemically bonded to copper concentrates and
recycling raw materials. Is mainly used in the construction industry as
granules/sand or in lump form
KRS
Kayser Recycling System; a state-of-the-art recycling plant in Lünen
for the treatment of a wide range of copper-bearing secondary raw
materials

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

198

Further Information

LME
London Metal Exchange: the most important metal exchange
in the world, with the highest turnover
LTIFR
Lost time injury frequency rate
MDAX
The MDAX (derived from “mid-cap DAX”) is a German stock index
introduced on January 19, 1996. It includes 50 stocks – primarily from
classic industries – that follow the DAX stocks in the ranking of free
float market capitalization and stock market turnover. The MDAX
thus reflects the price trend of shares in medium-sized companies
located or primarily active in Germany (mid-caps)
Metal gain
Metal yield that a smelter can extract beyond the paid metal content
in the raw input materials
PRIMA
Performance, Responsibility, Integrity, Mutability, Appreciation.
The first letters of these values spell the German word “prima”,
­meaning “great”
Primary copper production
Production of copper from copper concentrates
Product surcharge
Fee for processing copper cathodes into copper products

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Recycling materials
Materials in a closed loop economy. They arise as residues from
­production processes or during the preparation of end-of-life
­products and rejects, and are ideal for recycling
Secondary copper production
Production of copper from recycling materials
Settlement price
Official cash selling rate on the LME. Price basis in annual sales
­agreements
Spot market
Daily business; market for prompt deliveries
Supply Chain Management
SCM is a process-oriented management approach that comprises all
of the flows of raw materials, semi-finished products, final products
and information along the value and supply chain, from raw material
suppliers to final customers, and pursues the objective of resource
optimization for all divisions in the Company that are part of the supply chain
Treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs), refining charges (RCs)
Surcharges on the purchase price of metals, charged for turning these
raw materials into the commodity exchange product – copper cathodes – and other metals

Further Information
196 Glossary
200 List of Graphics
200 List of Tables

199
202
203
204

3-year Overview
Financial Calendar
Imprint

Glossary of financial terms
Capital employed
Capital employed is the sum of equity, provisions for pension
­liabilities and financial liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents
EBIT
EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) is an indicator of a
­company’s operative earning power, ignoring its capital structure
EBITDA
EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amorti­zation) is an indicator of a company’s operative earning
power, ­ignoring its capital structure and propensity to invest
EBT
EBT (earnings before taxes) is an indicator of a company’s
earning power

Free cash flow
Free cash flow is the generated surplus of cash and cash equivalents,
taking into account cash-related changes in working capital, and
after deducting capital expenditure. It is available for a company’s
­dividend and interest payments as well as for the redemption of
financial liabilities
Net cash flow
Net cash flow is the generated surplus of cash and cash equivalents
after taking into account cash-related changes in working capital. It is
available for payments in conjunction with a company’s investing and
financing activities
Net financial liabilities
Net financial liabilities consist of long and short-term financial
­liabilities less cash and cash equivalents
ROCE
ROCE (return on capital employed) is the ratio of EBIT to capital
employed as at the balance sheet date. It describes the efficiency
with which capital was utilized during the reporting period

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

200

Further Information

List of Graphics
Page

Company Management
Aurubis Shares on the Capital Market
G 01	Aurubis share performance compared with
the DAX and MDAX, from October 1, 2015
to September 30, 2016
G 02 Shareholder structure
G 03 Overview of analyst recommendations

45
47
47

Consolidated Management Report
Foundations of the Group

Page
G 07 Aurubis Group employees
G 08 Aurubis Group personnel structure
G 09	Capital expenditure for environmental
protection in Aurubis copper production
G 10 Corporate Environmental Protection topics
G 11 Accident frequency
G 12 Expected GDP growth in 2016
G 13	Copper price and metal exchange
copper inventories
G 14 Development of revenues by product groups

57
57
61
63
65
66
68
71

Page
G 18 Gold output
G 19 Capital expenditure in BU Primary Copper
G 20 Copper scrap input in the Group
G 21 Continuous cast wire rod output
G 22 Continuous cast shape output
G 23 Cathode output in the Group
G 24 Cathode output in the Group by sites
G 25 Capital expenditure in BU Copper Products
G 26	Development of Aurubis AG revenues by
product groups

80
80
82
82
83
83
84
84
87

Economic Report

G 04	Business model: integrating copper
production and processing
G 05	Pricing along the value chain
G 06	R&D expenditures

53
54
56

G 15 Source and application of funds
G 16 Concentrate throughput
G 17 Silver output

77
79
79

List of Tables
Page

Overview
T 001	The Aurubis Group in Figures

Economic Report
U2

Company Management
Compensation report for the Executive Board
and the Supervisory Board of Aurubis AG
T 002	Benefits granted
T 003 Inflow
T 004	Compensation of the individual members
of the Supervisory Board

40
42
44

Aurubis Shares on the Capital Market
T 005	Key figures of Aurubis shares
T 006	Information on Aurubis shares
T 007 Analyst coverage 2015/16

46
48
49

Consolidated Management Report
Foundations of the Group
T 008	Operating return on capital employed (ROCE) 55

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Page

T 009	Reconciliation of the consolidated
income statement
T 010 Breakdown of revenues
T 011 Consolidated income statement
T 012	Reconciliation of the consolidated
balance sheet
T 013 Development of borrowings
T 014 Operating return on capital employed (ROCE)
T 015	Balance sheet structure of the Aurubis Group
T 016	Development of borrowings
T 017	Operating Group financial ratios
T 018	Net borrowings in the Group
T 019	Business Unit Primary Copper: Key figures
T 020	Business Unit Copper Products: Key figures
T 021	Development of the annual result and
significant income statement items (HGB)
T 022	Balance sheet structure of Aurubis AG
T 023	Liabilities to banks and
their terms to maturity

Consolidated Financial Statements
69
70
72
73
74
74
75
75
76
77
78
80
86
88
89

Risk and Opportunity Report
T 024	Potential effect on earnings
T 025	Qualified comparative forecast
according to Aurubis’ definition

Page

91
104

T 026	Consolidated Income Statement
T 027	Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income
T 028	Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:
Assets
T 029	Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:
Equity and liabilities
T 030	Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
T 031	Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

112
113
114
115
116
117

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
T 032	Expected economic useful lives of the assets
within the Group
124

Changes in accounting and measurement
methods due to new standards and
interpretations
T 033	Standards and interpretations applied
for the first time
T 034	Standards and interpretations not
adopted early

127
128

Further Information
196 Glossary
200 List of Graphics
200 List of Tables

201
202
203
204

3-year Overview
Financial Calendar
Imprint

Page

Notes to the income statement
T 035 Revenues
T 036	Changes in inventories of finished goods
and work in process
T 037 Other operating income
T 038 Cost of materials
T 039 Personnel expenses and human resources
T 040	Average number of employees
T 041 Other operating expenses
T 042 Interest
T 043 Other financial result
T 044 Income taxes
T 045 Reconciliation
T 046	Recognition and measurement differences in
individual items in the statement of financial
position, from tax loss carryforwards and
from outside basis differences (OBD)
T 047 Deferred and current taxes that directly
decreased or increased the other
comprehensive income (OCI) and
accordingly equity
T 048 Earnings per share

130
130
130
130
130
131
131
131
132
132
133

134

135
136

Notes to the statement of financial position
T 049	Intangible assets:
Costs of acquisition or generation
T 050	Intangible assets:
Amortization and impairment losses
T 051	Intangible assets: Carrying amount
T 052	Intangible assets:
Costs of acquisition or generation
(previous year)
T 053	Intangible assets:
Amortization and impairment losses
(previous year)
T 054	Intangible assets:
Carrying amount (previous year)
T 055	Property, plant and equipment:
Acquisition or construction cost
T 056	Property, plant and equipment:
Depreciation and impairment losses
T 057	Property, plant and equipment:
Carrying amount
T 058	Property, plant and equipment:
Acquisition or construction cost
(previous year)
T 059	Property, plant and equipment:
Depreciation and impairment losses
(previous year)
T 060	Property, plant and equipment:
Carrying amount (previous year)
T 061	Development in the carrying amount of
investment property
T 062 Financial fixed assets
T 063 Summarized statement of financial position
T 064 Summarized statement of
comprehensive income
T 065	Reconciliation of the combined
financial information

137
137
137
138
138
138
140
140
141
142
142
143
144
144
145
145
146

Page
T 066 Inventories
T 067	Age structure of trade accounts receivable
T 068	Movements on the allowances for
trade accounts receivable
T 069	Non-current receivables and other assets
T 070	Current receivables and other assets
T 071	Allowances on other financial assets
T 072	Proposed appropriation of earnings
T 073	Market discount rates, salary and
pension trends used to calculate the
pension obligations
T 074	Net pension provision for defined
benefit plans
T 075	Development of the present value of
the pension obligations
T 076 Development of the plan assets
T 077 Development of the net liability
T 078	Plan assets in the Group
T 079 Sensitivity analysis
T 080	Duration terms expected for undiscounted
pension payments in the future
T 081 Other provisions
T 082	Other provisions:
development of individual classes
T 083 Liabilities
T 084	Liabilities under finance leases
T 085	Undiscounted interest and redemption
payments for non-derivative financial
liabilities and the discounted net cash flows
of the derivative financial instruments with
negative fair values
T 086	Undiscounted interest and redemption
payments for non-derivative financial
liabilities and the discounted net cash flows
of the derivative financial instruments with
negative fair values (previous year)
T 087	Non-financial liabilities
T 088 Other financial commitments
T 089 Financial commitments under leases
T 090 Foreign currency risk
T 091 Currency sensitivity
T 092 Variable interest risk positions
T 093 Interest rate sensivities
T 094 Nominal volumes of the derivatives
T 095 Commodity price sensitivity
T 096 Financial derivatives
T 097 Cash flow hedges as at September 30, 2016
T 098 Cash flow hedges as at September 30, 2015
T 099	Additional disclosures for financial
instruments
T 100	Financial instruments from Level 1
measured at fair value
T 101	Financial instruments from Level 2
measured at fair value
T 102	Financial instruments from Level 2
not measured at fair value
T 103	Financial instruments from Level 3
measured at fair value
T 104	Hierarchical classification of fair values
of financial instruments in accordance with
IFRS 7 as at September 30, 2016

146
147
147
148
148
149
151
152
152
153
154
154
155
156
156
157
157
158
159

160

160
161
161
162
163
163
164
165
165
166
167
168
169

Page
T 105	Hierarchical classification of fair values
of financial instruments in accordance with
IFRS 7 as at September 30, 2015
T 106	Reconciliation of financial instruments in
Level 3 as at September 30, 2016
T 107	Reconciliation of financial instruments
in Level 3 as at September 30, 2015
T 108	Offsetting options for derivative
financial assets and liabilities
T 109 Net earnings by measurement categories

175
176
176
177
178

Segment reporting
T 110 Segment reporting
T 111	Revenues by regions based on the location
of the customers
T 112	Capital expenditure and non-current
assets by regions

180
182
183

Further Information
T 113	Disclosures concerning relationships to
related parties 9/30/2016
T 114	Disclosures concerning relationships to
related parties 9/30/2015
T 115	Amounts related to non-consolidated related
companies as at September 30, 2016
T 116	Amounts related to non-consolidated related
companies as at September 30, 2015
T 117 Shareholder structure
T 118	Auditors’ fees:­
PricewaterhouseCoopers network
T 119	Auditors’ fees:­­
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
T 120 Investments
T 121 3-year Overview
T 122 Financial Calendar

185
185
186
186
188
189
189
190
202
203

170
172
173
173
173
174
Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

202

Further Information

3-year Overview
Aurubis Group (IFRS)
in € million

¤ T 121

2015/16 1)

2014/15 1)

2013/14 1)

Results
9,475

10,995

11,241

EBITDA

312

336

216

Operating EBITDA

358

500

288

EBIT

177

200

88

Operating EBIT

229

370

167

EBT

159

170

58

Operating EBT

213

343

137

Consolidated net income

124

134

44

Operating consolidated net income

165

257

99

Net cash flow

236

365

401

Total assets

4,027

4,044

3,943

Fixed assets

Revenues

Consolidated statement of financial position
1,450

1,440

1,468

Capital expenditure

143

112

128

Depreciation and amortization

135

136

128

1,991

1,969

1,877

Equity
1)

 alues have been “operationally” adjusted for measurement effects deriving from the use of the average cost method in accordance with IAS 2, from copper price-related
V
measurement effects on inventories and from purchase price allocation impacts, primarily on property, plant and equipment, commencing from fiscal year 2010/11 onwards.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Further Information
196 Glossary
200 List of Graphics
200 List of Tables

203
202
203
204

3-year Overview
Financial Calendar
Imprint

Financial Calendar
¤ T 122

December 14, 2016

Annual Report 2015/16

December 14, 2016

Press Conference on Fiscal Year 2015/16

February 13, 2017

Quarterly Report on the First 3 Months 2016/17

March 2, 2017

Annual General Meeting

May 15, 2017

Interim Report on the First 6 Months 2016/17

August 10, 2017

Quarterly Report on the First 9 Months 2016/17

December 13, 2017

Annual Report 2016/17

December 13, 2017

Press Conference on Fiscal Year 2016/17

Our fiscal year starts on October 1 and ends on September 30.

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

204

Further Information

Imprint
If you would like more information, please contact:
¤ Aurubis AG
Hovestrasse 50, 20539 Hamburg
Germany
info@aurubis.com
www.aurubis.com
¤ Investor Relations
Angela Seidler
Phone + 49 40 7883-3178
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3130
a.seidler@aurubis.com
Dieter Birkholz
Phone + 49 40 7883-3969
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3130
d.birkholz@aurubis.com
Elke Brinkmann
Phone + 49 40 7883-2379
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3130
e.brinkmann@aurubis.com
¤ Corporate Communications & External Affairs
Ulf Bauer
Phone + 49 40 7883-2387
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3003
u.bauer@aurubis.com
Michaela Hessling
Phone + 49 40 7883-3053
Fax
+ 49 40 7883-3003
m.hessling@aurubis.com

Aurubis Annual Report 2015/16

Concept, consulting & design
Kirchhoff Consult AG
Photos
Thies Rätzke (pages 2–3, 4, 7)
Oliver Tjaden
(cover, pages 8, 11, 12, 15, 16, 19, 20, 50, 110–111, 194–195)
Aurubis AG (pages 14–15)
Salzgitter AG (page 26)
Print
omb2 Print GmbH, Munich, Germany
Paper
Printed on FSC-certified paper. By using FSC paper,
we are actively supporting the preservation of our
forests, promoting plant and wildlife protection and
are taking a stand against human exploitation of
forest resources.
Disclaimer
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements based on
current assumptions and forecasts. Various known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors could have the impact that the actual
future results, financial situation or developments differ from the estimates given here. We assume no liability to update forward-looking
statements.

EN_16/12

Our Copper for your Life

aurubis.com
Aurubis AG
Hovestrasse 50
20539 Hamburg
Germany
Phone +49 40 7883-0
Fax
+49 40 7883-2255
info@aurubis.com

