Sustainability Report 2015
e
n
i
l
n
O
e
h
t
f
o
t
p
r
e
c
x
E
Print
t
r
o
p
e
R
y
t
li
Sustainabi

Our responsibility as a media company

Axel Springer SE
Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013
Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de
Responsibility for the content
Florian Nehm
Head of Corporate Sustainability & EU Affairs
Axel Springer SE
Axel-Springer-Straße 65
10888 Berlin
Tel: +49 30 2591 0
nachhaltigkeit@axelspringer.de
Due process service to all directors and agents mentioned in the masthead can be effected at the
address below.
Management Board:
• Dr. Mathias Döpfner (Chairman and CEO)
• Jan Bayer
• Dr. Julian Deutz
• Dr. Andreas Wiele
District Court / Commercial Register:
Registered office in Berlin, Amtsgericht Charlottenburg HRB 154517 B
Tax ID: DE 136 627 286

2
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Contents
Foreword from the Chairman and CEO

7

Principles and sustainability-related objectives

10

Our Corporate Principles

11

What we want
Corporate Values
Principles of Leadership
Independence of Journalism
International Social Policy
Environmental Guidelines
Code of Conduct
Compliance Management

15
18
19
21
23
25
26
27

Stakeholder-Interaction

30

Customer Loyalty
Employee Satisfaction
Stakeholder-Dialog Greenpeace
MOVING THE WORLD. Taking responsibility
Securing habitat for Canadian caribou
Innovation through conflict
How a resource conflict can be resolved.

34
35
36
37
38
40
47

Topics and Objectives

48

Selection of key sustainability issues
Insights and Perspectives
Objectives 2016/2017
Achievements 2014/2015
Developments 1979-2015
Awards

48
50
53
56
60
67

Our Responsibility as a Media Company

74

Journalistic independence

75

Independence of Journalism
European Charta of Freedom of the Press
Hamburg Decleration

76
78
80

What is product responsibility all about?

82

Prize winning Journalism
Youth Media Protection
Data Protection

83
87
89

Promotion of Young Journalists

92

The Axel Springer Prize for Young Journalists
Women in Media Award
Peter Boenisch Fellowship
Crossmedia Project „Can we do that?“
Live Project „Generation Separation“
Promotion of Hamburg Media School

94
95
96
97
98
99

Promotion of media Literacy

100

Youth protection
Jugendmedientage (Youth Media Days)
Boys and girls future day

101
102
103

3
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Commitment to the Interest of Media
Approach to History: Medienarchiv‘68

104
105

Employees

106

Career Opportunities
Axel Springer Akademie
Employer‘s brand campaign
Benefits for Employees
Development Programs
Equality of Opportunity
Agile Methodology
move - Dialog. Knowing. Doing.
Health Management

Social Commitment

Commitment of our Media
BILD exhibition “Art from the Holocaust”
BILD am SONNTAG - PULSUS Award
B.Z. took part in the #WelcomeChallenge
Berlin Social Academy

107
109
111
112
113
114
115
116
117

119

120
121
122
123
124

Commitment of our Readers

125

B.Z. Berlin Heroes on tour

126

Commitment of our Employees

127

Small Change Campaign
Christmas wish tree

128
129

Commitment of the Company

130

Ernst Cramer & Teddy Kollek Fellowship
Support for the American Academy Berlin
Architecture for the mobile work environment

131
132
133

Environment

134

Energy Figures
Energy Audit 2015
Green IT Cockpit

138
140
142

Energy

CO2

CO2 from energy use

135

144

146

Environmental Indicators of our printing houses

148

Value Chain

150

Services of external data centers
Origin of Printing Papers
Paper Recycling
Paper Suppliers
Logging
Paper Delivery
International Social Policy
PACE Paparazzi Catering & Event GmbH

151
152
154
156
159
162
163
166

4
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Economy

168

The Axel Springer Share
Corporate Governance
Business Development 2015

169
170
171

Reporting according to GRI

173

What is a Sustainability Report?
Group Structure and Locations

174
176

GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures

177

1 Strategy and Analysis
2 Organizational Profile
3 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
4 Stakeholder Engagement
5 Report Parameters
6 Governance
7 Ethics and Integrity

177
179
182
186
187
189
193

GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures on Society

195

A Labor Practices and Decent Work
A.1 Management approach for stakeholder concerns:
Identification with employees and attractiveness as an employer
A.2 Disclosures and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
A.2.1 Aspect: Employment
A.2.2 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations
A.2.3 Aspect: Occupational health and safety
A.2.4 Aspect: Training and Education
A.2.5 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
A.2.6 Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men
A.2.8 Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms

195
XX

B. Human Rights
B.1 Management approach for stakeholder concerns: Observance of human rights
B.2 Disclosures and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
B.2.1 Aspect: Investment
B.2.2 Aspect: Non-discrimination
B.2.8 Aspect: Assessment
B.2.9 Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment
B.2.10 Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms

202
202
205
205
205
205
207
207

C. Society
C.1 Management approach for stakeholder concerns:
Journalistic independence and social responsibility
C.2 Disclosures and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
C.2.2 Aspect: Anti-corruption
C.2.3 Aspect: Public Policy
C.2.4 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior
C.2.5 Aspect: Compliance with the law

207
207

197
197
198
198
199
201
202
202

210
210
211
211
211

5
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

D Product Responsibility
D.1 Management approach for stakeholder concerns:
Product responsibility and customer satisfaction
D.2 Disclosures and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
D.2.1 Aspect: Customer Health and Safety
D.2.3 Aspect: Marketing
D.2.4 Aspect: Media literacy
D.2.5 Aspect: Protection of Customer Data
D.2.6 Aspect: Compliance with the law

211
211

GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures on Environment

219

1 Management approach for stakeholder concerns:
High environmental standards of Axel Springer SE
2 Details and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
2.1 Aspect: Materials
2.2 Aspect: Energy
2.5 Aspect: Emissions, effluents, and waste
2.8 Aspect: Transport
2.10 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment
2.11 Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms

219

GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures on Economy

231

1 Management approach for stakeholder concern:
Economic performance and profitability
2 Details and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
2.1 Aspect: Economic Performance
2.4 Aspect: Procurement Practices

231

How is a sustainability report assured?

235

Appendix

238

About Axel Springer
Glossary
Legal information
Contakt
Tables
Certificates and documents

239
241
244
245
246
249

216
216
216
217
218
218

221
221
222
224
230
230
230

233
233
234

6
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Foreword from the Chairman and CEO

Mathias Döpfner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Axel Springer SE.

What we are and what we want
Modern companies address the concerns of their stakeholders. These are not only interested in what
products are made from and what side effects may result from their use, how the share prices develop or what the chances are of being able to get a job in a company and make a career. People also
want to hear about the self-image of companies. They want to know which principles apply, how
workers are treated and how the question of social responsibility is defined.
So what brings us together? What motivates people to work for this company?
The soul and spirit of the Axel Springer company is journalism. We serve our readers with independent and critical information and advice as well as good entertainment. Through our journalistic services we are making a contribution to the strengthening of freedom and democracy. The prerequisite for
this is our economic success. We are working every day to improve our journalistic, technological and
commercial competence.
We have set ourselves the target of successfully establishing independent journalism in the
digital world – and want to be the world‘s leading digital publishing house.
Axel Springer is pursuing a strategy of profitable growth. Our majority shareholder safeguards our
independence. We are a publicly listed company and, as such, committed to the efficiency and transparency requirements of the capital market. We do not restrict our self-image to economic success
alone. For we know that: Profit is not everything, but without profit everything is nothing. We
want to create value. Material and ethical value.
We want to increase the value of our company. In addition to the operating earnings (EBITDA), earnings per share is the key indicator against which we measure ourselves and against which we can be
measured. At the same time we want to strengthen the values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law,
competition, property, human rights, cosmopolitanism and tolerance through our journalistic work.
Our publishing house is committed to the values of its founder Axel Springer. He stood first and foremost for freedom. It is in this sense that the five preambles of the company are defined: the consoli-

7
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

dation of German and European unity, support of the vital rights of the Israeli people, solidarity in the
common values of free nations with the United States of America, the defense of the principles of a
free social market economy and the rejection of all forms of political totalitarianism. These values do
not prescribe the support of any ideology, government or political party, but rather they also allow and
call, as does any true loyalty, for honest criticism.
Criticism and self-criticism are also a part of our overall corporate culture. Three values are
decisive here: Creativity, entrepreneurial spirit, integrity.
We see the digital transformation of society and of our business as an opportunity which we are shaping actively: without fear of self-cannibalization and without dividing into analog and digital camps. All
of our employees are responsible for the success of digitization.
Our company is divided into three segments, which are based on journalism or benefit from
journalism to varying degrees.
1. Paid Services: These are all business models that are predominantly funded by paying readers.
2. Marketing Services: These are all business models that are predominantly funded by advertising
customers.
3. Classified Advertising Services: These are all business models that are predominantly funded
by job, real estate and auto advertising customers.
The traditional revenues of a publishing house are reflected in this structure. In the same way as a
newspaper in the past was financed by subscribers, advertisers and classified advertising customers.
We have become the leading digital publishing house when we have become number one in our respective market segments and in the countries in which we are active.
Axel Springer is an international company. Our core market is Europe. We also want to be successful
in growth markets such as the United States of America. We do not do business in non-democratic
countries on principle.
In our dealings with each other, we want to experience what we have collectively defined as sociopolitical objectives. Freedom demands a culture of trust, not of mistrustful control. We measure the
success of our employees by their results, not by their presence. We encourage entrepreneurs in the
company. We organize the publishing house as an operative holding company – as centralized as
necessary and as decentralized as possible. All brands, business divisions and services develop into
independent companies, which hold together in spite of their differences like members of a family.
Technological competence has increasing importance in a digital publishing house. For this
reason we promote innovative technology, yet remain at heart a house of journalism.
We do what we do for our readers and customers. But reader and customer orientation does not
mean courtesy journalism or ingratiation.
We defend editorial independence as our most precious asset. Independent, critical, and thereby credible journalism is the best service we can provide to all of our readers and customers.

8
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

We want to work quickly and unbureaucratically. Those who undertake entrepreneurial risks are rewarded for doing so, even if they do make a mistake.
We promote the diversity of gender, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, age and personality.
We treat every employee as we would like to be treated ourselves: respectfully and affectionately.
Axel Springer is a commercial enterprise, in which individualists feel at ease, because they have the
freedom to make their own decisions and to shape things independently. A kind of “United Artists”.
Artists – irrespective of whether they are reporters or software developers – are independent, different
and sometimes complicated. They may and should be like this, as long as they are excellent and,
when it matters, hold together – United.
We are passionate and have the desire to discover new things, to change and to improve ourselves.
We want to be successful, to do good and to have fun.
And we know that everything defined here describes a goal, which regrettably however is
not yet reality at all times and everywhere. This is what we want to change.
Thank you for your interest in our company and I hope you enjoy reading this Sustainability Report.
Dr. Mathias Döpfner
Chief Executive Officer

9
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Principles and sustainability-related objectives
The framework for sustainability management is formed by principles
and objectives, the exchange of ideas with stakeholders, the control
of measures, the review of results as well as the communication of
developments.

10
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Freedom is the foundation of our company

A passionate journalist, courageous entrepreneur and visionary freedom fighter, Axel Springer (1912 - 1985) accompanied
the emergence of our democracy. (Foto: Axel Springer SE)

Axel Springer SE is the only independent media company to have a corporate constitution. The
founder was aware of the special responsibility of his media: Axel Springer formulated four principles
for the journalistic work of his company, and presented them to the public on 26 October 1967 in the
Hamburg „Overseas Club“. Following German reunification in 1990, the original wording was amended (furthering the unification of the peoples of Europe) and after the terrorist attacks in the United
States on 11 September 2001, supplemented as a visible sign of solidarity (supporting the transatlantic alliance).
The five principles paint a liberal picture of the world. Mathias Döpfner explains Axel Springer‘s value
orientation: „The media have a great responsibility towards individuals – and towards society as a
whole. History casts doubt on whether the media in our country have always adequately fulfilled this
special responsibility.“ Deliberations along these lines led Axel Springer to formulate the four essentials
for the journalistic work of his company. The publisher referred to them as „stakes, between which
the journalistic individuality and the professional competence of our editors, reporters, columnists and
correspondents can find expression.“
The five socio-political corporate principles form part of the company’s articles of association. They
paint a liberal picture of the world:
•
•
•
•
•

To uphold liberty and law in Germany, a country belonging to the Western family of nations, and to
further the unification of the peoples of Europe.
To promote the reconciliation of Jews and Germans and support the vital rights of the State of
Israel.
To support the Transatlantic Alliance and maintain solidarity with the United States of America in
the common values of free nations.
To reject all forms of political extremism.
To uphold the principles of a free social market economy.

11
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

How are the principles applied in the editorial offices?
Do they provide orientation? Does their transparency motivate people towards a clear, liberal attitude?
Are they self-evident? Do they restrict the freedom of expression? Thomas Schmid comments on Axel
Springer‘s intellectual, socio-political heritage from a publisher‘s point of view, three editors-in-chief
report from the field.

The principles, a compass of values
„Freedom is only there, when use is made of it. The desire for freedom is something unconditional,
also something irrepressible. If it didn‘t sometimes run riot, then things would be bad for it. And what
is true for freedom, also applies to a part of it, to the freedom of expression. It cannot tolerate being
regulated, accepts no authoritarian restrictions, no chains.
Is it a violation of this basic rule of an open society, if the Axel
Springer Publishing Company issues guidelines, that none of the
company‘s journalists may violate with impunity? It is oppressive, if
we are for instance enjoined to uphold liberty and law in Germany
or to support the vital rights of the Israeli people and the transatlantic alliance? Does this mean we are leaving the path of unbiased
journalism? Or: Why should it actually be forbidden, to not support
the unification of the peoples of Europe?
Thomas Schmid, 2008 to 2010,
Editor-in-chief, Publisher WELT Group

Journalism is not art. Art can live from provocation, journalism
cannot. Journalists are well advised to swim against the current, to
question dogmas and not to follow the mainstream. This could also all be different: It is a journalistic
virtue, never to forget this.
No trace of regulation
Yet it is also a journalistic virtue to act responsibly. Even if it is only approximately true, that the press
is the fourth power in the state, then this also means: It is not a private function, it also has obligations
both to its customers, the readers, as well as to the community as a whole and its history. To agree on
values and to respect them does not contradict freedom. It is the great good fortune of the Germans,
following the Nazi barbarism for which they themselves were responsible, that they have succeeded,
and not exclusively on their own, in creating the best community that has ever existed on German soil.
The fact that law and not arbitrariness prevails; that Europe is no longer a theater of war; that there
is a Jewish state and – in spite of the Holocaust – there is Jewish life in Germany once again; that
America, the runaway and better Europe, helped after the Second World War and ensured the Federal
Republic survived the Cold War intact, that totalitarianism, always offering the sweet temptation of the
simple solution, is an evil in every shape; and that only an economy that is not regulated, but rather
is responsible, permits a good life: These are all insights and certainties, the lessons learned from the
unfortunate part of our history and representing something like the essence of our fortunate post-war
history. Nothing is forever in this world, but this should remain as durable as possible. To agree on
this, to commit ourselves to it – that really has nothing to do with regulation.“

12
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Three times „Yes“
„Do the essentials provide orientation? Does they motivate people to form a clear position? Are they
self-evident for you personally?
Three questions that can be answered with a single word?
Yes. Yes. Yes.

Jan Eric Peters, Editor-in-chief and
Chief Product Officer at UPDAY

For our free nation governed by the rule of law, for the the vital
rights of the Israeli people, for common values with America and
a free and social market economy and against political totalitarianism. Of course the essentials are self-evident! I never wanted
to work in an editorial office where any other values applied, I
couldn‘t.

And nevertheless it is good that these self-evident values are also available as a written constitution for
our company. The essentials are an avowal, which gives us complete journalistic freedom, which even
makes this possible in the first place. They define our position for everyone visibly, both internally and
externally; they literally support us.
To put it briefly: The essentials are the foundation upon which we can stand upright. Nice!“

Criticism not excluded
„Whenever I talk about the five principles of Axel Springer in speeches or conversations, as a rule
there are three possible reactions: Surprise, confusion, admiration.
Surprise, that these principles form part of our employment contracts. This is by far not something
that everyone is aware of.
Confusion, as to whether or not that means that we always and
absolutely have to report in a pro-Israel and pro-America manner.
Admiration for this attitude and for the fact that it is manifested in
principles.

Kai Diekmann, publisher of the BILD
Group

And then I often hear the question: How do we manage to keep to
and to live by them?

Axel Springer was in favor of a clear position all his life. And he
demonstrated the fact that the principles were not just empty words through his tireless commitment.
A clear position is the brand essence of BILD. For us, the principles are not simply part of our employment contracts. For us they are guiding principles and a matter of course in our work – and of course
it is possible to criticize the policy of Israel or the United States. For us they are a mission to continue
with Axel Springer‘s commitment. They encourage us to send clear signals – such as the meeting of
the „Fathers of Unification“, George Bush, Mikhail Gorbachev and Helmut Kohl, to mark the 20th anniversary of German reunification, the handover of the original blueprints of the Auschwitz concentration
camp to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, which are today exhibited as „Documents of the
Horror“ in the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial, or the special edition for the 10th anniversary of the
terrorist attacks in the USA, which BILD produced directly from New York with a 40-strong team.“

13
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

It is much easier
„There are sentences that are so self-evident that you do not need to write them down. The second of
the corporate principles, the „Promotion of the reconciliation of Jews and Germans“ as well as „Supporting the vital rights of the people of Israel“ is one of these. Who could disagree with this? Who is
against a reconciliation between Germans and Jews; who, unless they are insane would want to deny
the Israeli people (or any people) the right to live?

Peter Huth, Editor-in-chief of B.Z.

But there is nothing I have to defend more often: in the kitchen at
parties, in panel discussions, talking with colleagues. The critics‘
method is always the same: They envision things in this sentence,
which are not formulated there at all. That you are therefore against
the vital rights of the Palestinians. That you therefore endorse Israeli
policy in every case. That you are fundamentally hostile to Islam.
And again and again the same sentence about the Jews, who
have learned nothing from their own history; you almost feel sick
when you write that down now. Because of course the opposite is
the case.

The B.Z. was founded 135 years ago. Six months later it was bankrupt. The Ullstein family bought the
paper and built up the largest newspaper company in Europe around it, a beacon for liberal spirit and
excellent journalism. The Nazis wrested away everything from this German family with Jewish roots.
The post-war authorities, however, did much more to hinder rather than to help the Ullsteins regain
their property. Axel Springer saved the company, long before his ardent love for Israel was kindled.
We at the B.Z. see ourselves in the tradition of Axel Springer‘s visions and the spirit of the Ullsteins.
We carry their name in the title of our publishing house, we are the heirs of a Jewish company in Berlin.
However, when I defend the second corporate principle of Axel Springer SE, I am not an editor-inchief, I am not a salaried employee, it’s much simpler than that: I am a German.“

14
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

What we are and what we want

The soul and spirit of the Axel Springer company is journalism: The „homepage“ published
in December 2013 updates the self-conception and the objectives of Axel Springer SE in the
digital world.

The mission of the Axel Springer company is the successful establishment of independent journalism in the digital world, with
the aim of becoming the world‘s leading digital publisher. (Source: Axel Springer SE)

The soul and spirit of the Axel Springer company is journalism. We serve our readers with independent and critical information and advice as well as good entertainment. Through our journalistic services we are making a contribution to the strengthening of freedom and democracy. The prerequisite for
this is our economic success. We are working every day to improve our journalistic, technological and
commercial competence:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

We are and will remain a publishing house, a house of journalism
We want to inform, advise and entertain our readers independently and better than others
We are and we want to be economically successful
We are actively shaping digitization and see this as our great opportunity
We do what we do with passion and are constantly striving to become even better
We attract individualists and really support them
We are strengthening freedom, democracy and cosmopolitanism

Our mission:
The successful establishment of independent journalism in the digital world.
Our goal:
We want to be the world‘s leading digital publishing house.
Axel Springer is pursuing a strategy of profitable growth. Our majority shareholder safeguards our
independence. We are a publicly listed company and as such committed to the efficiency and transparency requirements of the capital market. We do not restrict our self-image to economic success
alone.
We know: Profit is not everything, but without profit, everything is nothing.
We want to create value. Material and ethical value.

15
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

We want to increase the value of our company. In addition to the operating earnings (EBITDA), earnings per share is the key indicator against which we measure ourselves and against which we can be
measured. At the same time we want to strengthen the values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law,
competition, property, human rights, cosmopolitanism and tolerance through our journalistic work.
Our publishing house is committed to the values of its founder Axel Springer. He stood first and foremost for freedom. It is in this sense that the five preambles of the company are defined: the consolidation of German and European unity, support of the vital rights of the Israeli people, solidarity in the
common values of free nations with the United States of America, the defense of the principles of a
free social market economy and the rejection of all forms of political totalitarianism. These values do
not prescribe the support of any ideology, government or political party, but rather they also allow and
call, as does any true loyalty, for honest criticism.
Criticism and self-criticism are also a part of our overall corporate culture. Three values are
decisive here: Creativity, Entrepreneurial Spirit, Integrity.
We see the digital transformation of society and of our business as an opportunity which we are shaping actively: without fear of self-cannibalization and without dividing into analog and digital camps. All
of our employees are responsible for the success of digitization.
Our company is divided into three segments, which are based on journalism or benefit from
journalism to varying degrees.
1. Paid Models: These are all the business models that are predominantly funded by paying readers.
2. Marketing Models: These are all the business models that are predominantly funded by advertising
customers.
3. Classified Ad Models: These are all the business models that are predominantly funded by job,
real estate and auto advertising customers.
The traditional revenues of a publishing house are reflected in this structure. In the same way as a
newspaper in the past was financed by subscribers, advertisers and classified advertising customers.
We have become the leading digital publishing house, when we are number one in our respective
market segments and in the countries in which we are active.
Axel Springer is an international company. Our core market is Europe. We also want to be successful
in growth markets such as India, Brazil, Asia and the United States of America. We do not do business on principle in non-democratic countries.
In our dealings with each other, we want to experience what we have collectively defined as sociopolitical objectives. Freedom demands a culture of trust, not of mistrustful control. We measure the
success of our employees by their results, not by their presence. We encourage entrepreneurs in the
company. We organize the publishing house as an operative holding company – as centralized as
necessary and as decentralized as possible. All brands, business divisions and services develop into
independent companies, which hold together like members of a family in spite of their differences.
Technological competence has increasing importance in a digital publishing house. For this
reason we promote innovative technology, yet remain at heart a house of journalism.
We do what we do for our readers and customers. But reader and customer orientation does not
mean courtesy journalism or ingratiation.
We defend editorial independence as our most precious asset. Independently critical, and thereby
credible journalism is the best service we can provide all of our readers and customers.

16
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

We want to work quickly and unbureaucratically. Those who undertake entrepreneurial risks are rewarded for doing so, even if they do make a mistake.
We promote the diversity of gender, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, age and personality.
We treat every employee as we would like to be treated ourselves: respectfully and affectionately.
Axel Springer is a commercial enterprise, in which individualists feel at ease, because they have the
freedom to make their own decisions and to shape things independently. A kind of „United Artists“.
Artists – irrespective of whether they are reporters or software developers – are independent, different
and sometimes complicated. They may and should be like this, as long as they are excellent and,
when it matters, hold together – United.
We are passionate and have the desire to discover new things, to change and to improve ourselves.
We want to be successful, to do good and to have fun.
And we know that everything that is defined here describes a goal, but regrettably is not yet
reality everywhere and all the time. This is what we want to change.
Berlin, December 9th, 2013

17
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Values as a key to profitable growth

Axel Springer SE would like to be the world‘s leading digital publisher. For this reason, the company has divided itself into
three segments, which are based on journalism or benefit from journalism to varying degrees. The three segments are: Paid
Models, Marketing Models, and Classified Ad Models. (Source: Axel Springer SE)

In addition to strategic objectives, Axel Springer SE has defined values to guide each employee in his
or her work, and which shape corporate culture at Axel Springer. Together these are the key to profitable growth.
Corporate culture at Axel Springer is based on three values
• Creativity as the decisive prerequisite for success as journalists, and in turn for commercial
success;
• Entrepreneurial spirit, defined as imaginative, responsible and result-oriented action taken by
employees and management;
• Integrity towards the company, readers, customers, employees, business associates and
shareholders.

18
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Principles of Leadership

Preamble
Creativity, entrepreneurial spirit, integrity. These three values form the foundation of the self-confidence
of Axel Springer. They set the standards for our daily activity. We lead, by creating space for creativity,
by defining objectives and by shaping change. We want to continue to lead Axel Springer boldly to
entrepreneurial success. The focus is on our employees, who we develop, challenge and encourage
to work independently. In all of our activities we ensure that the law as well as our corporate guidelines
are consistently observed.

Creativity
Exemplify motivation and enthusiasm
We inspire and convince. We identify new opportunities and make them clear. We exemplify motivation and maximum performance. We only demand what we expect of ourselves. We involve our employees, inspire them to change and encourage enjoyment at work.
Create space for ideas
We create space for new approaches. We support unconventional ideas and develop independence
in thought and action. We value ideas and creativity independent of hierarchy and continually strive
for improvement. We acknowledge creative performance and accord it a value, even if this cannot be
directly exploited.
Facilitate change
We see change as positive and know that changes offer opportunities. We shape change processes and use opportunities to try out new ideas. Where necessary, we are ready to leave the familiar
behind. We never stop learning. We are open to criticism, demand feedback and confront it seriously.
We accept constructive contradiction from our employees and are able to acknowledge faults.

19
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Entrepreneurial Spirit
Take chances responsibly
We make decisions and resolutely support them. We identify opportunities, carefully evaluate the risks
involved and are also prepared to accept failures. We know our customers, the market and are in the
vanguard of current developments – this is how we are leading our company to success.
Think and act cross-departmentally
We think and act across the boundaries of countries, sectors and brands as well as hierarchical levels.
We first acknowledge the advantage for both parties in cross-sector co-operation. Over and above a
will to co-operate we develop team spirit. In spite of the decentralization of entrepreneurial responsibility, the overall wellbeing of the whole company is our primary focus.
Achieve results
We set ourselves and our employees motivating and transparent goals. We assign clear priorities. We
check and monitor results systematically. We celebrate successes together and analyse setbacks
without attributing blame so as to learn from them.

Integrity
Communicate and act respectfully
Respect and fairness characterize our leadership. We have realized that recognition and respect are
the most important foundations for performance. We continue a regular dialog with our team as well
as individual employees and are receptive to our employees at all times. We communicate decisions
honestly and respectfully. We are loyal to the company as well as to our employees – throughout the
hierarchy.
Develop and challenge employees
The development of our employees is an integral part of our leadership philosophy. We trust our employees and delegate responsibility to them in order to develop them. The abilities of our employees
determine our success as executives. We spend time a substantial share of our time on their development. We specifically look for development opportunities for our employees, even if these lie outside
their own area. We make sure that the best come to Axel Springer and remain here. This means: We
are looking for excellence and above all develop employees who are better than we are.
Respect justice and the law
Through all of our actions we ensure consistent compliance with justice and the law as well as our
corporate guidelines. We orient ourselves both in our daily work and our leadership behavior in particular around our corporate constitution, our values, the Catalog of Social Standards (International
Social Policy) and the Guidelines of Journalistic Independence. We are firmly convinced that success
can only be guaranteed in an environment of compliance with the law and compliance with ethical
standards.

20
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Guidelines to Safeguard the Independence of
Journalism at Axel Springer

The main entrance of the Axel Springer Building in Berlin. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

Preamble
The editors of Axel Springer SE are aware of their responsibility for providing information and shaping
public opinion in Germany. Independence is essential as a basis for their work.
The guidelines are a concrete expression of Axel Springer’s understanding of the journalistic principles
set forth in the Press Code of the German Press Council. Adherence to these guidelines by all editors
in their journalistic work safeguards the overall conditions that enable independent, critical journalism
at Axel Springer.
The chief editors are responsible for adherence to the guidelines and their implementation in day-today work.

Advertising
Point 7 of the Press Code requires publishers and editors to make a clear distinction between editorial
text and advertising copy and points out the need to adhere to the regulations for paid advertising.
The journalists at Axel Springer
• shall ensure, together with the management of the publishing house, that a distinction is made
between advertising and editorial material. Advertisements must not create the impression, through
their overall design or major components, that they are part of the editorial material of the title. Special
attention must be given to using different typography. If there is any doubt, the advertisement must be
marked as such clearly and in sufficiently large type.
• shall resist attempts by advertisers or interested parties to influence content, and enter no agreements that might jeopardize their independence as journalists. Merchandising campaigns and media
partnerships must be identified as such where necessary.

21
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Personal and business interests
It is part of the responsibility of the press towards the public that journalistic publications should not
be influenced by the personal or business interests of third parties or the personal financial interests of
the editors themselves.
This is the subject of Points 6 and 7 of the Press Code.
The journalists at Axel Springer
• shall not report on persons with whom they have a close relationship, especially family members, in
the form of copy or photographs unless there is an objective reason for doing so that has been approved by the writer’s superior.
• shall not use their reporting to obtain benefits for themselves or others.
• shall consult their superior if membership of or the holding of an office or a seat in a society, political party, association or other institution, investment in a company, permitted side-line employment
or a relationship with persons or institutions might create the impression that the neutrality of their
reporting on such societies, political parties, associations, persons or other institutions is thereby
impaired.
• shall take special care to meet the legal and professional obligations of the press with regard to inside information as set forth in the German Press Council’s publication “Journalistic ethics concerning
inside and other information with a potential effect on security prices”.

Invitations, gifts and press trips
Point 15 of the Press Code is concerned with personal benefit as a danger to independent journalism.
Even the appearance that journalists’ freedom of decision might be impaired by the acceptance of
invitations or gifts should be avoided.
The journalists at Axel Springer
• shall ensure that all costs (travelling expenses, entertainment etc.) incurred in the course of their research are paid by the editorial department. Any exceptions must be approved by the chief editor and
have to be marked accordingly in the coverage.
• shall not accept any gifts that constitute a personal benefit or, if it is impossible to refuse them, shall
pass them on to the company, which will then give them to a charity.

Treatment of sources
The journalist’s duty of care in the treatment of information sources is extremely important for journalistic work and the public’s opinion of the press. Point 2 of the Press Code regulates the treatment of
sources in addition to the existing legal provisions.
The journalists at Axel Springer
• shall in all cases make sure that interviews are authorized verbally or in writing by the person interviewed, even if time is very short, unless other agreements are documented.

22
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

International Social Policy
In the light of its increasing international profile, Axel Springer has drawn up a catalog of social standards. It lays out the organization’s position on issues relating to human rights, compliance with the
law, child protection, the treatment of employees, health and safety as well as the work/family balance. These standards are binding worldwide for all of the company’s activities.

Preamble
Axel Springer is an internationally operating media enterprise.
The core business of Axel Springer is information and entertainment distributed through newspapers,
magazines and in digital media.
The core values of our corporate culture are creativity, integrity, and entrepreneurial spirit.
Our work is centered around people: readers, business associates, shareholders and our employees.
Motivated, competent employees produce good products. The quality of our products provides the
basis for our company’s economic independence and its future.
Social responsibility in our corporate management has always been of major importance for Axel
Springer SE.
The organization does not only distinguish itself through good corporate governance, but also undertakes to comply with internationally recognized social standards.
1. Human Rights
Axel Springer acknowledges and supports the United Nations’ “Universal Declaration of Human
Rights” and does not tolerate any behavior that disregards this.
2. Compliance with the Law
Axel Springer observes the laws and regulations of those countries in which the company operates,
as well as the principles enshrined in its International Social Policy.
3. Child Protection
Axel Springer does not accept the illegal employment of children and young people – either within its
own organization or by its business associates. The legal employment of children and young people
must also not be detrimental to their physical and mental development.
4. Treatment of Employees
Axel Springer is committed to treating every employee with dignity and respect and to ensuring that
s/he can work in an environment which is free from physical restrictions and sexual, psychological or
verbal harassment. All indications of infringements will be investigated – subject to the protection of
the interests of victims and witnesses.
5. Equality of Opportunity
Axel Springer offers equality of opportunity to every member of staff.
In this connection ethnic origin, skin color, gender, age, marital status, disability, religion, nationality,
sexual orientation or social origin is immaterial.
We expect our staff to declare their belief in democratic principles and to tolerate people with differing
opinions.

23
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

6. Right of Association
Axel Springer respects the right of its employees to create an association to represent their rights and
to join and actively participate in this association.
The company works with the employees‘ associations fairly, constructively and in a spirit of trust.
7. Health and Safety
At all its places of work, Axel Springer will take such measures as required to avoid accidents and
damage to health. The company expects its employees to comply with regulations relating to health
and safety at work.
8. Wages and Social Welfare Benefits
Axel Springer pays wages and salaries and grants social welfare benefits which at least match the
relevant national statutory minimum standards.
9. Qualification of Employees
Within the context of its operational requirements, Axel Springer assists in developing the professional
capabilities of its employees through suitable education and training measures.
10. Work/Family Balance
Within the context of its operational requirements, Axel Springer supports its staff in balancing their
professional and private interests and, in particular, in achieving an appropriate work/family balance
and complies with statutory requirements.
11. Cooperation based on Trust
Axel Springer expects integrity, loyalty and cooperation based on trust from its staff. Our actions are
characterized by respect for the opinions of others and fairness in dealings with each other.
12. Expectations of our Business Associates
Axel Springer expects its suppliers to comply with the following principles described here:
1. Human Rights
2. Compliance with the Law
3. Child Protection
4. Treatment of Employees
5. Equality of Opportunity
6. Right of Association
7. Health and Safety at Work
8. Wages and Social Welfare Benefits

24
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Environmental Guidelines
With its first environmental report in 1994, Axel Springer SE published a four-point environmental guideline. It serves as a practical guide to the many measures introduced by the company in the interests
of environmental protection and comprises, among other things,
1. the raising of environmental consciousness among its readers, business associates and
employees;
2. the promotion of the environmentally-friendly production of raw materials by exerting a positive
influence on suppliers;
3. the use of environmentally efficient technologies and materials in all corporate divisions to reduce
the burden on the environment, use materials sparingly and ensure their reusability;
4. the avoidance or reduction of the environmental impact by reducing energy and water
requirements, emissions and waste per unit produced.
You will find further information on the following pages of the Sustainability Report.

25
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Code of Conduct

To provide every employee with a reliable means of orientation for day-to-day responsible conduct in their professional lives,
Axel Springer has summarized the existing corporate principles, values, directives and guidelines in the Code of Conduct.
This binding code of conduct contains the ethical, moral, and legal standards expected of each employee.

Our Code of Conduct is a binding code of conduct, a guideline to provide us with a reliable means
of orientation in our day-to-day conduct. It summarizes our existing corporate principles, values, as
well as our directives and guidelines, which contain the ethical, moral, and legal standards expected
of every employee. We feel especially committed to the freedom of expression and the freedom of the
press, which are the constitutive prerequisites for freedom and democracy.
Those who breach the Code of Conduct are disloyal. They damage the reputation of the company
and can cause serious economic damage. For this reason we ask you to ensure compliance with the
Code of Conduct in your working environment and to address violations openly.
The central themes in the Code of Conduct are
• Freedom of the Press
• Journalistic Independence and Editorial Offices
• Social Responsibility
• Conduct within the Company
• Behavior in Business
• Confidentiality and Communication
The Code of Conduct is binding for all Axel Springer SE staff. You can find the full text and
explanations as a pdf file for download on www.axelspringer.de.

26
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Compliance Management

Reports can be made anonymously in the compliance whistleblower system. The explanatory film shows how this works.
(Video: Axel Springer Compliance)

The Governance, Risk & Compliance (GRC) division supports the corporate management of Axel
Springer SE in ensuring good corporate governance by, among other things, operating a Risk Management System, Internal Control System and Compliance Management System. Corporate Governance encompasses the management and supervision of the company. The goal of good corporate
governance is responsible management and supervision geared towards generating sustainable
value. The objective is to preserve and promote the trust and credibility of
•
•
•
•
•
•

national and international investors,
the readership,
customers,
business partners,
employees and
the general public

in Axel Springer.

Compliance Management
Compliance for Axel Springer SE means compliance with legal requirements, voluntary commitments
and corporate guidelines.
With the introduction of Compliance Management at Axel Springer SE, the intention is to create and
strengthen the awareness that violations of regulations can have adverse effects on the reputation of
the company in the long term and can cause economic damage.
Against the background of the increasing importance of these consequences, appropriate organizational structures and processes have been established which are subject to a continuous improvement
process. These are preventively to ensure behavior compliant with laws and regulations for all corporate officers, executives and employees. The Code of Conduct is named as an example as part of
the Axel Springer Compliance environment, offering reliable orientation for behavior in an increasingly
complex regulatory environment and at the same time providing transparency.

27
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Apart from this, Compliance Management mainly addresses the following tasks:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Preventive advice on compliance related issues
Identification and monitoring of compliance risks
Prevention and reduction of compliance risks through the introduction of appropriate control measures
Detection and investigation of compliance violations
Raising awareness throughout the company as well as provision of training on topics relevant to
compliance
Operation of a whistleblower system for reports and violations

The objectives of active Compliance Management, which is controlled by headquarters, are the avoidance of actions which could lead to civil and criminal consequences, economic damage and adverse
effects on our reputation.

Policy Management
A further Compliance Management instrument at Axel Springer SE is the established Policy Management System. The directives and internal regulations at Axel Springer provide a regulatory framework
for action in accordance with rules and the law in daily business operations.
Policy Management deals with the provision, updating, and company-wide distribution of directives
and guidelines such as the Code of Conduct, for example. This means that once a year, the necessity of updating all directives and guidelines is determined systematically and the directives adapted
accordingly. If needs for adjustment arise as the result of process changes or amendments to the law,
the respective directives will be updated, provided or distributed accordingly. At this time, the responsibility for the content of directives lies with the persons responsible from the respective corporate
divisions.
In addition, Governance, Risk & Compliance supports the executives of Axel Springer SE in determining a potential need for a directive and advises them on drafting.

Code of Conduct
Our „Code of Conduct“ has been created in cooperation with the various divisions of our company
which gives Axel Springer SE employees guidance and support in their daily work. It summarizes the
existing corporate principles, values, as well as directives and guidelines. The Code of Conduct contains the ethical, moral, and legal standards expected of every employee. We feel especially committed to the freedom of expression and the freedom of the press, which are the constitutive prerequisites for freedom and democracy.
The central themes in the Code of Conduct are:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Freedom of the Press
Journalistic Independence and Editorial Offices
Social Responsibility
Conduct within the Company
Behavior in Business
Confidentiality and Communication

The Code of Conduct is designed to help answer questions such as: May I accept gifts from a business associate? How do I react when a colleague is treated badly? How should I behave if a thirdparty attempts to influence editorial publications?

28
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Those who breach the Code of Conduct are disloyal. They damage the reputation of the company
and can cause serious economic damage. This is why everyone within their working environment is
expected to ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct and to address violations openly.
The “Code of Conduct” can be found here or as a pdf file in the right menu bar.

Risk Management System
Axel Springer SE‘s risk policy principles and risk strategy are closely linked to its corporate strategy.
And the most important thing here is not the strict avoidance of risks, but the careful weighing up of
opportunities and risks within the context of our business activities.
Accordingly, opportunities should be systematically exploited and risks assumed only when these are
within an acceptable and appropriate range for the company and when they provide additional income opportunities or opportunities to increase the value of our company in the long term. Appropriate measures are thus taken to minimize risks to an acceptable level, to partially or completely transfer
them to third parties if economically feasible, or, if risk limitation does not appear to be sensible, to
avoid and observe them. All employees are obliged to handle risks responsibly within their own work
areas.
Risk management should be understood as a central element in the pragmatic and efficient implementation of statutory and operational requirements.
The Risk Management System addresses the following tasks:
•
•
•
•

the identification, analysis, assessment and documentation of risks
early identification of risks
risk control
risk reporting, including to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board

The Axel Springer SE risk management system is designed to create transparency relating to the
company-wide risk situation, as well as to identify significant and critical risks at an early stage. It is
intended to allow Axel Springer, in accordance with its risk policy principles, to react in time to risks
and to monitor the further progression of the risks as well as the implementation of control measures.
This procedure ensures the controlled and responsible handling of risks.

Internal Control System
The Axel Springer SE Internal Control System in particular serves to secure the effectiveness and
efficiency of business activities, to secure the reliability and completeness of internal and external reporting, allows for the reduction and detection of errors and ensures compliance with the legal provisions and internal specifications relevant for the company.
The Axel Springer SE Internal Control System includes the following elements:
•
•
•
•
•

the identification of appropriate and functional controls to ensure the effectiveness of risk control
measures
the definition and implementation of controls in the respective strategic and operational processes
the automation of controls for performance optimization
the systematic monitoring and documentation of controls for risks determined to be critical or
significant
internal and external reporting

In addition to periodic inspections of the Internal Control System by the Group Internal Audit Department, the ICS is continually subjected to a systematic self-evaluation in order to verify the functionality
and effectiveness of the entire control system.

29
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Stakeholder Interaction

The graphic shows “stakeholders” who have or could have an interest in Axel Springer SE. Sustainability reports in the GRI
format are oriented towards the concerns of stakeholders. The term “stakeholder” is used to denote a person or group
which has a legitimate interest in the course or outcome of a process. The term „stakeholder“ comes from the English. „Stake“ can be translated as investment, share or claim, „holder“ as owner. The term “stakeholder group” can also be used here.

Alongside annual reports, sustainability reports are important elements of a company‘s information
policy. The Sustainability Report published every two years by Axel Springer SE follows the Guidelines
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which change from time to time. This edition was prepared in
accordance with the latest G4 provisions and the so-called Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Initiative (GRI) sees itself as an ongoing international dialog which, through the definition of performance indicators, includes a large number of stakeholder groups. The secretariat of the
Global Reporting Initiative is based in Amsterdam.
The term „stakeholder“ comes from the English and is used to denote a person or group which has
or could have a legitimate interest in a company’s history or results. The extended G4 requirements
include the plausible derivation of the content of the report from the concerns of stakeholders which
have been researched as specifically as possible .
What is expected of our company, what is criticized? Which issues are of particular interest for users,
for readers, for non-readers, for advertising and print customers, for employees, for shareholders or
for environmental organizations that have dealings with our company? In addition to this, key stakeholders in the company are interviewed at regular intervals with the aid of market research.
Which stakeholder groups are we primarily interested in? (GRI-G4 survey No. 24)
Readers and users of our media services, advertising and print customers, employees, investors,
neighbors, visitors, school pupils, students, scientific institutes, state supervisory authorities and regulators, suppliers, NGOs and the media express particular interest in the organization’s operations as
well as its products at home and abroad.
Axel Springer also wants to be in the top group of media companies in terms of customer-friendliness.
The company uses the tried and tested TRI*M methodology from TNS Infratest to measure customerfriendly service.
TRI*M (Measure, Manage, Monitor) is the leading customer loyalty or stakeholder management system. It is a research approach customized to the respective business needs, which is used to transfer

30
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

the information from the survey of individuals or all relevant stakeholder groups into the entrepreneurial decision-making process. It supports the management in the setting of priorities and provides
guidance for the optimization of relations with the various target groups.
For the ninth time, Axel Springer SE has allowed the quality of its customer relationships to be assessed using the TRI*M index. Due to the progressive digitization of the company, the focus was on
the activities in this area. The evaluation of the digital Paid, Marketing and Classified Ad models was
further expanded at the same time. The results confirm the thesis that readers also appreciate the value of professional journalism in the digital world. Print titles will from now on only be measured every
two years, as the changes in this area are less dynamic than for the digital services.
These measurements target our priority stakeholder groups:
•
•
•

Readers / buyers
Users of websites
Advertising customers

A further instrument in the direct exchange with readers are the Readers‘ Advisory Councils. They
are intended to help us focus even more on the interests, concerns and problems of readers. The
participants tell us what is important to them, what they find good or bad and what issues should be
addressed in more depth.
Basis for the selection of stakeholder groups with whom to engage (GRI-G4 survey No. 25)
The focus is on users, readers and advertising customers who are so important for the long-term
success of the company. A further basis for the selection of stakeholders is the degree of concern or
interest in the work of the company. Readers and users of our media services, advertising and print
customers, employees, investors, start-ups, grown-ups, neighbors, visitors, school pupils, students,
scientific institutes, state supervisory authorities and regulators, suppliers, NGOs and the media express a particular interest in the organization’s operations as well as its products at home and abroad.
Various sources of information are used to rank the various concerns of our stakeholders – from market research among readers and surveys of the customer loyalty programs through the various reader
advisory councils up to the regular exchange with WWF, Greenpeace and Transparency International
in countries such as Finland, Sweden, Russia, Canada, the USA, China, Uruguay and Brazil as well as
internal employee surveys.
Where and how does interaction with stakeholders take place? (GRI-G4 survey No. 26)
Personal contact to stakeholders comes about, for example, through directly addressing them,
through exchanges of views at conferences, as well as through emails and phone calls.
Various sources of information are used to rank the various concerns of our stakeholders – from
market research among readers and surveys of the customer loyalty programs through the various
readers’ advisory councils up to the regular exchange with business associates, with government
departments, as well as with non-governmental organizations such as WWF, Greenpeace and Transparency International and internal employee surveys. The following table provides an overview of the
opportunities and occasions for dialog with the major stakeholders in our company.

31
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Stakeholder-Dialog
About Axel Springer

About stakeholders

Interaction

The company informs its stakeholders

Stakeholders articulate their
concerns to the company

Exchange of views and cooperation with stakeholders

Annual report, quarterly reports,
other financial publications,
“roadshows”, presentations, Annual Shareholders' Meeting, etc.

Since 2006, annual representative
and valid “Measuring, managing,
monitoring”-”TRI*M” survey by
TNS Infratest of readers, users
and advertisers . Ongoing market
research; employee surveys. Readers’ advisory councils, external
newspaper critiques

Works council meetings, regular
staff meetings with the respective
management. In Berlin: Executive
Board members meet employees from all corporate divisions
("Lunch with the boss")

The Sustainability Report published every two years in the
GRI format (http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de)

Continuous contact with
stakeholders. Lectures and
presentations as well as participation in public debates

Continuous and specific
exchange with employees,
users/readers, advertising and
print customers with financial
analysts and rating agencies,
with schools and universities,
with NGOs and government
agencies.

Corporate Communications as
a permanent point of contact for
media and other stakeholders;
replying to incoming requests by
email, by letter or by telephone;
social media, blogs and inside.
app; lectures and presentations;
participation in public debates;
interviews with other media; visits
to the company; the company
website www.axelspringer.de published in German and English

Stimuli and platform offerings on
social, economic and political
debates and conferences (such
as for example the Prizewinners
Ceremony of the German Sustainability Prize or the annual “WELT
Economic Summit”)

Internal Communications as a
permanent point of contact for
employees; Intranet and the iMag
employee magazine; inside.app;
mails and video messages to the
employees from the CEO

Membership in associations, participation in workshops with think
tanks, NGOs, universities etc.

32
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Participation in the Berliner CSR
camp; cooperation in the “Boreal
Business Forum” of the “Canadian Boreal Forest Agreements”,
a cooperation network of nongovernmental organizations,
the Canadian forest and paper
companies as well as international
customers of wood and paper
products:http://cbfa-efbc.ca/

Summary of the most important stakeholders’ concerns (GRI-G4 survey No. 27)
We consolidate the findings of the analysis of the various stakeholders‘ concerns into a materiality matrix, which at the same time yields the orientation and priorities of sustainability management. Another
guide are the issues and priorities of rating and ranking agencies in the area of sustainability.
In addition, there are the innovations and enhancements in the Evaluation System of the Institute for
Ecological Economic Research (ioew) as well as the indicator matrix of the Global Reporting Initiative
GRI, and the supplementary questions applicable to the media industry.
The subject areas are presented in the matrix according to the assessment of their relevance for the
stakeholders as well as for the company – and addressed in the context of this Sustainability Report.
The stakeholders concerns involve for example issues of journalistic independence, the separation of
advertising and editorial copy, the promotion of media literacy among young readers, data protection,
transparency and standards along the digital value chain as well as the safeguarding of social and
environmental standards along the wood, pulp, paper, printing and recycling chain.
Concerns of the Axel Springer company (GRI-G4 survey No. 18)
On the question, “What we are and what we want” the CEO of Axel Springer SE, Dr. Mathias Döpfner,
writes in his foreword to this Sustainability Report:
“The soul and spirit of the Axel Springer company is journalism. We serve our readers with independent and critical information and advice as well as good entertainment. Through our journalistic services we are making a contribution to the strengthening of freedom and democracy. The prerequisite
for this is our economic success. We are working every day to improve our journalistic, technological
and commercial competence.”

33
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Customer Loyalty

Axel Springer Customer Loyalty, in collaboration with the in-house market research department and the TNS Infratest research institute, uses the TRI*M method to ascertain the Axel Springer customer loyalty index. (Source: Axel Springer SE)

Modern sustainability reports base the selection of topics on the concerns of stakeholders. The term
stakeholder is used to denote a person or group which has an interest in the course or outcome of
a process. Customers are among the most important stakeholders of a company. This is why Axel
Springer SE consistently places the needs of its customers in the focus of its daily work. In order to
learn from and meet these needs, the company started a Group-wide project on customer loyalty in
2006 and has been carrying out extensive market research ever since. In doing so, Axel Springer Customer Loyalty works, among other things, with the TNS research institute‘s TRI*M method.
The method stands for „Measuring, Managing, Monitoring“, and for Axel Springer has meant a regular
and representative survey of buyers, subscribers, users, and advertising customers since 2006.
In 2015, Axel Springer SE once again asked for an assessment of its Paid Models, Marketing Models
and Classified Ad Models in its survey on external customer loyalty. The number of offerings from Axel
Springer for evaluation was expanded to 22.
The results show that print continues – even in times when the supply of digital brands is growing – to
rate highly with readers, also in younger target groups. With a modern treatment of the issues, critical
background reporting and exclusive news across all departments, the printed newspapers and magazines from Axel Springer are an ideal complement to digital offerings for the groups interviewed. The
simultaneous use of the digital offerings for current information shows a clear brand understanding on
the part of the customer: BILD-Zeitung readers also make use of the digital and mobile content from
the brand.
The method of measurement was revised in terms of time and content and further developed in 2015
– from TRI*M 1.0 to TRI*M 2.0. For the first time the objects were measured exclusively digitally by the
TNS market research institute – the print products via online panel and the websites „onsite“, i.e. on
the respective website itself. The on-site survey to evaluate the digital offerings is conducted continuously.

34
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Employee Satisfaction

What do men and women with career ambitions think about children, career and colleagues? The graphics take a look at
a number of issues. This demonstrates that agreement with numerous statements varies between the genders. (Source:
insidemag 1/2015 - Axel Springer SE)

The Chancen:gleich! (opportunities:equal!) initiative at Axel Springer was launched in April 2010 with
the goal of increasing the share of women in management positions throughout the group. In the context of this project, a first employee survey was carried out in 2010 . In November 2014, Axel Springer
carried out the “pulse check” and asked “Where are we four years after the first survey?”
2544 colleagues participated in the survey on the “Chancen:gleich!” initiative. The results showed how
far Axel Springer has come in terms of the promotion of women and family-friendliness since the first
survey in 2010. For the widest possible view of the Axel Springer “patchwork family”, colleagues from
the digital holdings meinestadt.de, Immonet and StepStone were also interviewed.
The direct comparison shows that Axel Springer has developed in the right direction in terms of
family-friendliness and the promotion of women over the past four and a half years. 56 percent of respondents assess career opportunities for women at Axel Springer as good to very good. In 2010, only
37 per cent were of this opinion. A closer look at the figures also shows that women and men assess
certain aspects of the equality of opportunity differently. For example, while 44 percent of women agree to a large extent that women have to do more within a division in order to be recognized, only 11
percent of the men surveyed affirm this statement.

35
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Trust through listening and verifiable action

This 12-minute video documents a discussion at the Technical University of Berlin in December 2013. Oliver Salge, Head of
Greenpeace Germany‘s Forest and Oceans Campaign and Florian Nehm, Corporate Sustainability Officer at Axel Springer
SE, explain their concepts of Stakeholder Management. Moderation: Professor Dr. Dodo zu Knyphausen-Aufseß. (Source:
Axel Springer SE)

Since 1993, we have been continuously sounding out the interests, concerns and priorities of relevant
stakeholders. Axel Springer SE published its first environmental report in 1994. In 1995, the Ahrensberg newspaper printing plant was the first in Europe to be validated according to the EU ecological
audit EMAS. In 2001, the first externally audited sustainability report appeared. The indicators of the
IÖW (Institute for Ecological Economy Research) as well as the GRI Media Sector Supplement are
important fundamental requirements.
Users of online services, readers, advertising and print customers, employees, investors, neighbors,
visitors, school pupils, students, scientific institutes, state supervisory authorities and regulators,
suppliers, NGOs and the media express an interest in the organization’s sustainability management
among other things.

This sketch gives an overview of the ‚stakeholders‘ using Axel Springer SE as an example. The term stakeholder is used
to refer to a person or group which has a legitimate interest in the course or outcome of a process or project. The term
„stakeholder“ comes from the English. „Stake“ can be translated as investment, share or claim , „holder“ as owner. The term
‚stakeholder group‘ is also increasingly catching on.

36
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

MOVING THE WORLD. Taking responsibility

What packaging and how much of it does the environmentally conscious customer need? A panel of experts looked into this
question at the invitation of the „MOVING THE WORLD. Taking responsibility.“ initiative. (Source: Moving the world)

DIE WELT presented the sustainability initiative „MOVING THE WORLD. Taking responsibility“ for the
first time in July 2011. The concept was developed and implemented by Axel Springer Media Impact,
Axel Springer‘s central marketing unit. The objectives of the initiative are to provide customers with
concrete solutions for sustainable advertising space and for the communication of their commitment
to sustainability.
Editorial platform for sustainable information and features: The up-to-date reporting of the
„WELT“ is concerned with the ecological, social and economic aspects of sustainability on a daily
basis. Texts on these topics can be found online at www.welt.de/dieweltbewegen.
Exchange and networking: The initiative has so far launched a variety of events networking people,
organizations and companies who campaign for more sustainability.

What power do consumers have to save the world through „eating properly“? The „MOVING THE WORLD. Taking responsibility“ initiative invited government representatives, entrepreneurs, corporate managers and environmentalists to explore this
question more thoroughly. (Source: Moving the world)

37
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Securing habitat for Canadian caribou

Montreal, Canada: Melissa Filion, Greenpeace forest campaigner, informs Corporate Sustainability Officer Florian Nehm
about the current status of the discussions on the protection of biodiversity in forestry. The habitat of the American reindeer
(caribou) is to be preserved jointly with the forestry industry.

Dialogue instead of cold shoulder: Engagement with the Association of German Magazine
Publishers VDZ
Anyone who identifies himself to Canadian environmentalists as a member of the „WEEDEESET“ is
usually received with benevolence – sometimes even approval. Because the „German Publishers“
commitment to virgin forests on the Canadian Pacific and the threatened woodland caribou in Ontario and Quebec are regarded positively. VDZ members are considered to be ecologically aware
purchasers of paper, that are also interested in Canadian pulp, which is processed in Germany and
other places to make high-quality magazine paper.
The Axel Springer SE Corporate Sustainability Officer‘s first fact-finding mission to British Colombia
took place back in 1994, together with the former managing director of the VDZ, Wolfgang Fürstner.
However, at that time, the atmosphere was frosty and charged with mistrust. Environmental organizations such as Greenpeace and the forestry industry faced each other irreconcilably. Loud railing,
protests and blockades were the order of the day. 7777 kilometers away in Germany, users of printing
paper made from Canadian pulp were open to criticism. And when the Premier of British Columbia
traveled to Hamburg to explain his viewpoint, he was attacked when still in his plane by environmental
activists in a „leafleting campaign above the clouds“ as the „Virgin forest killer on seat 1A“.
The objective of the first „Forest Journey“ to the Canadian West Coast was simply listening, understanding and signaling a willingness to talk. By way of introduction, a Professor from the University of
Vancouver explained the unique features of the regional forest ecology. This was followed by appointments with family-owned forestry operations on Vancouver Island, with environmental organizations,
with representatives of the Canadian indigenous people, with the Forestry Minister and with members
of the Opposition. In addition, there were discussions with forest workers furious at the „Tree Huggers“, as well as with reservedly cautious managers from major forestry companies and pulp producers.
Since then the Association of German Magazine Publishers, as a voice for the paper clients, has been
making a contribution to the development of workable compromises between forest utilization and
preservation in Canadian forestry. This has taken and will take a long time and in part tough negotiations. It took a process totaling 15 years before the major forest controversy concerning the „Great
Bear Rainforest“ was brought to a successful settlement in British Columbia in 2009.

38
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

It was and is about reconciling the concerns of the forestry workers, the mayors of remote towns, the
indigenous people, environmental organizations, the forestry, pulp, paper and sawmill companies, as
well as those of the provincial government.
With the help of this experience a pan-Canadian framework agreement was also able to be signed in
May 2010 – the „Canadian Boreal Forest Agreement“ (CBFA). This relates to the protection of a forest
area twice as large as Germany and at the same time the largest protected area of this type in the
world. However, numerous details remain to be negotiated for its implementation. The main actors
are members of the influential „Forest Products Association of Canada (FPAC)“ as well as a number of
environmental organizations under the auspices of Greenpeace. All stakeholders have developed their
thinking and found ways to build the necessary degree of flexibility and trust. Representatives of the
VDZ, including Axel Springer SE, take part in these discussions once or twice a year as ‚active observers‘.
The initiative for a dialog in the Canadian forest has resulted in valuable experience for the stakeholder
management system, which until today has also contributed to de-escalation in similar conflicts in
other countries. The recommendations include, first and foremost
• The inclusion of as many affected stakeholders as possible
• A lot of patience and a willingness to understand the other positions
• Professional mediation where possible and carefully documented minutes
• A readiness to admit one‘s own mistakes promptly
• The ability to offer constructive alternatives

39
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Innovation through conflict

Oliver Salge (Leiter Wald- und Meereskampagne Greenpeace), Eva Goris (Journalistin und Pressesprecherin der Deutschen
Wildtier Stiftung) und Florian Nehm (Leiter Referat Nachhaltigkeit und EU-Affairs Axel Springer) vor dem Greenpeace Sitz in
Hamburg

Hamburg in June 2010: The journalist Eva Goris documents a conversation between Oliver Salge, Head
of Greenpeace Germany‘s Forest and Oceans Campaign and Florian Nehm, Corporate Sustainability
Officer at Axel Springer SE on the viewpoints of environmental organizations and companies.
The Greenpeace factor! What can a company do when Greenpeace comes? There is no easy solution,
but one thing is certain: Clichés, empty promises and the faint hope that the „green lobbyists“ will allow
the wool to be pulled over their eyes at the conference table do not bear fruit in this type of debate.
While struggling to find solutions, there is only one answer to this question: Remain open-minded,
speak and act early.
„Greenpeace? They don‘t talk to us...“ This is a sentence that Florian Nehm, Corporate Sustainability
Officer at Axel Springer SE and also responsible for EU government affairs, often hears when he meets
managers and executives from other corporations. „My experience has been quite different,“ says
Nehm. He meets Oliver Salge in the Creative Room at the Greenpeace headquarters on the Grosse Elbstrasse in Hamburg. „Head of Forest and Oceans Campaign“ is the job title on Salge‘s business card.
This is of course, politically correctly, printed on recycled paper. Two men are sitting opposite each other
in sagging seat elements. Men who, from a purely visual viewpoint, could not be more different. Florian Nehm personifies the consummate manager in a fine suit; Oliver Salge is emphatically informal in a
T-shirt and jeans with youthful silver creole earrings. The small room is rather austere. Photos of spectacular actions from around the world are hung on its white walls: Greenpeace activists in the ice, Greenpeace activists in a rubber dinghy, Greenpeace activists in the forest. The activists, financed by their
approx. 550,000 donors as a moral authority in issues concerning nature, with the mandate of being
„fighters for a healthy environment“ and admired as „green power“ within the state, are seen as more
of an enemy by many corporate managers. Green warriors, against whom there is no proper corporate
strategy, unpredictable and disruptive. The worrying question „What shall we do if Greenpeace comes?“
expresses what some executives in large companies feel: A fear of contact combined with a healthy
dose of respect for the unknown opponent.
For the ignorant, the external impression of the „Greenpeace inteference factor“ swings between two
extremes: one considering the Greenpeace campaigners as green fools, the other as extremely smart
environmental gurus. Both are wrong! But what should you do when Greenpeace comes? After years of
analysis searching for solutions to this worrying question, Axel Springer‘s sustainability specialist knows
of only one answer. It can be reduced to a few words: „Remain open-minded, speak and act early!“

40
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

„Nothing is worse than constantly changing contact persons“
There is no time for small talk between the two men in the creative den of the green lion. The meeting
is friendly, but conducted self-assuredly by both parties and focused very firmly on the issue. They
know each other and they know the topic of conversation down to the finest details which often seem
insignificant to outsiders. They are talking about paper, about trees, the balance between forestry and
forest conservation, about sustainability and shared experience, which also has a lot to do with „personnel sustainability“ at Axel Springer. This is certainly how the man from Greenpeace sees it. „Florian
Nehm has been our discussion partner for years. This is a good thing. Nothing is worse than constantly
changing contact persons who have no idea of the issues and are rushed into the fire by the corporate
management when Greenpeace comes,“ says Oliver Salge. Experience that the environmentalist has
gained time and again in dealings with other corporations.
His voice is calm, even a little monotonous when he reports on the conservation of virgin forests in
Canada, Brazil, Indonesia, Finland and Russia, recalls moratoria on logging and talks about concepts to
„protect the forest, even though the timber industry is using individual areas“. Oliver Salge plays the diplomat and sounds somewhat like an experienced, professional politician in an election campaign tent.
It sounds almost statesmanlike when he says: „The road was not always easy and has been characterized by setbacks.“
He speaks of „experience since 1997“, his experience. It is not only at Axel Springer that there is consistency in terms of forestry. The environmentalist from Greenpeace is also an „old hand“ in business.
Then Salge verbally flexes his muscles with a sonorous timbre as he recalls a failed logging moratorium:
„It was perhaps not entirely clear to the Canadian pulp producers at the time that Greenpeace means
what Greenpeace says!“ What sounds like a veiled threat for future meetings between corporations and
Greenpeace may indeed be interpreted as a warning. „Greenpeace does not let anyone pull the wool
over its eyes!“ and he adds quietly:
Greenpeace operates internationally – and once the economic
threshold has been crossed, even a
global corporation has to act.“ Then
a winner‘s smile plays around the
corners of his mouth and he says:
„Today, 28 million hectares of virgin
forest in Canada are protected from
the chainsaws of the timber industry
for the next three years.“
He is proud. That is unmistakable when he enthuses about the
„unique forest ecosystem of the
northern hemisphere“, talking of bears, wolves and caribou. He calmly
Exchange of ideas in the Greenpeace headquarters in Hamburg: Campaign
articulates words such as „logging
director Oliver Salge (right), journalist Eva Goris (center) and Sustainability
Manager Florian Nehm (left)
ban, peaceful protest, tough negotiations“ and is happy to talk
about „the long campaign that brought even Canada‘s leading wood and paper manufacturers to their
knees“. Greenpeace put the pressure on. The fact that this „pressure“ would not have led to success
without the large paper clients from media companies such as Axel Springer SE, the WAZ media group
and DuMont, was even gratefully acknowledged in a Greenpeace press release. „German newspaper
and magazine publishers procure pulp and paper from Canada and have campaigned for a solution to
the virgin forest issue“, it says in the announcement made by Greenpeace. Praise from the „greenest“
quarter. „But the road was not always easy...“, Salge relativizes.

41
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

NGOs as top clients
The discussion between Oliver Salge and Florian Nehm on the Elbe is a kind of interim balance in the
cooperation between Europe‘s leading multimedia enterprise and Germany‘s largest and most powerful
environmental lobbyist. They have known each other for years and have come closer through the occasionally also hard exchanges of ideas in the search for constructive solutions for „clean“ paper. They
have achieved a lot together. This is not a love affair.
Nevertheless, one thing is immediately noticeable whatever the differences: The respect is mutual. „No
innovation without conflict“ – a statement both immediately agree with.
Today the Goodie Two Shoes in the Greenpeace rubber dinghy can no longer be ignored. As members
of a non-governmental organization (NGO), they have become an influential brand in international political and economic circles. „NGOs such as Greenpeace have a significant ability,“ says Florian Nehm.
„They can determine issues publicly.“ This means that NGOs can initiate issues or even damage the
reputation of a company or product! At the same time, the constructive contact with Greenpeace can
result in innovative ideas which would warrant expensive consultancy fees on the market. „For many
companies, the view of this aspect frequently remains distorted due to uncertainty in their dealings with
the feared opponent Greenpeace“, says Florian Nehm. Management that is open-minded, willing to
learn and innovative is required in order to make constructive progress. „This really should be a case
study in every business administration textbook,“ says Florian Nehm. „Answers to the often pointed
questions that Greenpeace poses simply have to be genuinely persuasive.“ At the same time this does
not mean a humble approach to dealings with Greenpeace. „Far from it“, he stresses. „My experience
in recent years shows that good new solutions for companies often arise from frank discussions of the
issue.“
But what should you do when Greenpeace comes? Oliver Salge is very familiar with the typical answers,
which he hears in confrontations with other corporations: „Corporations like to hide behind the concept
of the company secret.“ The environmentalists‘ forestry activist knows the standard excuses: Firstly: We
are far too small a company. Since Greenpeace usually confronts the top ten of an industry that excuse
is soon worthless!“ Secondly: The other companies are to blame! Thirdly: I am not responsible! Salge
stresses: „None of these were ever offered to me in my dealings with the Springer company.“
Nehm: „This also has to do with customer service. We view the NGOs less as troublemakers but rather
as top customers.“ Good customer relations can help to solve a lot of problems in advance. „Answers
to inquiries may not be put aside or even ignored. Feedback should be as quick, competent and friendly
as possible.“
Misunderstandings, also on the part of Greenpeace, can for example be avoided by the environmentalists not simply addressing their letters „to the management“, but wherever possible to a specific
addressee. Otherwise, controversial post can perhaps drift around in large companies from post room
to post room for days on end or even get lost. Then, Greenpeace in turn may think: Typical! They do
not want to answer. This can lead to hasty reactions which are in turn answered by excessive counterreactions. There is often neither a deliberate strategy nor evil intention behind such misunderstandings.
Even if the cause is the result of a certain negligence, such situations can blow up easily.
At the same time, in most cases there are no simple answers for the optimization of production processes anyway. The activist Oliver Salge is also aware of this: „Even Greenpeace does not always have
solutions at hand.“ In the meantime Oliver Salge sees the naive „No, thank you!“ mindset from the
founding period of the Green movement as overcome. One thing is particularly important to him in this
process: That a company is serious in addressing the Greenpeace demands.
Constructive discussions about requested changes work best when the participants on both sides are
well informed. Florian Nehm compares this often lengthy debate with American court movies. „You have
the prosecution, the defense and the jury. It is sometimes very emotional.“ And Greenpeace as the pro

42
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

secutor is the master of emotion. The companies must be well prepared for their defense, especially as
the television media and the public judge their attitude and credibility as critically as a jury.
Once the Greenpeace criticism is in the media, the initially weaker position of defense is often all that
remains to the corporations. With the protest banner hanging from the roof and leaflets being distributed to passersby in front of the main entrance, the company concerned is often left with its back to the
wall. Greenpeace in the role of the prosecutor initially has the attention of the public on its side. „At this
stage, how a corporation responds is extremely important“, emphasizes Florian Nehm.
The power of the protest pictures
Nehm is happy to describe an early encounter with the environmentalists from Greenpeace. „It was in
1993. All of a sudden the Greenpeace prosecutors were in the main entrance of our publishing house in
Hamburg and asked provocatively: „How much forest does your magazine cost?“ For media coverage
they had brought a TV crew and photographers along with them.“ Instead of calling for the security
service – as could certainly have been expected at that time – the environmentalists were shortly afterwards sitting around the conference table with managers, works councilors and the Group spokeswoman. „And we talked,“ Florian Nehm recalls. It was a big surprise – for everyone involved! Greenpeace
had not expected such an open-minded response from the supposed „enemy Springer“. There were
no dramatic pictures of a counteraction. Nehm admits today: „I was very proud of my company at that
moment.“
Dealing with Greenpeace is not easy. Many corporations find the initial contact difficult. Who is responsible when the feared opponent is standing in the foyer? „We don‘t deliver anything, we don‘t buy
anything“, says Oliver Salge and describes the procedure as follows: „First of all the question arises:
Who should talk to Greenpeace?“ The sales manager, the CEO or the public relations department? „In
the public relations department we are confronted with people who know a lot about advertising and
the positive public image of the corporation. But they have no idea of the production processes within
the group.“ He could write the standard responses from the public relations departments „himself“ says
Salge. Often Greenpeace‘s criticism is not taken seriously. „And that is when just what corporate leaders fear the most happens: Greenpeace comes and uses the means of direct action“, that is: protest
banners are hanging from the rooftops of the corporate headquarters and the public focuses directly
on the denounced problem in a flurry of photographers‘ flashlights and TV cameras. And Greenpeace
shines brighter in the brilliant glare of the public eye as a moral authority with great credibility compared
to a corporation which, viewed from the outside, appears rather „faceless“ with its cold facades. This increases the impact of the „Greenpeacers“, who seemingly selflessly chain themselves up for the „worthy
cause“ or even put themselves in danger while at the same time also risking legal consequences. The
„Heroes from Greenpeace“ deputize for Jim Block from Cologne. They boldly articulate what everyone „always wanted to say“. A corporation can only rarely counter this strong emotion. If the security
staff arrive and „dislodge“ the heroes, the environmentalists win a media victory. This lies in apparently
„losing“ against the stronger party. That is the David-versus-Goliath principle. TV cameras and photos
pass „judgment“ – perhaps even unintentionally, and without ultimately wanting to „judge“. Dramatic
pictures speak for themselves.
„How much forest does your magazine cost?“
Between Greenpeace and Axel Springer SE, the campaign in 1993 was initially limited to a simple question: „How much forest does your magazine cost?“ But this question at that time was almost revolutionary. It is only since the climate debate that everyone today quite naturally asks about the ecological
footprint of a product. „At that time the interest in the value chain was new“, Florian Nehm recalls. There
were more questions than answers. Where does the responsibility for publishing products begin? At the
gate of the printing facilities or earlier? „Axel Springer SE would have liked to have been able to present
a 100-page-long document in 1993, but we didn‘t have one.“ Not yet! While other publishers succinctly referred Greenpeace to the paper industry and in turn were confronted with protest actions such as
„Thursday is Deforestation Day“ (as happened in front of Hamburg‘s Gruner & Jahr publishing house),

43
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

the bottom line at Axel Springer right from the beginning was: „No one should understand more about
the entire manufacturing chain of our products than the managers in our company themselves.“ Paper
as an unaccounted for resource? The media company‘s response to the environmentalists‘ provocative
questioning at the time: „Give us four weeks time and then we will give you an answer.“
The Greenpeace visit to the Hamburg-based publishing house
is seen by Florian Nehm as a helpful impetus. From a journalistic
viewpoint, the question „How much forest does your magazine
cost?“ is of course pointed. „And we as a journalistic company did
our homework, researched our paper suppliers in Germany, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Canada and Russia and by the end of the
process found answers not only to this question.“ Of course, at
the time discussions came up repeatedly. Can the forest question
be phrased in that way? Where does responsibility begin? What
has the publisher to do with the production processes in the paper industry? „Today our position is clear: Even if there is only one
stick whose origin remains unaccounted for – we need to find out
soon and ourselves, whether this stick has grown sustainably. As
a result, we are just as interested in our paper manufacturers‘ pulp
suppliers – from Finland to Canada and Uruguay.“

Oliver Salge: „Greenpeace means what
Greenpeace says.“

A kind of transparency which was new at the beginning of the
1990s. „We published the list of our paper suppliers, and their
answers to questions unusual for that time such as: Where is your
forest? Who is responsible for inspections? Does an environmental evaluation take place? How is the dialog with environmental
organizations locally?

„We then presented the results at a press conference.“ There were more business representatives than
journalists there, as this was the first time that a publisher had made these facts public. The process
was revolutionary! This transparency was preceded by a major concern. Within our publishing house we
were wondering: Are we now always open for attack whenever our suppliers are caught in the crossfire? Nehm: „But the opposite proved to be the case. We learned immediately whenever a problem arose
and were able to react very quickly. Escalations therefore didn‘t happen at all.“
„If anything was unclear or the presentations seemed implausible, Florian Nehm was not averse to
going into the forest on site himself“, recalls Oliver Salge. Surprises were often waiting – even for Greenpeace. „We learned a lot at this time, also as an environmental organization.“ For example, that „virgin
forest“ is often seen differently by some users in Canada, Russia and Finland than it is by Greenpeace.
What is deemed an „ecosystem worthy of preservation“ by the environmentalists was often interpreted
fundamentally differently on site. Salge: „Especially for foresters, virgin forest is often nothing more than
old and thereby poor forest that is mature and needs to be harvested before it decays.“ It is within this
area of tension that the forest protectors and forest users, Greenpeace and Axel Springer SE are moving in an ongoing dialog. „It is a demanding and also a painful process,“ Florian Nehm sums up today.
Sometimes one side has to back down from its maximal demands, sometimes the other. Greenpeace
also knows that solutions must be viable: not only for the forest. Also for companies, forest workers
and local residents, trade unions and other NGOs. All stakeholders want to benefit in the end. „And fair
moderated dialog is the only way to this goal“ emphasizes Florian Nehm.
From 1995, the publishing house extended its contracts with paper suppliers to include so-called
forestry standards, with the company sporadically reviewing compliance on site. Axel Springer SE attaches great importance to sustainability. This means: Biodiversity must be ensured, so that animal and
plant species are not endangered by forest use. Paper manufacturers must perform eco-controls as
purchasers of timber and provide employees with environmental training.

44
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Taking consideration of indigenous peoples such as the Sami in Northern Scandinavia is also a part
of forestry standards, as is an open information policy by paper suppliers. Furthermore, the publisher
attaches great value to the fact that no more timber is harvested than will re-grow. The forestry standards do not go far enough for Oliver Salge in this point. „We are talking about economic sustainability
from the perspective of forestry experts. In environmental terms, with eye on valuable habitats, you
cannot simply replace a tree with a new tree.“ Nevertheless: For Salge, the Springer company‘s forestry
standards are „important results“. And he adds: „Despite the intensity of the debate with Axel Springer
SE, we never had the feeling they only wanted a greenwashing from Greenpeace.“ He emphasized in
particular: „The discussions with Springer had substance and were conducted with seriousness.“
No cozying up
This form of competent and honest dealings with one another is
frequently lacking with other companies. Oliver Salge, who studied
economics and social sciences,
cited the negative example of a
meeting between the environmentalists and a large food manufacturer, which took place recently. The
contact was initially reduced to the
exchange of letters between the
management of the corporation
and the Greenpeace management.
Then, Greenpeace started looking
for a discussion. This discussion did
indeed take place, but the bottom
Studying Canadian forestry maps in the Hamburg Greenpeace headquarters.
line however, was that it was reduced again to a kind of exchange of
letters. „We were handed a letter
which stated that the corporation declared its support for the environment and that virgin forest should
be preserved – period. No answer was forthcoming to the Greenpeace inquiry, as to what the company
intends to do to emphasize the demands in countries such as Indonesia.“ All of the Greenpeace proposals – for example to send a letter to the ambassadors of the respective countries – were ignored by
the company representatives. Oliver Salge is irritated by such behavior: „The leading figures in such a
powerful company naively think that you can simply write a letter to Greenpeace, and then they will just
settle down and be quiet and everything will be fine!“ It is the result of a discussion that is important for
Greenpeace. „And nothing came of this contact with the corporation! The management was only interested in absolution.“ This behavior reflects uncertainty in dealing with the feared opponent Greenpeace.
It attests to the almost pitiful helplessness of the group management concerned.
Much has changed since 1993, not only in the relationship between Axel Springer and Greenpeace.
The annual report of the Finnish paper company Stora Enso – an Axel Springer SE paper supplier –
includes a photo of Jouko Karvinen, CEO of the Group, in conversation with Oliver Salge. The issue is
a longstanding conflict concerning ecologically sensitive forest areas, whose protection is demanded in
Northern Finland. Karvinen praises the „open dialog“ with Greenpeace.
Negotiations in Canada and Northern Finland
The tenacity of the paper customer Axel Springer certainly also contributed to the reaching of an agreement after many years of debate in this virgin forest conflict in Northern Finland. 100 000 hectares of
forest have been taken out of use here, 17 000 hectares continue to be cultivated. „From our perspective this is a good compromise“, says Oliver Salge. „In addition all of the NGOs are backing this solution
– including the Sami, whose land is directly affected.“

45
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

A process does not always end with such a success. In the Canadian province of British Columbia for
example, there are local environmental groups who expected more from Greenpeace and at the end are
even angry with Greenpeace. „This is unjustified and it hurts“, says the forestry expert. „At the end of a
process like this, you can never ensure that all parties are completely happy. Ultimately it comes down
to an acceptable compromise. Greenpeace is not against the timber industry – we want a good timber
industry.“
In the search for acceptable solutions for environmental and social sustainability, the paper user Axel
Springer and Greenpeace still occasionally give each other „a hard time“. Florian Nehm: „We don‘t cozy
up to them. But when analyzing the risks, opportunities and trends of sustainable logging worldwide,
the regular exchange of ideas with a critical environmental organization such as Greenpeace is a very
important element.“
The wind is blowing fiercely, the Elbe is troubled. Now and then a patch of blue sky appears and the
scene is immersed in bright sunlight. Meteorologically Hamburg is showing itself from its dramatic side.
In spite of the unsettled weather, Oliver Salge wants to show Florian Nehm the Canadian Indians‘ totem
pole. The environmentalists transported the raw trunk by ship across the Atlantic to the Elbe. „It was
then carved by indigenous Canadians into a totem pole over a number of months during a protest trip
to German paper manufacturers and paper buyers in Germany more than ten years ago,“ says Salge.
The totem now stands on the waterfront just behind the Greenpeace headquarters on the Grosse Elbstrasse.
„We were given this totem pole by the indigenous Canadian people – the Indians“, Salge declares
proudly. He comes across as very gentle, as he says: „They ceremoniously thanked Greenpeace for
its commitment.“ Both men touch the old, dried-out wood of the totem. „We need a corporate culture,
managers who take more responsibility for the environment...“, the wind freshens taking Oliver Salge‘s
words away with it.

46
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

How a resource conflict can be resolved.

Front page of Greenpeace documentation: „Conflict Resolution and British Columbia‘s Great Bear Rainforest“. This report
documents the origins, escalation and easing of a major dispute about the balance between the use and protection of temperate rainforests in British Columbia.

On the west coast of Canada in March 2009, an ongoing negotiation process to find a balance between the use and protection of temperate rainforests which had lasted almost 15 years was successfully concluded. Participants included the provincial government of British Columbia, representatives
of numerous Indian tribes, environmental organizations, the inhabitants of remote communities and a
number of large companies from the wood, pulp and paper sector.
As customers of paper manufacturers that import cellulose from British Columbia, German magazine
publishers, including Axel Springer SE, are also directly involved in this stakeholder process.
Under the title „Conflict Resolution and British Columbia‘s Great Bear Rainforest“, a 30 page documentation about overcoming what at times was a violent conflict was published in agreement with
Greenpeace. It also includes valuable insights into the factors that can help to resolve conflicts for
natural resources.
Among the most important recommendations are
1. Time, patience and a willingness to understand the other positions
2. Professional mediation and carefully documented minutes of meetings
3. A readiness to admit your own mistakes promptly
4. The ability to offer constructive alternatives
5. The potential inclusion of all stakeholders affected

47
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Topics and Objectives
What is expected of our company? Which issues are of particular interest for users, for readers, for
non-readers, for advertising and print customers, for employees, for shareholders or for environmental
organizations that deal with sustainability issues in our industry?
Sustainability experts refer to these “interest groups” with the English term “stakeholders”. They are
included in the discussion on the priorities of sustainability management. A continuous dialog with
stakeholders and stakeholder surveys allow an assessment of the general social interest.
We use various sources of information to classify the various concerns, – from market research
among readers and customer surveys through the various reader advisory boards up to the regular
exchange with WWF, Greenpeace and Transparency International in countries such as Finland, Sweden, Russia, Canada, the USA, China, Uruguay and Brazil.
We consolidate the findings into a materiality matrix which yields the orientation and priorities of sustainability management. The topics are presented in the matrix according to their assessed relevance for
the stakeholders on the one hand and for the company on the other.

The most important concerns of stakeholders in Axel Springer SE
1. Journalistic independence
Essential for corporate sustainability as well as acceptance by readers, users and society. How is this
stakeholder concern managed?
Investment in the training of journalists; Strengthening the values of freedom, democracy, the rule of
law, competition, property, human rights, cosmopolitanism and tolerance through journalistic work;
Separation of editorial copy and advertising; Code of Conduct and Compliance Management; Axel
Springer Prize for Young Journalists; Commitment to Reporters Without Borders; Commitment to “fair
share” and “fair search” for quasi-monopolistic search engines;
2. Product Responsibility and Customer Satisfaction
Essential for corporate sustainability as well as acceptance by readers, users, advertising and print
customers and society. How is this stakeholder concern managed?
Journalistic independence; Care in the treatment of sources; Innovative services for online users,
readers and advertising customers; Customer service with the goal of becoming Europe‘s most
customer-friendly media company; Data protection; Media protection of young persons; Safeguarding
of social and environmental standards; Compliance with justice and the law; Measurement of own
customer orientation;
3. Identification with employees and attractiveness as employer
Essential for corporate sustainability as well as the binding of excellent, entrepreneurially-minded employees, for example in editing, software development, printing technology, marketing, distribution and
management;
How is this stakeholder concern managed?
Identity: We are and will remain a publishing house, a house of journalism;
Mission: The successful establishment of independent journalism in the digital world;
Objective: We want to be the world‘s leading digital publishing house;
Variable remuneration; Pension plan; Family service; Modern cuisine and facilities; Onboarding; Networking; Mentoring; Further training; Digital Campus; Talent Campus; Development opportunities;

48
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Equal opportunities and diversity; Health management
4. Compliance with high standards (Corporate Governance, Compliance with Social and
Environmental Standards)
Essential for corporate sustainability as well as acceptance by employees, users/readers, customers
and society; How is this stakeholder concern managed?
Strengthening of the values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law; competition, property, human
rights, cosmopolitanism and tolerance through journalistic work; Good corporate governance as a
central element of responsible corporate management and control; The Compliance Committee with
representatives from the different divisions of the company acts to ensure cross-sector compliance;
Compliance whistleblower system for employees, business associates and customers; International
Social Policy; Environmental Guidelines;
5. Profitability (creativity and innovation capacity)
Essential for the long-term viability of the company; How is this stakeholder concern managed?
Networking with the current generation of founders of digital start-ups; Developing an international
digital portfolio with strong growth and profitability;
Transformation of established strong media brands; Own new online developments; Strategicallyoriented acquisitions of web companies;

49
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Insights and Perspectives
1. The derivation of the significant issues
Alongside the Annual Reports, Sustainability Reports are important elements of a company‘s information policy. The Sustainability Report published every two years by Axel Springer SE follows the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are amended from time to time. This edition was
prepared in accordance with the latest G4 provisions and the “Core” option of the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI).
The extended G4 requirements, which can represent a particular challenge, include the plausible
derivation of the report content from the concerns of the so-called stakeholders which have been researched as specifically as possible. The term stakeholder comes from the English and is used to denote a person or group which has or could have a legitimate interest in a company’s history or results.
What is expected of our company, what is criticized? Which issues are of particular interest for users,
for readers, for non-readers, for advertising and print customers, for employees, for shareholders or
for environmental organizations that have dealings with our company? In addition to this, key stakeholders in the company are interviewed at regular intervals with the aid of market research.
Further findings arise through the work of the Readers‘ Advisory Councils, as well as the regular direct
exchange with business associates, government agencies, universities and non-governmental organizations, among others. Examples of interaction platforms of the continuous stakeholder dialog are
summarized in a table.
The company’s perspective on this is explained by Dr. Mathias Döpfner, CEO of Axel Springer SE, in
his foreword “What we are and what we want”. The stakeholder concerns resulting from these sources are then compacted into a Materiality List. For Axel Springer SE, this results in the following five
points:
•
•
•
•
•

Journalistic Independence,
Product Responsibility and Customer Satisfaction,
Identification with Employees and Attractiveness as an Employer,
Compliance with high Standards (Corporate Governance, Compliance with Social and Environmental Standards) and
Profitability (Creativity and Innovative Capability).

What allows these five points to be ‘material’ and how they are dealt with in practice by the company
is explained here, with numerous references to the relevant pages of this report.

2. The improved identification of Group-wide CO2 emissions
Progressive digitization uses a lot of electrical energy. Studies estimate that the energy demand of
digital devices and data centers world-wide generates around two percent of global CO2 emissions,
with the trend increasing.
So the question of identifying, in a complete, continuous and verifiable way, the amount of energy
actually consumed in a company with as little effort as possible, in the light of further digitization, the
ongoing debate about CO2-neutral production as well as climate-efficient corporate sales, continues
to gain in importance. As long as real energy consumption does not appear in the “control cockpit”,

50
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

actual CO2 emissions also remain unclear.
However, digitization and the internationalization of the company have diminished the representativeness of energy data in recent years. This is because in the course of the progressive digitization of the
Group, Axel Springer SE is consolidating its now more than 180 larger and smaller companies located
on several continents (the list of holdings as at 31 December 2015 can be found in the Annual Report
2015).
The Corporate Sustainability Office and Group Accounting are cooperating to counteract the problem
of the decline in representativeness of CO2 emissions reported. The data collection tool “IAS Notes”,
used by Accounting and interface-linked throughout the company world-wide, was expanded to
include a “Reporting Energy” input mask. This allows a first, significantly more complete record of the
amount of electricity, district heating and natural gas used worldwide in 2014 and 2015. The results
still contain a number of uncertainties, however they provide a good basis for the further optimization
of complete data collection. A Country Overview of CO2 emissions relating to electricity, natural gas
and district heating can be found here.
Besides the focus on renewable energy sources, the progress made in the context of Green IT, the
conversion to LED lighting and improved energy management in everyday office life, such as, for
example, the reduction of PC standby phases, the now significantly improved data situation is an
important foundation for the continuous optimization of the CO2 efficiency of a company whose digital
media channels are already contributing almost three-quarters of pro forma Group revenues internationally.
And once again to questions from our stakeholders
In addition to the systematic consultation of stakeholders described above, we have also noted
individual voices, for example that of an environmental organization in Hamburg and of a professor of
economics in Berlin. I should like to reflect here briefly on the concerns mentioned:
On the “importance of sustainability as well as the company’s environmental footprint”:
Sustainability is a triad of environment, social responsibility and economy. A company that stands for
critical journalism must therefore also stand up to critical review. This is why the company has published Environmental and Sustainability Reports since 1995.
On the “attitude with regard to international climate agreements”: For the management, agreements of this kind are references to future requirements, which then also turn up again in the form
of customer requests or specific regulation. For the editorial offices, international climate agreements
are an important topic, which users and readers should be continuously informed about. At the same
time, editorial offices also contribute to the debate in society on this topic with their analyses and
critical comments.
On the “innovation and development of sustainable alternatives”: Axel Springer founded his
publishing house in Hamburg in 1946; the editors spent the first year working above a warehouse for
tea and spices, often without electricity and using borrowed typewriters. Through internationalization
and digitization, Axel Springer SE today is not only market leader in the German print business, but is
also active in more than 40 countries through subsidiaries, joint ventures and licenses. Such a development is inconceivable without the efficient use of resources and continuous innovative restlessness.

51
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

On the “transparency and conciseness of sustainability reporting”: With regard to user-friendliness, Axel Springer publishes its Sustainability Reports exclusively in digital form. With each new
edition, an attempt is made to keep the quantity of information as concise as possible. In contrast to
this are the increasingly detailed requirements from the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, the standard
for sustainability reporting, as well as from the numerous rating agencies, who want to make themselves a picture of the company’s sustainability profile.
On the “evaluation of performance indicators”: This is also a challenge for the business administration and an important field for the further development of Sustainability Reports. A prerequisite for
benchmarking is the identification of the most complete data. With the example of energy and CO2,
this edition reports on a new approach.
Please do not hesitate to contact the Corporate Sustainability Office at any time with your questions
and suggestions.
Best regards
Florian Nehm
Corporate Sustainability Officer
Axel Springer SE
Tel.: +49 30 2591 793 70
nachhaltigkeit@axelspringer.de

52
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Spheres of activity for 2016 and 2017
Spheres of activity

Objectives and Measures

Sustainability Management
Expansion and optimization of the
sustainability processes

Further development of the reporting processes with
regard to the requirements of the G4 standard of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
Further completion of the data collected on energy use for the
entire company.
Preparation of the necessary prerequisites with a view to the
“Act on Strengthening the Non-financial Reporting of Companies in their Management and Group Management Reports” .

Employees
Increasing the proportion of women in
leadership positions from the current
average of 27.9 percent (2015) to over
30 percent (by 2018) throughout the
company.

Through the “Chancen:gleich!” project which was launched in
2010, Axel Springer wants to entrench more diversity in the
company and to achieve a more equitable balance between
women and men in leadership positions. This will include,
among other things, the optimization of personnel processes
and the setting of individual targets for each department.

Motivation and satisfaction among
employees through a family-friendly
environment.

Axel Springer wants to be a company in which employees are
able to flexibly arrange family commitments with their career.
With day nurseries near the company in Berlin and Hamburg
and our co-operation partner pme Familienservice, the company has sent initial major signals.

Promotion of employee health

From Apple to Yoga course: We want our employees to feel
good – and do a lot to ensure this, because only healthy
employees are ready to fly high. The three pillars of our health
management system – exercise, nutrition, relaxation – help
them preventively keep fit: for example, through co-operation
with gyms and spine centers, with days of action offering free
health check-ups and screening, cooking workshops or even
seminars and lectures on current topics.

Offers from Personnel Development for
the digital transformation

“move” is an initiative launched by Personnel Development
and stands for awakening and movement. It is the call to try
something new together and, with curiosity, to explore the
undiscovered. “move” includes a variety of formats, measures
and offers from Personnel Development, which deal with issues relating to the future and the digital world.

Development of sustainability knowhow

Support of subsidiaries in the area of digital services.

Value chain

53
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

General measures to improve energy
and/or CO2 efficiency

Identification of the amount of energy used through the entire
company: In the course of digitization and internationalization
the company had around 180 consolidated subsidiaries at the
end of 2015 (the complete list is documented in the annual
report). Existing reporting procedures in Group Accounting
will in future be used in order to identify the total amount of
energy used in the company and the resulting CO2 emissions.
For this purpose, the data collection tool “IAS Notes” which
is interface-linked world-wide throughout the company was
expanded to include a “Reporting Energy” input mask.

Improvement of the energy and/or CO2
efficiency in the current operation of the
data centers

To improve energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness, the
internal data centers at the German sites of Axel Springer SE
are being largely dissolved and relocated step-by-step into the
central location (Unified Data Center) of the digital business
service provider Atos SE. The use of state-of-the-art data systems technology should improve CO2 efficiency.

Research into the innovation potential
for the improvement of energy and/or
CO2 efficiency in the entire process of
digital data processing

Exploration of possible opportunities for co-operation, for
instance in the context of research projects.

Improvement of the energy and/or CO2
efficiency at the digital workstation

Energy audit at locations in Germany: Implementation of the
recommendations arising from the energy audit carried out at
23 locations in Germany in 2015 for the improvement of energy efficiency. This also includes the conversion to efficient LED
lighting technology and energy-conscious behavior in everyday
office life (light use, shutdown of electronic devices, etc.).

Improvement of CO2 efficiency in facility Feasibility study on a possible investment in the latest refrigemanagement
ration technology in the Berlin publishing houses;
Renovation of the primary ventilation
system in the Berlin Publishing House
Tower B (built in 1993) in accordance
with energetic aspects;

Printing presses A-F are to be converted so that they can be
disconnected from the compressed air line during idle times.
This should reduced the energy use required for the production of compressed air in one year by 80,000 kWh.

Feasibility study with regard to the ener- Further eduction of the average CO2 emissions of company
getic renovation of the refrigeration plant cars by providing incentives for selecting models with reduced
for the high-rise buildings (built in 1991); CO2 emissions;
Energy audit at locations in Germany: Implementation of the
recommendations arising from the energy audit carried out at
23 locations in Germany in 2015 for the improvement of energy efficiency. This also includes the conversion to efficient LED
lighting technology and energy-conscious behavior in everyday
office life (light use, shutdown of electronic devices, etc.).
Ahrensburg printing plant: Improvement Partial conversion to LED lighting, for example in the workshop
of CO2 efficiency
and the processing areas;
Reduction of the consumption of compressed air through improved control of
leaks, for example.

Clarification of customer interests in socially defined standards
for forestry and biodiversity through continuous contact for example with paper manufacturers, environmental organizations
and others within the scope of the “Canadian Boreal Forest
Agreement”.

54
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Kettwig printing plant: Improvement of
the energy and CO2 efficiency of the
electricity and refrigeration supply;

Specification of sustainability standards and risk criteria within
the framework of the newly-appointed Supply Relation Management process (SRM);

Continuation of the conversion to LED
lighting

Reduction of the energy used for lighting (approx. 1,000 MWh)
by 6 percent.

Kettwig printing plant: Improvement of
the energy and CO2 efficiency through
a reduction in the consumption of compressed air

Leaks arise in the compressed air system due to porous hoses, untight connections and defective seals, which push up
energy requirements. Energy demand in this area should be
reduced by 15 percent through consistent review.

Spandau printing plant: Improvement of Printing presses A-F are to be converted so that they can be
the energy and CO2 efficiency
disconnected from the compressed air line during idle times.
This should reduced the energy use required for the production of compressed air in one year by 80,000 kWh.
Improvement of CO2 efficiency in the
field of mobility

Further eduction of the average CO2 emissions of company
cars by providing incentives for selecting models with reduced
CO2 emissions;
The introduction of a bonus scheme as an incentive to select
hybrid vehicles as well as battery-powered electric vehicles as
company cars;
Review of options to offer additional electrical “filling stations”
in the underground car park of the Berlin publishing house.

Upstream Value Chain
Extension and strengthening of network Clarification of customer interests in socially defined standards
contacts as part of Stakeholder Mafor forestry and biodiversity through continuous contact for exnagement
ample with paper manufacturers, environmental organizations
and others within the scope of the “Canadian Boreal Forest
Agreement”.
Continuous optimization of sustainability standards and compliance with
them within the framework of Group
Purchasing’s supplier qualification.

Specification of sustainability standards and risk criteria within
the framework of the newly-appointed Supply Relation Management process (SRM);

Downstream Value Chain
Further development of sustainabilityrelated services offered to customers

Use of experience in sustainability management for example to
support print and advertising customers.

55
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Achievement of Objectives 2014/2015
Objectives for 2014 - 2015

Measure

Expansion and optimization of
the sustainability processes

Adjustment of the reporting
Achieved: The 2014/2015 Susprocesses to the G4 standard
tainability Report appears in G4
of the Global Reporting Initiative format
(GRI).

Avoidance of redundancies
between EMAS and softwarebased sustainability reporting

ACHIEVEMENT OF
OBJECTIVES

Pilot project on sustainability
reporting at a subsidiary with
exclusively digital production.

Achieved: The joint venture
Ringier Axel Springer published
digital Sustainability Reports in
2014 in Poland, Slovakia and
Serbia respectively. (http://www.
ringieraxelspringer.com/company/corporate-responsibility)

Use of synergies in data collection, internal controlling, external auditing and publication of
results and objectives of EMAS
and software-based sustainability reporting at the Ahrensburg,
Kettwig and Spandau sites.

Not implemented: The Spandau
and Kettwig printing sites have
changed their location-based
reporting from EMAS to ISO
50001 in order to focus on
energy efficiency. The Ahrensburg printing site sources its
useful energy from the neighboring rotogravure gravure printing
site of the Prinovis company
and therefore focuses on the
energy audit according to the
EDL-G (German Energy Services Act). All three sites are
integrated into the sustainability
reporting of Axel Springer SE.

Promoting diversity and equality
of opportunity for women and
men through a targeted optimization of personnel processes.
Setting of individual targets for
each department.

This objective will be pursued through various initiatives
targeting the advancement and
networking of women as well as
increasing the share of women
in hirings and promotions. On
31 December 2015, the proportion of women of in management positions throughout the
Group was 27.9 %.

Employees
An increase in the proportion of
women in leadership positions
from the current average of
25.8 percent (2013) to over 30
percent (by 2018) throughout
the company.

56
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Motivation and satisfaction
among the employees through
a family-friendly environment.

The introduction of further
measures, such as for example
the special campaign "Secure
handling of your own data on
the Internet" within the scope of
the "Employees' children in the
company" initiative.

In Berlin, employees’ children
participated in a workshop on
the safe use of data on the Internet, to which they had been
invited by Axel Springer Group
Security and Personnel Development. At various stations,
the children and adolescents
were able to inform themselves
about the dangers, risks and
strategies for dealing with social
networks and other online platforms on the Internet. (2014)

Promotion of employee health

Introduction of further health
promoting measures – such
as, for example, “Healthy lunch
breaks” and “Thai Chi on the
roof terrace”. The building
blocks include reintegration
measures after convalescence
(BEM).

Movement in the lunch break
was on offer for Axel Springer
employees on the roof terrace
of the Berlin publishing house
in 2014, with classes in Qigong
and Tai Chi demonstrating meditation and relaxation.

Offers from Personnel Development for the digital transformation

Launch of the “move” initiative
in the Personnel Development
department. This includes
learning and dialog formats,
lectures, specialist conferences,
workshops and explanatory videos, some of which are
streamed live.

Learning Lunch, PizzaConnection, Media Powerhouse – no
employee has been able to
avoid these terms over the past
two years. Lunch break or even
full-day events are regularly promoted on stand-up displays, in
revolving doors, in elevators or
on inside.net. Several of these
events have also been offered in
Hamburg since 2015.

Development of sustainability
know-how

Sustainability coaching (personal counseling, seminars etc.) at
subsidiaries in the digital media
sector.

Energy audit 2015: 23 sites in
Germany carried out the new
energy audit. The main options
include the conversion to efficient LED lighting technology and
improved power management
in everyday office life (light use,
shutdown of electronic devices
- consumption). The next energy audit will take place no later
than 2019.

Sustainability coaching (personal counseling, seminars etc.) at
the Ringier Axel Springer Media
AG joint venture.

Continuous exchange of information, experience and recommendations with holdings in
Poland, in Hungary, in Slovakia
and in Serbia.

Sustainability coaching at PACE Continuous exchange of inPaparazzi Catering & Events
formation and consultation on
GmbH.
sustainability-related purchasing
criteria (e.g. coffee, cups,
clothing, etc.);

57
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Wertschöpfungskette
Reduction of hazardous substances in waste water at the
Spandau printing site.

SPANDAU: 100% achieved.
From 2014, hazardous substances are no longer to be used Taken into operation in June
2014.
in the cooling towers for water
conditioning and corrosion
protection. Legionella must not
be spread by the cooling water
which evaporates in the cooling
towers. To avoid the risk of legionella bacteria, a biocide (hazardous substance) was added,
which passed along with the
non-evaporated part into the
waste water thereby burdening
the sewage treatment plants.
The four cooling towers are to
be converted to a procedure
in which the bioorganisms are
reduced by using a solid catalyst with a patented foil, coated
using nanotechnology.

Biodiversity

Support of the UnternehmensNatur (BusinessNature) Initiative
of the Chamber of Commerce
in Hamburg, the Hamburg
Environmental Authority and the
Nature And Biodiversity Conservation Union Germany (NABU)
through the exchange of experience in the field of semi-natural
redesign of the green spaces on
the grounds of the Ahrensburg
newspaper printing plant.

Representation of semi-natural
redesign of green spaces on
the grounds of the newspaper
printing plant in Ahrensburg
near Hamburg as part of a
video series produced by the
Nature And Biodiversity Conservation Union Germany (NABU)
in 2014.

Clarification of customer interests in socially defined forestry
standards through continuous
contact with paper manufacturers and environmental organizations within the scope of the
“Canadian Boreal Forest Agreement”, among other things
through participation in conferences and on-site visits.

“N100” Conference at Axel
Springer in Berlin with the
previous winners of the German
Sustainability Award, as well
as sustainability experts from
associations, research and civil
society (19 February 2015).

Upstream value chain
Extension and strengthening
of network contacts as part of
Stakeholder Management

“Canadian Boreal Forest Agreement”: Continuous exchange
of views with representatives
of the Canadian forest industry,
the provincial government of
Quebec, as well as with the environmental organizations Stand
and Greenpeace.

58
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Continuous updating of
sustainability standards in
the purchasing of information
and communication technology (ICT hardware).

Processing of available information relating to social and
ecological standards in the
production chain of information
and communication technology (ICT hardware). Support
of manufacturer's initiatives on
transparency and improved
traceability of raw materials.

Further development of sustainability-related services offered
to customers

Use of experience in sustaina“N100” Conference at Axel
Springer in Berlin with the
bility management to support
print and advertising customers. previous winners of the German
Sustainability Award, as well
as sustainability experts from
associations, research and civil
society (19 February 2015).

Mandatory introduction of Code
of Conduct and International
Social Policy of Axel Springer
SE into the process of supplier
qualification in Corporate Procurement.

59
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Developments 1979 to 2015

Main entrance of Axel Springer SE in Berlin. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

2015
In August Ringier and Axel Springer celebrated the fifth anniversary of their eastern European
joint venture. Ringier Axel Springer Switzerland AG, based in Zurich and Lausanne, was launched at
the end of 2015 as a joint venture between Ringier AG and Axel Springer SE. The joint venture publishes around 30 titles, making it the largest magazine publisher in Switzerland.
The WELT Group and N24 continue their integration process. All the journalistic offerings from
WELT and from N24 on the web, in print and on TV, will in future mention „WELT“ in their name. This
means that in future N24 will also be called WELT. The goal is to become a leading digital medium for
quality journalism.
A fireworks of prizes for the Axel Springer media brands at the Lead Awards 2015. With a total of 14 prizes – three golds, two silvers, one bronze, and eight accolades – Axel Springer wins more
medals and honors than ever since the Lead Awards were established.
Axel Springer brings the NOAH Conference to Berlin for the first time. The representatives of
young, digital companies meet the protagonists of traditional commercial enterprises to make contacts, learn and discuss the digital future.
Axel Springer’s digital magazine and newspaper kiosk, iKiosk, has expanded its portfolio, now
available in five countries with around 500 publications from more than 100 publishers. Among the
new offerings are the magazines „Newsweek“, „Brigitte“, „Geo“, „Freundin“ and „Instyle“ as well as the
regional titles „Rhein-Zeitung“ and „Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung“.

2014
Since the end of March, the BILD editorial office has been working in one of the most modern production facilities on the 16th floor of the Berlin Axel Springer Building. Numerous
monitors display the news from around the world, incoming photos and videos, as well as traffic
trends or themes that are taking off virally. In the center of everything is the Ring, in which it is determined daily which stories are present and how the editorial office can tell them ideally on all channels.

60
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Rem Koolhaas wins the architectural competition. A new building opposite the Axel Springer
building in Berlin will create additional space for the growing business divisions. Mathias Döpfner praises the design, which will be built in the coming years, for its „radical beauty“.
Funke Mediengruppe (FMG) takes over the titles “Berliner Morgenpost”, “Hamburger Abendblatt”, “Bild der Frau”, “Frau von Heute”, “Hörzu” and “TV Digital”. Axel Springer and FMG have since
been working together in the fields of marketing and distribution through service contracts.
Twelve press publishers, including Axel Springer SE, become shareholders in VG Media
GmbH. The press publishers jointly acquire 50 percent of the shares, 50 percent remain with thirteen
private TV and radio companies. With its entry in the commercial register, VG Media becomes the
central collecting society of radio companies, television broadcasters and German publishers.
Axel Springer SE acquires 100 percent of N24 Media GmbH. In connection with the acquisition
of the news channel, N24 and the WELT Group are merged to establish the leading multimedia news
organization for quality journalism in the German-speaking world. At the same time, N24 becomes the
central moving image provider for all Axel Springer brands.
New business publication BILANZ is launched. Publisher Arno Balzer and editor-in-chief
Klaus Boldt started work on 1 February 2014. They are developing the German edition of the
leading Swiss business magazine, which is published by Axel Springer Switzerland.
With a new segmentation, Axel Springer is consistently aligning its financial reporting to the
revenue structure of the publishing business. Axel Springer has divided its activities into three
operating segments: Paid Models, Marketing Models and Classified Ad Models. There is additionally a
Services/Holding segment.

2013
The transformation of Axel Springer AG into a European Company (Societas Europaea /
SE) has been completed. The new legal form became formally effective on 2 December 2013 with its
entry in the Commercial Register. This should underline and facilitate the company‘s European and
international market orientation.
The Axel Springer publishing house announces the transfer of the regional newspapers BERLINER MORGENPOST and HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT, the advertising papers in Berlin and Hamburg, the five TV program guides and two women’s magazines as well as their related digital brands
to FUNKE MEDIENGRUPPE.
Plug and Play Tech Center, one of the world‘s leading startup investors from Silicon Valley, together
with Axel Springer, founded the accelerator „Axel Springer Plug and Play“ in Berlin.
The editorial offices of the tabloids, B.Z. and BILD are pooling their resources in order to face
the challenges of digitization. B.Z., Berlin‘s largest newspaper, and BILD Berlin will be produced in a
joint editorial office from November 2013. This co-operation will create Berlin‘s biggest regional newsroom.
You will find information from the field of „Social Commitment“, for example on the pages about the
Commitment of our media, Commitment of our readers, Commitment of our colleagues as well as on
the Commitment of the company.

61
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

2012
The Axel Springer Akademie is extending its range of courses and is launching a journalistic school
for presenters with the „Frank Elstner Masterclass“.
100th birthday of Axel Springer, the publisher, journalist, and visionary freedom fighter Axel Springer would have celebrated his 100th birthday on May 2nd 2012. Axel Springer SE commemorated
this day with a celebration in the Axel Springer Building in Berlin.
The Federal Ministry of Finance honors the publisher Axel Springer on the occasion of his
100th birthday with a special issue 55 cent stamp.
BILD celebrates its 60th „birthday“ and delivers a „free BILD for everyone“ one day before its birthday free of charge to all households in Germany.
DIE WELT introduces new subscription models for its digital services and is the first large German national news site to also launch a payment model for its previously freely accessible web page.

2011
The WELT Group started its own, paid download portal for audio books under the name
HÖRWELT in cooperation with audible, the provider of audiobook downloads, and offers a variety of
current literature to listen to. Whether summer reading, quality literature, biographies or interesting
information about politics and contemporary history: At www.welt.de/hoerwelt current and regularly
changing titles can be found in the five subject areas of fiction, detective stories, non-fiction, classics
and children‘s books, which are presented and given in-depth reviews by the WELT Group feature
editors.
With its iPhone“Radtouren“ app, the HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT offers a digital selection of interesting routes. All of the starting and finishing points of the maps are connected with the city and regional
network of the HVV. The app provides an overview of the distance traveled, speed, time and calories
burned. The i Phone „Radtouren“ app from the HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT costs 2.99 euros and is
available in the iTunes App Store.

2010
WELT Group supports World Press Freedom Day: DIE WELT and WELT KOMPAKT supported
World Press Freedom Day as the exclusive media partners of the „Reporters without Borders“ organization. The front pages of the two daily WELT Group newspapers were published blank on 3
May - without lead stories, news, comments or photos. Instead, there was simply a small advert from
„Reporters without Borders“ at the bottom right of the front pages, drawing readers‘ attention to the
global significance and importance of press freedom. The day‘s front pages are published on this day
on page three. The idea for this layout was developed by the „Scholz & Friends Hamburg“ agency.
The full-page advertising space is provided free of charge by the WELT Group.
FUNK UHR awards Volunteer Prize: The program guide FUNK UHR and the advice magazine
„ARD-Buffet“ jointly distinguished „Stille Helden des Alltags“ („silent everyday heroes“) for the second
time. Winner of the Volunteer Prize in 2010 was Hedwig Hacker from Schnaittach for her initiative
„Help for Women and Children in Need“. The first prize is endowed with 5,000 euros.

62
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

2009
International Sustainability Management: As a part of the internationalization of Axel Springer SE,
Axel Springer Polska, Axel Springer France and Axel Springer Schweiz have introduced a number of
measures to develop sustainability management.
Overcoming years of forestry conflict: On the west coast of Canada in March 2009, an ongoing
negotiation process to find a balance between the use and protection of temperate rainforests lasting
almost 15 years was successfully concluded. Participants included the provincial government of British Columbia, representatives of numerous Indian tribes, environmental organizations, remote communities and a number of large companies from the wood, pulp and paper sector. German magazine
publishers, as customers of cellulose importing paper manufacturers, including Axel Springer SE, are
also directly involved in this stakeholder process.
CO2 calculator for newspapers: In cooperation with newspaper and magazine publishers and the
German Printing and Media Industries Federation a CO2 calculator is developed which reflects the
traditional production processes in print production.

2008
Introduction of Leadership Principles: In 2008 leadership principles are introduced at Axel Springer. The principles should give managers scope for action, providing transparency with regard to the
demands and expectations of the leadership role.
Donation Record: The 30th anniversary broadcast of the TV charity donation gala EIN HERZ FÜR
KINDER (A HEART FOR CHILDREN) reaches a new donation record of € 15,105,639. The result is – in
spite of the financial crisis – almost three million Euros above the donation record from the previous
year. The BILD aid organization‘s live ZDF broadcast hosted by Thomas Gottschalk is a superlative TV
evening with many moving moments and flashbacks.
New „School“ section: In response to the poor PISA results for the Hanseatic city, a „School“ page
appears daily in the HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT. The specific information and opinion forum brings
together the skills of the award-winning local city desk with the expert knowledge of specialists from
the politics, science and business sections.

2007
Health Prize: For the fourth time BILD am SONNTAG - in co-operation with the Technical Health
Insurance Company – awards the PULSUS Health Prize. This pays tribute to special achievements in
the field of health and social commitment. The prize for the “Healthiest Elementary School of the Year”
is awarded to schools which take an active interest in promoting health, for example by integrating
Nutrition as a subject into the timetable or also offering many extracurricular sporting activities.
Prize for Committed Women: In the presence of Federal Minister for Family Affairs Ursula von der
Leyen, BILD der FRAU awarded the “GOLDEN BILD der FRAU” Prize worth a total of 70,000 Euros
for the second time to five socially committed women.
First “Hamburg Children’s Paper”: on the occasion of Universal Children’s Day, the first “Hamburg
Children’s Paper” was published in the HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT. For one day 50 children aged
between eight and fourteen took over the editorial office of this eight-page special supplement. They
were able to determine all of the topics, select the photos and also decide on the layout. Experienced
editors from the HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT lend them support as advisers. More than 500 children
had applied to take part in the project.

63
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

“Save our Earth. Count me in!”: In order to familiarize the public with the complex of problems
involved in climate change, the BILD newspaper started a co-operation project with the BUND,
Greenpeace and WWF environmental associations. Under the motto “Save our Earth”, BILD publishes
information on the background and possible solutions as well as giving tips for personal action.
Distinction: In the critical comparison of Sustainability Reports published by 150 German organizations carried out by the Institute for Environmental Management and Economics (IÖW) in 2007, the
2005 Sustainability Report of Axel Springer SE was rated eighth overall and second in the Environmental Protection segment. In the even smaller group of companies who publish their Sustainability
Reports exclusively on the Internet, Axel Springer was rated first. In the rankings carried out over the
past ten years, Axel Springer SE’s Sustainability Report, published every two years, has been ranked
in the Top 10 five times.

2006
Girls Day: Within the framework of the nationwide „Girls Day“ initiative, 180 young people informed
themselves about training opportunities and everyday working life at Axel Springer SE. Employees’
children had an opportunity to get to know their parents’ workplace, gain an insight into everyday
working life and find out about training opportunities at the company.
Against Violence and Racism in Football Stadiums: Through the distribution of the campaign
sticker “STOP. No violence in the stadium!” with a part of the circulation as well as an editorial discussion, SPORT BILD is setting an example against violence, racism and Nazi terror in stadiums.
“Green Money”, the publication with the highest circulation by far in the environmental investment
sector is published as a special issue in EURO am SONNTAG and EURO.
Nature in Germany is the focus of a new series of books which BILD is publishing along with WWF
and the Weltbild publishing group. Each volume costs 5.95 Euros and has 120 pages. The six-volume
series is divided into habitats: Life in the Forest, In Streams & Lakes, In the Mountains, On the Coast &
by the Sea, In Fields & Meadows and In the Garden.

2005
Pilot project: Together with the paper manufacturer Stora Enso (Helsinki), the publishing houses
Random House Group (London) and Time Inc. (New York) as well as the packaging manufacturer
Tetra Pak (Stockholm), the publishing firm presents the project “From Russia with Transparency”
(www.tikhvinproject.ru) . One of the main priorities is the promotion of sustainability as well as the fight
against corruption in the cross-border timber trade for the manufacture of printing paper.
Distinction: In the critical comparison of the Sustainability Reports published by 150 German organizations, Axel Springer SE was fourth overall in the CAPITAL ranking, and first in the Environmental
Protection segment.

2004
GRI: As the first media organization worldwide, Axel Springer SE publishes a Sustainability Report
which complies with the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI/www.globalreporting.org)
and also fulfils the comprehensive catalog of criteria of so-called “in accordance” requirements of the
GRI.
International Social Policy: In view of the company‘s growing international presence, Axel Sprin-

64
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

ger SE has adopted a catalogue of social standards. It lays out the organization’s position on issues
relating to human rights, the protection of children and young people, the qualification of its workforce
and the achievement of a work/family balance.
Tiger Protection: HÖRZU offers new subscribers an interesting bonus offer. In future, everyone who
subscribes to Germany’s biggest weekly television program guide for one year may instruct HÖRZU to
utilize 50 Euros directly for a World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) Tiger Protection Project in Indonesian Sumatra. The goal is to support the efforts to save the last remaining Sumatran tigers.
Distinction: For its “exemplary Commitment to Sustainable Development”, the publishing firm was
awarded the Environmental Award 2004 (Major companies category) by the German Environmental
Management Association (B.A.U.M.).

2003
German Agro Action: The Small Change campaign raised a donation of EUR 25,000.-, which was
given to the private Indian development aid organization „Social Work and Research Centre“ (SWRC).
In cooperation with German Agro Action, this organization finances educational programs for schoolchildren in 50 villages in the Indian desert State of Rajasthan.
Eldercare: The sudden need of nursing care for an elderly relative can sometimes become a problem for working people. The Family Service therefore offers special advice and assistance when this
situation arises.

2002
Distinction: In conjunction with project partners (Otto, UPM-Kymmene) the publishing firm wins the
award for „Sustainable Development Partnerships“ from the International Chamber of Commerce
(ICC) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) for sustainability initiatives along the
paper chain.
Equality of opportunity: For the second time, the publishing firm is singled out for the „Total E-Quality“ distinction for equal opportunities for and promotion of female employees. Family Service: Since
March of 2002, the “Company Kids” kindergarten, an extension of the corporate Family Service, has
been enabling parents to get quick and unbureaucratic assistance in emergency situations.
Forestry: Start of a pilot project with Russian forestry firms to improve safety at work in the harvesting
of timber.

2001
Distinction: The first audited sustainability report appears. For this, Axel Springer wins the „German
Environmental Reporting Award“ (2nd place) of the Deutsche Wirtschaftsprüfungskammer (German
Chamber of Auditors).
Tracing Russian Wood Imports: Anybody can trace the origin of wood fiber in the Internet.
Distinction: Award of eleven environmental pins by the Studien- und Förderungsgesellschaft der
Wirtschaft Schleswig-Holsteins (Society for the Study and Promotion of the Economy of SchleswigHolstein) to members of staff of the company. Some of the prizewinners had modified water cooling
systems in the Ahrensburg rotogravure printing facility to conserve energy.
Distinction: The Bundesvereinigung für innerbetriebliche Kommunikation (German Federal Associati-

65
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

on for Internal Corporate Communications) awards the „Dr. Martin Nebe Prize“ to trainees of the Axel
Springer group for their commitment to combating hostility towards foreigners.

2000
Cooperation: In cooperation with the Universities of Lüneburg and St. Gallen, with the companies
Bahlsen and VW as well as the large Swiss bank UBS, the research project “Sustainability Balanced
Scorecard” is born, the aims of which include investigating the inclusion of environmental management in strategic company management.

1999
Pilot project to optimize the paper chain: from the family forestry firm in Norway to the finished
magazine in the Ahrensburg printing facilities – exemplified by the magazine „Familie&Co“.

1997
Rapprochement: Dialog with foresters in Austria, Germany and Scandinavia who had protested
against what they presumed would be economic disadvantages resulting from forest certification.

1995
European Environmental Management System (EMAS): Validation of the Ahrensburg newspaper
and magazine printing facilities as the first in Europe to be validated according the voluntary EC Eco
Audit.

1994
Reporting: The first Environmental Report is published.

1993
Transparency: Publication of the document „Printing paper and the Environment: Questions asked of
Paper Suppliers to the Axel Springer publishing company“.

1979
Investment: Complete encapsulation of the rotogravure machines to reduce solvent emissions.
International Social Policy: Mit Blick auf die wachsende internationale Präsenz des Verlages hat die

66
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Awards 2004-2015

Die Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung zeichnete Friede Springer für ihre unternehmerischen Leistungen und ihr soziales Engagement
aus. Die Laudatio hielt der ehemalige Bundespräsident Horst Köhler. (Foto: Axel Springer SE)

2015
The Konrad Adenauer Foundation honors Friede Springer with the “Social Market Economy
Prize”
The Konrad Adenauer Foundation awarded a prize to Friede Springer in Frankfurt for her entrepreneurial achievements and her social commitment. With her courage and pioneering spirit, Friede Springer has decisively influenced the development of Axel Springer SE into the leading digital publishing
according to the findings of the jury. In addition to her outstanding entrepreneurial action, it is above all
her social commitment which makes her the worthy prizewinner.
B.Z. and BILD Berlin-Brandenburg win award for social commitment
The employees of B.Z. and BILD Berlin-Brandenburg are regularly involved in social projects and get
stuck in. In the meantime, they have cleaned, painted or worked in the gardens of five institutions as
part of the „Social Day”. For this, they were awarded a prize by Caritas of the Archdiocese of Berlin.
Mathias Döpfner presented the McCloy Award
Mathias Döpfner was presented with the McCloy Award of the American Council on Germany in New
York. He accepted the award for the special role played by the Axel Springer Publishing House in
German reunification.
PACE awarded the “Top 100” Innovation Prize again
For the second time following 2013, the PACE Paparazzi Catering & Event GmbH was the only company from the catering and events industry to be awarded the “Top 100” Innovation Seal. The “compamedia GmbH” has awarded the “Top 100” seal of approval for particular innovative strength and
outstanding innovation successes to medium-sized enterprises since 1993.
Grand Prix Awards for inside.mag
At the award ceremony of the “inkom. Grand Prix 2015”, the media prize for internal communication of the German Public Relations Society (DPRG), Axel Springer won the prize for one of the best
employees magazines in Germany for the sixth time. The magazine received an award in gold for its
interview with CEO Mathias Döpfner in issue 1/2015. The entire issue was presented with a bronze
award.

67
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

German PR Prize for employer communication at Axel Springer
The employer brand campaign of Axel Springer has received the international German PR prize in the
category “Employer Branding and Personnel Communication”.

2014
Offset printing works in Ahrensburg once again in the world’s best newspaper printers club
Together with WELT, the offset printing facility in Ahrensburg has once again been awarded membership of the WAN-IFRA Newspaper Color Quality Club. Companies which have successfully taken part
in a quality test competition are admitted into this circle. The leading industry association WAN-IFRA
holds this international competition in which participants are assessed every 2 years on the basis of
the criteria of repro and printing quality.
PACE receives industry award for community catering
The PACE Paparazzi Catering & Event GmbH was awarded the “Frankfurter Prize - Grand Prize of
German Community Catering” by the business magazine gv-praxis. Every two years the prize is awarded to recognize pioneering conceptual as well as entrepreneurial and personal achievements in the
market of community catering.
World Jewish Congress presents Axel Springer the Theodor Herzl Award
The World Jewish Congress posthumously honored the publisher Axel Springer in the Jewish Museum in Berlin with the prestigious Theodor Herzl Award. In her laudatory speech, Chellah Safra, Treasurer of the World Jewish Congress, recalled the numerous donations by Axel Springer for institutions in
Israel and the principles of Axel Springer, which until today, in addition to a commitment to democracy
and freedom, also provide for reconciliation with the Jewish people.
Mathias Döpfner presented B‘nai B‘rith Europe honorary award
Mathias Döpfner has been presented with the “B‘nai B‘rith Europe Award of Merit” for his commitment
to the fight against anti-Semitism. The “B‘nai B‘rith” order – in English “Children of the Covenant” – is
one of the world‘s largest Jewish organizations and is committed to combating racism and anti-Semitism. It commends Döpfner as a friend and a supporter of the State of Israel and the Jewish people.
Gold Award for inside.mag
The inside.mag was once again presented a gold award at the “inkom. Grand Prix 2014”, the media
prize for internal communication of the German Public Relations Society (DPRG).

2013
Axel Springer‘s Code of Conduct occupies second place within Germany in a European
study
The „Compliance Insider“ magazine published a study of European Codes of Conduct. The aim of
this study was to assess the current landscape of codes of conduct in three European countries. In
this study, fifty codes were investigated from France, Germany and Switzerland respectively. The Axel
Springer Code of Conduct was rated second in Germany.
inside.mag employee magazine wins two Gold Awards
The Axel Springer employee magazine won two Gold Awards at the inkom. Grand Prix 2013, the
Media Prize for internal communication awarded by the German Public Relations Association (DPRG).
The Prize was awarded for the overall concept and the photo story „California, here we are“ by BILD
editor-in-chief Kai Diekmann. This means that inside.mag is one of the best employee publications
in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The 2013 Awards continue a success story: inside.mag had previously won the inkom. 2009, 2010 and 2011.

68
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

PACE Paparazzi Catering & Event GmbH wins Gold at the „DEHOGA Environmental Check“
Paparazzi (Axel Springer SE Berlin company restaurant ) was awarded with Gold at the „DEHOGA
Environmental Check“ for environmentally conscious and sustainable action. The participants in the
„DEHOGA Environmental Check“ must undergo a critical review of the sectors of energy and water consumption, waste generation or residual waste, and food, such as for example, their regional
purchasing. PACE has been successfully focusing on sustainable management for a number of years.
Ahrensburg offset printing works wins award for digital inkjet printing
At the award ceremony of the „PrintStars 2013“, the Innovation Awards of the German Printing Industry, Ahrensburg offset printing works won first prize in the „Newspaper Products“ category. The printing
works was honored for its digital inkjet printing, which was developed with the manufacturers „Kodak“
and „manroland websystems“ from the idea to the production stage.
Dorothea Siems awarded Journalism-Prize by the Friedrich-August-von-Hayek-Stiftung
Dorothea Siems, senior economic policy correspondent at DIE WELT, wins the prestigious Journalism
Prize of the Friedrich-August-von-Hayek-Stiftung. She received the award „for her tireless commitment in her commentaries and reporting to those regulatory principles essential for a liberal and market economy system“, explained the Board of Trustees chaired by former Federal President Roman
Herzog.
Mathias Döpfner is „European Manager of the Year 2013“
The European Business Press Association (EBP) presented its „European Manager of the Year 2013“
award to Mathias Döpfner. The „European Manager of the Year“ has been awarded annually by the
EBP since 1991. The European Business Press is a federation of 48 European business newspapers
and magazines from 27 countries, including „The Wall Street Journal Europe“, „Handelsblatt“ and „Les
Echos“.

2012
Mathias Döpfner receives „Strategist of the Year“ award for Axel Springer‘s digitization
strategy
For the ninth time in succession, the daily „Financial Times Deutschland“, strategic advice consultants
Bain & Company and the WHU business school have nominated successful CEOs of listed companies as „Strategist of the Year“. Mathias Döpfner received the award in the „medium-sized enterprises“
category.
Golden Medal of Merit for the B.Z. „Berliner Heroes“ campaign
As a sign of gratitude and in appreciation of the important and dedicated work by the B.Z. Heroes
editorial office, the Unionhilfswerk-Landesverband (State Association of the Union Relief Organization)
awarded the editorial office of the Berlin Heroes with the association‘s Golden Medal of Merit.
Ahrensburg offset printing works wins UNESCO award
Axel Springer SE‘s offset printing works in Ahrensburg has been presented an award by UNESCO for
its particular commitment to school projects in the environmental field. The printing works has been
working with Ahrensburg schools on environmental, economic and social issues since 2008. This cooperation has now been honored by the German UNESCO Commission within the framework of the
UN Decade of „Education for Sustainable Development“.
Environmental Protection Pin for Ahrensburg Offset Printing Works
Stephan Wellnitz, Sales Manager in the Customer Center of the Ahrensburg offset printing works, has
been awarded the Environmental Protection Pin of the Studien- und Fördergesellschaft der Schleswig-Holsteinischen Wirtschaft e.V. (Society for the Study and Support of the Economy in SchleswigHolstein) in Kiel for his environmental commitment.

69
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

PACE receives award for „ESSENTIA“ menu line
The „Initiative Zukunft Ernährung“ („Initiative Future Nutrition“) (IZE) has presented PACE with its „Future Nutrition Award“ for the self-developed „ESSENTIA – healthy. fresh. delicious!“ menu line.
Konrad Adenauer Foundation honors Axel Springer
The Konrad Adenauer Foundation (KAS) has honored Axel Springer on the occasion of his 100th
birthday with a symposium entitled: „Axel Springer – perseverance and dissent“. Prof. Hans-Peter
Schwarz, author of the recent Axel Springer biography, held the laudatory speech and praised Axel
Springer as a „memorable, really important personality with strong convictions“.

2011
Axel Springer awarded audit certificate for family-friendlly policies
The Herti foundation has offered the „berufundfamilie“ (work and family) audit to companies that want
to further develop their family-friendliness since 1998. The result for 2011 certifies that Axel Springer
SE has an above average degree of commitment to family-friendly personnel policies. As part of a
comprehensive auditing procedure the inventory of the company‘s services for improving the work/
family balance was assessed.
„Prime“ in sustainability ratings
The rating agency oekom research, which specializes in sustainability issues, assessed Axel Springer
SE with a overall rating of C+ and classified it as „prime“. This qualifies the company‘s securities traded on the market for an investment from an ecological and social point of view.
Placed 11th in the IÖW/future-Ranking of sustainability reports
The reports of the 150 largest German industry and service companies are evaluated in the IÖW/
future-Ranking of large companies. The first three positions in the ranking of large companies were
taken by the companies BMW, Siemens, and BASF. Axel Springer SE‘s ranking improved from 23rd
(2009) to 11th place.
Best staff publication
The Axel Springer staff magazine inside.mag was acclaimed as best staff publication for the third time
in a row at the inkom. Grand Prix. The media prize for internal communication is awarded annually by
the German Public Relations Society (DPRG) and is intended for publications from Germany, Austria
and Switzerland. Axel Springer SE prevailed against 70 other staff magazines and newspapers, including Deutsche Telekom, Deutsche Bank and Volkswagen.

2010
TOTAL E-QUALITY distinction
The company was awarded the TOTAL E-QUALITY distinction for the successful implementation of
equal opportunities. „As the first media enterprise, Axel Springer has been a member of the “Women
in the Economy” Forum since 1999, in which equal opportunities and diversity representatives from 20
well-known major German companies have joined together“, according to the jury statement.
School Projects at the Ahrensburg Offset Printing Works
For their commitment in school projects Eight employees from Ahrensburg offset printing works have
been awarded the Environmental Protection Pin of the Studien- und Fördergesellschaft der Schleswig-Holsteinischen Wirtschaft e.V. (Society for the Study and Support of the Economy in SchleswigHolstein) at a ceremony in Rendsburg attended by Minister President Peter Harry Carstensen.

70
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

„Prize for Civic Engagement“ and „Silver Badge“ for B.Z. „Berlin Heroes“ campaign
The B. Z. was awarded the German Prize for Civic Engagement 2010 in the Business category for its
major „Berlin Heroes“ campaign, as well as the Silver Badge of the Paritätischen Wohlfahrtverbandes
Berlin (Berlin joint charity association). „The ‚Berlin Heroes‘ campaign addresses people who want to
tackle problems“ said the laudation. And: „Through continuous reporting, the topic of volunteering in
Berlin has had its visibility considerably increased.“
Health management with „Corporate Health Award“
The health of its employees is very important to Axel Springer. The health management campaigns include numerous exercise programs, lectures and medical checkups. For these Axel Springer SE was
awarded the seal of excellence at the „Corporate Health Awards“.

2009
Herbert Quandt Media Award for „Kinderleicht“ („Child‘s Play“)
The WELT am SONNTAG was awarded the prestigious Herbert Quandt Media Award 2009 for the
idea and concept of the „Kinderleicht“ series. The „Kinderleicht“ supplement answers questions that
adults do not dare to ask. The series addresses economic issues from the perspective of children and
adolescents and makes complex issues understandable.
„Kinderleicht“ was also awarded the Ernst Schneider Prize and the European Newspaper Award.

2008
Axel Springer is presented the “German Sustainability Award 2008”
Axel Springer SE won the “German Sustainability Award 2008” in the category of “Most Sustainable
Purchasing”. The award was for the “numerous initiatives, above all in the area of Purchasing, which
have led to clear improvements in sustainability”, according to the jury statement.
The German Sustainability Award is awarded to companies which combine economic success with
social responsibility and the conservation of the environment in an exemplary fashion - and make use
of sustainable action for additional growth. The jury received applications from 350 companies, including more than half of the DAX 30 companies.
Distinction in oekom research rating
The rating agency oekom research AG, Munich, which specializes in sustainability, has had a closer
look at 24 of the world‘s most important listed media enterprises. Axel Springer SE was ranked third
after the British television channel ITV and the British scientific publisher Reed Elsevier.
Essen-Kettwig offset printing works receives EMAS Award 2008
The Essen-Kettwig offset printing works received the EMAS Award 2008 in the „Large Organizations“
category. With the introduction of an energy management system for all types of energy and targeted
investments, the offset printing works was able to significantly reduce all greenhouse gases as well as
energy consumption from 2005 to 2007. The Essen-Kettwig offset printing works has been validated
regularly according to the EU Eco Audit (EMAS) since 1997.
NEWSWEEK editor-in-chief receives award for outstanding journalism
The editor-in-chief of the Russian edition of NEWSWEEK, Mikhail Fishman, was awarded this year‘s
„Prize for Excellence in Journalism“ by the Paul Klebnikov Fund in New York. The prize for the 35-year-old is a stay of several weeks in the American NEWSWEEK editorial office. The Paul Klebnikov
Fund is committed to the independence of Russian media and presents awards every year to journalists for their commitment.

71
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

2007
Axel Springer‘s vocational training is awarded prize
The Chamber of Industry and Commerce and the Berlin Chamber of Skilled Crafts awarded prizes to
training companies for their “excellent vocational training performance”. These companies also included Axel Springer SE, which offers apprenticeships for printers, media designers and industrial mechanics, as well as various occupations in the business area.
The Institute for Environmental Management and Economics (IÖW): Right up front with the
online Sustainability Report
In the critical comparison of Sustainability Reports from 150 German organizations in 2007 carried out
by the Institute for Environmental Management and Economics (IÖW), the Sustainability Report 2005
of Axel Springer SE was rated eighth overall and second in the Environmental Protection segment. In
the even smaller group of companies who publish their Sustainability Reports exclusively on the Internet, Axel Springer SE was rated first. In the rankings carried out over the past ten years, Axel Springer
SE‘s Sustainability Report, published every two years, has been ranked in the Top 10 five times.

72
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

73
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Our Responsibility as a Media Company
Responsibility at Axel Springer has many facets: a clear position,
journalistic independence, energy efficiency of IT systems, data
protection and the safeguarding of social and ecological standards.

74
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Journalistic courage

Six months after the attack on “Charlie Hebdo” on 7 January 2015, the Axel Springer Akademie published jerestecharlie.eu –
a video website with information about religiously motivated terrorism and its impact on society. At the center of the website
is a moving documentary film, in which members of the editorial team at “Charlie Hebdo”, relatives of those who were killed,
and others who were affected relate how they have continued with their lives after the assault and how the terrorist attack
has changed both them and French society. (Source: Axel Springer Akademie)

The attack on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo
This is what Mathias Döpfner said at the New Year‘s Reception 2015 (extract):
“The attack in Paris, the almost complete annihilation of the editorial office of the satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo, the murder of 17 people has attacked and intimidated an entire profession, a central
element of our western democracies: the media, the free press, in short: the freedom of expression.
And the crucial question is: did the terrorists succeed, has this attack had a behavior-changing effect
on journalists in the long term or hasn‘t it?
If it has had this effect, then 7 January 2015 will go down in history as the day that Islamic terror cut
the western world down to size. As the beginning of the end of real freedom of expression. As the
beginning of a new appeasement and the intellectual capitulation of democracy, the rule of law and
human rights. If the attack has not had this intimidating effect, then it can – inversely – go down in
history as a day that has strengthened our values. Both are possible. There is evidence of both.
Millions of people are taking to the streets around the world these days – as a sign of solidarity with
the victims and as a gesture for the self-confidence of free societies. Islamic organizations have –
more clearly than ever before – distanced themselves from the attack with extremely strong words.
Yet at the same time, the first media organizations, TV broadcasters and newspapers around the
world are beginning to make compromises, and are not showing the cartoons in their reporting on the
attack, or are using a somewhat milder tone in their reporting – for fear of the consequences.
Fear is in the air. The days when medial courage was free are a thing of the past. Now courage is starting to cost something once again. At worst, life. We are at a fateful crossroads.”

75
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Guidelines to Safeguard the Independence of
Journalism at Axel Springer

The main entrance of the Axel Springer Building in Berlin. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

The guidelines specify and extend the company’s understanding of the publishing principles of the
press code of conduct issued by the German Press Council.
Observance of the guidelines by all editors in their journalistic endeavors safeguards the general conditions that make independent and critical journalism possible. The editors-in-chief are responsible for
the observance of the guidelines and their implementation in day-to-day business. The guidelines deal
with the distinction between advertising and editorial copy as well as between editors’ personal and
professional interests, prevent the exercise of personal advantage and define a position with respect
to the treatment of sources.

Preamble
The editors of Axel Springer SE are aware of their responsibility for providing information and shaping
public opinion in Germany. Independence is essential as a basis for their work.
The guidelines are a concrete expression of Axel Springer’s understanding of the journalistic principles
set forth in the Press Code of the German Press Council. Adherence to these guidelines by all editors
in their journalistic work safeguards the overall conditions that enable independent, critical journalism
at Axel Springer.
The chief editors are responsible for adherence to the guidelines and their implementation in day-today work.

Advertising
Point 7 of the Press Code requires publishers and editors to make a clear distinction between editorial
text and advertising copy and points out the need to adhere to the regulations for paid advertising.
The journalists at Axel Springer
• shall ensure, together with the management of the publishing house, that a distinction is made
between advertising and editorial material. Advertisements must not create the impression, through
their overall design or major components, that they are part of the editorial material of the title. Special
attention must be given to using different typography. If there is any doubt, the advertisement must be
marked as such clearly and in sufficiently large type.

76
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

• shall resist attempts by advertisers or interested parties to influence content, and enter no agreements that might jeopardize their independence as journalists. Merchandising campaigns and media
partnerships must be identified as such where necessary.

Personal and business interests
It is part of the responsibility of the press towards the public that journalistic publications should not
be influenced by the personal or business interests of third parties or the personal financial interests of
the editors themselves.
This is the subject of Points 6 and 7 of the Press Code.
The journalists at Axel Springer
• shall not report on persons with whom they have a close relationship, especially family members, in
the form of copy or photographs unless there is an objective reason for doing so that has been approved by the writer’s superior.
• shall not use their reporting to obtain benefits for themselves or others.
• shall consult their superior if membership of or the holding of an office or a seat in a society, political party, association or other institution, investment in a company, permitted side-line employment
or a relationship with persons or institutions might create the impression that the neutrality of their
reporting on such societies, political parties, associations, persons or other institutions is thereby
impaired.
• shall take special care to meet the legal and professional obligations of the press with regard to inside information as set forth in the German Press Council’s publication “Journalistic ethics concerning
inside and other information with a potential effect on security prices”.

Invitations, gifts and press trips
Point 15 of the Press Code is concerned with personal benefit as a danger to independent journalism.
Even the appearance that journalists’ freedom of decision might be impaired by the acceptance of
invitations or gifts should be avoided.
The journalists at Axel Springer
• shall ensure that all costs (travelling expenses, entertainment etc.) incurred in the course of their research are paid by the editorial department. Any exceptions must be approved by the chief editor and
have to be marked accordingly in the coverage.
• shall not accept any gifts that constitute a personal benefit or, if it is impossible to refuse them, shall
pass them on to the company, which will then give them to a charity.

Treatment of sources
The journalist’s duty of care in the treatment of information sources is extremely important for journalistic work and the public’s opinion of the press. Point 2 of the Press Code regulates the treatment of
sources in addition to the existing legal provisions.
The journalists at Axel Springer
• shall in all cases make sure that interviews are authorized verbally or in writing by the person interviewed, even if time is very short, unless other agreements are documented.

77
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Principles for the Freedom of the Press

„Medien und Journalisten haben Anspruch auf ungehinderten Zugang zu allen Nachrichten und Informationsquellen. Der Öffentlichkeit jedes Staates ist freier Zugang zu allen nationalen wie ausländischen Medien und Informationsquellen zu gewähren.“ (Quelle Illustration: Code of Conduct/Axel Springer SE; Quelle Text: „Europäische Charta für Pressefreiheit“

48 editors-in-chief and senior journalists from 19 countries adopted the first „European Charter on
Freedom of the Press“ on 25 May 2009 in Hamburg. This Charter formulates principles for the freedom of the press from government intervention, and in particular for their right to safety from surveillance, electronic eavesdropping and searches of editorial departments and computers, and to unimpeded access for journalists and citizens to all domestic and foreign sources of information.
The Charter was subsequently notified to the EU Commission in Brussels, in order to assert its validity
throughout the Community and to make its adoption a condition in EU accession negotiations.

European Charter on Freedom of the Press
Article 1: Freedom of the press is essential to a democratic society. To uphold and protect it, and to
respect its diversity and its political, social and cultural missions, is the mandate of all governments.
Article 2: Censorship is impermissible. Independent journalism in all media is free of persecution and
repression, without a guarantee of political or regulatory interference by government. Press and online
media shall not be subject to state licensing.
Article 3: The right of journalists and media to gather and disseminate information and opinions must
not be threatened, restricted or made subject to punishment.
Article 4: The protection of journalistic sources shall be strictly upheld. Surveillance of, electronic
eavesdropping on or searches of newsrooms, private rooms or journalists’ computers with the aim of
identifying sources of information or infringing on editorial confidentiality are unacceptable.
Article 5: All states must ensure that the media have the full protection of the law and the authorities
while carrying out their role. This applies in particular to defending journalists and their employees from
harassment and/or physical attack. Threats to or violations of these rights must be carefully investigated and punished by the judiciary.

78
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Article 6: The economic livelihood of the media must not be endangered by the state or by statecontrolled institutions. The threat of economic sanctions is also unacceptable. Private-sector companies must respect the journalistic freedom of the media. They shall neither exert pressure on journalistic content nor attempt to mix commercial content with journalistic content.
Article 7: State or state-controlled institutions shall not hinder the freedom of access of the media
and journalists to information. They have a duty to support them in their mandate to provide information.
Article 8: Media and journalists have a right to unimpeded access to all news and information sources, including those from abroad. For their reporting, foreign journalists should be provided with visas,
accreditation and other required documents without delay.
Article 9: The public of any state shall be granted free access to all national and foreign media and
sources of information.
The government shall not restrict entry into the profession of journalism.
Further information can be found at www.pressfreedom.eu.

79
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Declaration on the protection of intellectual property

„The Internet offers immense opportunities to professional journalism. But only if the basis for profitability remains secure
throughout the digital channels of distribution. This is currently not the case.“

In 2009, the European Publishers Council (EPC), of which Axel Springer SE is also a member, presented the EU Commission the „Hamburg Declaration on the protection of intellectual property“. The
declaration is supported by the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers‘ (WAN-IFRA)
and has in the meantime been signed internationally by a large number of publishers and publishing
managers.
Hamburg Declaration on the protection of intellectual property
„The Internet offers immense opportunities to professional journalism. But only if the basis
for profitability remains secure throughout the digital channels of distribution. This is currently not the case.
Numerous providers are using the work of authors, publishers and broadcasters without
paying for it. Over the long term, this threatens the production of high-quality content and
the existence of independent journalism.
For this reason, we advocate strongly urgent improvements in the protection of intellectual
property on the Internet. Universal access to websites does not necessarily mean access at
no cost. We disagree with those who maintain that freedom of information is only established when everything is available at no cost.
Universal access to our services should be available, but going forward we no longer wish
to be forced to give away property without having granted permission.
We therefore welcome the growing resolve of federal and state governments all over the
world to continue to support the protection of the rights of authors, publishers and broadcasters on the Internet.
There should be no parts of the Internet where laws do not apply. Legislators and governments at the national and international level should protect more effectively the intellectual
creation of value by authors, publishers and broadcasters. Unauthorized use of intellectual
property must remain prohibited whatever the means of distribution.

80
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Ultimately, the fundamental principle that no democracy can thrive without independent
journalism must also apply to the World Wide Web.“
The first signatories included Frederic Aurand (Groupe Hersant, France), Francisco Balsemão (Impresa, Portugal), Carlo De Benedetti (Editoriale L‘Espresso, Italy), Carl-Johan Bonnier (Bonnier, Sweden),
Oscar Bronner (Der Standard, Austria), Bernd Buchholz (Gruner + Jahr, Germany), Hubert Burda
(Burda Media, Germany), Mathias Döpfner (Axel Springer SE, Germany), Hanzade Dogan (Milliyet,
Turkey), Stefan von Holtzbrinck (Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck, Germany), Patrick Morley (Telegraaf Media Group, The Netherlands), James Murdoch (News Corporation Europe and Asia), Horst
Pirker (Styria, Austria), Didier Quillot (Lagadére, France), Gavin O‘Reilly (Independent News and Media,
Ireland), Michael Ringier (Ringier, Switzerland), The Viscount Rothermere (Daily Mail and General Trust,
Great Britain), Ian Smith (Reed Elsevier, Great Britain/The Netherlands), Hannu Syrjanen (Sanoma,
Finland), Robert Thomson (Dow Jones and Wall Street Journal), Giorgio Valerio (RCS Quotidiani, Italy)
and Christian Van Thillo (de Persgroep, Belgium).
Dr. Mathias Döpfner, Chief Executive Officer of Axel Springer SE, said: „I am pleased with this international appeal by publishers. It is an important step in the interests of the global Internet community.
The Internet is not the enemy, but rather the future of journalism, providing intellectual property is also
respected in the digital world. There are above all two objectives: A fair share of the revenues generated by those who are commercially exploiting our content, and in addition, the development of a
market for paid content in the digital world. We are confident that the representatives of search engines and other aggregators will also want to join us in recognizing, developing and sharing together the
market opportunities for legitimate paid content in the Internet.“
WAN-IFRA president Gavin O‘Reilly said: „We are continuing to attract an increasingly larger audience
for our content. But, unlike the Print or TV business models we are not making any money from our
content. This is an untenable situation. Publishers failing will benefit no-one, least of all consumers, or
indeed the search engines and other aggregators who currently make huge profits on the back of our
intellectual property.“
EPC president Francisco Pinto Balsemão added: „A fundamental safeguard of democratic society is
a free, diverse and independent press. Without control over our intellectual property rights, the future of quality journalism is at stake. And at the same time our ability to provide our consumers with
quality and varied information, education and entertainment on the many platforms they enjoy. With
this declaration we call on governments worldwide to support the copyright of authors, publishers and
broadcasters on the Internet.“
You can find the full text of the „Hamburg Declaration“ at www.hamburgdeclaration.org.

81
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

What is product responsibility all about?

A colorful and diverse media world has gathered under the Axel Springer umbrella. No matter whether the medium is online,
print or audiovisual carrier – the media brands and their respective journalistic copy are the center of attention. (Source: Axel
Springer SE)

The core business of Axel Springer is informative and entertaining journalism, whatever the media
channel. The offering encompasses a broad range of printed and digital media.
By product responsibility Axel Springer SE refers to the responsibility that the company takes with
regard to its media products. This consists first and foremost of journalistic independence, care in the
treatment of sources, the separation of advertising and editorial copy, data protection, media protection of young persons, the safeguarding of social and ecological standards, as well as compliance
with justice and the law.
Axel Springer SE protects the information transmitted to its website with technical and organizational
security measures in order to protect personal data from random or deliberate manipulation, destruction or unauthorized access. The company is continuously improving its security measures in line with
the latest technological developments.
In the course of the fast-paced digital transformation of our company, we are at the same time looking
at the transparency and optimization of social and environmental standards along the digital value
chain. Our goal is the successful establishment of independent journalism in the digital world. You can
find more information by following the links on the side.

82
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Ausgezeichnete Journalisten der Axel Springer SE

Team 13 of the Axel Springer Akademie won third prize in the Internet category of the Axel Springer Prize with its web project
“wahllos.de – Germany’s non-voters”. The photo shows the award winners in the Internet category with (f.l.t.r.) Mathias Döpfner (CEO of Axel Springer SE), jury spokesman Rowan Barnett, keynote speaker Stefan Aust (Publisher WELT Group), Friede
Springer (Deputy Chair of Axel Springer SE Supervisory Board) and Marc Thomas Spahl (Director Axel Springer Akademie).
(Photo: Axel Springer SE)

A large number of journalists‘ prizes are awarded in Germany. They are awarded by associations, institutions, business and private initiatives. A large number of journalists from Axel Springer SE received
awards for their work between 2012 and 2015. Here is an overview:

2015
Ernst Cramer Reporting Award
For his report “By tram through the Holy City”, the journalist Jan Schapira (DIE WELT) was awarded
the Ernst Cramer Reporting Award for the best German reportage. He shared first prize with Jonathan
Stock (Der Spiegel) for the article “Goliath’s War”.
“By tram through the Holy City”
Jan Schapira, DIE WELT

Rocco Clein Prize
The ROLLING STONE has been awarded the Rocco Clein Prize for the best cover of 2015. The prize
was awarded for the cover picture of the July 2015 edition, which showed Eurovision Song Contest
winner Conchita Wurst – topless. The picture was taken at an exclusive photo shoot in Vienna; the
design was created by Walter Schönauer, art director of ROLLING STONE.
MUSIKEXPRESS was also awarded the Rocco Clein Prize in 2015. ME author Arno Frank won in the
category of „Best Interview“ for an interview he conducted with Blixa Bargeld, singer of the „Einstürzende Neubauten“, and British band leader Stuart Staples.
ROLLING STONE in July 2015 – Cover Story: Conchita Wurst
Interview: Blixa Bargeld & Stuart Staples
MUSIKEXPRESS 01/2015, Download article

83
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Horizont Award
The Chair of the BILD Group Management Board Donata Hopfen was awarded the “Horizon Award”
in the Alte Oper (Old Opera) in Frankfurt. With this award, the specialist magazine “Horizon” paid tribute to Hopfen’s entrepreneurial achievements – in particular for the introduction of digital paid models.

2014
The Axel Springer Prize for Young Journalists

Team 13 from the Axel Springer Akademie won 3rd place in the Axel Springer Prize in the Internet
category with their web project “wahllos.de – Germany’s non-voters”. Team 13 from the Axel Springer
Akademie: Sarah Borufka, Christopher Clausen, Niklas Cordes, Paulina Czienskowski, Henrik Jacobs,
Eva Marie Kogel, Sebastian Kolsberger, Larissa Hoppe, Maria Menzel, Nils Mertens, Karina Mößbauer, Niclas Renzel, Aylissa Schäfer, Oliver Schmidt, Susanne Schumann, Romy Schwaiger, Magdalene
Weber und Katharina Weiß.
View wahllos.de website

Rocco Clein Prize

ROLLING STONE author Berni Mayer received “Best Interview” prize for his interview with US rock
musician Bob Mould about their common hobby of wrestling. ROLLING STONE columnist Eric Pfeil
won the award in the “Best Music Blog” category. In addition, the just 17-year-old Ivo Ligeti from MUSIKEXPRESS won one of the three young talent awards.
“Berni Mayer vs. Bob Mould”
ROLLING STONE: June 2015
“Music Blog: Eric Pfeil’s Pop Diary”
www.rollingstone.de

Top 30 under 30

“medium magazin” selects the 30 best young journalists in Germany annually. The relevant criteria for
selection are: an own style, creative thematic approach, thorough research, personality, curiosity, willingness to take risks, eagerness to experiment and depth. Six colleagues from the publishing house
are among the award-winners: Christian Stenzel, Pia Frey, Carline Mohr, Henrik Neumann, Vanessa
Schlesier and Florian Flade from the BILD and WELT Groups.

2013
Axel-Springer-Preis für junge Journalisten
Das Team 11 der Axel Springer Akademie gewann den 2. Platz des Axel-Springer-Preises im Bereich
Internet mit ihrem Webprojekt „ ZOOM BERLIN – Das Hyperlokalprojekt über die Oranienstraße“.
Team 11 der Axel Springer Akademie: Matthias Bannert, Til Biermann, Ricarda Biskoping, Christin
Bohmann, Benjamin Doerfel, Viktoria Dümer, Stefanie Enge, Alexandra Grauvogl, Lena Kappei, Moritz
Leihkamm, Nadja Lucas, Stefan Mair, Lucas Negroni, Henrik Neumann, Inga Pylypchuk, Victor Reichardt, Anja Richter, Evelyn Rosar, Julia Szyndzielorz, Jan Vollmer
http://zoom-berlin.com/

84
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Deutscher Reporterpreis

Drei Kollegen der BERLINER MORGENPOST und der WELT am SONNTAG wurden mit dem Deutschen Reporterpreis ausgezeichnet. Eva Sudholt wurde für ihre Reportage „Mein Freund Jürgen“ in
der Kategorie „Beste Lokalreportage“ geehrt. Die WELT-Redakteure Benjamin von Stuckrad-Barre und
Hajo Schumacher wurden in der Kategorie „Bestes Interview“ für ihr Gespräch mit Theater-Intendant
Jürgen Flimm und CDU-Politiker Jörg Schönbohm, „Ohne unsere Frauen wären wir jetzt tot“, ausgezeichnet.
„Mein Freund Jürgen“
Berliner Morgenpost: 4.08.2013
„Ohne unsere Frauen wären wir jetzt tot“
WELT am SONNTAG: 23.06.2013

Theodor-Wolff-Preis
Journalisten vom HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT und der WELT wurden im September mit dem renommierten Theodor-Wolff-Preis geehrt. Jan Haarmeyer erhielt den Journalistenpreis für seinen Artikel „Im
Namen des Volkes, auf Kosten des Kindes“, der Geschichte eines Ehepaars, welches um das Sorgerecht für ein traumatisiertes Pflegekind kämpft. Robin Alexander wurde für seinen Essay „Auf den Herd
gekommen“ geehrt, einer treffenden und ausführlichen Auseinandersetzung mit der „Herdprämie“.
„Im Namen des Volkes, auf Kosten des Kindes“
Hamburger Abendblatt: 8.06.2012
„Auf den Herd gekommen“
DIE WELT: 11.11.2012

Publizistik-Preis der Friedrich-August-von-Hayek-Stiftung

Dorothea Siems, Chefkorrespondentin für Wirtschaftspolitik bei der WELT, wurde mit dem renommierten Publizistik-Preis der Friedrich-August-von-Hayek-Stiftung ausgezeichnet.

Rocco-Clein-Preis

Frédéric Schwilden vom ROLLING STONE wurde mit dem Rocco-Clein-Preis, einer Ehrung für junge
Musikjournalisten, ausgezeichnet. Schwilden hatte in einer Tour-Reportage im ROLLING STONE geschildert, wie die einstmals gefeierte britische Band Art Brut damit lebt, acht Jahre nach ihren größten
Hit wieder in kleinen Clubs angekommen zu sein.
„ART BRUT: Eine Band auf Reisen“
Rolling Stone: 30.09.2013

2012
Axel-Springer-Preis für junge Journalisten

Michael Bee gewinnt mit seinem Beitrag: „Abschied mit einem Knall“ den Preis in der Kategorie Print/
Lokale/Regionale Beiträge. Er ist seit 2012 Online-Redakteur der Berliner Morgenpost.
„Abschied mit einem Knall
Berliner Morgenpost: 20.11.2011

85
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Britta Stuff gewinnt mit ihrem Beitrag: „Herr Schröder will es allen zeigen“ den Preis in der Kategorie
Wochen-/Monatspublikationen. Britta Stuff arbeitet als Redakteurin im Ressort Vermischtes/Reportage der Welt und Welt am Sonntag.
„Herr Schröder will es allen zeigen“
Welt am Sonntag: 14.03.2011

Theodor-Wolff-Preis

Philip Cassier von der BERLINER MORGENPOST wurde für seine Reportage „Eine Dosis jüdisches
Penicillin“ ausgezeichnet.
„Eine Dosis jüdisches Penicillin“
Berliner Morgenpost: 23.10.11

Henri-Nannen-Preis

Für den Artikel „Wirbel um Privatkredit – hat Wulff das Parlament getäuscht?“ vom 13. Dezember
2011 erhielten die BILD-Redakteure Martin Heidemanns und Nikolaus Harbusch den Henri-NannenPreis in der Kategorie „Beste investigative Leistung des Jahres“.
„Wirbel um Privatkredit – hat Wulff das Parlament getäuscht?“
BILD: 13.12.2011

Ludwig-Erhard-Förderpreis

Die Ludwig-Erhard-Stiftung hat Tina Kaiser, Wirtschaftskorrespondentin der WELT-Gruppe in London,
in diesem Jahr mit ihrem Förderpreis für Wirtschaftspublizistik ausgezeichnet. Sie erhielt den Preis für
ihren Artikel „Die Bilanzenversteher“ der in der WELT am SONNTAG erschien.
„Die Bilanzenversteher“
WELT am SONNTAG: 27.03.2011

„Medienpreis Politik“

Der Deutsche Bundestag hat das HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT mit dem „Medienpreis Politik 2012“
ausgezeichnet. Volker ter Haseborg, Karsten Kammholz und Lars-Marten Nagel nahmen den Preis
am Mittwochabend von Norbert Lammert im Rahmen des Presseempfangs des Bundestagspräsidenten entgegen. Ausgezeichnet wurden sie und ihr Kieler Kollege Ulf B. Christen für das Dossier „Feind,
Todfeind, Parteifreund“ über den Sturz des damaligen schleswig-holsteinischen CDU-Spitzenkandidaten Christian von Boetticher.
„Feind, Todfeind, Parteifreund“
HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT: 29.12.2011

86
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Media Protection of Young Persons
The task of Media Protection of Young Persons is to protect children and adolescents from influences
from the adult world, which are likely to impair the development of young people as independent and
active members of the community, or even to threaten this development.
Axel Springer SE respects the legal requirements of the Media Protection of Young Persons and beyond that also pays attention to self-imposed obligations, such as those in Germany imposed by the
German Advertising Standards Council and the German Press Council:
Rules of Conduct of the German Advertising Standards Council:
www.werberat.de/Grundregeln
Press Code of the German Press Council:
www.presserat.info/pressekodex
This applies both to our own editorial articles as well as to the content of advertisements from our
advertisers which are distributed. The editorial offices select the journalistic topics and the nature of
their presentation so that no undesirable influence on young people need be feared. Publications
targeting young readers are carefully designed according to age. Content that is potentially relevant to
the protection of minors is, in cases of doubt, either not distributed at all, or distributed exclusively in
publications determined as inaccessible for children and adolescents.

Further information on Media Protection of Young Persons
The right of freedom of expression, the right to information and the freedom of the press are expressly
limited in article 5 of the German Basic Law by the provisions for protection of young persons. The
Youth Protection Act restricts the supply and advertising opportunities for objects that have been
indexed by the Federal Review Board for Writings Harmful to Young Persons in Bonn, or are seriously
liable to corrupt the young.
The Review Board is usually active on request.
Titles with content that is harmful to minors are also known as age-restricted items. They may not be
displayed in stores that are accessible for young people, and may only be sold to adults. In regular
press retailing they are only offered „under the counter“.
If a freely distributable title is designated as harmful to minors, it is entered into the so-called index. If
two issues of a periodic title are entered within 12 months, the title may remain on the Index for three
to 12 months and may not be freely distributed during this time. In case of a breach of the provisions,
not only the publisher but also the retailer can be held responsible.
Writings which contain glorifications of violence according to § 131 of the German Criminal Code
(StGB) or so-called hard-core pornography according to § 184 III, are subject to a general sales ban
and may not be distributed. Advertising these writings is also prohibited.
With the proliferation of electronic media in the press retail trade – such as floppy disks, CDROMs
or DVDs – the question of Media Protection of Young Persons was also extended to include these
products and thus includes all the media referred to in the law as carrier media. In 1995, publishers,
wholesalers, railway station bookshops and the retail sector founded „Voluntary Self-Regulation in
Press Distribution“, DT Control for short, which upon request reviews the contents of such media prior
to their being offered on the market in regard to their compatibility with youth protection regulations.
This has also applied in particular since 01.04.2003 to questions of age labeling, as well as material

87
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

with a potentially undesirable impact on young people in the sense of § 12 para. 5 Youth Protection
Act. The age specifications for diskettes, CD-ROMs, DVDs and videos are to be observed even when
the data carriers appear as supplements in association with newspapers or periodicals. The designated age restrictions also apply to computer games. For full versions of PC games or feature films, the
data media and its cover must clearly indicate the age restriction. These so-called „age cohorts“ for
full versions are issued by the Voluntary Self Regulation of the Movie Industry (FSK ) or the Entertainment Industry (USK).
Free gifts including demo versions of PC games or movies are permitted only if the carrier is accompanied by a note from the vendor, which makes it clear that an organization of voluntary self-regulation
has determined that these extracts will not have a potentially undesirable impact on young people.
Wholesale and retail trade are required to only distribute approved data carriers to avoid facing criminal proceedings and seizures.
Extracts from the VDZ Distribution Glossary
© VDZ Zeitschriften Akademie GmbH

88
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Safeguarding of personal information
General implementation of data protection at Axel Springer SE
I. Training and Counseling
At Axel Springer, competent data protection counseling within the Group enables us to explain to our
employees the safe handling of customer data, both preventively through training courses and seminars, as well as operationally through our daily business operations. For this we have the company
data protection officer as well as experts in the legal department.
II. Project support
From our point of view, data protection starts right from the planning stage of services and products.
That is why Axel Springer calls for early data protection counseling right from the concept of a project
and ongoing project support, so as to ensure the implementation of legal requirements and to offer its
customers a product that is both appealing as well as safe to use.
III. Media skills and informational self-determination
Knowledge of data protection increases media literacy, and thus also the protection of the data of
each individual. This is why we provide information to our customers about data processing at Axel
Springer. In addition, we offer regular editorial articles on the protection and the security of data in our
print and online services (e.g. www.computerbild.de/sicherheitscenter/). In this way, each individual
can exercise his right to informational self-determination. You can find a small selection of our editorial
articles here:
•
•
•
•
•
•

„Ten Tips for secure WLAN“
„How to create secure online passwords“
„These security suites fight the new viruses“
„These weapons can defeat the NSA spies“
„The dangers of Facebook: This is what you must be aware of!“
„The COMPUTER BILD scam protection service“

IV. Membership and Data Protection Associations
We are a member of various associations and organizations, which apply themselves to the observance and implementation of data protection:
•
•
•

The German Association for Data Protection and Data Security (GDD)
Association of German Magazine Publishers Association (VDZ)
Federal Association of German Newspaper Publishers (BDZV)

Use and disclosure of personal data
The protection of personal data is important to us. As a rule, you can visit all of the nachhaltigkeit.
axelspringer.de pages, without us requiring personal data from you. All of the personal data collected
is processed and used according to the German provisions for the protection of personal data.
Generally speaking, we need your personal data in order to reply to your queries or enable you access
to special information or offers, such as our newsletter or media subscriptions. We do not collect any
personal data through our website without your consent. Should this be necessary, we will inform you
and obtain your consent. We will not sell or otherwise market your personal data to third parties.

89
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

We will collect personal data only with your consent and only in the following cases:
•
•
•
•

Subscription to the Newsletter
Feedback forms
Order brochures
Applications

Depending on the purpose, name, address, gender, date of birth, telephone number, fax number and
e-mail address are collected and saved.

Statutory deadlines for the deletion of data
The deletion of the data occurs after the expiry of the legal, statutory or contractual retention periods.
Data not affected by this will be deleted when the intended purpose of use agreed with you ceases to
apply.

Automatic collection of non-personal information
Google Analytics
This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google Inc., Amphitheatre
Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA (“Google”). Google Analytics uses so-called cookies (see
clause 4 above), which allow the website to analyze how you use the site.
The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website is generally transmitted to and
stored by Google on a server in the United States. In case IP anonymization is activated on this website, your IP address will be truncated by Google within the Member States of the European Union or
other parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and thereby anonymized. In exceptional cases only, the complete IP address is transferred to a Google server in the USA and truncated
there. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling
reports on website activity for website operators and to provide them other services relating to the use
of the website and the Internet. The IP address that your browser transmits within the scope of Google Analytics will not be associated with any other data held by Google. You may prevent the use of
cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however if you do this you may not be
able to use the full functionality of this website. You can also prevent the collection of data generated
by the cookie and related to your use of the website (including your IP address) by Google, as well as
the processing of this data by Google, by downloading and installing the deactivation add-on available
at the following link:http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=de.

Links to other websites
Upon leaving the websites of Axel Springer SE, you will be informed by an „external link“ (a new browser window opens) that you are accessing a different provider.
Twitter
Axel Springer SE uses a number of Twitter accounts. Twitter is a microblogging service provided by
the American company Twitter, Inc. (795 Folsom St., Suite 600, San Francisco, CA 94107).
If you actively use Twitter yourself and post a tweet, we can also see it if you have made it accessible
to everyone or if we follow you on Twitter. We can also see your details on Twitter, if Axel Springer SE
follows your tweets. For details on the processing of data by Twitter and visibility settings please refer
to the Twitter privacy policy: https://twitter.com/privacy

90
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Security
Axel Springer SE protects the information transmitted to its website with technical and organizational
security measures in order to protect personal data from random or deliberate manipulation, destruction or unauthorized access. Axel Springer SE is continuously improving its security measures in line
with the latest technological developments.

Right to information and public procedures directory
On request, we will inform you in writing in accordance with applicable law, whether and which personal data we have saved about you.
Please do not hesitate to contact our data protection officer if you have any questions regarding the
processing of your personal data: datenschutz@axelspringer.de

91
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

The Axel Springer Akademie

As the largest private institution of its kind in Germany, the Axel Springer Akademie every year offers 40 aspiring journalists a
sound two-year vocational training course as editors. (Video: Axel Springer Akademie)

Training at the Axel Springer Akademie
The Axel Springer Akademie is the most modern school of journalism in Germany. Training to be an
editor takes two years. It combines the advantages of a well-established School of Journalism with
those of a classical internship. Our vocational training has a clear cross-media focus and attaches
great importance to language and exclusivity.
Practice-oriented learning of all journalistic disciplines
Cross-media focus
Individual work in small groups (max. 20 participants)
One year practical phase in the editorial office of your choice
Digital training at BILD.de
Newspaper design training at WELT KOMPAKT
Study trip to Israel to conclude the training
Prospects in one of the most successful media companies in Europe
€ 1,200 per month training allowance

Sequence of training
1st six months
Basic course
In your first weeks with us you will learn the craft of journalism from scratch. You will write news articles, reports and portraits, research your own stories, produce headlines and lead stories. Moreover
you will also receive comprehensive research training. Right from the beginning you will interview a lot
of people, also in front of the camera of course.
Home editorial office
Following your basic course you will spend a month in your home editorial office. There you can use
and practice what you have learned so far. You will get to know your future colleagues and your workplace and perhaps even be able to publish one or more of your own stories.

92
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Advanced course
When you return to the Akademie after your month in the home editorial office, you will deepen your
knowledge of the world of video. In addition you will practice further digital forms of presentation, nonlinear storytelling and dealing with social media.
Masterpiece
As a constant development laboratory we observe the developments within the industry and are looking for responses to the challenges facing the journalism of the future.
Practice orientation is the most important part of our concept. For this reason you will independently
develop a digital project with your team as part of your training and come to know an entirely convergent production. We refer to it as “Masterpiece”, in order to make the requirements clear. The project
marks the end of the first six months of your training.
2nd six months
WELT KOMPAKT
The Axel Springer Akademie is the only school of journalism in Europe to have its own daily newspaper, WELT KOMPAKT. On your own responsibility you produce the daily newspaper in the most modern newsroom in Germany.
BYou – BILD.de’s youth portal
You also receive training “on the job” at BILD.de. On your own responsibility you produce content with
your team for the target group of 14 to 17-year-olds. Texts, videos and new digital formats – at BYou
you can give your creativity free rein.
3rd and 4th six months
Home editorial office
You spend your second training year in your home editorial office where you deepen the skills learned
so far. You produce your own stories, develop yourself further and become part of your editorial office.
Final trip to Israel
At the end of your two-year training course it’s time to pack your suitcase; you’re off on a study trip
to the Holy Land. This is a unique opportunity for the teams from the Akademie to form their own
impressions of the politics, culture and the economy of a country full of contrasts and tension. At the
end of this trip, every trainee journalist is ceremoniously awarded their editor’s certificate.
You will find further information at: www.axel-springer-akademie.de

93
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

The 2015 Axel Springer Prize for Young Journalists

The Axel Springer Akademie awarded the Axel Springer Prize for Young Journalists for the 24th time in 2015. (Source: Axel
Springer Akademie)

The Axel Springer Prize for Young Journalists was established in 1991 by Axel Springer SE and the
heirs of the company‘s founder. The prize is aimed at authors who were not older than 33 when their
contributions were published. The reason for this is the desire of the sponsors to support budding
journalists and to encourage special achievement.
The award ceremony for the Axel Springer Prize for Young Journalists was held in Berlin for the 24th
time in 2015. The Axel Springer Prize is one of the most important awards for young journalists in
Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The four independent juries awarded a total of 54,000 euros in
prize money to twelve contributions in the categories of Internet, Television, Radio and Print before an
audience of 250 invited guests from the media, culture and politics.
The guest speaker for the evening was Lord George Weidenfeld (1919-2016). Under the motto “Look
very closely – The journalist at a crossroads in the history of the world”, the 95-year-old journalist and
publisher made a plea for the core virtues of journalism. He spoke about how important it was to
remain courageous when researching and in interviews. Yet above all, it is important to develop the
courage to form your own attitude, especially when this seems to be unpopular and polarizing.
The first prizes were awarded to Isabelle Buckow and Christian Werner in the Internet category, to
Philipp Grull (Bayerischer Rundfunk) in the Television category and to Mareike Aden (DLF) in the Radio
category. In the Print/Monthlies and Weeklies category, Anne Kunze (Die Zeit) won the first prize, as
did Massimo Bognanni (Handelsblatt) in the Print/National articles category. Daniel Gräber (southern
Baden weekly “Der Sonntag”) was the winner in the Print/Local and Regional articles category.
Marc Thomas Spahl, Director of the Axel Springer Akademie: „We award this prize in memory of Axel
Springer, who most people remember as a publisher. But above all he was a journalist, who practiced
this occupation with passion in his younger years, and for whom the promotion of young talent was
always near to his heart.“
Further information is available at www.axel-springer-preis.de.

94
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

The „Women in Media Award“ 2015

All the finalists of the “Women in Media Award” 2015. The prize was awarded for the third time in 2015.
(Photo: Christian Kielmann)

Axel Springer presented the “Women in Media Award” in Berlin for the third time in 2015 to women
enthusiastic about media and technology. The “Women in Media Award” is part of the group‘s own
“Chancen:gleich!” project that aims to support the careers of women at Axel Springer. The digital publisher specifically promotes young talents with the award and brings together women keen on media
and technology with the digital industry.
This year‘s prizewinners are Hanna Löbke (deputy head of advertising BILD and marketing manager
at BILD am SONNTAG), Sally Meukow (freelance travel writer and blogger) and Marlen Ring (Media
Manager Marketing Communications, Coca-Cola). The winning team succeeded in convincing the jury
with its innovative app „WITNEXT“, which connects world-wide user generated content directly with
editors.
Matthias Brügelmann, Chairman of Axel Springer’s “Chancen:gleich!” Initiative and deputy editor-inchief of BILD, explained: “This year as well, the powerful presentations and innovative ideas from the
finalists have shown what impressive results creative, interdisciplinary teams are able to achieve. With
the “Women in Media Award” we want to promote women and encourage them to bring their own
digital visions to life in this industry which is still largely dominated by men. As a digital publisher, we
do not want to miss out on their innovative strength.”

95
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

BILD launches Peter Boenisch Fellowship for young
journalists

Peter Boenisch (center) at the BILD copy desk (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

BILD launched the eponymous fellowship in honor of Peter Boenisch. For three months, young journalists can follow in the tracks of Boehnisch and put into practice a multi-media reportage.
“The moon is now a yank” – this legendary headline made the former BILD editor-in-chief Peter Boenisch famous. He was considered to be an exceptional journalist and a fighter for freedom and democracy who had a lasting influence on the German media landscape. In honor of Peter Boenisch, BILD
established the “Peter Boehnisch Fellowship” on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of his death on
8 July 2015. The Fellowship targets talented young journalists.
Kai Diekmann,BILD editor-in-chief: “Peter Boenisch was one of the journalists of the century. It would
certainly have made him happy to know that we are giving young, talented people such a chance
under his name.”
The three-month fellowship is based on the journalistic work of Peter Boenisch, who campaigned in
particular for German-American and German-Russian relations. The first of four stages in the Fellowship Program leads right into the heart of BILD – the federal editorial office in Berlin. After four weeks,
the foreign stages follow: the Los Angeles office of BILD and a stay in Moscow. Finally, the fellow
receives an opportunity to put their own multi-media reportage for BILD into practice, no matter wherever in the world the research may lead. The topic can be freely selected and should be told as Peter
Boenisch would have told it: brilliantly, emotionally and grippingly. The “Peter Boenisch Fellowship” is
awarded once a year and remunerated with 3,000 euros monthly, BILD also bears the costs for travel
and accommodation.
Further information on the Peter Boenisch Fellowship can be found on www.peterboenisch.de/

96
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Cross-media project on the refugee crisis

Schaffen wir das? Eine Frage, der das Team 18 der Axel Springer Akademie in einem einzigartigen Langzeitprojekt auf den
Grund gehen möchte. Ein Jahr lang begleiten sie zehn Menschen, die wesentliche Aspekte der Zuwanderung abdecken.
Am Ende wollen sie sehen, wie die Frage „Schaffen wir das“ und die Antworten darauf Deutschland verändern. (Video: Axel
Springer Akademie)

The Axel Springer Akademie, Germany‘s most progressive school of journalism, launched a 365-day
long-term cross-media project on the refugee crisis in December 2015. In this project, young journalists from the Axel Springer Akademie are accompanying ten people who are in the center of this crisis
for a whole year: refugees, mayors, crisis managers, doctors, police officers, neighbors next door.
They are representative of the main challenges of the refugee crisis. Along with these representatives,
the reporters want to clarify the crucial question for the coming years: Can we do it?
“Staying on topic for the long-term instead of selective reporting - that is the goal of this unique
journalistic project”, says Marc Thomas Spahl, Director of the Axel Springer Akademie. “We want to
illustrate the lives of refugees and the people who accompany them on their journey as closely as
possible.”
Each of the ten protagonists has their own subpage at www.schaffenwirdas.de. There they are portrayed in video reports, above all there will be a year of regular updates on their development – either
as text, video, curated user content or integrated social media postings.
Additionally, there will be an extensive context section with superordinate contributions and interviews.
Debates, analyses and best practice examples will also find a place there.
Among the protagonists of “Schaffen wir das?” you will find the mayor of Calden, who has to mediate
between the 3000 citizens of his municipality in Hesse and 1500 refugees in the camp next door. The
young woman, who could only take her six-year old son with her when she fled from Syria, and who
had to leave her daughter behind. The Welcome Manager of the LaGeSo in Berlin, who struggles with
chaos on a daily basis. Or the 79-year-old from the Nordstrand peninsula in Schleswig-Holstein, who
has committed herself completely to the care of refugees and can no longer stop.
“We will show both the positive stories affecting our protagonists throughout the year, but of course
also the dark side of the crisis, the moments of doubt and frustration. By the end we want to see how
the question “Schaffen wir das” (“Can we do it?”) and the responses to it are changing our country,
says Kristin Schulze, Head of Cross-Media Studies at the Akademie.

97
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Live Project „Generation Separation“

18 reporters in five teams visited 15 countries and reported live over a period of ten days on their research from Transylvania,
the Basque Country, Kosovo, Greece, Latvia, and Cyprus, among others. (Video: Axel Springer Akademie)

The Axel Springer Akademie launched an international, digital live project in 2014. At www.generationseparation.eu, 18 reporters investigated ongoing conflicts in Europe. Divided into five teams, they
traveled to 15 countries and reported live for a period of ten days on their research from Transylvania,
the Basque Country, Kosovo, Greece, Latvia, Cyprus and other regions where European crises are
having an effect.
The topic of Europe is of high journalistic relevance: Right-wing populism, economic crises, autonomous trends, extremism and ethnic conflicts – it is apparent that fewer and fewer people see the
EU as a solution for national problems. But who or what can offer remedies? The young journalists
wanted to find answers to this question on an international level. The topics were researched partly in
advance, partly on site and were presented in multimedia formats. To help them do this, the reporters
were equipped with cameras, smartphones and laptops, and developed numerous video formats.
This was the first Axel Springer Akademie project which was produced almost completely in English.
“Because GENERATION SEPARATION only addresses topics which are of concern to all Europeans,
production in English is a must,” says Kristin Schulze, Head of Cross-Media at the Akademie.
Further information on all the travel routes and reporter teams, as well as a video trailer, can be found
at www.generation-separation.eu, as well as through the links in the right menu bar.

98
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Sponsorship of the Hamburg Media School

Axel Springer SE is continuing to sponsor the Hamburg Media School, in particular the Bachelor’s
degree course in “Digital Media” until 2018.
The Hamburg Media School has offered a Bachelor’s degree course in “Digital Media” for two years,
together with the Lüneburg Leuphana University. The internationally oriented, English-language education prepares young students for the shaping of the digital future. They learn the basics of digital
media and implement their own projects in the areas of video, audio, games, apps, or mashups. The
course of study provides an ideal integration of theory and practice.
“The promotion of dedicated media talent is important to us. The inter-university, interdisciplinary and
international orientation of the degree program is an offer for young people that persuaded us”, says
Dr. Alexander Schmid-Lossberg, Head of Human Resources at Axel Springer SE.

99
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Promotion of media literacy

There are downloads, prescriptions, greeting cards, driver‘s license tests and much more available free on the Internet.
However: Those who don‘t pay attention can unintentionally be trapped into paying costs. Axel Springer media inform and
explain. Computer-BILD for example, offers the free “Abzock-Schutz” browser add-on (scam protection service) as a download. This add-on protects users from malware, phishing, spam and scareware. (Source: www.computerbild.de)

Access to knowledge, the understanding of political processes and the development of media literacy
are essential preconditions for participating in democratic decisions. That is why Axel Springer SE is
promoting the media literacy of young people with a range of measures.
Example 1: Knowledge of data protection increases media literacy and thereby also the protection of
personal data. Our titles inform and explain. In this way they contribute to the critical media literacy
of young readers in particular. In our print and online services (e.g. www.computerbild.de/sicherheitscenter/), we offer regular editorial articles on the protection and the security of data. Here are a
few examples:
•
•
•
•
•
•

„Ten Tips for secure WLAN“
„How to create secure online passwords“
„These security suites fight the new viruses“
„These weapons can defeat the NSA spies“
„The dangers of Facebook: This is what you must be aware of!“
„The COMPUTER BILD scam protection service“

Example 2: The Axel Springer Akademie was also one of the main partners of the Jugendmedientage
(Youth Media Days) in 2015. These are organized by the Jugendpresse Deutschland (Federal Youth
Press Association), a largely voluntary association made up of 15,000 young media producers. The
Association wants to impart journalistic skills and represent the interests of young people in the media.
During the Youth Media Days, young media producers and media users aged between 14 and 26
years can gain insights into the exciting world of the media.

100
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Employees’ children explore their digital footprint

Eva Maria Kirschsieper from Facebook gave the adolescents tips on profile settings when using social media services. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

In 2014, Group Security, in cooperation with the Axel Springer Personnel Development, organized a
half-day workshop for employees’ children under the motto “Back to the Future”. At various stations,
the children and adolescents were able to inform themselves about the dangers, risks and strategies
for dealing with social networks and other online platforms on the Internet.
In workshops on topics such as password security, your own pictures on the web and the dangers of
shopping online, the participants, along with employees from Group Security developed their knowledge of the correct handling of sensitive data. Eva Maria Kirschsieper from Facebook joined them as
a guest and passed on interesting tips about profile settings when using social media services.
Axel Allerkamp, responsible for crisis management within Group Security, stressed: “Just as I have
to make my child aware of dangers in traffic on the road, I have to train them the same way in their
dealings with the Internet. And you can simply not start early enough”.

101
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Germany‘s largest Youth Media Congress

The Axel Springer Akademie is a main partner of the Jugendmedientage (Youth Media Days). The participants in 2015 were
young media producers aged between 16 and 26 years. School classes, students and all those interested were also invited
to the media fair. (Photo: Florian Timpe)

The Jugendmedientage is a four-day media congress for young people. It is organized annually by the
Jugendpresse Deutschland (Federal Youth Press Association) in cooperation with the German Federal
Agency for Civic Education. The Axel Springer Akademie is one of the main partners of this event.
The Jugendmedientage invites up-and-coming young journalists and young adults who are media
enthusiasts to try things out at the media fair and get to know the various education and training opportunities in the media industry. Through the wide-ranging program of workshops, discussions and
media insights, participants discover the exciting world of the media and can get an impression of the
jobs of newspaper editors, communications agencies or political institutions.
Through the realization of the Jugendmedientage, the Jugendpresse Deutschland has set itself the
goal of promoting the concept of democracy and the media literacy of young media makers. The Jugendmedientage claim to make media perceptible and comprehensible for all interested young people
– irrespective of their country of origin or level of education. Basic, but also in-depth journalistic skills
are conveyed by experts in the field.
The title in 2015 was “machtWorte” (“powerWords”) – freedom//diversity//responsibility and about 400
young media producers occupied themselves with the questions:
1. What is the role of the media in the midst of social and political change?
2. What does digitization mean for journalism? What future prospects arise from digitization and social
change?
3. Our society is diverse! But how does media shape our pictures, our reasoning and opinions? How
diverse are our media and those that make them? And above all: What can we change?
Young media producers aged between 16 and 26 years of age can take part in the Jugendmedientage. School classes, students and all those interested are also invited to the media fair.
Further information can be found at 2015.jugendmedientage.de

102
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Digital paper chase through the Berlin publishing house

“Future Day” at Idealo, the large digital price comparison platform: The children learned about working with hardware and
software from Software Developer Nicole Rendel (right). (Photo: Florian Pfennig)

Axel Springer SE participated in Future Day for the thirteenth time in April 2015. Employees’ children
were given the opportunity to gain an insight into their parents’ working world in the Berlin publishing
house, at Idealo and at the print locations Essen-Kettwig, Ahrensburg and Spandau.
In the Berlin publishing house, the young generation were confronted with a “digital paper chase”,
organized by the Group Security and Vocational Training departments. The emphasis was on fun,
games and enjoyment. The children had to solve exciting tasks in nine departments: In Corporate
Purchasing they ordered electric cars and negotiated discounts. At BILD.de, they could enter their
preferred apps on an Apple Watch model, and learned how difficult it is to ensure that apps and websites run properly on different operating systems. In Group Security, the task was connected to the
security of passwords and at Axel Springer Plug and Play they tested the user-friendliness of websites
and apps. A ride in the truck elevator and a tour through the kitchen of the Paparazzi restaurant were
also included in the program. In the printing works they learned how newspapers are produced and
staged a rally through the various departments.
At Idealo, the adolescents visited the workplaces of IT developers, product owners, quality assurance
managers and system administrators. Here they learned what has to happen, so that all the products
and their associated prices – from sneakers to smartphones – are up-to-date and correctly displayed
on the Idealo webpage.
Lilli Buhren, aged 12: “Cool. A beautiful day with a lot of new experiences. What was especially good
was the app development at Axel Springer Plug and Play.”

103
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Commitment to the Interest of Media

Every day, thousands of articles are produced at great expense in newspaper and magazine publishing houses, which can,
in the Internet age, be partially or completely taken over, recycled and marketed by third parties within seconds. Publishers
in Germany were defenseless against this commercial exploitation until the adoption of the ancillary copyright for publishers
(2013), because unlike other agents of copyrighted works, such as in the film and music industry, they had no proprietary
rights to the fruits of their labor. The European Commission now also wants to close this legal loophole in the European Union with an EU Publishers’ Right. (Video: Federal Association of German Newspaper Publishers)

Transparency: In order to strengthen the transparency in the representation of interests towards the
institutions of the European Union, the European Parliament, together with the European Commission,
has set up a Transparency Register for interest groups. Every citizen may inspect this register. The
registration of Axel Springer SE bears the number 742417913824-11.
The continuous and transparent exchange of ideas between the European institutions and consumer
associations, non-governmental organizations, companies, trade associations, trade unions, think
tanks, etc. promotes the co-ordination of diverse concerns in the democratic decision-making process.
Citizens have a right to expect that this process is transparent and takes place in compliance with the
law as well as in due respect of ethical principles: No undue pressure is to be exercised; illegitimate or
privileged access to information or to decision-makers is to be avoided.
Our Commitment: Standing up for the legal and economic prerequisites of a free press is one of the
central concerns of Axel Springer SE. This is why the company is involved – both directly and indirectly – in a number of associations and initiatives.
These include:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

The Association of German Magazine Publishers (VDZ)
The Federal Association of German Newspaper Publishers (BDZV)
The German Association of the Digital Economy (BVDW)
German Printing and Media Industries Federation
European Magazine Media Association (EMMA)
The European Publishers Council (EPC)
The World Association of Newspapers (WAN)
International Federation of Periodical Publishers FIPP
The Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) Europe
VG Media
Other industry associations in the countries in which the company is active

Examples of current topics are documented on the websites of the above-mentioned associations.

104
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Dealing with History

More than 5,900 articles, comments, readers‘ letters, cartoons, features, commentaries and interviews from the years 1966
to 1968 show how the editorial offices of Axel Springer reported on the movement of 1968. (Source: Axel Springer SE)

Axel Springer SE opened the Medienarchiv68 online database in 2010. Approximately 5,900 newspaper articles from the years 1966 to 1968 show how the editorial offices of Axel Springer reported on
„1968“ and the student movement. Using this extensive service, anyone can comprehensively and
easily inform themselves for the first time using original sources. The archive is also intended to be a
catalyst for further debate and scientific reappraisal.
Dr. Mathias Döpfner, Chief Executive Officer of Axel Springer SE: „It is my hope that this media archive
is understood as an invitation. An invitation not only to contemporary witnesses, but also expressly to
the next generation, to make their own impression of the role of our newspapers at that time.“
All the relevant articles, comments, letters, cartoons, reports, commentaries or interviews on the student movement were collected for the Medienarchiv68. The period under review extends from December 1966 to December 1968. The following of the company‘s media services from that time were
evaluated: BERLINER MORGENPOST, BILD Berlin, B.Z., DIE WELT Berlin, HAMBURGER ABENDBLATT, WELT am SONNTAG, BILD am SONNTAG. In addition, the reporting from these papers can
also be compared with that of competitors such as DER TAGESSPIEGEL and TELEGRAF.
Thomas Schmid, Editor-in-Chief of the WELT Group and the initiator of the rerun of the „SpringerTribunal“ planned last year, announced the media archive in autumn 2009. Schmid: „I am surprised
myself. Reading shows that mistakes were made, but the reality was more complex than I thought.“
As a further service the database contains edited summaries of each article to help improve search
results. For each article, a photo of the entire respective newspaper page can be downloaded, so that
readers can also inform themselves about the editorial environment of an article. The archive can be
searched in various ways, for example, for keywords, type of document or placement. To facilitate the
development of individual aspects the articles have also been divided by topic.

105
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Employees
More than 15,000 employees are working on continuing to occupy the
top journalistic and economic positions. Axel Springer offers them
attractive benefits and opportunities for development.

106
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Openings

Axel Springer AG...19th floor...12.45 AM. With „Well people: Are you ready? Listen up! Content is king and the medium is the
fucking message“ is how a young candidate introduces himself to the surprised members of the board.

Axel Springer is the leading digital publisher in Europe. In accordance with our slogan “There‘s more
to it”, we offer the best of two worlds as an employer: a momentum and work culture that we have
adopted from the start-up industry in the course of the cultural change. And in addition all the benefits
and diversity of a large international group of companies. The people who work at Axel Springer are
each unique in their own way and are not satisfied with a “that‘s-how-everyone-does-it” attitude. This
is the only way to use curiosity and passion to break through existing conceptual barriers and creatively shape the future of media.

Direct entry
Direct entry to Axel Springer is possible at any time – no matter whether applicants already have indepth media experience or are making a lateral career move. All our current vacancies can be found
herehttp://www.axelspringer.de/karriere.

Trainee Program
Graduates develop their knowledge continuously during the 18-month trainee program. Through
systematic learning by doing, you will become ready to subsequently take on specialist and management responsibility. You will work your way through various departments so that you can take part in a
complex range of tasks on site. We currently offer three different trainee programs:
•
•
•

Commercial Trainee Program
IT Trainee Program
Trainee Program in the digital portfolio

Junior Executive Program
The Junior Executive Program gives participants the opportunity to surpass themselves and overcome existing career boundaries. During the 18-month program, they pass through various individual
stations and are prepared for a responsible career as a media manager through systematic „learning
by doing“.

107
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

BestSeller Program
In internal sales and field service throughout Germany, you enthuse customers and agencies as an
advocate for our printed and digital media. During this time, experienced sales managers will provide
you with comprehensive advanced training and assignments which are ideally suited to your knowledge and personality.

School of Journalism
Every year, the Axel Springer Akademie, Germany‘s most progressive school of journalism, offers up
to 40 budding journalists a solid two-year vocational training course as editors. Within these two years
the craft of journalism is learned from scratch: ranging from research to training in all forms of journalistic presentation to experience in the field. The focus is on cross-media training, investigative research
methods, language and exclusivity. The deadline for applications is the beginning of June to start the
following year.

Commercial and technical vocational training
In the 2.5 to three-year vocational training course, the necessary skills are imparted for a successful
start to a professional life. Whether as a media manager or a designer, the apprentices get to know
the different tasks involved in one of the most exciting multi-media companies. And after completing
the course, they have the opportunity to apply for the Axel Springer SE Study Scholarship Program.
We offer training in numerous commercial and technical vocations. The deadline for applications for
vocational training is the end of September to start in September of the following year.

Dual Course of Study
In three years to Bachelor of Science in Business Administration: Practical media know-how is gained
through work experience at Axel Springer SE while academic knowledge is accumulated at the Nordakademie Elmshorn.

Editorial or commercial internship
An editorial internship provides a four-week insight, a commercial internship a three to six-month
insight into the company.
Further information, vacancies and contacts can be found here.http://www.axelspringer.de/karriere

108
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Germany‘s most modern school of journalism

As the largest private institution of its kind in Germany, the Axel Springer Akademie every year offers 40 aspiring journalists a
sound two-year vocational training course as editors. (Video: Axel Springer Akademie)

Training at the Axel Springer Akademie
The Axel Springer Akademie is the most modern school of journalism in Germany. Training to be an
editor takes two years. It combines the advantages of a well-established School of Journalism with
those of a classical internship. Our vocational training has a clear cross-media focus and attaches
great importance to language and exclusivity.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Practice-oriented learning of all journalistic disciplines
Cross-media focus
Individual work in small groups (max. 20 participants)
One year practical phase in the editorial office of your choice
Digital training at BILD.de
Newspaper design training at WELT KOMPAKT
Study trip to Israel to conclude the training
Prospects in one of the most successful media companies in Europe
1,200 per month training allowance

Sequence of training
1st six months
Basic course
In your first weeks with us you will learn the craft of journalism from scratch. You will write news articles, reports and portraits, research your own stories, produce headlines and lead stories. Moreover
you will also receive comprehensive research training. Right from the beginning you will interview a lot
of people, also in front of the camera of course.
Home editorial office
Following your basic course you will spend a month in your home editorial office. There you can use
and practice what you have learned so far. You will get to know your future colleagues and your workplace and perhaps even be able to publish one or more of your own stories.

109
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Advanced course
When you return to the Akademie after your month in the home editorial office, you will deepen your
knowledge of the world of video. In addition you will practice further digital forms of presentation, nonlinear storytelling and dealing with social media.
Masterpiece
As a constant development laboratory we observe the developments within the industry and are looking for responses to the challenges facing the journalism of the future.
Practice orientation is the most important part of our concept. For this reason you will independently
develop a digital project with your team as part of your training and come to know an entirely convergent production. We refer to it as „Masterpiece“, in order to make the requirements clear. The project
marks the end of the first six months of your training.
2nd six months
WELT KOMPAKT
The Axel Springer Akademie is the only school of journalism in Europe to have its own daily newspaper, WELT KOMPAKT. On your own responsibility you produce the daily newspaper in the most modern newsroom in Germany.
BYou – BILD.de’s youth portal
You also receive training “on the job” at BILD.de. On your own responsibility you produce content with
your team for the target group of 14 to 17-year-olds. Texts, videos and new digital formats – at BYou
you can give your creativity free rein.
3rd and 4th six months
Home editorial office
You spend your second training year in your home editorial office where you deepen the skills learned
so far. You produce your own stories, develop yourself further and become part of your editorial office.
Final trip to Israel
At the end of your two-year training course it’s time to pack your suitcase; you’re off on a study trip
to the Holy Land. This is a unique opportunity for the teams from the Akademie to form their own
impressions of the politics, culture and the economy of a country full of contrasts and tension. At the
end of this trip, every trainee journalist is ceremoniously awarded their editor’s certificate.
Mehr Informationen finden Sie unter: www.axel-springer-akademie.de

110
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Further development of the employer brand campaign

Axel Springer advertises itself to young workers with “YEAH3000 - the coolest start-up on the planet!” video, a tongue-incheek satire which pokes fun at the clichés of the start-up industry. (Video: Axel Springer SE)

People who work at Axel Springer are each unique in their own way and are not satisfied with a
“that‘s-how-everyone-does-it” attitude. This is the only way to use curiosity and passion to break
through existing conceptual barriers and creatively shape the future of media.
In 2015, Axel Springer further developed its employer campaign “There‘s more to it”, and presented
itself with the motto “All the opportunities of a start-up” as an employer that brings together the work
culture of start-up companies and the benefits and diversity of a digital publishing house. The campaign is designed to appeal to talented young people from the digital environment and to programmers.
A new video was presented, showing the working life in the fictitious start-up “YEAH3000” and playing
with clichés from the start-up community. The often colorful and creative work environment, in which
Axel Springer’s accelerator program also operates, is the target of tongue-in-cheek satire. Six advertisements are also part of the new brand campaign focusing on the diversity of the digital publishing
house.
“As an employer, we offer the best of both worlds: in the course of the change in corporate culture,
we have learned a lot from the work culture and momentum of the start-up industry. At the same time,
employees can also derive benefits from the large international family of companies,” explains Alexander Schmid-Lossberg, Head of Human Resources at Axel Springer SE. “We want to show this attractive combination in the campaign with a healthy dose of irony.”

111
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Benefits for Employees

Alba, David, Caspar, Justus and Antonia (f.l.t.r. ) were enjoying the „Wolkenzwerge“ („Cloud Dwarves“) Children‘s Olympics in
Berlin. With a „Wolkenzwerge“ day nursery in both Berlin and Hamburg, Axel Springer SE is making a contribution towards
more equal equality of opportunity and an improvement of the work/family balance. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

Axel Springer‘s corporate culture is characterized by the three values of creativity, entrepreneurial spirit
and integrity. We are looking for employees who do not simply settle for the first idea to come to mind
and who are passionate about their jobs. In return, Axel Springer offers, in addition to the attractive salary development, numerous further training opportunities and additional benefits such as, for example:
Variable Remuneration
With profit-sharing and target agreements, employees have an opportunity to benefit from the
company‘s success and their own individual performance. All eligible employees at Axel Springer SE
received a profit share bonus of 600 euros for the 2015 fiscal year. In addition, a share participation
program was offered once again, in which employees can convert their profit share or target agreement
into company shares.
Pension Plan
Axel Springer offers eligible employees a flexible VarioRente pension plan at an attractive rate of interest.
Family Service
The reconciliation of work and family life is a matter of course for Axel Springer SE. In the company‘s
two “Wolkenzwerge” day nurseries in Hamburg and Berlin, employees’ children can be looked after in a
professional and loving environment. In addition, we offer an emergency childcare service and support
in searching for suitable regular child care or for the support of dependent relatives.
Further Education
Axel Springer SE is active in a dynamic industry, at the same time deploying a great deal of pioneering
spirit to promote innovation for readers and users. In order to keep that one step ahead, employees are
offered a training program, ranging from „Subscription Marketing“ to „The Art of Editing“ to the „Future
of Media Sales and Distribution“.
Health Management
The health of our employees is very important to the Axel Springer company, which is why we offer
comprehensive health management.
Modern Cuisine and Facilities
Axel Springer employees are also able to satisfy their culinary desires. A varied and excellent selection of
food and drinks is available for them. Lunch is subsidized by the company.

112
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Development Opportunities for employees

Creative, courageous and committed employees are the foundation of the entrepreneurial success of Axel Springer SE.
(Photo: Axel Springer SE)

Axel Springer has an extensive development program to develop new skills and to build on existing
strengths. This ensures the personal advancement of the individual as well as our mutual success.
Advancement has many faces at Axel Springer and begins on the first working day: The Onboarding
Program extends a warm welcome to the new employees. The extensive qualification program for all
company staff includes a large number of seminars. Moreover Axel Springer SE supports colleagues
who want to qualify themselves further and take on new challenges through in-service advanced
vocational training.
Success also requires contacts – various networks exist for this purpose. In this way a targeted exchange of information and the team concept is promoted throughout the whole company. One successful element among the support measures at Axel Springer AG is the Mentoring Program, which
is an important point of departure for the development of junior staff in specialist and management
positions, also in the context of equality of opportunity.

113
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Equal Opportunities and Diversity

Everyone is different – and that is a good thing! Because diversity within teams of employees, personal experience and individual biographies are an essential part of Axel Springer‘s corporate culture. It is only in this way that are we able to respond
creatively to the diverse needs and interests of our customers. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

Diversity is an essential part of Axel Springer’s corporate culture. The company sees the diversity
within our workforce, in particular for us as a publishing house which moves people and picks up on
on the various facets of life on a daily basis, as a great opportunity to respond creatively to the diverse
interests and needs of our customers. As an innovative and internationally established publisher, optimal and non-discriminatory cooperation among our employees has high priority for Axel Springer.
The employee network queer:seite for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transsexual people has been a point
of contact for all employees for overall and individual lesbian-gay interests since December 2014. Axel
Springer promotes progressive corporate change and also internal dealings with people belonging to
the LGBT group as part of the Chancen:gleich! initiative. The aim of the employee network is a lively
exchange of ideas and establishing new contacts among employees as well as the identification of
problems, violations of equal opportunities policies in the work environment and LGBT conformity.
Equality of Opportunity is not simply a fashionable phrase at Axel Springer. That is why Axel Springer
SE has been the recipient of numerous awards – most recently the “Total E-Quality” distinction, the
Helga Stödter Prize and the “Career and Family Audit” certificate.
The following topics are currently the focus of diversity activities in various project groups:
•
•
•
•
•

More Women in Leadership Positions
Personnel policy oriented towards equal opportunities
Demographic Change and Interculturality
Work/Family Balance
Employee Network queer:seite for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transsexual people

114
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Sustainable working pace through „agile“ methodology

Marco Böttcher (Agile Coach from AS Ideas Engineering, 2nd from left) and an ideas development team prioritize the next to
do‘s on the kanban board with Michael Oertel (CTO of AS Ideas Engineering). (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

Software development is not the monotonous implementation of complex algorithms, but rather a creative process in which innovative concepts, along with a detailed analysis of customer needs, ultimately
lead to a software product with the maximum benefit for customers. Software development is a creative
and innovative act! In order to establish the environment necessary for this with maximum levels of freedom, creativity, productivity and artistic development, AS Ideas has relied from the beginning on agile
software development processes and autonomous teams. For a high level of motivation, each employee can now join teams with different specialist areas according to his/her interests. At AS Ideas, s/he
has the choice between:
•
•
•
•

a pool of experts with highly diversified specialist knowledge,
an innovation team for the primarily exploratory generation of ideas,
an opera team with a high level of administrative expertise
two platform teams, which are responsible for the settlement of online paid and editorial models.

Without the sustained and continuous improvement of these agile workflows and the granting of levels
of freedom to each individual, successful product development would not be possible. An end to the
sovereignty of knowledge is meanwhile at the heart of the improvement measures. Notwithstanding any
division of labor and necessary specialization, the development teams should combine all the necessary
competence within themselves and beyond the interdisciplinary development work, not lose sight of the
final product. The connection to the finished product should be present from the first decision through
to market maturity and beyond. On the one hand this allows a kind of team intelligence to develop, and
on the other hand software products are produced to meet market needs which can be used long-term.
Another aspect: In the sometimes stormy team dynamic of programming processes, individual reserves
of energy can sometimes be overloaded, which is neither beneficial for employee satisfaction and health
nor for the work results.
Agile methods help to counter this. Work processes are decelerated. It has to do with gradual, flexible
processes with continual opportunities for feedback and change. Interim results are constantly tested
and working methods adapted. Every team member knows what the others in the team are currently
doing – and the present status of ongoing projects.
Agile methods are now being used in more and more corporate divisions at Axel Springer, for example
in the subsidiary companies of the Marketing and Classified Ad Models. So it is not surprising that the
“Agile Springers” have been meeting regularly since 2013 for an exchange of experiences and to discuss tried and tested team structures or best practices.

115
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

move - dialog. Knowing. Doing.

In order to make Axel Springer employees fit for the digital transformation, Personnel Development has developed new
networking formats such as for example the Digital Campus, Media Powerhouse or PizzaCONNECTion. These networks
facilitate the exchange of knowledge and information among the staff and aid the identification of developments and trends.
Through „move“, Personnel Development has created a uniform communicative roof for its events. Source: Axel Springer SE

„move“ is an initiative launched by Personnel Development and stands for awakening and movement.
It is the call to try something new together and, with curiosity, to explore the undiscovered. „move“
includes a variety of formats, measures and offers from Personnel Development, which deal with
issues relating to the future and the digital world. It is about participating, entering into a dialog and
becoming a „mover” yourself.
Media Powerhouse
Experts from the Axel Springer family come together on stage to share their expert knowledge of
innovative and future-oriented topics such as journalism, marketing and social media etc. The event
combines an optimal mix of knowledge input from experts and active audience participation.
Welcome Day
On Welcome Day, all the new employees are once again officially welcomed to the company. Several
speakers give interesting lectures about the company, its history, its culture and the corporate objectives.
Learning Lunch
At the Learning Lunch, employees can visit short, exciting talks from external speakers during the
lunch break. Talks are held on digital issues and trends from the areas of IT, Journalism, Social Media
and Marketing.
Pizza CONNECTion
Four times a year, while eating pizza in a relaxed talk show atmosphere, there are discussions about
how to make the most of and act upon the opportunities presented by digitization.
Early Bird Café
Colleagues from different specialist departments and companies can get to know each other in a
relaxed atmosphere and exchange ideas.

116
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Talent Campus Network. Events. Projects.
Proactive, interdisciplinary and innovative: these are the attributes of the Talent Campus Network.
Employees from IT, journalism and management come together here to help shape events and get
involved in projects on business-related issues.
Best Practice Club
The Best Practice Club is an opportunity, as an expert to get in contact with other experts from the
Axel Springer Publishing House and to exchange information about a topic with them. In this way
knowledge is shared and everyone benefits from a diverse and strong network.
Job Rotation
In the think tank, employees’ knowledge is networked. New concepts and solutions are developed in
interdisciplinary teams for real-life tasks facing different specialist departments. This gives each participant the opportunity to get to know a new work environment, to face new challenges and to actively
contribute to solutions. The aim is to experience a different way of working in new areas of activity and
to open up new career paths.

117
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Meet the digital world with attentiveness

In the media industry it is important to stay on the ball every day. Health is an important requirement for this. Axel Springer
SE helps its employees to stay healthy. What would you think about Qigong on our roof terrace for example? (Video: Axel
Springer career)

In the fast-moving media industry it is important to stay on the ball every day. The health of its employees is very important to the Axel Springer company, which is why it offers them comprehensive
health management. The three pillars of this health management system – exercise, nutrition, relaxation – help employees to keep fit.
Health management includes, for example: Collaborations with gyms and spine centers, days of action offering free health check-ups and screening, cooking workshops or even seminars and lectures
on current health issues. In addition we have recently added customized offers tailored to meet the
individual needs of teams or departments.
Furthermore, there is also a wide range of company sports clubs available, as well as experts on
health issues who can provide advice on the set-up of your workplace.

118
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Social Commitment
With a large number of projects and initiatives, our employees, our readers, our media and the company get together to address social
concerns. In 2015 there was a focus on aid for refugees.

119
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

BILD campaign: “We help – #refugeeswelcome”

BILD calls for solidarity with refugees. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

Currently people are arriving every day in Germany, who have had to leave their home country because of
war, hunger and violence. The shameful reality: Refugees in Germany are not infrequently subjected to insults, assaults and attacks. BILD is setting an example with the campaign “We help – #refugeeswelcome”
against xenophobia and calling for solidarity with displaced persons.
War and exile are theoretical concepts for most Germans: We have been living in peace with our neighbors
for 70 years. Many of the people who came to Europe in 2015 have personally experienced the horrors of
war and often only barely survived. It is all the more shameful that many of them have not met with sympathy and hospitality in our country. So-called “asylum critics” demonstrate outside many refugee hostels and
also do not shrink from verbal abuse and arson. Axel Springer’s media brands set a example against the
hatred.
BILD calls for aid and solidarity with the campaign “We help – #refugeeswelcome”. The campaign was
launched in August 2015: BILD reported on people, organizations and companies that help refugees and
calls for donations to “Ein Herz für Kinder”. In addition, BILD invites readers to share the logo in social networks, print it, and display it as a sticker.
Kai Diekmann, BILD editor-in-chief: “The people who are coming to us need homes, schools, perspectives
– they need us. This enormous task cannot be managed by public authorities alone. Here every individual is called upon to help – with ideas, with commitment, with application. This is why we want to set an
example with the campaign “We help – #refugeeswelcome”, to show solidarity. To motivate citizens to do
something themselves, on-site, in their own neighborhood, at home.”

120
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

A bridge between Germany and Israel

Detail from the picture “Ein Frühling” (“One Spring”) by Karl Boden and Kurt Löw (1941). A bridge between Germany and
Israel

BILD was the initiator of the exhibition “Art from the Holocaust” and, in collaboration with the Bonnbased “Foundation for Art and Culture”, presented 100 works from the Yad Vashem World Holocaust
Remembrance Center for the first time in Germany. The Israeli artworks could be seen at the German
Historical Museum in Berlin.
The Yad Vashem World Holocaust Remembrance Center has allowed the transport of selected works
from Israel to Germany for the exhibition for the first time. Jewish prisoners created the works in various concentration camps, labor camps and ghettos. The works are silent witnesses to the atrocities
and humiliations experienced by the artists. Kai Diekmann: “On one of my visits to the Yad Vashem
Memorial, the desire arose to show these deeply impressive works of art for the first time on this scale
in Germany. In the tradition of Axel Springer, who called for and promoted the bringing about of reconciliation between Jews and Germans, I hope that art can help rebuild destroyed bridges.”

121
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

BILD am SONNTAG honors Medical Heroes

(fltr) BILD am SONNTAG editor-in-chief Marion Horn with the “pulsus” winners Bastian Hauck, Dr. Mathias Wendeborn, Dr.
Bernhard Albrecht and Siegfried Rauch as well as Dr. Jens Baas, CEO of the health insurance company Techniker Krankenkasse (photo: Axel Springer SE)

At a gala event in the Axel Springer Building in Berlin, BILD am SONNTAG and the Techniker Krankenkasse (TK) presented the „pulsus“ award in June 2015. The prize was awarded for the eleventh time
to recognize special projects and above-average commitment in the health care sector.

These are the winners of the „pulsus 2015“:
Bastian Hauck, founder of the online platform www.dedoc.de, was awarded the „pulsus“ for the „Best
digital medical project“. In order to share his experience with diabetes and to support other sufferers,
the economist and type 1 diabetic from Berlin founded the digital self-help forum.
Dr Mathias Wendeborn was commended as the „Best doctor 2015“ . The Munich specialist in child
and adolescent medicine is the initiator of the „Refudocs e.V.“ association and together with 70 other
doctors offers proper medical care for refugees and asylum seekers in the Bavarian barracks.
The journalist Dr. Bernhard Albrecht was honored with the „pulsus“ for his report „Dangerous healers“
for „outstanding medical reporting“. His investigative reportage in the „Stern“ told of somewhat dubious recommendations and diagnoses by a number of doctors and alternative health practitioners in
Germany.
Actor Siegfried Rauch also received the „pulsus“ award for his role in the doctor‘s series „Bergdoktor“
as the „Most popular TV doctor“. He plays Dr. Roman Melchinger, a retired village doctor, in the ZDF/
ORF co-production.

Die Jury:
The winners of the first three „pulsus“ categories were selected by a jury made up of ARD presenter
and doctor Dr. Susanne Holst, doctor and presenter Dr Eckart von Hirschhausen, Prof. Dr. Wolfgang
Henrich from the Berlin Charité hospital as well as BILD am SONNTAG editor-in-chief Marion Horn
and the CEO of the health insurance company Techniker Krankenkasse, Dr. Jens Baas. The „Most
popular TV doctor“ was established by a Germany-wide survey conducted by the „TNS Emnid“ market research institute. Presenter Susanne Holst hosted the gala evening.

122
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

B.Z. took part in the #WelcomeChallenge

Friederike Corts from B.Z. Berlin Heroes presented the toys. (Photo: Ralf Lutter)

In the summer of 2015, two Berliners set out the new Facebook challenge #WelcomeChallenge. Its
goal was and is to help refugees.
“Help should be provided where it is needed most,” says co-founder Michael Simon de Normier (42).
“In the Internet you can use lists to see where something is required and how much is needed.” Quick
newspaper, quickassistance – B.Z. took up the challenge!
In the Gierso boarding house, a refugee accommodation center in Weissensee, playground equipment for outdoors was required. “260 people from 17 nations live here, including more than 100
children”, says Heike Witte (39). She supervises the group “Mit Herz für Flüchtlinge” (“With a Heart for
Refugees”) on Facebook, works daily on a voluntary basis in the accommodation center and takes
care of every resident affectionately, the good soul of the home so to speak. “It used to be a hotel,
one family lives in a room with a bed, a chair and a table. The children don’t have anywhere to play,”
says Witte.
And so the B.Z. brought a Sprinter full of outdoor toys to Weissensee. The kids jumped right onto the
Bobby Cars and scooters. “They have all been through so much, they have never seen anything like
this before,” says Witte.
B.Z. has been reporting on voluntary commitment for six years. The staff also pitch in themselves: On
“Social Days” they have helped day nurseries, fulfilled the Christmas wishes of children in homes with
the wish tree, and now were lighting up refugee children‘s eyes.

123
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Specialist knowledge for employees of social agencies

Das Berliner-Helden-Team der B.Z. unterstützt die Berlin Social Academy: Engagierte Berliner Unternehmen geben ihr Fachwissen in Workshops und Seminaren eine Woche lang pro bono an MitarbeiterInnen sozialer Einrichtungen weiter.

The Berlin Social Academy is an innovative further training platform at the regional state level. Specialists from Berlin companies share their knowledge free of charge in workshops and seminars to
employees of social agencies. Within a week, there are about 20 free lectures and workshops. In this
way, civil society initiatives from Berlin are selectively supported with know-how and built up with competencies such as organizational development, fundraising or public relations.
The initiative has two main objectives:
1. Innovative knowledge transfer: Free and practice-oriented professional development for non-profit
institutions, mediated by experts from Berlin companies.
2. Networking and dialog: Industry, politics and civil society meet as equals and come together for a
strong and committed society.
The Berlin Heroes team from B.Z., ImmobilienScout24 and Scholz & Friends Reputation are sponsors
of the Berlin Social Academy initiative.
You can find more information here: www.berlin-social-academy.de

124
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Commitment of our readers

Record: The TV Charity Gala „Ein Herz für Kinder“ achieved a total of 18,865,926 euros in donations in 2015.
(Photo: Ein Herz für Kinder)

The aid organization BILD hilft e.V. “Ein Herz für Kinder” (“A Heart for Children”) collects donations to
support national and international aid agencies and projects for children in need. In addition, BILD and
ZDF organize a Gala in December every year. In 2015, the TV gala “Ein Herz für Kinder” went down
in the now 37-year history of the aid organization with a new record result for donations: During the
program, many callers and prominent guests donated a total of 18.865.926 euros for children in need.
The TV gala was held in Berlin and presented by Johannes B. Kerner. In the program, prominent patrons presented cases from Germany and all over the world where children in need have been helped
by “Ein Herz für Kinder”.
The “Golden Heart” was awarded this year to Sister Karoline Mayer, who received the honor for her
untiring efforts in the slums of Latin America; the laudatory speech was given by Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel. Til Schweiger was awarded the “Herz für Kinder” special prize for his commitment and
clear, public voice for children in need.
More than 60 celebrities from society, politics and show business manned the donation telephones
during the live broadcast, including Maria Furtwängler, David Garrett, Vladimir and Vitali Klitschko,
Samuel Koch, Anna Loos, Manuela Schwesig and Wolfgang and Stephanie Stumph.
You will find more information on “Ein Herz für Kinder” at www.ein-herz-fuer-kinder.de and www.axelspringer.de/ehfk2015

125
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

B.Z. Berlin Heroes on tour

On the occasion of their fifth anniversary, the Berlin Heroes went on tour through Berlin. Along with partners, interest was
awakened for social commitment at four prominent locations. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

The B.Z. has brought social commitment in Berlin and its many volunteers into the public eye over
the last six years. Six times a week, it reports on voluntary projects on the “Berliner Heroes” page and
gives the people who work for others in Berlin a chance to have their say. The Everyday Heroes! Every
helper is a hero for the B.Z. -– whether he builds a new climbing frame in the Kindergarten, tidies up
the neighborhood voluntarily, tutors schoolchildren or helps the elderly and the sick.
For the Jubilee the B.Z. called on all its readers to get involved. For this the “Berlin Heroes” went on
a second tour through Berlin’s neighborhoods in 2014. They advertised projects, associations and
organizations in the area, and showed where interested parties could take action.
Along with partners, interest was awakened for social commitment at four prominent locations. In
addition the B.Z. called for a collection campaign: Good second-hand schoolbags for the “Children
help children” campaign, as well as children‘s books for projects could be handed in at the information stand.

126
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Employees get involved for refugees

Through their voluntary commitment, Axel Springer employees are helping to alleviate the suffering of the refugees. (Photo:
Axel Springer SE)

People are still fleeing to Germany. It is a great challenge for municipalities to take adequate care of
the new arrivals. This makes voluntary assistance provided by committed citizens even more important. Many employees at Axel Springer have committed themselves. Here are a few examples:
After the “Berlin Heroes”, a social initiative from the B.Z., had already donated toys for refugees, the
B.Z. colleagues also wanted to get involved. On the suggestion of Kristin Schulz, an employee in the
B.Z. advertising department, a collection campaign was spontaneously launched without complication. The “Berlin Heroes” made their office available as a collection point and organized the transportation. B.Z. online expert Philipp Kaste also organized 180 rain ponchos for the refugees who often
have to wait outdoors.
Franziska Hartmann-Sternke, Brand Manager Corporate Social Responsibility and Social Media at
BZ Ullstein GmbH, delivered a station wagon filled with donations to the Regional Office for Health
and Social Affairs Berlin (LaGeSo) in Berlin: ”An amazing experience, to see how many people were
waiting there. You can see by looking at them that they have been through a lot, I was most affected
by the children‘s eyes in particular.”
Together with fellow students, Philipp Erhardt, intern in the BILD Shop, has dedicated himself to
collecting donations for refugees. During his studies to become a “Master of Online Communications”
at the University of Anhalt, he came across the topic of crowdfunding. It was soon clear that the trial
concept could also be used to help refugees. Philipp Erhardt and his friends opted to support the association “Flüchtlingsrat Leipzig e.V.” (“Leipzig Refugee Council”), which has been involved for years in
the education and training of young immigrants through its sub-association “Integration durch Bildung
e.V.” (“Integration through Education”).
In October 2015, almost 100 employees from BILD, B.Z. and BILD am SONNTAG visited the refugee
shelter in the former town hall in Berlin-Wilmersdorf as part of the “Social Day”. About 850 refugees
were living there at the time, most of them from the Arab region. Equipped with painters’ supplies,
knitting utensils, waffle irons, a bouncy castle and footballs, the colleagues arrived to give the old town
hall a new coat of paint, and in particular to give the large numbers of refugee children a welcome
break from their daily routine.

127
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

The Small Change Campaign collects the cents after
the decimal point

In 2015, a total of 1,816 Axel Springer employees took part in the “Small Change Campaign”. A total of 20,000 euros was
achieved – including a grant from the Executive Board. The donation was used to support the “Stand Proud” aid project in
the Congo. (Video: Welthungerhilfe)

The staff of Axel Springer have been supporting projects organized by the German Welthungerhilfe (German charity fighting against hunger) with the “Small Change Campaign” since 1987. The small change
donated benefits one of the organization‘s worldwide children‘s aid projects.
Every month, Axel Springer employees allow the sum after the decimal point in their pay slips – a maximum
of 99 cents – to be deducted and automatically donated to an aid project. The works council and the management jointly determine which project is to be supported with the money.
In 2015, a total of 1,816 Axel Springer employees took part in the “Small Change Campaign”. A grant from
the Executive Board made up a total of 20,000 euros which was thus donated. The donation supports an
aid project in the Congo, which provides children with impaired mobility the opportunity for a new start in
life.
Congo: where the “Small Change Campaign” cents are helping
War, famine and displacement: These words have described the everyday life of the people in the Democratic Republic of the Congo for years. The misery of the war-torn country is particularly visible in the province of North Kivu, in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo: In years of war, villages here were
destroyed, schools and health centers razed to the ground. The sick often only receive very basic medical
attention – if they can afford treatment at all. It is particularly bad for people with a disability and children: In
North Kivu’s poor settlements, disabled children only rarely have the opportunity to attend a school. They
mostly survive by begging or poorly paid casual work.
Welthungerhilfe, together with its local partner “Stand Proud”, gives children with impaired mobility the opportunity for a new start in life. In the centers supported by Welthungerhilfe, orthopedists examine and treat
the young patients. Those requiring operations receive them in a suitable hospital. When all the examinations have been completed and the wounds healed, the children are fitted with prostheses. In addition, the
children are able to attend a school during their stay.

128
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Social Day: BILD.de employees help Arche children

The Christmas wish tree with the wishes of children in need. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

For the Christmas period in 2015, the “Talent Campus” placed a green fir tree in Berlin’s Axel Springer Passage. Instead of Christmas decorations, around 400 children’s wishes were hidden among
its branches. The staff had the opportunity to fulfill one of the wishes, either alone or together with
colleagues.
Lots of donations were made and so 396 gifts came about, which were distributed to children from
the “Albert Schweitzer Children‘s Village” as well as to refugee children at the “AWO Refugium Lichtenberg” shelter.
“I would like to thank everyone who has helped to fulfill wishes, everyone who passed on the idea and
told others about it, and all the departments that collected money”, said Franziska Hartmann-Sternke
from B.Z. Marketing.

129
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Initiative of the Association of German Magazine
Publishers

The Association of German Magazine Publishers (VDZ) – of which Axel Springer SE is a member – established the Deutschlandstiftung Integration (Germany Foundation Integration) in 2008. It‘s goal is to achieve equality of opportunity in Germany
for people with immigrant backgrounds.

The Association of German Magazine Publishers VDZ established the Deutschlandstiftung Integration
in 2008. The editor-in- chief of BILD, Tanit Koch, is a member of the Executive Board of Deutschlandstiftung Integration. Together with its partners, the Foundation supports equal opportunities for our
fellow citizens with an immigrant background in Germany. Equal opportunities in access to education,
work and social participation are the basis for successful
integration.
Through its activities, the Foundation wants to make people aware of integration, overcome prejudices, educate and network stakeholders. It supports measures for targeting language support, initiates
and networks mentoring programs and carries out information campaigns.
In 2012, Deutschlandstiftung Integration launched the “Geh’ Deinen Weg” (“Go your way”) scholarship
and mentoring program with over 150 talented people of different origins. The two-year, conceptual
support scheme supports 16 to 29-year- old scholarship holders with a migrant background in their
vocational learning and in their career planning.
This “Geh Deinen Weg” program is linked to this objective. Here is the subject of integration is
addressed very personally by involving specific persons in the project. In addition, it is intended to
address those migrants in particular, who have “arrived” and are “successful” in Germany, thereby demonstrating that and how integration can be achieved. As a complement to the Foundation‘s broadbased language campaign, “high potentials” from a wide range of professional groups have been won
over as role models for others.
Up to 200 scholarship holders are taken on per year in the program for a period of two years. Each
participant is put in touch with a mentor, who becomes a career advisor and facilitator. Further program elements such as coaching, thematic workshops, online internship fairs and network events
round off the scholarship.

130
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Ernst Cramer & Teddy Kollek Reporting Award

The Ernst Cramer Reporting Award was awarded on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between
Germany and Israel. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

The Ernst Cramer Reporting Award was awarded in the Axel Springer Building in Berlin in May 2015
on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Germany and Israel. The
award honors the best German and the best Israeli reportage which was published in the calendar
years 2012 to 2015 on the political, economic or cultural situation of the respective partner country,
and which was particularly noteworthy from a journalistic point of view.
The German jury, headed by Frank-Dieter Freiling from the International Journalists‘ Programmes (IJP)
and Jan-Eric Peters, former editor-in-chief of WeltN24, awarded the 5,000 euros prize money for the
best German reportage in equal parts to the two journalists Jan Schapira (DIE WELT) for the report
“By tram through the Holy City” and Jonathan Stock (Der Spiegel) for the article “Goliath’s War”, which
examines the recent Gaza offensive. The prize for the best Israeli reportage, also endowed with 5,000
euros, was shared by the journalists Avner Shapira and Doron Halutz (both Haaretz) for their reports
“Walter Benjamin‘s Berlin 120 Years On” and “The last word” about the circumcision of newborn males in Germany.
The Ernst Cramer Reporting Awards are a further indication that Ernst Cramer‘s vision of dialog,
understanding and tolerance between Germans and Jews is being carried forward until today. Ernst
Cramer (1913-2010) was Chair of the Board of the Axel Springer Foundation for many years and a
companion of Axel Springer‘s. He campaigned throughout his life for the maintenance of GermanIsraeli relations.
Through the “Ernst Cramer and Teddy Kollek Fellowship”, which allows young German and Israeli
journalists to work in the other country, Axel Springer has already been promoting relations between
Germany and Israel in Ernst Cramer‘s name together with the IJP since 2003.
The Ernst Cramer & Teddy Kollek Fellowship is intended to enable the participants to familiarize themselves with the prevailing political issues of the host country. In this way, future multipliers are made
aware of issues affecting German-Israeli relations. They gain a personal insight into culture, mentality
and everyday life. The media branch (newspapers, radio, TV, magazines) is selected by the journalist,
the specific workplace by the organizer in consultation with the fellowship holder.

131
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Support for the American Academy Berlin

The participants of the fifteenth Transatlantic Round Table (fltr): Alan Posener, Eva Marie Kogel (both WELT), Rüdiger Jürgensen (American Academy), Andrea Seibel (WELT), Larissa Krüger (BILD), Axel Springer Fellow Brenda E. Stevenson, Julia
Maria Grass (Axel Springer Akademie), Gunnar Schupelius (B.Z.), Prof. Gerhard Caspar (American Academy)
(Photo: Axel Springer SE)

Axel Springer Fellow Brenda E. Stevenson is conducting research on one of the darkest chapters of
American history: Slavery in the southern states of the USA and Latin America. During her time at the
American Academy in Berlin, she will be looking at biographies, in particular those of women enslaved
during the American Civil War.
What began as a „lecture“ on her current research, developed into a lively discussion about the role
of black women then and now, about black blues music and Beyoncé‘s new album “Lemonade”, and
about reality in TV series on the topic of slavery (essentially: “Roots” – very good; “North and South” –
definitely not).
Patron Andrea Seibel, deputy editor-in-chief of DIE WELT, was therefore able to moderate an interesting round table, which not only covered historical but also current topics.

132
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

New building for the mobile work environment

The winner of the architectural competition announced by Axel Springer SE is the design by Rem Koolhaas (OMA). The task
was to develop innovative ideas for an additional building at the Berlin headquarters. (Photo: Rem Koolhaas)

Work began on the new building in the immediate vicinity of the existing high-rise building and the
Axel Springer Passage in Berlin in mid-2016 after receiving planning permission. The new building is
being built on the approximately 10,000 square meter large „Lindenpark Site“ in the heart of the former newspaper district and along the former site of the Berlin Wall.
In May 2013 Axel Springer announced an architectural competition. The task was to develop ideas
for Axel Springer‘s growing business divisions, and above all to create additional space for its digital
services. At the same time, new standards were to be set for a modern working environment.
The central component of the design by Rem Koolhaas selected by the competition jury is the atrium
which, at more than 30 meters in height, faces the existing Axel Springer Building. The interconnected
terraces and a public workspace create an environment in which both individual and collective work is
possible. The apparent “open valley” design thereby answers the question as to how offices may look
in a mobile work environment.
Prof. Dr. Friedrich von Borries, president of the competition jury: “Good architecture has a high symbolic value. Good architecture influences its environment. Yet over and above these aspects, the competition for the new Axel Springer Campus also poses the question of how we want to work in future.
The contribution from Rem Koolhaas proposed a spectacular answer to this question, opening up a
working and communication landscape to future users, which had not previously existed.”
Dr. Mathias Döpfner, Chief Executive Officer of Axel Springer SE: “We are looking forward to building
our new publishing house with Rem Koolhaas. He submitted the most conceptually and aesthetically
radical design. The fundamental innovation of workspaces will support our cultural transformation to
a digital publishing house. I would also like to thank the offices of Ole Scheeren and Bjarke Ingels for
their outstanding designs, which also offered creative and passionate responses to the requirements
we had expressed.”

133
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Environment
Digitization uses a lot of electricity. In view of the carbon footprint, the
issue of determining data on energy use in the company as completely as
possible is therefore becoming more central.

134
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

New approach for identifying energy use

Among other things, the numbers for cost categories – such as energy – are merged from the entire company in Group Accounting. Martin Hunger (left in picture) and Thomas Brennenstuhl also use existing ‘reporting lines’ to the many subsidiaries
to determine the amount of energy used. For this purpose, the world-wide interface-linked data collection tool “IAS Notes”
has been expanded to include a “Reporting Energy” input mask. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

The Problem
Progressive digitization consumes a lot of electrical energy. Studies estimate that the energy demand
of digital devices and data centers world-wide generates around two percent of global CO2 emissions, with the trend increasing. This roughly corresponds to the CO2 emissions generated by global
air mobility. So the question of identifying, in a complete, continuous and verifiable way, the amount of
energy actually consumed in a company with as little effort as possible, in the light of further digitization, the ongoing debate about CO2-neutral production as well as climate-efficient corporate sales, is
gaining in importance. As long as real energy consumption does not appear in the “control cockpit” of
a company, actual CO2 emissions remain unclear.
In our private households, we read our electricity bills in much the same way as filling our cars at the
gas pump: The invoice amount and quantity received are easily identifiable. Companies in the predigital era generally owned a stable number of firmly located office buildings and operating locations,
which were equipped with a manageable number of electricity meters that could be easily read. Those
who ask around will probably find that many businesses do not actually have very precise perceptions
of the total amount of energy actually used throughout the group. In addition, digitization and internationalization in many cases strengthen the deficit of representativeness of disclosures made in Sustainability Reports on energy and CO2.

The Challenge
For as precise an overview as possible of sustainability perspectives, a most accurate awareness of
the volume of energy used throughout the entire company is necessary, together with its resulting
calculable climate-effecting CO2 footprint. In the course of the progressive digitization of the Group,
Axel Springer SE is consolidating its now more than 180 larger and smaller Internet-based companies
located on several continents (the list of holdings as at 31 December 2015 can be found in the Annual
Report 2015).
This “family of companies” is being continually expanded to include new digital “grown-ups” and
“start-ups”. They physically comprise offices with coffee machines, lighting and telephone systems,
PCs, laptops, scanners with numerous data centers stationed at various locations and even a fleet

135
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

of vehicles. The identification of the energy consumption figures to date for three newspaper printing
plants and a large publishing location was carried out easily using conventional processes. However,
because the number and global location of the “start-ups” and “grown-ups” which make up Axel
Springer as a digital publisher is undergoing continuous dynamic change, the “reading of electricity
meters” as in times past is no longer practicable.
The representativeness of the amounts declared for the Group will steadily decline. So how could
world-wide energy use be identified for all the consolidated business units at a manageable cost?
Seeking for new approaches, the Group Accounting Unit and the Corporate Sustainability Office of
Axel Springer SE have jointly developed and implemented a group-wide energy use identification
procedure.

The New Approach
One of the few “reporting lines”, established immediately after the respective incorporation into the
Axel Springer family, is the reporting of relevant financial figures to Group Accounting – including various revenue and cost elements, among these the energy costs. The input and reporting of this financial data is the responsibility of the employees of the respective Chief Financial Officers (CFO) of the
subsidiaries. The idea was that this established reporting procedure for all companies could therefore
also be useful for the collection of non-financial performance indicators, such as the amount of energy consumed. For this purpose, the data collection tool “IAS Notes” which was already in use and
interface-linked throughout the company world-wide, was expanded to include a “Reporting Energy”
input mask.

A good future development
Understanding and motivation are positive in the subsidiaries. Existing and established reporting
procedures and reporting tools can be used to improve efficiency through adaptive measures and
routine. And of great importance: In future, around 90 percent of the energy purchased by the consolidated business units at Axel Springer in a given year can be quantitatively documented. On this basis,
with the help of the country-specific CO2 emission factors, at least approximate CO2 emissions can
be verifiably identified for the entire company.
This is progress, because the representativeness of the amounts of energy consumed and CO2emissions declared by the company in the Axel Springer SE Sustainability Report has tended to lean
worryingly towards the 50 percent mark in the course of internationalization and digitization. Thus, the
approach described here can also offer a pragmatic solution to other companies for the increased
deficit in the representativeness of disclosures on CO2 emissions in the course of internationalization
and digitization.

Footnote
Notes on the energy use recorded for the entire company
Digitization and the internationalization of the company have made the collection of data more difficult
in recent years due to the growing number of consolidated subsidiaries. This has reduced the completeness of the energy data documented in the Sustainability Report.
To counter this problem, the company has adopted a new approach: Among other things, the numbers for cost categories – such as energy – are merged in Group Accounting for the entire company. Existing ‘reporting lines’ to the many subsidiaries are now also used to determine the amount of
energy used. For this purpose, the world-wide interface-linked data collection tool “IAS Notes” has

136
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

been expanded to include a “Reporting Energy” input mask. This allows for an initial, for the most part
complete record of the energy (natural gas, district heating and electricity) used by the company as
well as the 180 (status 31 January 2015) fully consolidated subsidiaries world-wide for the years 2014
and 2015. This new method of data collection will be further developed and optimized.
The recording of the quantity of natural gas, district heating and electricity used by the company, including the fully consolidated subsidiaries, resulted for the year 2015 in a total of 137,433 MWh (2014
= 143,989 MWh).
Due to the learning curve accompanying the use of this method for the first time to record global
amounts of energy used (electricity, district heating and natural gas), the data obtained using the data
collection tool “IAS Notes” is subject to a number of inaccuracies.
Causes of data inaccuracies:
1. Office moves, which occur in a growing company, lead to “mixed” energy quantity accounts and
thus contribute to data inaccuracies. A number of the consolidated subsidiaries reported the
amount of energy (electricity, district heating, natural gas) either only incompletely, clearly implausibly or not at all. Taking the energy costs reported by these companies into account however, it is
clear that the orders of magnitude are negligible for the overall view. Where data reports of energy
amounts were missing, an estimate of energy costs has been made.
2. Rental accounting transparency: A number of real estate agencies both within and outside the EU,
who rent office space to subsidiaries, report the settlement of energy-related costs with a considerable time lag. With a number of rental contracts, especially those for smaller offices, energy
costs for heating are included in the rental payments. In these cases, the amount of energy used
was determined by using average costs. In cases of incomplete data reporting, average costs
were estimated. In some subsidiaries, international parts of the company were allocated the same
average costs for different countries. Where no energy costs were available, energy amounts were
not projected in order to ensure consistency in cost recording.
External plausibility check
The recording of the quantity of natural gas, district heating and electricity used by the company, including the fully consolidated subsidiaries, resulted for the year 2015 in a total of 137,433 MWh (2014
= 143,989 MWh). Of this, a total of 105,204 MWh was determined for the year 2014, in the framework of the external energy audits of the use of natural gas, district heating and electricity carried out
at selected locations in Germany in 2015 and validated by ECG. This corresponds to 69 percent of
the use of natural gas, district heating and electricity specified in this report for the overall company in
2014.
The remaining 31 percent specified in this report for the year 2014, are the quantities of natural gas,
district heating and electricity obtained solely through the data collection tool “IAS notes” used by
Group Accounting, which is interface-linked to all parts of the company and subsidiaries world-wide.
As the energy audit was not carried out again for 2015, the share of the externally validated amounts
of energy (electricity, district heating, natural gas) for 2015 is 39 percent and the share of data obtained solely through the data collection tool “IAS notes” used by Group Accounting is 61 percent.
The external validation carried out by ECG is based both on a review of raw data from the load profile
as well as a review of manually recorded energy bills including invoices for additional costs.
Objectives: To determine 75 percent of the global use of energy by Axel Springer SE in the form of
lectricity, district heating and natural gas, in validated quality for the years 2016 and 2017.

137
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Total amount of energy used
Record of the amount of gas, district heating and electricity used by the company worldwide.

Energy types

2014

2015

Electricity

91.231 MWh
(328.433 GJ)

89.377 MWh
(321.759 GJ)

District heating

33.558 MWh
(120.810 GJ)

31.394 MWh
(113.018 GJ)

Natural gas

19.199 MWh
(69.117 GJ)

16.662 MWh
(59.984 GJ)

Total

143.989 MWh
(518.360 GJ)

137.433 MWh
(494.760 GJ)

Notes on the energy use recorded for the entire company
Digitization and the internationalization of the company have made the collection of data more difficult
in recent years due to the growing number of consolidated subsidiaries. This has reduced the completeness of the energy data documented in the Sustainability Report.
To counter this problem, the company has adopted a new approach: Among other things, the numbers for cost categories – such as energy – are merged in Group Accounting for the entire company. Existing ‘reporting lines’ to the many subsidiaries are now also used to determine the amount of
energy used. For this purpose, the world-wide interface-linked data collection tool “IAS Notes” has
been expanded to include a “Reporting Energy” input mask. This allows for an initial, for the most part
complete record of the energy (natural gas, district heating and electricity) used by the company as
well as the 180 (status 31 January 2015) fully consolidated subsidiaries world-wide for the years 2014
and 2015. This new method of data collection will be further developed and optimized.
The recording of the the quantity of natural gas, district heating and electricity used by the company,
including the fully consolidated subsidiaries, resulted for the year 2015 in a total of 137,433 MWh
(2014 = 143,989 MWh).
Due to the learning curve accompanying the use of this method for the first time to record global
amounts of energy used (electricity, district heating and natural gas), the data obtained using the data
collection tool “IAS Notes” is subject to a number of inaccuracies.
Causes of data inaccuracies:
1. Office moves, which occur in a growing company, lead to “mixed” energy quantity accounts and
thus contribute to data inaccuracies. A number of the consolidated subsidiaries reported the
amount of energy (electricity, district heating, natural gas) either only incompletely, clearly implausibly or not at all. Taking the energy costs reported by these companies into account however, it is
clear that the orders of magnitude are negligible for the overall view. Where data reports of energy
amounts were missing, an estimate of energy costs has been made.
2. Rental accounting transparency: A number of real estate agencies both within and outside the EU,
who rent office space to subsidiaries, report the settlement of energy-related costs with a considerable time lag. With a number of rental contracts, especially those for smaller offices, energy
costs for heating are included in the rental payments. In these cases, the amount of energy used

138
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

was determined by using average costs. In cases of incomplete data reporting, average costs
were estimated. In some subsidiaries, international parts of the company were allocated the same
average costs for different countries. Where no energy costs were available, energy amounts were
not projected in order to ensure consistency in cost recording.
External plausibility check
The recording of the the quantity of natural gas, district heating and electricity used by the company, including the fully consolidated subsidiaries, resulted for the year 2015 in a total of 137,433
MWh (2014 = 143,989 MWh). Of this, a total of 105,204 MWh was determined for the year 2014, in
the framework of the external energy audits of the use of natural gas, district heating and electricity
carried out at selected locations in Germany in 2015 and validated by ECG. This corresponds to 69
percent of the use of natural gas, district heating and electricity specified in this report for the overall
company 2014.
The remaining 31 percent specified in this report for the year 2014, are the quantities of natural gas,
district heating and electricity obtained solely through the data collection tool “IAS notes” used by
Group Accounting, which is interface-linked to all parts of the company and subsidiaries world-wide.
As the energy audit was not carried out again for 2015, the share of the externally validated amounts
of energy (electricity, district heating, natural gas) for 2015 is 39 percent and the share of data obtained solely through the data collection tool “IAS notes” used by Group Accounting is 61 percent.
The external validation carried out by ECG is based both on a review of raw data from the load profile
as well as a review of manually recorded energy bills including invoices for additional costs.
Objectives: To record 75 percent of the global use of energy by Axel Springer SE in the form of electricity, district heating and natural gas, in validated quality for the years 2016 and 2017.

139
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

New: Conducting of large-scale energy audits

Recommended measures to improve energy efficiency include the introduction of LED lighting technology. (Photo: Multilicense CC-BY-SA-3.0 and GFDL)

The European Union wants to increase energy efficiency by 20 percent by 2020. This objective is to
be achieved by improving energy efficiency in as many commercial enterprises as possible.
To this end, the European Parliament in 2012 further developed the existing energy efficiency directive
(EED 2012/27/EU): This stipulates that companies of a certain size must be regularly subjected to an
energy audit from December 2015 in accordance with DIN EN 16247-1. The corresponding implementing provisions for Germany have applied – within the framework of the adapted Act on Energy
Services (EDL-G) – since April 2015. The obligation to conduct an energy audit was prescribed by law
for all non-SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), provided the company has no active energy
management system or environmental management system.
The German Axel Springer SE companies are also subject to this legal obligation to conduct an
energy audit. By law, the audit has to be conducted by an energy consultant listed with the Federal
Office of Economics and Export Control (BAFA). Axel Springer SE has commissioned the ECG Energy
Consulting GmbH for Germany.
Energy issues have been intensively managed at Axel Springer for decades. So the company was
prepared for the requirements of the energy audits both in its printing facilities and in the publishing
buildings. The objective is the consistent use of energy saving potential. The Berlin-Spandau newspaper printing plant is involved in an “Energy Efficiency Network” moderated by energy supplier EnBW.
The following procedure was adopted to conduct the energy audit: Corporate divisions and subsidiaries with particular relevance for an improvement in energy efficiency were selected for the energy
audit. 23 locations were thereby subjected to an energy audit with external assurance. The newspaper printing plants in Berlin-Spandau and Essen-Kettwig already have an energy management system
and were therefore not on the audit list.
An energy management system is an internationally recognized management concept for the systematic identification and implementation of energy efficiency potential. The international standard ISO
50001 establishes bindingly how such a system is to be introduced and operated. Evidence of an
active EnMS often needs to be provided for the granting of state benefits in the energy sector. This
evidence must be in the form of an annual surveillance audit conducted by an external auditor from
a regulated certification authority. The offset printing works in Kettwig and Spandau are currently ISO
50001 certified.

140
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

All of the necessary energy data was obtained at the relevant 23 locations by December 2015. In
March and April 2016, the process was scheduled with three final events at which the results of the
conducted energy audits were presented to the audited companies through the issuing of the energy
audit reports. On this basis, the audit results were simultaneously made known to the German Group
companies who had not been subjected to their “own” energy audit in 2015/2016.
Result: Savings potential in the use of electricity and natural gas was identified during the conducted
energy audits. The first priority here is the conversion to energy-efficient LED lighting technology and
improved energy management in everyday office life (use light, temporary shutdown of electronic
equipment, decrease in consumption through reducing the standby phases for electrical equipment).
A concept for the simplified acquisition of energy data has been developed by the ‘Services & Real
Estate’ division, in cooperation with the energy consultant ECG, to prepare for the energy audits
which are required at least every four years. This should allow future audits to be prepared and the
provision of energy data for the company’s Sustainability Report to be optimized.

141
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Increase Energy Efficiency through Green IT

Axel Springer SE has addressed the question: „How can you make the energy consumption of complex business processes
visible?“ The film on the IT2Green Project „GreenIT Cockpit“ shows how the energy consumption for the development of the
online edition of the Hamburger Abendblatt is measured and can be visualized.

How can the energy efficiency of digital processes be improved? The film resulting from the cooperation between Axel Springer SE and the TU Berlin shows how the energy requirements of the online
edition of a newspaper can be measured and visualized.
Sustainability is the triad of social, environmental and economic responsibility. Through our commitment we are underlining our special responsibility as a media company – from journalistic independence and the separation of advertising and editorial copy via the promotion of media skills among
young readers, up to data protection as well as the safeguarding of social and environmental standards along the value chains relevant to our company. Traditionally the wood , pulp , paper, printing
and recycling chains have been a focus, to which we are continuing to devote a great deal of attention.
In the course of the fast-paced digital transformation of our company, we are at the same time looking
at the transparency and optimization of social and environmental standards along the digital value
chain. Our responsibility is the successful establishment of independent journalism in the digital world.
We want to focus on improvements to our energy efficiency (Green IT) over the next few years.
The energy efficiency field of action covers three measures in particular:
1) Green IT:
Through the digitization of the media industry, our core business processes are becoming increasingly
dependent on the use of the respective information and communication technologies (ICT). ICT-related electricity consumption in Germany already makes up 10.5 percent of total electricity consumption. For this reason, it is of major relevance for Axel Springer SE that its ICT-related energy consumption and related costs are presented transparently.
To achieve this, we participated in the now completed IT2Green research project, with which the
Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy promoted knowledge relating to energy efficiency in
information and communications technology.
In co-operation with the Federal Environment Agency and the Technical University Berlin, we took
a critical look at the measurement of the electricity consumption of business processes. With the
“Green IT Cockpit”, we have established a model of suitable measuring and control instruments for
the continuous improvement of organization-wide energy efficiency oriented to our business processes. Relevant information is clearer and easier to interpret. The model underwent practical tests in

142
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

2012 and 2013 using the example of the Online Editorial Office of the Hamburger Abendblatt (note:
The Hamburger Abendblatt has been a part of the Funke-Mediengruppe since early 2014).
The information presented using tachometers and charts allow for both an analysis of the key performance indicators as well as a detailed examination of the cause-and-effect relationships. The knowledge gained will allow us in future to adjust our strategic planning with regard to Green IT.
In the pilot project, we focused on indicators which are relevant to the quality of IT services:
•
•
•
•

Intensity of use of services
Performance of the process
Input of IT resources
Use of IT resources

The indicators developed help to answer important questions concerning the intensity of use:
•
•
•
•
•

How many (business) activities are actually processed
Are the quantities measured and the load profile in line with the forecast?
Are warning and/or action limits being exceeded?
Is IT capability being used too little, sufficiently, or even too much?
Are there acceptance problems during use?

The question concerning the use of IT resources relates to the indicators of the intensity of use, and
shows us how the two are related.
•
•
•
•
•

Does system utilization correspond to the forecast and does this follow the load profile of the
intensity of use?
How does utilization develop over various time periods (day/week/month/year)?
Does the use of IT resources dynamically follow the load profile of the intensity of use?
Are the (purchased) IT resources (servers, storage, ... ) well utilized?
Are warning and/or action limits being exceeded?

The insights gained in pilot projects like this contribute to improving the energy efficiency of other business processes.
2) Replacement of old workstation printers
In the hardware sector, we have not only replaced workstation printers and fax machines with energysaving multi-function devices, but a large number of processes, such as Purchasing and Invoice
Receipt, are already paperless.
3) Operation of data processing centers
Axel Springer SE currently runs a large number of its own servers or purchases the operation of its
business applications from various data processing centers. Each server is also designed to show an
acceptable response time behavior during peak-load times. The use of the application systems is not
evenly spread throughout the day. Typical load peaks for online services are apparent in the evening
hours. In contrast, the load peak for internal business applications is in the morning when starting
work by logging into the systems. To optimize energy efficiency, the systems must be examined in
relation to each other.
With the aid of a utilization forecast, the assignment of services to the physical servers should in future
be controlled where possible in such a way that by turning off unused servers as much energy as
possible is saved and the thermal load reduced.
This approach does not only have energy saving potential. The smart exploitation of computing capacity for evaluation projects at the same time allows existing servers to be used, thus avoiding the necessity of purchasing additional hardware. Applications that are running will only be slightly influenced
by this redistribution. In order to achieve these efficiency gains, the company is working on concepts
to utilize uniform external computing capacity.

143
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Presentation of CO2 emissions
The New Approach
Progressive digitization requires a lot of electrical energy. So the question of identifying the amount of
energy consumed in a company in a complete, continuous and verifiable way, in view of the ongoing
debate about CO2-neutral production as well as climate-efficient corporate sales, is gaining in importance. As long as real energy use does not appear in the “control cockpit” of a company, actual CO2
emissions remain unclear.
In the course of the progressive digitization of the Group, Axel Springer SE is consolidating more than
180 larger and smaller Internet-based companies located on several continents (the list of holdings as
at 31 December 2015 can be found in the Annual Report 2015).
One of the continuous “reporting lines”of the consolidated business units is the reporting of relevant
financial figures to Group Accounting – including the energy costs. The idea was that this established
reporting procedure for all companies could therefore also be useful for the collection of non-financial
performance indicators, such as the amount of energy consumed. For this purpose, the data collection tool “IAS Notes” which was already in use and interface-linked throughout the company worldwide, was expanded to include a “Reporting Energy” input mask.
Among other things, the numbers for cost categories – such as energy – are merged from the consolidated business units in Group Accounting.
Existing ‚reporting lines‘ to the many subsidiaries are used to identify the quantities of natural gas,
district heating and electricity used in one year. For this purpose, the world-wide interface-linked data
collection tool “IAS Notes” was expanded to include a “Reporting Energy” input mask.

How did we go about this?
We identified energy quantities for purchased natural gas (for the generation of power within the company), district heating and electrical power according to the method described in the chapter “Energy”
for all countries in which consolidated subsidiaries are active as per the Annual Report.
The classification into Scope 1, 2 and 3: When considering CO2 emissions resulting from entrepreneurial activity, a distinction is made into three categories: direct emissions from our own facilities
(known as Scope 1 emissions), indirect emissions from purchased energy (Scope 2 emissions) and
indirect emissions from CO2 emissions in the supply chain and from related services (Scope 3 emissions).
An overview of the natural gas burned in our own facilities (Scope 1) as well as of the purchased
district heating (Scope 2) and electricity (Scope 2), directly or indirectly generated CO2 emissions for
each country in which consolidated subsidiaries are active, can be found here.
How was the amount of energy used converted into the resulting CO2 emissions?
CO2 emission factors for the specific types of energy are used for the presentation of the CO2 emissions generated by the whole company worldwide. The identification of greenhouse gas emissions for
recorded resource use is made in “tonnes of CO2 equivalents” (CO2e). With a view to better readability, this text exclusively uses the spelling “CO2”.

144
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

For the conversion of the various energy resource uses into the resulting CO2 emissions, the World
Resources Institute (WRI, Washington DC) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD, Geneva) have created the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). It is used worldwide by companies and institutions worldwide, including the Department for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs (DEFRA, London). Various institutions periodically publish updated conversion tables for
most of the countries in the world.
DEFRA data from the years 2014 and 2015 was taken as a basis for this Sustainability Report. As
DEFRA had no rendering value for Mauritius, the DEFRA average value for Africa was taken. Greenhouse Gas Protocol values last published by the WBCSD in Geneva in 2009 were used for the Czech
Republic and Turkey, as no specific DEFRA values were available here either.
(Note: Since June 2016, the emission factors for the production of electricity outside the UK is no
longer available free of charge. This information was still freely available at the time this report was
prepared.)
Example Germany
In 2015, 80 percent (2014: 81 percent) of the quantities of natural gas, district heating and electricity
used by the company was accounted for by business units in Germany. This corresponds to 74 percent (2014: 77 percent) of the CO2 emissions generated from these types of energy by the company.
Against this background, a differentiated consideration of CO2 emissions should be made based on
the data available for business units active in Germany.

145
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

CO2 from electricity, natural gas and district heating
Summary of the company’s energy-related CO2 emissions taking into account a) the combustion of
natural gas in the company’s own plants (Scope 1), b) indirect emissions from the purchase of the
energy sources electricity and district heating (Scope 2) as well as c) the indirect emissions resulting in
the supply chain for natural gas, electricity and district heating (Scope 3).
CO2 emissions from the combustion of natural gas by location (Scope 1) for 2014 and 2015

Scope 1
Total

2014

2015

3,543 t CO2

3,073 t CO2

CO2 emissions from the purchase of district heating and electricity by location (Scope 2) for 2014 and
2015

Scope 2
Total

2014

2015

52,195 t CO2

51,336 t CO2

CO2 emissions from services and use of infrastructure (Scope 3) for 2014 and 2015

Scope 3
Total

2014

2015

9,378 t CO2

9,926 t CO2

Overview of the company’s energy-related CO2 emissions by country taking into account a) the combustion of natural gas in the company’s own plants (Scope 1), b) indirect emissions from the purchase
of the energy sources electricity and district heating (Scope 2) as well as c) the indirect emissions
resulting in the supply chain for natural gas, electricity and district heating (Scope 3). Because of the
varying degrees of intensity of emissions (high for fossil fuels, low for renewable primary energy) in the
power generation mix, some countries in this ranking take a different position than they should simply
in terms of the amount of energy used by the respective business unit.

Country

CO2 emission Share of total CO2 emission Share of total
2014
emissions
2015
emissions 2015
2014

Total

65.116 t

100 %

64.335 t

100 %

Germany

50.245 t

77,16 %

47.556 t

73,92 %

Poland

9.333 t

14,33 %

11.604 t

18,04 %

Serbia

1.583 t

2,43 %

1.724 t

2,68 %

Hungary

1.128 t

1,73 %

1.035 t

1,61 %

Great Britain

454 t

0,70 %

833 t

1,29 %

Slovakia

839 t

1,29 %

654 t

1,02 %

Netherlands

81 t

0,13 %

265 t

0,41 %

France

238 t

0,37 %

208 t

0,32 %

South Afrika

85 t

0,13 %

164 t

0,26 %

Belgium

57 t

0,09 %

64 t

0,10 %

Spain

68 t

0,10 %

62 t

0,10 %

146
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Irland

67 t

0,10 %

63 t

0,10 %

USA

74 t

0,11 %

51 t

0,08 %

Switzerland

36 t

0,05 %

23 t

0,04 %

Italy

20 t

0,03 %

13 t

0,02 %

Austria

15 t

0,02 %

10 t

0,02 %

Mauritius

7t

0,01 %

5t

0,01 %

Other

784,3 t

1,20 %

1,5 t

0,00 %

147
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Environmental key performance indicators for our own
printing plants in Germany

The environmental organization Nature And Biodiversity Conservation Union Germany (NABU) wants to raise awareness
among companies of the possibilities of creating valuable habitats for animals and plants through the semi-natural design of
their premises. To document suitable examples of “UnternehmensNatur” (BusinessNature) sites, NABU Hamburg recorded a
video in the Ahrensburg newspaper printing plant in 2014.

Early warning system to detect weaknesses
Alongside controlling and providing information, environmental controlling is also responsible for the
generation of specific environmental indicators. These figures condense the environmental data into a
manageable overview, rendering it possible to plan improvements and detect weaknesses in the system
at an early stage. If, for example, the specific volume of waste in a printing facility increases conspicuously in comparison with the previous year, the causes can be investigated immediately. Environmental indicators thus also fulfill the function of an early warning system. Using indicators, the effectiveness
of the measures implemented can also be compared between the various production facilities.
This is the formula used to calculate the specific environmental indicators for the printing plants at Axel
Springer:
material and energy flows divided by
------------------------------------------------------------ = resource efficiency
printed paper surface
Indicators of material and energy flows for printing plants: The indicators for efficiency in material and
energy flows show how much paper, printing ink and water are used for one million square meters of
paper printed during the reporting period, by printing plant. These indicators are also recorded for waste
and air emissions. Axel Springer SE uses the material data provided by SAP for its materials and energy
balance sheet

Printing paper efficiency
Changes in paper demand are greatly influenced by changes in reading habits, by the use of digital
alternatives to the use of journalistic services, by demographic developments as well as by the economic situation. The paper throughput in our own newspaper printing plants (incl. that provided by print
customers) dropped from 159,297 to 124,172 tonnes in a comparison of the years 2013 and 2015.
This is equivalent to a reduction of 22 percent.

148
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Specific indicator
An average of 25.2 tonnes of printing paper was used to produce one million square meters of marketable newspapers in 2015 in our own print locations in Germany (2013 = 22.6 tonnes).
This indicator should demonstrate the efficiency (printed surface per tonne of paper) in the use of paper
raw material. The indicator in this case shows how many million square meters of printed newspaper
pages have been produced per tonne of paper.
In 2013, 22.6 tonnes of paper were required to produce one million square meters of printed newspaper pages – this figure increased to 25.2 tonnes in 2015. In this respect, paper efficiency has deteriorated.
This development is primarily due to the significantly lower paper throughput, especially as the resulting
mill broke has not decreased in the same proportion. The term mill broke is used in the printing industry to describe damaged or defective samples that must not be offered for sale. It also refers to the
packaging for the rolls of paper and the tubes that the paper is rolled on as well as printed and nonprinted scrap paper. Mill broke is a much sought-after recycling material for the production of new paper
products.
Key performance indicators in the field of printing paper efficiency (tonnes of paper per million square
meters of printed newspaper pages) can lose their validity and comparability through variations in the
grammages of the printing paper used.
In principle, the improvement in paper efficiency is supported by a number of technical innovations.
These measures include, among other things, the reduction in the number of paper breaks through
improvements in paper adhesive (important when changing paper rolls) as well as the objectivity and/or
automation of decisions concerning the saleability of proof copies.
Work is continuously being done to reduce the quantities of mill broke as part of the environmental and
economic optimization of the printing processes. For example, investments are being made in new
color control systems in the printing facilities. This meant that the number of non-salable printed copies
was reduced by 25.5 percent in a comparison of the years 2013 and 2015. The effect of the measures
taken also led in the same period – despite a decline in print runs and volumes – to a consistent specific
indicator (mill broke per million square meters of printed paper surface).

Printing inks
In a comparison of the years 2013 and 2015, ink usage in our own newspaper printing facilities in Germany has dropped by 17 percent from 2,932 to 1,587 tonnes. The reason for this is the general decline
in the circulation and volume of newspapers.

Waste water
The waste water volumes discharged into the sewerage system from the printing locations in Germany
dropped by 14.4 percent between 2013 and 2015. This was brought about, among other things, by a
reduction in the dampening water requirements of the printing presses, by improvements in the management, and by the decline in the number of employees at the Ahrensburg printing location.
Specific indicator
Waste water volumes per million square meters of printed paper surface increased by 22 percent. One
important reason for this: The demand for water, for example during machine start-up phases, has
hardly changed despite smaller print runs, resulting in an unfavorable development of the specific indicator.

149
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Transparency in the value chains
The upstream and downstream stages of the value chain include, for
example, external server operators for our digital products, or the
wood, paper, printing, and distribution chains of our print products.

150
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Services of external data centers
To improve energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness, the internal data centers at the German sites
of Axel Springer SE are being largely dissolved and relocated step-by-step into the central location
(Unified Data Center) of the digital business service provider Atos SE. The use of state-of-the-art data
technology should help to continuously optimize the CO2 efficiency of the outsourced data centers.

151
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

From which countries does our printing paper come?

The picture shows the paper warehouse at the Hamburg-Ahrensburg offset printing works. Axel Springer SE has published a
list of its suppliers of printing paper since 1993. Since 1995, contracts for paper have included a clause on compliance with
„Forestry Standards“. (Photo: Offsetdruckerei Hamburg-Ahrensburg)

Axel Springer SE procured 150,023 tonnes of printing paper in 2015 for newspapers and magazines
in Germany, as well as for its subsidiaries at home and abroad. Its suppliers include around 12 paper
mills in 14 countries. Since 1993, Axel Springer has published the names and contacts of its paper
suppliers. In addition to the commercial and technical quality contacts, there has also been a continuous exchange of ideas with paper suppliers since 1993 on issues of stakeholder management, as
well as on specific issues relating to sustainability, above all with regard to the procurement of wood
raw materials. The Forestry Standards developed by the company have applied here since 1995.
The following table gives an overview of the countries from which printing paper is centrally sourced.
This paper tonnage is processed in the company’s own printing plants as well as, according to requirements, in around 40 external printing plants both in Germany and abroad. The contact partners on
environmental issues at individual paper suppliers are listed under the menu item “Paper Suppliers”.
Country

Share 2013 in t

Share 2014 in t

Share 2015 in t

Belgium

6.595

1.496

113

Germany

81.845

76.605

59.302

Finland

34.129

14.800

4.932

France

30.684

19.295

22.397

Great Britain

-

9.909

-

Italy

-

391

134

Canada

20.008

13.227

16.000

Netherlands

-

1.061

10

Austria

28.466

15.925

9.752

Slovakia

-

3.602

-

Russia

3.401

2.067

5.103

Sweden

49.289

25.091

14.258

Swiss

35.142

24.497

17.111

Spain

1.126

1.071

911

Total

315.385

209.036

150.023

152
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Forestry Standards
Since 1995 six clear and comprehensible sustainability indicators have been considered when
purchasing printing paper. The selection of paper suppliers at Axel Springer is based on four criteria:
Product quality, reliable supply, competitive prices and compliance with environmental standards. Six
Forestry Standards were agreed with paper suppliers in 1995:
1. Sustainability
Harvesting more timber than will re-grow is prohibited.
2. Biodiversity
Forestry shall not endanger animal or plant species.
3. Control
The paper manufacturer must perform eco-controls as a purchaser of timber.
4. Training
The paper manufacturer must ensure that the necessary ecological knowledge is conveyed to
personnel (for example, forest workers).
5. Indigenous population
The paper manufacturer must take the indigenous people (for example the Sami in Northern
Scandinavia) into consideration.
6. Information
The paper manufacturer must keep the public informed of the advances made and problems
encountered in environmental protection.

153
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Paper Recycling

Used paper is a valuable raw material: Around 77 percent of the printing paper used in the company contains used paper.
The photo shows a used paper sorting plant of the Alba company in Berlin.

The recycling of graphic papers in 2013 at a rate of 84.7 percent was above the desired target corridor of 80 percent (+/- 3 percent) set by the Graphic Paper Alliance (AGRAPA). The corresponding report was presented at the AGRAPA Meeting in Berlin on 8 July 2015. Through the AGRAPA voluntary
commitment declaration, companies have been complying with the requirements of product responsibility in the graphical value chain on a voluntary basis for 20 years.
Used paper is a valuable raw material. The most important paper categories in terms of quantity are:
•
•

Products made of graphic papers, such as newspapers and other printed products as well as
office paper and
Products made of packaging papers, such as sales packaging, transport packaging or secondary
packaging

In recent years, a series of new paper machines that process used paper have been put into operation in Europe.
When recycling used paper in the paper mill, a proportion of the paper fibers cannot be used and are
separated off. About 120 to 125 kilograms of used paper is required to produce 100 kilograms of
newsprint paper. For this reason the fiber cycle only functions if the overall mixture of fresh and used
fibers is right. That is why the supply of fresh fibers is of central importance in maintaining this cycle.
Around 77 percent of the printing paper used by Axel Springer contains used paper. The following
table provides a breakdown of the distribution of used paper for 2015.
Newsprint paper:
Standard and improved newsprint paper
SC magazine paper:
Supercalendered wood-containing paper - paper smoothed (satined) between the rollers of a calander
for offset and rotogravure printing
LWC magazine paper:
“light weight coated” – lightweight, wood-containing, rolling press paper, coated on both sides

154
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Share of used paper in newsprint and magazine paper (in percent for 2015)

Newsprint paper

SC magazin paper

LWC magazin paper

123.436 t

13.264 t

13.323 t

0%

22%

1%

51%

1% - 14%

6%

3%

7%

15% - 29%

0%

0%

1%

30% - 44%

5%

0%

32%

45% - 59%

1%

0%

0%

60% - 74%

14%

85%

0%

75% - 89%

10%

0%

0%

90% - 100%

42%

11%

36%

Total quantities
of paper
Share of used
paper

Source: Calculation based on manufacturer‘s data 2015

155
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Paper Suppliers
Paper Suppliers Status 2015
BURGO Deutschland Papiervertrieb GmbH
The Burgo Group is the largest producer of graphic papers in southern Europe.
Gisela Brosch
D-81677 Munich
Tel: +49 89 45 50 35 13
brosch.gisela@burgo.com
www.burgogroup.com
Holmen Paper
Holmen Paper is one of the leading producers of newsprint paper. It has paper mills in Sweden (Norrköping, Hallstavik) and Madrid.
Lars Strömberg
S-11451 Stockholm
Tel: +46 8666 2154
lars.stroemberg@holmenpaper.com
www.holmenpaper.com
Kruger Inc.
Kruger Inc. is one of the leading producers of newsprint paper. It has paper mills in Canada. Among
these is the Cornerbrook paper mill.
Pat O‘Brien
GB-Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 1AR
Tel: +44 7831 628487
pat.obrien@kruger.com
www.kruger.com
Norske Skog
The Norwegian group is the world’s third-largest newsprint and magazine paper producer with production facilities on four continents.
Jens Borge
N-1326 Lysaker
Tel: +47 67 599 203
Mobile: +47 90 559 356
jens.borge@norskeskog.com
www.norske-skog.com
Paper Trading Group SA – Kondopoga
Kondopoga is a Russian newsprint paper producer. The factory is in the Russian Republic of Karelia.
The Swiss trading company represents Russian newsprint paper mills.
Vera Orlova
CH-2001 Neuchatel
Tel.: +41 32 710-01-65
Sales@papertrading.ch
www.papertrading.ch

156
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Papierfabrik Palm
Papierfabrik Palm has its head office in Aalen-Neukochen (Baden-Württemberg). It also has a factory
in Eltmann (Bavaria) and in Wörth (Rheinland-Palatinate).
Karl-Heinz Bestle
D-73406 Aalen-Neukochen
Tel: +49 73 61 577 122
Karl-Heinz.Bestle@papierfabrik-palm.de
www.papierfabrik-palm.de
Perlen Papier AG
Perlen Papier AG is one of the leading Swiss producers of magazine and newsprint paper. The familyowned enterprise was founded in 1872.
Achim Busch
CH-6035 Perlen
Tel: +41 41 455 80 92
achim.busch@perlen.ch
www.perlen.ch
SAPPI
An international paper producer with production facilities on three continents. Its head office is in Johannesburg, Republic of South Africa.
Michael Mirwald
Sappi Deutschland GmbH
D-30715 Hannover
Tel: +49 511 123 33 610
michael.mirwald@sappi.com
www.sappi.com
SCA Publication Papers / SCA Forest Products AB
The paper subsidiary of the Swedish SCA Group. The approx. 2.6 m hectares owned by SCA make it
one of the largest forest owners in Sweden.
Björn Lyngfeld
SE-85188 Sundsvall
bjoern.Lyngfeld@sca.com
www.sca.com
Heinzel Paper – Laakirchen Papier AG
The factory specializing in SC paper was part of the Swedish SCA Group until the beginning of 2013.
Walter Hennerbichler
A-4663 Laakirchen
Tel.: +43 76 138 80 05 50
walter.hennerbichler@heinzelpaper.com
www.heinzelpapier.com
Stora Enso
The Finnish-Swedish corporation is one of the largest forest and paper products companies in the
world.
Contact in Germany
Klaus Barduna, Vice President Environment
Mobile: +49 173 294 1716
Tel.: +49 211 581 2432
klaus.barduna@storaenso.com

157
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Stora Enso Group in Helsinki
Terhi Koipijärvi, Head of Global Responsibility
Stora Enso Group, Head Office, Helsinki
Tel.: +358 2046 21347
terhi.koipijarvi@storaenso.com
www.storaenso.com
UPM-Kymmene
The Finnish corporation is one of the largest forest and paper products companies in the world.
Päivi Rissanen
Environmental Director, Paper
UPM, P.O. Box 380, Eteläesplanadi 2,
00101 Helsinki, FINLAND
Tel: +358 40 743 0306
paivi.rissanen@upm.com
www.upm.com

158
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Talks on the ecology of timber production

Southern Portugal: Luis Neves Silva (l.), Eucalyptus expert at the environmental organization WWF, explains the environmental standards for fast-growing timber plantations to Paula Guimaraes, forest expert at pulp producer Portucel, and Florian
Nehm, Corporate Sustainability Officer at Axel Springer SE.

For its printed newspapers and magazines, Axel Springer SE annually obtains paper rolls from 12
paper mills in 14 countries. Modern press publishers distinguish themselves by being well-informed
about the environmental and social standards of the different stages of the production chain – from
the forest via the paper mill and printing plant through to the kiosk and paper recycling.
Printing paper for newspapers and magazines is produced – with regard to its necessary tear resistance – from the long wood fiber of spruces and pines. These conifers used for our printing paper
grow in the green belt of the Northern hemisphere – nurtured by water, nutrients and solar energy.
Printed products such as papers, magazines and catalogs are collected as waste paper after use and
then used for example as raw material for new newsprint paper. In Germany, 84.7 percent of graphic
papers (these include newspapers and magazines) are re-used via waste paper as paper raw material
(AGRAPA Statistics 2015). Thus the bulk of the wood fiber is used several times.
More than 37,000 pages of publication paper are produced from one spruce
A model calculation shows that using the fiber gained from an average-sized spruce originating from
Swedish forestry (aged between 30 and 60 years) will produce a total of 37,440 pages of newspaper
(weight of the paper: 42.5 g per m², format 40 x 57 cm). 13,440 pages are produced from the fresh
wood fiber alone and a further 24,000 pages can be gained through recycling.

Cross-border Co-operation
The company has initiated numerous optimization projects with paper suppliers over the past 20 years. Some examples of this are creating an ecological balance for newspapers and magazines for the
first time, the „Opti“ project in co-operation with 8,900 Norwegian family forest owners and the paper
manufacturer Norske Skog as well as the „Tracing Russian Wood“ project in cooperation with the
paper products company UPM and Greenpeace Russia.
„From Russia with Transparency“ (2005)
In September 2005, the company, in collaboration with the paper manufacturer Stora Enso (Helsinki)
and the publishing houses Random House Group (London) and Time Inc. (New York), presented the

159
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

project “From Russia with Transparency”. A focus was placed on combating corruption in the crossborder timber trade.
Transparency International, the leading NGO on Fighting Corruption, took on the role of „Critical Reviewer“.
Cobus de Swardt of Transparency International on this project: „Many forestry companies want to
achieve sustainability, yet shy away from discussing sensitive issues such as corruption. The members
of the Tikhvin Project see that sustainability and ethical business practices have much to do with each
other. We welcome this pioneering commitment and hope that the project team follows our recommendations.“
The paper manufacturer Stora Enso‘s cooperation with the publishing houses Time Inc. (New York),
Random House Group (London) and Axel Springer (Berlin) as well as the non-governmental organization “Transparency International” has also been documented. Its main priorities are the promotion of
sustainable forestry, the fight against corruption in the cross-border timber trade for the manufacture
of printing paper as well as the prevention of occupational accidents.
„Tracing Russion Wood Imports“ (2002)
In a joint project, Axel Springer, with the Finnish paper manufacturer UPM-Kymmene and the Otto
Group, has made the wood chain transparent from the forest in Russia to the paper mill in Finland.
The project report „Tracing Russian Wood Imports“ shows how imports of wood from Russia are ecologically audited. There is also room for critical voices from the Russian forest management and the
environmental organization Greenpeace Russia.
„Environmental Improvements in the Paper Chain“ (1998)
This report describes the background, goals and realization of the co-operation between the Otto
Group and Axel Springer with 8,900 Norwegian family forest owners and the paper manufacturer
Norske Skog.

Forestry Standards
Since 1995 six clear and comprehensible sustainability indicators have been considered when
purchasing printing paper. The selection of paper suppliers at Axel Springer is based on four criteria:
Product quality, reliable supply, competitive prices and compliance with environmental standards.
Six Forestry Standards were agreed with paper suppliers in 1995:
1. Sustainability
Harvesting more timber than will re-grow is prohibited.
2. Biodiversity
Forestry shall not endanger animal or plant species.
3. Control
The paper manufacturer must perform eco-controls as a purchaser of timber.
4. Training
The paper manufacturer must ensure that the necessary ecological knowledge is conveyed to
personnel (for example, forest workers).
5. Indigenous population
The paper manufacturer must take the indigenous people (for example the Sami in Northern
Scandinavia) into consideration.
6. Information
The paper manufacturer must keep the public informed of the advances made and problems
encountered in environmental protection.

160
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Ecological certification labels
In order to be able to guarantee good ecological quality for timber or paper clients, two ecological certification labels for wood products have been established – after considerable debate. Their standards
have moved markedly closer in the meantime. Axel Springer SE supports the forestry certification, as
well as talks on the development of mutual recognition of FSC and PEFC.
FSC
(Forest Stewardship Council). The international ecological certification label for
forestry products was established in Toronto in 1993 by leading environmental
organizations, among others. It is supported mainly by environmental organizations, owners of woodland, and wood processing firms.
Info: www.fsc-deutschland.de
PEFC
(Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification). The European ecological certificate for forestry products was established in Paris in 1999 by the
associations of European forest owners under the name “Pan European Forest
Certification”. It is supported in particular by the associations of European forest
owners.
Info: www.pefc.de

161
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Modes of transport for printing paper
Anteile in Prozent

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Schiff

50

55

49

51

55

64

Bahn

13

12

21

22

16

12

LKW

37

33

30

27

29

24

Standorte der liefernden Papierfabriken beeinflussen Transport-Wege
Die per Schiff zu Druckstandorten in Deutschland transportierte Papiertonnage hat sich in
den Jahren von 2013 bis 2015 um 16 Prozent erhöht. Im gleichen Zeitraum haben sich der
per Bahn und LKW transportierte Anteil um 45 Prozent und rund 17 Prozent verringert. Die
Wahl des Transportmittels hängt vom Standort der Papierfabriken ab. Die Lieferanteile der
verschiedenen Papierfabriken ändern sich ständig und werden von Faktoren wie Bedarf, Kapazität, Qualität, Waldnutzungsstandards und Preis bestimmt. Die Axel Springer SE bezieht
Druckpapier von 12 Papierfabriken in 14 Ländern.
Um die Produktion auch bei Qualitäts- und Lieferproblemen sicherzustellen, werden die eigenen sowie die fremden Druckereien in der Regel von mindestens zwei Produktionsstandorten
mit Druckpapier beliefert. Die Entfernungen zwischen Papierfabrik und Druckerei können
dabei zwischen 35 Kilometern (Eilenburg - Leipzig) und knapp 7.000 Kilometern (Kanada München) schwanken.

162
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Inquiries on International Social Policy

Sandra Fischer heads the gastronomic team at the large ‚Mittelbar‘ in the heart of Berlin’s Axel Springer Passage. She wants
to know more about the production processes of tea and coffee and has already traveled to Sri Lanka and El Salvador. In
Antioquia, one of the coffee provinces in Colombia, she informed herself in 2015, among other things, about working conditions at the ‚high bed‘ plant for drying coffee beans. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

The Axel Springer Corporation is expanding internationally. This is why we have adopted a catalog of
social standards, our International Social Policy, which is a binding guideline for social integrity and
applies to all the company‘s activities worldwide. In the procurement of printing paper, of advertising
media and product supplements, in merchandising, as well as in the sale of title licenses, emphasis is
also placed on the observance of standards through site visits.
This is what the “International Social Policy” is about: raising awareness along the entire value chain,
including the suppliers of our supplier‘s own suppliers.

New Delhi in February 2013: A visit to Thomson Press, where the Indian media company India Today prints the magazine
AUTO BILD India as a licensee. The picture shows the production manager and certification representative Shireesh Keskar
(left in the picture) in discussion about social and environmental standards with Florian Nehm, Axel Springer SE Corporate
Sustainability Officer. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

163
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Inquiries on International Social Policy

Uruguay in March 2013: A visit to the Finnish forest, pulp and paper company UPM‘s eucalyptus tree nursery. The picture
shows the director of the nursery Jorge Doe (left in picture) in conversation about issues of plantation ecology with Oliver
Salge, Head of Forest and Oceans Campaign at Greenpeace Germany, and Florian Nehm, Axel Springer SE Corporate
Sustainability Officer. (Axel Springer SE)

Dongguan, province of Shenzhen, China in May 2010: Uwe Schroeder, Head of Production and Purchasing of printed
matter and advertising material for the WELT Group, acquainted himself in May 2010 with social standards and looked over
a female employee‘s shoulder at a watch manufacturer‘s. Watches are popular promotional gifts for attracting newspaper
subscribers.

164
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Paysandú, Uruguay in May 2009: Employees during the lunch break at a eucalyptus tree nursery in conversation with Florian
Nehm, Axel Springer SE Corporate Sustainability Officer. The nursery supplies seedlings to plantations. The plantations
supply wood to a pulp factory, whose clients include paper mills in Germany, from which Axel Springer SE procures printing
paper for magazine covers.

165
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

„We are living responsibility daily“

The Paparazzi restaurants are supplied with fresh ingredients every day. On offer are both vegetarian as well as good solid
meals, crispy salads from the large salad bar, sweet desserts or fresh fruit from the fruit counter.

PACE Paparazzi Catering & Event GmbH is a subsidiary of Axel Springer SE. It serves more than one
million guests annually - in staff restaurants at several company locations as well as at numerous activities and events for internal and external customers. At the end of 2012, the subsidiary published its
first Sustainability Report meeting the GRI „Level A“ requirements. The company compiled its activities
and measures in a „Report on internalized sustainability“ for customers and guests.

Internalized sustainability at PACE
Sustainability has been internalized for years at PACE in all three dimensions: socially, environmentally
and economically. This was documented through the last two Sustainability Reports, which were each
evaluated by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to be Level A. In the last two years, PACE has set its
focus in the area of sustainability on the following topics:
•
•
•

Development of vegetarian and vegan dishes
Communication with guests and employees
Practice partnerships and stakeholder dialogs

Development of vegetarian and vegan dishes
ESSENTIA - healthy, fresh, delicious.
„With our menu line we want to make it easy for guests to have a balanced diet. The individual dishes
are ideally matched. All important nutrients such as vitamins, minerals and fiber are included“, says
Marco Roland, executive chef at PACE. He developed ESSENTIA with his team who oriented themselves both according to the recommendations of the German Society for Nutrition (DGE), as well as the
needs of the guest. In the ESSENTIA nutrition line, meat is in one dish per week, a further dish contains fish. On the other three days, there are vegetarian dishes with a high proportion of vegetables.
The offer of meals containing meat has also been reduced over the past two years in the overall daily
offerings in the Paparazzi restaurants. In its place, the selection of vegetarian and also increasingly vegan products has been substantially widened. This has been well received by the guests and the daily
portion of meat-free products is now already at 20 percent of the entire range of lunch offerings. On
the one hand, PACE wants to use its sustainable range of meals to comply with the requests of many
of its restaurant guests. On the other hand, there are also positive effects in the purchase of goods
and their preparation in relation to:

166
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

•
•
•
•
•

Climate protection
Health
Ethics and animal welfare
Food security
Enjoyment

Communication with Employees
The management as well as the General Works Council at PACE carried out an employee survey in
the autumn of 2015. This had three objectives: to show the current atmosphere, to analyze weak
points and to illustrate the employer image. The survey revealed, among other things, the following
indicators:
•
•
•
•

78 percent of participating employees are satisfied with the organization of the working schedule;
83% of participating employees confirm there is a good to very good business climate;
85 percent of participating employees make use of the health promotion service (e.g. fitness pass,
health workshops);
92 percent of participating employees would recommend PACE as an employer;

The results of the survey are an important part of employee communication within PACE. Only in this
way can topics such as transparency, further training and leadership culture in the company be optimized and developed.

Communication with Guests
„Eat what is cooked, drink what is clear, speak what is true“, or something similar is supposed to have
been said by Martin Luther. The Berlin Paparazzi Restaurant is far above the „Lutheran Standard“. The
dishes are of high quality, regional, partly vegetarian, partly vegan and are freshly prepared every day.
Once a month the Paparazzi Restaurant Berlin has an invitation to the „Day of the open Pots“, where
the chef de cuisine guides visitors through the kitchen and answers questions. Guests learn why there
are no strawberries at Christmas and how chives live up to their name. Interesting cooking workshops
for employees are offered in PACE at regular intervals (in cooperation with the Personnel Development
of Axel Springer SE health management program). The focus here is on a healthy and sustainable
diet, for example:
•
•
•

Spices and their effects
Kitchen herbs and their use
Forgotten cereals - small grains with a big effect

Practice Partnerships & Stakeholder Dialogs
PACE is a practice partner in the NAHGast project, a project funded by the German Federal Ministry
for Education and Research. The NAHGast project is at the interface between supply and demand in
the out-of-home dining sector. Its central elements are:
•
•

The development of integrated methods for the measurement and evaluation of environmental
and healthy dishe
The development of methods to address consumers and standardization of the specific requirements of different settings

As part of this project, PACE has a critical look through stakeholder dialogs with the development,
testing and dissemination of concepts for sustainable production and consumption in the external
catering sector

167
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Economy
Axel Springer SE is the leading digital publishing house in Europe.
The company is the market leader in the German print business and
with subsidiaries, joint ventures and licenses is active in more than 40
countries. Today already, the digital media channels make up almost
three quarters of Group revenues.

168
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

The Axel Springer Share

The picture shows the price performance of the Axel Springer share. The Axel Springer share has been traded since 1985
and was admitted to the SDAX on June 5, 2007. It has been listed in the MDAX since September 20, 2010. Indexed to the
closing price of the Axel Springer share on 31 December 2015.

Eventful Trading Year 2015
The exchanges look back on an eventful year with phases of high volatility. Without exception the relevant indices ended the year positively. While the German leading index DAX closed the reporting year
with growth of 6.9 percent, the MDAX, in which the Axel Springer share is listed, increased by 19.7
percent. At a European level, the media industry index DJ EuroStoxx Media rose by 7.1 percent.
Particularly in the first half of the year the Axel Springer share experienced a positive development in
its price performance, in the course of which it also reached a new record high of 59.04 euros in April.
It was unable to hold this level until the end of the year, closing only slightly up at 51.34 euros (+2.5
percent). Axel Springer‘s market capitalization at the end of 2015 was approximately 5.5 billion euros.

169
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Corporate Governance

The Berlin headquarters of Axel Springer SE, at the Axel-Springer-Street 65th (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

Good corporate governance as a leitmotif
At Axel Springer, good corporate governance is considered to be a crucial element of responsible
management and control, aligned to a long-term increase in the company‘s value. This boosts the
confidence of our domestic and international investors, customers, employees and the general public
in the management and supervision of the company and is an essential basis for the company‘s sustainable success. In this, we orient ourselves on the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC).
We have taken appropriate measures in order to implement and comply with its recommendations.
The Corporate Governance Officer is the Executive Board member responsible for Human Resources,
Finance and Services. The compliance with and implementation of the GCGC recommendations are
reviewed continuously.
Axel Springer SE published the annual Declaration of Conformity on 9 November 2015 in accordance
with § 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act. The recommendations of the German Corporate
Governance Code as amended on 5 May 2015 (published in the official section of the electronic Federal Gazette on 12 July 2015) are largely complied with.

170
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Annual Report 2015

Der Vorstandvorsitzende der Axel Springer SE, Dr. Mathias Döpfner, richtete sich anlässlich der Bilanzpressekonferenz 2015
an alle Mitarbeiter der Axel-Springer-Familie. (Video: Axel Springer SE)

Development of Business and Earnings in 2015 at a glance
Axel Springer closed the 2015 fiscal year successfully. In the year under review, total revenues of
3,294.9 million euros were 8.5 percent higher than the previous year‘s figure (3,037.9 million euros).
The increase in revenue resulted from increases in the Marketing and Classified Ad Models, while the
revenues of the Paid Models and Services/Holding segments were down on the previous year. Adjusted for consolidation and currency effects, total revenues remained above those of the previous year
(+1.6 %).
The pro-forma revenues from digital media rose to 2,004.6 million euros (PY: 1,794.6 million euros),
organic growth was 11.7 %.
EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of intangible assets) rose
compared with the previous year by 10.2 percent to 559.0 million euros. (Previous year: 507.1 million
euros). The EBITDA margin also improved slightly to 17.0 percent (PY: 16.7 percent). The significant
increase in earnings of our Classified Ad Models and the improvement in results in the Services/Holding segment are counterbalanced by declines in the Paid and Marketing Models. EBITDA for the
digital activities increased by 19.4 percent from 358.9 million euros to 428.7 million euros.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of 2.22 euros were 10.3 percent higher than
the previous year’s figure of 2.01 euros.
The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board propose the payment of a dividend of EUR 1.80 euros (PY: EUR 1.80 euros) per dividend-bearing share to the Annual General Meeting on 13 April 2016.
Outlook 2016
For the 2016 fiscal year we expect an increase in total revenues for the Group in the lower single-digit
percentage range. Adjusted for consolidation effects, mainly due to the deconsolidation of the activities in Switzerland, growth would be higher and the rate would be in the mid single-digit percentage
range. We assume that the planned increase in advertising revenues will more than offset the decline
in circulation revenues and other revenues.

171
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

We expect a rise in EBITDA in the low to mid single-digit percentage range. This includes an expected increase of EBITDA in the Classified Ad Models segment, while the result in the Marketing Models
segment should remain approximately at the same level as the previous year. In the Paid Models and
Services/Holding segments, the EBITDA is expected to be below that of the previous year.
Due to increased depreciation, we expect a development of EBIT slightly below that of EBITDA.
For our adjusted earnings per share, we expect an increase in the mid to high single-digit percentage
range.
Source: Annual Report 2015

172
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Reporting according to GRI

173
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Sustainability reports in the “GRI” format

The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sees itself as an ongoing international dialog which, through the definition of performance indicators, involves a number of stakeholder groups worldwide. These include companies, universities, governmental
organizations and non-governmental organizations from the fields of labor, social affairs, human rights and the environment.

What is a Sustainability Report?
Alongside annual reports, sustainability reports are important elements of a company‘s information
policy. They emerged as a further development of the environmental reports published by companies
in the 1990s. They address the central topics of sustainability, which relate to employees, society,
environment and the economy.
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is the format used throughout the world for the preparation of
sustainability reports. GRI sees itself as an ongoing international dialog which, through the definition
of performance indicators, includes a large number of stakeholders. It operates worldwide with the
active participation of companies, universities, governmental organizations and non-governmental
organizations from the fields of labor, social affairs, human rights and the environment. The objectives
of reporting according to GRI are transparency, standardization and comparability.
The Guidelines offer two options for an organization to prepare its sustainability report “in accordance”
with the Guidelines: the “Core” option and the “Comprehensive” option. Both options can be applied
by all organizations, regardless of their size, sector or location. The focus of both options is on the
process of identifying material aspects. Material aspects are those that reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or that substantively influence the assessments
and decisions of stakeholders. The “Core” option contains the essential elements of a sustainability
report. The “Core” option provides the background against which an organization communicates the
impacts of its economic, environmental and social and governance performance.
This Sustainability Report was prepared “in accordance” with the G4 Guidelines and the
“Core” option. This corresponds to answering all the required general standard disclosures
of the Global Reporting Initiative (G4) as well as answering the specific standard disclosures
(management approaches and indicators) for the material aspects. In addition, the key GRI
indicators of the „Media Sector Disclosures“ (MSD) are taken into account. The report was
checked by the GRI in Amsterdam and audited by the consulting company PwC in Berlin.

174
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Principles for Defining Report Content:
•
•
•

•

Stakeholder Inclusiveness: The reporting organization should identify its stakeholders and explain
in the report how it has responded to their reasonable expectations and interests.
Sustainability Context: The report should present the organization’s performance in the wider context of sustainable development.
Materiality: There is an emphasis on information that reflects the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts, or that would substantively influence the assessments
and decisions of stakeholders. Materiality is the threshold at which aspects become sufficiently
important that they should be reported.
Completeness: All material aspects and their boundaries should be included, so that an economic, environmental and social assessment of the performance is possible.

Principles for Defining Report Quality:
•
•

•
•
•
•

Balance: The report should reflect positive and negative aspects of the organization’s performance
to enable a reasoned assessment of overall performance.
Comparability: The organization should select, compile and report information consistently. The
reported information should be presented in a manner that enables stakeholders to analyze changes in the organization’s performance over time, and that could support analysis relative to other
organizations.
Accuracy: The reported information should be sufficiently accurate and detailed for stakeholders
to assess the organization’s performance.
Timeliness: The organization should report on a regular schedule so that information is available in
time for stakeholders to make informed decisions.
Clarity: The organization should make information available in a manner that is understandable
and accessible to stakeholders using the report.
Reliability: The organization should gather, record, compile, analyze and disclose information and
processes used in the preparation of a report in a way that they can be subject to examination
and that establishes the quality and materiality of the information.

What are the requirements for GRI reports prepared “in accordance” with the Guidelines
and the “Core” option?
•
•
•

Answering the required standard disclosures.
Answering the specific standard disclosures (management approach and indicators) for the
material aspects.
GRI Content Index, if applicable with reference to the external, independent assurance of the
report.

175
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Group structure and locations

With the goal of becoming the world‘s leading digital publisher, the company has aligned the segmentation of its report to
the traditional revenue structure of the publishing business. The previous differentiation of segments into print and digital,
national and international has been abolished.

With the goal of becoming the world‘s leading digital publisher, the company has aligned the segmentation of its report to the traditional revenue structure of the publishing business.
Axel Springer SE, the lead company in the Group, is a listed company with its headquarters in Berlin. In addition, we are represented at a number of other locations in Germany. There are also a large
number of companies abroad. The consolidated shareholdings of the Group are presented in subparagraph (43) of the Annex to the Annual Report.
The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board decided in December 2014 to prepare for the conversion of Axel Springer SE into a partnership limited by shares (Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien –
KGaA). The Executive Board however has decided not to proceed with the planned conversion.
The company and Dr. h. c. Friede Springer, following a thorough examination of the conversion in
February 2016, have come to the conclusion that the legal form of the SE is the better alternative for
the long-term development of the company and its attractiveness on the capital market. Axel Springer
remains committed to the objective of continuing to grow and to become the world’s leading digital
publisher.
The segments of the Axel Springer Group:
The activities of Axel Springer are bundled into three operating segments: Paid Models, Marketing
Models, and Classified Ad Models. There is additionally a Services/Holding segment.
The different customer groups and revenue types of a publishing house whose activities are increasingly digital are reflected in the segment structure.

176
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

General Standard Disclosures

The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sees itself as an ongoing international dialog which, through the definition of performance indicators, involves a number of stakeholder groups worldwide. These include companies, universities, governmental
organizations and non-governmental organizations from the fields of labor, social affairs, human rights and the environment.

The General Standard Disclosures are divided into seven parts: Strategy and Analysis, Organizational
Profile, Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries, Stakeholder Engagement, Report Profile, Governance, and Ethics and Integrity.

1 Strategy and Analysis
G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the
relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy.
Importance of Sustainability
Sustainability and Social Responsibility. Sustainability for Axel Springer entails combining economic
success with environmentally compatible and socially responsible activities. These three criteria are an
integral part of our corporate strategy. In this way, sustainability is integrated into the business processes. The Corporate Sustainability Office supervises related activities throughout the company – from
measures to improve the efficient use of resources up to initiatives for social commitment. The field is
assigned to the Chief Executive Officer‘s area of responsibility. With our sustainability strategy we assume responsibility for present and future generations and lay the foundations for long-term business
success.
Axel Springer started to publish environmental reports as early as the mid-1990s, sustainability reports
followed from 2000. Since 2005, we have published a Sustainability Report every two years, which
corresponds to the complete Disclosure of Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the internationally relevant format for sustainability reporting. Axel Springer‘s Sustainability Reports are assured
by auditors.
A publishing house committed to critical journalism must itself stand up to close scrutiny. Through
continual sustainability reporting taking the maximum GRI „Standards of Disclosure“ into account,
Axel Springer SE is underlining its special responsibility as a media company – from journalistic independence and the separation of advertising and editorial texts via the promotion of media literacy
among young readers up to data protection as well as the transparency of social and environmental

177
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

standards along the digital value chain as well as the wood, pulp, paper, printing and recycling chain.
Value-driven management
Our mission: the successful establishment of independent journalism in the digital world. Our goal: We
want to be the world‘s leading digital publishing house.
Axel Springer is pursuing a strategy of profitable growth. Our majority shareholder safeguards our
independence. We are a publicly listed company and as such committed to the efficiency and transparency requirements of the capital market. We do not restrict our self-image to economic success
alone.
We want to increase the value of our company. In addition to the operating earnings (EBITDA), earnings per share is the key indicator against which we measure ourselves and against which we can be
measured. At the same time we want to strengthen the values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law,
competition, property, human rights, cosmopolitanism and tolerance through our journalistic work.
Our publishing house is committed to the values of its founder Axel Springer. He stood first and foremost for freedom. It is in this sense that the five preambles of the company are defined: the consolidation of German and European unity, support of the vital rights of the Israeli people, solidarity in the
common values of free nations with the United States of America, the defense of the principles of a
free social market economy and the rejection of all forms of political totalitarianism. These values do
not prescribe the support of any ideology, government or political party, but rather they also allow and
call, as does any true loyalty, for honest criticism.
Non-financial control parameters
The non-financial performance indicators make it possible to measure the success of Axel Springer‘s
efforts in the areas of customers, offerings, processes, employees and sustainability. For environmental and social performance criteria, the company orients itself towards the indicators of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI).
Customer retention index
Axel Springer has set itself the goal of becoming Europe’s most customer-friendly media company. To
achieve this, a differentiated measurement and evaluation system has been developed in collaboration
with the TNS Infratest institute since 2007 to measure the customer retention index regularly. This is
the most important indicator of the satisfaction and loyalty of our readers and advertising customers.
In order to identify and promote efficient processes within our company as well, we also measure the
quality of our internal cooperation and service orientation and aggregate the results to form an internal
customer retention index. This indicator, in combination with the external customer retention index, is
the starting point for a sustainable improvement process.
G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.
Risks relating to the company-wide implementation of environmental and social standards: In view of
the organization’s growing international presence, Axel Springer SE has developed a catalog of social
standards. This “International Social Policy” is a binding guideline for social integrity and applies to all
the organization‘s activities throughout the world. Deficits in compliance with the International Social
Policy can occur mainly in the procurement of printing paper, ICT hardware, advertising media, product additions, in merchandising, and in the sale of title licenses and can result in a loss of image.
To minimize this risk as much as possible, we work closely together with experts from the wood, pulp
and paper industry and environmental organizations. We also conduct monitoring measures along the
value chain, as well as eco-audits. The economic risks and opportunities can be found in the 2015
Annual Report.
The experience gathered in sustainability management since 1992 acts as a driving force and motiva-

178
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

tor. It supports, among other things, our journalistic credibility, our attractiveness as an employer, our
innovative response to customer expectations and in general, the optimization of management processes. The stakeholder concerns provide an overview of the priorities.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
Axel Springer is and will remain a company whose purpose and soul is journalism. For us it is a matter
of informing people, of entertaining them, of giving them guidance, of surprising them with news
which should often not actually be made public. This is why journalistic independence is an essential
prerequisite of journalistic quality. News requires research, uncomfortable inquiries, investigative work.
However, journalistic quality is only financially viable if it has two sources of revenue: Paid advertisements as well as readers who pay for journalistic content on the Internet as well as on paper.
The international debate on intellectual property rights is of central importance for the economic base
of creative performance. Independent journalism is the bedrock of democratic knowledge-based
societies. Intellectual property needs effective protection in the same way as material property. This
must also apply to editorially researched and edited texts and representations of publications on the
Internet.
In recent years Axel Springer has developed into a media company with a strong digital portfolio.
The next step: stepping up the pace to becoming an online company. To achieve this, the company
is focusing on the three pillars that have already made it successful in the offline world: Journalism,
advertising, classifieds.

2 Organizational Profile
G4-3 Name of the organization
Founded in 1946, Axel Springer is Germany‘s biggest newspaper publisher and one of the leading
international media enterprises.
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services
In recent years Axel Springer has developed into a media company with a strong digital portfolio. The
next step: stepping up the pace to becoming an online company.
To achieve this, the company is focusing on the three pillars that have already made it successful in
the offline world: Journalism, advertising, classifieds.
Through consistent internationalization and digitization, Axel Springer SE is not only market leader in
the German print business today, but is also active in more than 40 countries through subsidiaries,
joint ventures and licenses.
G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters
Axel-Springer-Straße 65
10888 Berlin
G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with
either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered
in the report
Axel Springer SE is a leading integrated multimedia company in Europe with an integrated media
company with activities in more than 40 countries in the fields of digital, printed and audiovisual journalistic publications and services. The company is listed in the MDAX.
Sustainability is of importance throughout the Group. The national and international subsidiaries of
Axel Springer SE are to be gradually included in sustainability management.

179
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

One priority is the development of sustainability reporting by the Joint Venture Ringier Axel Springer
Media AG in Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Serbia.
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form
The company has the legal form of a joint-stock company. The Axel Springer share has been traded
since 1985 and was admitted to the SDAX on June 5, 2007. The shares of Axel Springer SE have
been listed in the MDAX since 20 September 2010.
G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of
customers).
The core competence of Axel Springer is excellent journalism: Topical, informative and entertaining.
The company operates in networks and cross-media. In this way it links the print and the digital world
together and distributes high-quality information and entertainment in newspapers, magazines, and
digital distribution channels.
Through consistent internationalization and digitization, Axel Springer SE is not only market leader in
the German print business today, but is also active in more than 40 countries through subsidiaries,
joint ventures and licenses.
Now it is a question of pressing ahead with digitization even faster and more vigorously. For Axel
Springer SE, informative and entertaining journalism is a viable business model also in future on the
Internet, along with marketing and classifieds, the other two business segments in which the company is traditionally strong.
In the tradition of its founder, who fostered journalistic and technological innovations in his time, Axel
Springer SE is breaking new ground. The company is consistently pursuing the objective of building
up a fast-growing and profitable digital portfolio, and for this reason is networking today more than
ever before with the current generation of founders: digital start-ups. Along with the transformation of
our established strong media brands, our own new developments online and strategically-oriented acquisitions of web companies, this networking is one of the building blocks of the company‘s international digitization strategy: Axel Springer SE wants to be the world‘s leading digital publishing house.
G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization
(Source: Annual Report 2015)
Number of employees

15,023 employees (Paid Models: 47 percent; Marketing
Models: 17 percent; Classified Ad Models: 24 percent;
Services/Holding: 12 percent.)

Total number of operations

The company is active in more than 40 countries with
subsidiaries, joint ventures and licenses.

Total revenue/sales

3,294.9 million euros (advertising revenues: 2,107.6
million euros; sales revenue: 721.7 million euros; printing revenues: 59.3 million euros; other revenues: 406.3
million euros)

Equity

2,511.5 million euros (also includes the
separately reported assets and liabilities
allocated to discontinued operations)

Net debt

1,066.6 million euros

Quantity of products/services provided

The company is active in more than 40 countries with
subsidiaries, joint ventures and licenses.

180
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
For more information and details on the scale of the reporting organization see the Annual Report
2015.
G4-10 Employee Indicators
A breakdown of the numbers of employees by field of activity can be found in table GRI-LA1.
(Source: Annual Report 2015)
Total number of employees by
employment contract and gender

See table LA1

Total number of permanent
employees by employment type
and gender.

See table LA1

Total workforce by employees and
supervised workers and by gender.

See table LA1

Total workforce by region
and gender.

See table LA1

What percentage of the workforce
are freelancers?

In a modern media company, the role played by freelancers is mainly in the editorial area, either as authors and
photographers, for example when it comes to identifying
and researching topics, or in illustrating as well as commenting by experts. The frequency of their deployment
depends on the respective news situation and cannot
therefore be precisely quantified.

Are there significant
no
variations in employment numbers?
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
In a modern media company, the role played by freelancers is mainly in the editorial area, either as
authors and photographers, for example when it comes to identifying and researching topics, or in
illustrating as well as commenting by experts. The frequency of their deployment depends on the respective news situation and cannot therefore be precisely quantified.
G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements
The General Works Council of Axel Springer SE, the General Works Council of ASV Direct Marketing
GmbH (asdirekt), the General Works Council of PACE Paparazzi Catering & Event GmbH, as well as
its subsidiaries ASMI Services GmbH, AS Mediahouse, Bergedorfer Zeitung, BILD digital GmbH, BZ
Ullstein GmbH, Immonet, IMS and Schwartzkopff TV are all represented in the Group Works Council
of Axel Springer SE.
G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain
At least two supply chains can be described for media companies such as Axel Springer SE:
1) The digital presentation of content
2) The wood, pulp, paper, printing and recycling chain
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership
The digital business made up 62 percent of total revenues in 2015. Around 70 percent of EBITDA is
generated online. And 80 percent of advertising revenue came from the marketing of digital products.

181
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

The following significant changes with respect to size, structure or ownership in the organization fell
within the 2014 – 2015 reporting period:
General Atlantic has exchanged its holding in the Classified Ad Models for a share in Axel Springer SE.
Shares in the fitness data platform Runtastic and shares in the Indian auto portal CarWale were sold.
Further information on „Business Activities and Operating Environment“, „Economic Situation“ and
„Outlook“ can be found in the Axel Springer SE Annual Report 2015.

COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES
G4-14 Precautionary principle
The overall responsibility for risk management lies in the hands of the Executive Board. By comparison, the respective divisions or group companies are responsible for the operative processes of early
identification, assessment, management and documentation of risks, the determination and execution
of suitable measures as well as all communication on this.
G4-15 Participation in and endorsement of external initiatives
Axel Springer SE complies with the German Corporate Governance Code, the 2015 Declaration of
Conformity can be found here. Within the scope of its “International Social Policy” adopted in 2004,
the entire company supports and acknowledges the United Nations “Universal Declaration of Human
Rights” and does not tolerate any behavior that disregards this.
As the first media organization, Axel Springer SE has been a member of the Women in the Economy
Forum since 1999.
G4-16 Memberships
Axel Springer SE is a member of the Federal Association of German Newspaper Publishers (BDVZ),
the Association of German Magazine Publishers (VDZ), the German Association of the Digital Economy (BVDW) as well as a corporate member of the European Magazine Media Association EMMA. The
company is represented in the executive committee of several of these associations as well as in numerous working groups – for example in the sustainability working group of the VDZ. The international
subsidiaries are also members of the respective publishing associations in their own countries.

3 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or
equivalent documents
On pages 165 to 171 of the Axel Springer SE Annual Report 2015, a total of 340 companies are
named in which Axel Springer SE is involved.
G4-18 Process for defining report content
Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries
General identification:
Since 1993, the interests, concerns and priorities of relevant stakeholders have been continuously
sounded out. Axel Springer SE published its first environmental report in 1994. In 1995, the Ahrensburg newspaper printing plant was the first in Europe to be validated according to the EU ecological
audit EMAS. In 2001, the first externally assured sustainability report appeared. The indicators of the
IÖW (Institute for Ecological Economy Research) as well as the Global Reporting Initiative GRI and the
Media Sector Supplement were and are important fundamental requirements.

182
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Readers, advertising and print customers, employees, investors, neighbors, visitors, school pupils,
students, scientific institutes, state supervisory authorities and regulators, suppliers, NGOs and the
media express particular interest in the organization’s sustainability management.
What is expected of our company? Which issues are particularly interesting for readers and non-readers, users of online platforms or even environmental organizations that deal with sustainability issues
in our industry?
We use various sources of information to classify the various concerns, – from market research
among readers and customer surveys through the various reader advisory boards up to the regular
exchange with WWF, Greenpeace and Transparency International in countries such as Finland, Sweden, Russia, Canada, the USA, China, Uruguay and Brazil.
Current identification:
Market research, Readers‘ Advisory Councils, external newspaper critiques, as well as since 2006 the
annual representative and valid “Measuring, managing, monitoring”-”TRI*M” survey by TNS Infratest of
readers, users and advertisers, are primarily used as sources for the definition of priority stakeholder
concerns and defining the report content.
We consolidate the findings into a materiality matrix which yields the orientation and priorities of sustainability management. The topics are presented in the matrix according to their assessed relevance for
the stakeholders on the one hand and for the company on the other.
The contents of the report are based on the expertise of this stakeholder dialog which has taken place
continuously since 1993.

Implementing the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content
Prioritization through Stakeholder Inclusiveness:
Market research, Readers‘ Advisory Councils, external newspaper critiques, as well as since 2006 the
annual representative and valid “Measuring, managing, monitoring”-”TRI*M” survey by TNS Infratest of
readers, users and advertisers, are primarily used as sources for the definition of priority stakeholder
concerns and defining the report content.
Sustainability Context:
The structure and content of the Sustainability Report is based on the company’s social, societal,
environmental and economic frameworks.
Prioritization by testing Materiality:
The report covers the relevant sustainability implications of the company, which influence assessments and decisions made by stakeholders;
Completeness:
The report refers to the years 2014 and 2015, and also deals with aspects of sustainability in the
upstream and downstream value chain.
Balance:
The report does not envisage itself as an “advertising brochure” but rather reacts to the real development of the relevant sustainability criteria.
Comparability:
Axel Springer SE has presented an externally assured Sustainability Report every two years since
2001 and in so doing seeks to ensure comparability. The difficulty lies on the one hand in the GRI dis-

183
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

closure formats which are being continuously further developed, and on the other hand on changes in
the company structure resulting from the digital transformation of the company.
Accuracy:
The origin, derivation and significance of quantitative disclosures is explained.
Timeliness:
The Axel Springer SE Sustainability Report is published digitally every two years. The current report is
prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 format.
Clarity:
In order to meet the expectations of different target groups, the report also contains, in addition to the
stringent GRI section, an informative service oriented towards prevailing reading habits.
Reliability:
The key sections of the report are assured by the auditing company PwC.

Boundaries of the report
A series of quantitative disclosures in the fields of Environment and Employees relate to the printing
plants in Germany. If the scope of application is not explicitly stated, all the other disclosures apply for
the Group.

State any specific limitations to the scope or boundaries of the report
No specific limitations.
Developments, that can significantly affect the comparability from period to period or of disclosures
Comparability with the sustainability reports of previous years is not affected.
Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations
•
•
•
•
•

The environmental data are based on documented disclosures by suppliers or are collected at the
locations involved.
The environmental data are collected at the locations involved and forwarded to Corporate Controlling. The relevant data in the field of Energy are recorded locally using IAS Notes and evaluated
in Group Accounting at the company headquarters in Berlin.
Personnel figures from all relevant departments of the organization are collected in Personnel Statistics, checked for plausibility and published in the Annual Report.
Information on openings, company training, measures to promote equal opportunities and the
development of our employees, etc. are generated in the Personnel Development department and
published in the Annual Report as well as the company’s Internet portal.
The regular exchange of ideas between the Group Sustainability Department and the sustainability
officers at the company locations is also a part of data collection.

G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content.
•
•
•

Journalistic Independence: Material for corporate sustainability as well as acceptance by readers,
users and society;
Product Responsibility and Customer Satisfaction: Material for corporate sustainability as well as
acceptance by readers, users and society;
Identification with Employees and Attractiveness as an Employer: Material for corporate sustainability;

•

184
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

•
•

Compliance with high Standards (Corporate Governance, Compliance with Social and Environmental Standards): Material for corporate sustainability as well as acceptance by employees,
readers, users and society;
Creativity, Capacity for Innovation and Profitability: Material for corporate sustainability;

These material Aspects apply to all areas of the company.
G4-20 Materiality within the organization: For each material Aspect, report the Aspect
Boundary within the organization
The number of subsidiaries belonging to the company is growing in the wake of the digital transformation. The ownership structures of the individual companies are published in the Annual Report. The
media company is active in more than 40 countries with subsidiaries, joint ventures and licenses. The
material Aspects of the report content apply to all areas of the company.
G4-21 Materiality outside the organization: For each material Aspect, report the Aspect
Boundary outside the organization
The number of subsidiaries belonging to the company is growing in the wake of the digital transformation. The ownership structures of the individual companies are published in the Annual Report. The
media company is active in more than 40 countries with subsidiaries, joint ventures and licenses. The
material Aspects of the report content apply to all areas of the company.
G4-22 Effects of amended restatements of information
Axel Springer SE is a journalistic company. Axel Springer SE has presented an externally assured
Sustainability Report every two years since 2001 and in so doing seeks to ensure comparability. The
difficulty lies on the one hand in the GRI disclosure formats which are being continuously further developed, and on the other hand on changes in the company structure resulting from the digital transformation of the company. These amendments have no material effect on the continuity of principles and
objectives.
G4-23 Changes from previous reporting periods
The growing contribution of the digital media channels to group revenues. This is over 70 percent in
Germany today. Through internationalization and digitization, Axel Springer SE today is not only market leader in the German print business, but is also active in more than 40 countries through subsidiaries, joint ventures and licenses. Axel Springer SE generates more than 40 percent of its turnover
with international business. For Axel Springer SE, informative and entertaining journalism is a viable
business model also in future on the Internet, along with marketing and classified ads, the other two
business segments in which the company is traditionally strong.

4 Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization
Readers and users of our media services, advertising and print customers, employees, investors,
neighbors, visitors, school pupils, students, scientific institutes, state supervisory authorities and regulators, suppliers, NGOs and the media express particular interest in the organization’s operations as
well as its products at home and abroad.
Stakeholder Management – the management of the relations with the different groups that have an
interest in a company and, directly or indirectly influence the added value – counts as one of the priorities at Axel Springer.
Axel Springer wants to be the most customer-friendly media enterprise in Europe. The company uses
the tried and tested TRI*M-methodology from TNS Infratest to measure customer loyalty.

185
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

TRI*M™ (Measure, Manage, Monitor) is the leading customer loyalty or stakeholder management system. It is a research approach customized to the respective business needs, which is used to transfer
the information from the survey of individuals or all relevant stakeholder groups into the entrepreneurial decision-making process. It supports the management in the setting of priorities and provides
guidance for the optimization of relations with the various target groups.
For the ninth time, Axel Springer SE has allowed the quality of its customer relationships to be assessed using the TRI*M index. Due to the progressive digitization of the company, the focus was on
the activities in this area. The evaluation of the digital Paid, Marketing and Classified Ad models was
further expanded at the same time. The results confirm the thesis that readers also appreciate the value of professional journalism in the digital world. Print titles will from now on only be measured every
two years, as the changes in this area are less dynamic than for the digital services.
The stakeholders of the measurements include
•
•
•
•

Readers / buyers
Readers / buyers
Users of websites
Advertising customers

A further instrument in the direct exchange with readers are the Readers‘ Advisory Councils. They are
intended to help us focus even more on the interests, concerns and problems of readers. They tell us
what is important to them, what they find good or bad and what issues should be addressed in more
depth.
G4-25 Basis for the selection of stakeholders with whom to engage
The basis for the selection of stakeholders is the degree of concern or interest in the work of the
company. Readers and users of our media services, advertising and print customers, employees,
investors, start-ups, grown-ups, neighbors, visitors, school pupils, students, scientific institutes, state
supervisory authorities and regulators, suppliers, NGOs and the media express a particular interest in
the organization’s operations as well as its products at home and abroad.
Various sources of information are used to rank the various concerns of our stakeholders – from market research among readers and surveys of the customer loyalty programs through the various reader
advisory councils up to the regular exchange with WWF, Greenpeace and Transparency International
in countries such as Finland, Sweden, Russia, Canada, the USA, China, Uruguay and Brazil as well as
internal employee surveys.
G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement
Personal contact to stakeholders comes about, for example, through directly addressing them,
through exchanges of views at conferences, as well as through emails and phone calls.
Various sources of information are used to rank the various concerns of our stakeholders – from market research among readers and surveys of the customer loyalty programs through the various reader
advisory councils up to the regular exchange with business associates, government agencies as well
as with non-governmental organizations such as WWF, Greenpeace and Transparency International
in countries such as Finland, Sweden, Russia, Canada, the USA, India, China, Uruguay and Brazil as
well as internal employee surveys. Please click here for further information.
G4-27 Key topics and concerns of stakeholders
We consolidate the findings of the analysis of the various stakeholders‘ concerns into a materiality matrix, which at the same time yields the orientation and priorities of sustainability management. Another
guide are the issues and priorities of rating and ranking agencies in the area of sustainability.

186
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

In addition, there are the innovations and enhancements in the Evaluation System of the Institute for
Ecological Economy Research (ioew) as well as the indicator matrix of the Global Reporting Initiative
GRI, and the supplementary questions applicable to the media industry.
The subject areas are presented in the matrix according to the assessment of their relevance for the
stakeholders as well as for the company – and addressed in the context of this Sustainability Report.
The stakeholders concerns involve issues of journalistic independence, the separation of advertising
and editorial copy, the promotion of media literacy among young readers, data protection, as well as
the safeguarding of social and environmental standards along the wood, pulp, paper, printing and
recycling chain. Within the scope of digitization, there are also issues of the transparency of standards
along the digital value chain.

5 Report Parameters
G4-28 Reporting period
2014 and 2015
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report
2012 and 2013
G4-30 Reporting cycle
Biennial
G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report
The list of contact partners can be found here.
G4-32 GRI Content Index
This Sustainability Report was prepared “in accordance” with the G4 Guidelines and the “Core”
option. The “Core” option contains the material elements of a Sustainability Report and provides the
background against which Axel Springer SE communicates the impacts of its economic, environmental, social and societal performance. In addition the Sustainability Report responds to the specific
standard disclosures (“Disclosure on Management Approach” (DMA) and indicators) for the material
aspects. In addition, the GRI indicators of the “Media Sector Disclosures” (MSD), which are available
for the industry and material, were also taken into consideration.
A part of the quantitative disclosures contained in this report was assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG auditing company (PwC).
The four links below lead to the material GRI topics. The subsequent table lists the associated key
points for details.
General Standard
Disclosures

Strategy and Analysis, Organizational Profile, Report Parameters,
Governance

Specific Standard
Disclosures Society

Employment, Labor/Management Relations, Occupational Health and
Safety, Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Equal
Remuneration for Women and Men, Grievance Mechanisms, Investment,
Non­discrimination, Assessment, Suppliers, Governance, Anti­corruption,
Security Practices, Public Policy, Anti­competitive Behavior, Compliance,
Product Responsibility,
Customer Health and Safety, Marketing Communications, Media Literacy,
Customer Privacy, Compliance

187
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Specific Standard
Disclosures Environment

Materials, Energy, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, Emissions, Transport,
Suppliers, Grievance Mechanisms

Specific Standard
Disclosures Economy

Economic Performance, Procurement Practices

Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
Among the focal points of the GRI indicators in the „Media Sector Disclosures“ (MSD) are an extensive number of issues concerning the role of the media in society, on Ensuring editorial independence
and diversity of opinion, on the Structure of ownership and shareholders, on Quality assurance during
the creation of journalistic content, on Interaction with readers, on the Observance of declared corporate values, on Ensuring the protection of sources and confidentiality, on the Protection of intellectual
property, on the Avoidance of conflicts of interest in content creation and dissemination, on the Separation of editorial content and advertising, on the Significance of advertising revenue received from
government sources, on the Avoidance of the risks of corruption, on Contractual general conditions
for salaried and freelance employees, on Security during journalistic assignments in crisis regions, on
Offers of continuing vocational training, on Transparency in representing industry interests to regulators and – of particular importance - on Current processes of change in media as part of the process
of digitization.
Contact for the Sustainability Report:
Florian Nehm
Axel Springer SE
Corporate Sustainability Officer
Tel: +49 30 2591 79370
nachhaltigkeit@axelspringer.de
G4-33 External assurance for the report
The Axel Springer SE Sustainability Reports have been externally assured since 2001.
The quantitative disclosures in the Axel Springer AG 2015 Sustainability Report assured by the PricewaterhouseCoopers AG auditing company (PwC) are individually identified. The basics, the scope and
the results of the assurance can be taken from the certificate on the assurance by PwC.

6 Governance
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION
G4-34 Governance structure of the organization
At Axel Springer, good corporate governance is considered to be a crucial element of responsible
management and control, and thus an essential foundation for sustainable corporate success. In this
regard, we are guided by German principles of sound governance, and in particular the German Corporate Governance Code.
The Supervisory Board of Axel Springer SE consists, in accordance with the statutes, of nine members who are elected by the annual shareholders’ meeting. The period of office of its members is five
years as a rule; re-election is permitted. The Supervisory Board elects its chair from among its own
ranks; the term of office corresponds to that of the Supervisory Board. In accordance with its procedural rules, the Supervisory Board has established four committees – Executive Committee, Personnel
Committee, Nomination Committee and Audit Committee – which support the work of the plenum.
The Supervisory Board consists of two female and seven male members (the proportion of females is
22 percent).

188
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

The Executive Board of Axel Springer SE runs the company on its own authority. The Executive Board
in its management function is committed to serving the interests of the company and sustainable
corporate development. It develops the strategic orientation of the company and is – in coordination
with the Supervisory Board – responsible for its implementation. The Executive Board manages the
Company in accordance with the relevant laws, articles of association and its rules of procedure. The
body currently consists of four members.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
Guidance to ensure ethical Media Standards: To ensure compliance with laws, voluntary commitments and guidelines, a Group-wide compliance management system has been introduced at Axel
Springer. A Compliance Committee monitors compliance with the Code of Conduct. The Code of
Conduct is part of the compliance organization and is to be understood as a summary of the Axel
Springer rules of conduct, which also include the guidelines for safeguarding journalistic independence.
The protection of the freedom of the press ranges from the procurement of information to the communication of the news. Protection is enjoyed for example by the determination of the bias of a newspaper, the confidentiality of editorial work, and in particular the non-disclosure of sources of information
in the interest of a broad flow of information.
The guidelines on the journalistic endeavors of all editors safeguard the general conditions that make
independent and critical journalism possible at Axel Springer.
Further information and details can be found in the Annual Report 2015.
G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees
As a German SE, the Group has a dual structure through the separation of the Supervisory Board and
the Executive Board.
The members of the Supervisory Board are:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Dr. Giuseppe Vita (Chair)
Dr. h. c. Friede Springer (Deputy Chair)
Oliver Heine
Rudolf Knepper
Lothar Lanz
Dr. Nicola Leibinger-Kammüller
Prof. Dr. Wolf Lepenies
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wolfgang Reitzle
Martin Varsavsky

The term of office of the current Supervisory Board members shall expire at the end of the Annual
General Meeting 2019. The résumés of the Supervisory Board members can be found here.
Objectives for the composition of the Supervisory Board
With regard to point 5.4.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC), the Supervisory
Board of Axel Springer SE has decided upon the following objectives for its composition:
•
•

The Supervisory Board of Axel Springer SE should be composed in such a way that its members
as a group possess the knowledge, ability and expert experience required to properly complete its
tasks.
With due consideration given to the company‘s business object and purpose, the size of the company, and the relative importance of its international activities, the Supervisory Board will strive,
as a goal for the upcoming regular elections, to bring about a composition of its members that is
appropriate in view of the following considerations, in particular:

189

Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

•
•
•

•

•

At least two seats on the Supervisory Board should be held by persons who fulfill the criterion of
internationality to a particular degree (for example, by reason of relevant experience in international
business).
Supervisory Board members should not hold any position on a board or perform any consulting
work for major competitors of the company.
The Supervisory Board should have an appropriate participation of women. Currently, two of the
total of nine members (22.2 %) are women; the Supervisory Board considers this appropriate in
any event. Accordingly, and due to the fact that no regular Supervisory Board elections are due
within the agreed maximum first implementation period permissible by law, the target figure for the
share of women on the Axel Springer SE Supervisory Board was also established at 22.2%.
In making nominations, due consideration should be given to the general rule that Supervisory
Board members should not be older than 72 years; the Supervisory Board can approve exceptions to this policy. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board should observe the principle that as few
members as possible should be subject to a potential conflict of interest, e.g. in connection with
an advisory role or board seat with major customers, suppliers, creditors or other significant business partners of Axel Springer. In addition,the Supervisory Board should give due consideration to
the principle that its composition should meet the criterion of diversity.
With respect to its composition, the Supervisory Board strives to ensure that at least two of its
members are independent according to the definition of the GCGC.

However, despite the recommendation pursuant to section 5.4.1 sentences 2 and 5 of the GCGC, the
Supervisory Board has decided not to set a control limit with regard to the length of membership on
the Supervisory Board. A fixed control limit does not take individual factors into account, which would
justify the longer membership by individual members of the Supervisory Board (cf. the stated deviations on this in the Declaration of Conformity of 9 November 2015, see page 67). The above-mentioned objectives have been fully achieved with the current composition of the Supervisory Board of
Axel Springer SE. In addition, the Supervisory Board, with its proposals for the election of new board
members, has made sure that the respective candidates will be able to find the time expected.
(Source: Annual Report 2015)
G4-39 Indication of whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also the executive
officer
As a German Societas Europaea (SE), the Group has a dual structure through the separation of Supervisory Board and Executive Board.
The Executive Board of Axel Springer SE runs the company on its own authority. The body consists
of four members at the present time. The Executive Board informs the Supervisory Board regularly,
promptly and extensively on all questions of planning, business development, risk situation and risk
management which are relevant for the company. Every member of the Executive Board must disclose any conflicts of interest to the Supervisory Board without delay.
G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest
are avoided
Every member of the Executive Board must disclose any conflicts of interest to the Supervisory Board
without delay. Every member of the Supervisory Board must also disclose any conflicts of interest to
the Supervisory Board without delay. Please see also “Corporate Governance”.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
Processes to avoid conflicts of interest in the selection of content: To ensure compliance with laws,
voluntary commitments and guidelines, a Group-wide compliance management system has been introduced at Axel Springer. A Compliance Committee monitors compliance with the Code of Conduct.

190
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

The Code of Conduct is part of the compliance organization and is to be understood as a summary
of the Axel Springer rules of conduct, which also include the guidelines for safeguarding journalistic
independence.
Editorial publications may not under any circumstances be influenced by the personal or business
interests of third parties or the personal economic interests of editors.
The journalists at Axel Springer
•
•
•

•

shall not report on persons with whom they have a close relationship, especially family members,
in the form of copy or photographs unless there is an objective reason for doing so that has been
approved by their superior;
shall not use their reporting to gain advantages for themselves or others;
shall consult their superior if the membership of or the holding of an office or a seat in a society, political party, association or other institution, investment in a company, permitted secondary
employment or through a relationship with persons or institutions the impression might be created
that the neutrality of their reporting on such societies, political parties, associations, persons or
other institutions is thereby compromised;
shall pay particular attention to the observance of the legal regulations and ethical obligations of
the press concerning inside and other information which may potentially affect security prices.

G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance body for monitoring sustainability
performance
To ensure compliance with laws, voluntary commitments and guidelines, a Group-wide compliance
management system was introduced. A Compliance Committee monitors compliance with the Code
of Conduct.
Sustainability performance is monitored by the Controlling, Human Resources, Compliance and Risk
Management divisions. An externally assured sustainability report is published every two years in a
format complying with the GRI. In addition, the Annual Reports published every year also contain
sustainability-related information.
G4-51 Relations between remuneration for the highest governance body and the
organization’s performance
In accordance with the requirements of the German Stock Corporation Act and the recommendations
of the ‘German Corporate Governance Code’ (GCGC) the remuneration of the Executive Board members contains fixed and variable components. Variable remuneration comprises an annual bonus paid
as a cash component combined with a long-term stock-based remuneration component. All of the
remuneration components are appropriate, both individually and as a whole. The tasks of the individual board member, his personal performance, as well as the economic situation, the success and the
future prospects of Axel Springer are used as criteria for appropriateness.
The sector environment of the company is also taken into account. No external remuneration experts
were consulted by the Supervisory Board in this reporting year.
Fixed remuneration is equivalent to the annual salary, in addition to which the members of the Executive Board also receive a company car or car allowance, as well as expenses for security as fringe
benefits. The annual salary is based among other things on the tasks of the individual board member,
on the current economic situation, the success and the future prospects of the Group.
The variable remuneration element in the form of a cash bonus has an upper limit and is dependent
upon the performance of the individual within the context of individual targets (also including quantitative division and qualitative individual targets oriented to the strategy of Axel Springer SE) as well as
the objectives of the Group.
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

191

Our responsibility as a media company

7 Ethics and Integrity
G4-56 Principles and guidelines of Corporate Governance
The corporate values of Axel Springer SE are explained, among other things, with the management
approach in the section on GRI economic indicators. The standards required for the production of
copy are set out in points M2 and M3.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
Axel Springer SE is an integrated multimedia online, print and TV company. The company wants to
be the world‘s leading digital media company. Whether digital or printed: every medium obeys its own
laws, but the quality of the content is decisive everywhere. News, views, well told stories – that’s what
it’s about in the future and what it was always about. Our work is networked and cross-media thus
integrating the different worlds.
Axel Springer is the only independent media company to have a corporate constitution. The five
principles expressed therein serve as a foundation for publishing operations. They define fundamental
convictions on social policy, yet do not set out an opinion. Details can be found here.
In addition to these five principles, the company has also defined values that distinguish Axel
Springer‘s corporate culture. In 2008, leadership principles were introduced at Axel Springer, giving
managers a framework for action in their daily work.
The editors-in-chief and publishing directors of the company developed guidelines to safeguard journalistic independence at Axel Springer and introduced them in August 2003 in co-ordination with the
Executive Board.
The catalog of social standards which was published in July 2004 is a binding guideline for social
integrity and applies to all the company‘s activities throughout the world. Axel Springer SE attaches
great importance to good corporate governance in the management and control of the enterprise.
Moreover, with its first environmental report in 1994 the company published a four-point environmental
guideline.
To ensure compliance with laws, voluntary commitments and guidelines, a Group-wide compliance
management system was introduced. A Compliance Committee monitors compliance with the Code
of Conduct.
It summarizes our existing corporate principles, values, as well as our directives and guidelines which
contain the ethical, moral, and legal requirements for every employee.
The Internal Control System (ICS) is an integral part of the Axel Springer SE corporate governance
system and supports the achievement of the strategic business objectives. For this, the effectiveness
of the specified risk control measures is monitored systematically in the context of risk management.
The internal control system has the task of ensuring that the risk control measures also are actually
carried out by the risk owners. For this purpose, the control system undergoes a systematic selfevaluation to verify the functionality and effectiveness of the entire control system. Carrying out ICS
activities allows for the detection of errors and irregularities.
We feel especially committed to the freedom of expression and the freedom of the press, which are
the constitutive prerequisites for freedom and democracy.
The company was one of the signatories of the “European Charter on Freedom of the Press” in May
2009. It formulates principles for the freedom of the press from government intervention, and in
particular for their right to safety from surveillance, electronic eavesdropping and searches of editorial

192
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

departments and computers, and to unimpeded access for journalists and citizens to all domestic
and foreign sources of information.
The complete text of the “European Charter on Freedom of the Press” can be found at
www.pressfreedom.eu.
The cornerstones of our responsibility as a media enterprise include first and foremost:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

journalistic independence
care in the treatment of sources
the distinction between advertising and editorial copy
the code of conduct of the advertising industry
the media protection of young persons
data protection and the security of digital information systems using WELT ONLINE as an example
the safeguarding of social and environmental standards along the wood, pulp, paper, printing and
recycling chain as well as in the procurement of advertising media
compliance with justice and the law

193
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Specific Standard Disclosures on Society

The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sees itself as an ongoing international dialog which, through the definition of performance indicators, involves a number of stakeholder groups worldwide. These include companies, universities, governmental
organizations and non-governmental organizations from the fields of labor, social affairs, human rights and the environment.

Social Indicators
A Labor Practices and Decent Work
The following indicators meet the G4/MSD Guidelines of the “Global Reporting Initiative” (GRI) for the
internationally uniform structuring of sustainability reports. (“MSD” stands for Media Sector Disclosures.) The abbreviation „LA“ in the GRI Numbers stands for „Labor Practices and Decent Work“.
A1. Management approach for stakeholder concerns: Identification with employees and
attractiveness as an employer
G4-DMA-A Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect
material.
•
•

Creativity, entrepreneurial spirit and integrity count as key requirements for success in the digital
transformation.
The company cannot make progress without qualified and motivated employees.

G4-DMA-B Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. (Policies, commitments, goals and targets, responsibilities, resources, specific actions)
Policies
1. Principles of Leadership were introduced at Axel Springer in 2008. The principles should give
managers scope for action, providing transparency with regard to the demands and expectations
of the leadership role.
2. In view of the organization’s growing international presence, Axel Springer SE adopted a catalog
of social standards in 2004. This “International Social Policy” is a binding guideline for social integrity and applies to all the organization‘s activities throughout the world.

194
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Commitments
Continuous monitoring by Heads of Human Resources in the company divisions
Goals and targets
Creativity, entrepreneurial spirit, integrity. These three values form the foundation of the self-confidence
of Axel Springer. They set the standards for our daily activity. We lead by creating space for creativity,
by defining objectives and by shaping change. We want to continue to lead Axel Springer boldly to
entrepreneurial success. The focus is on our employees, who we develop, challenge and encourage
to work independently. In all activities in all parts of the organization, we pay careful attention to compliance with justice and the law, our corporate guidelines and the Code of Conduct.
Responsibilities
The ultimate responsibility for labor aspects lies with the Executive Board of Axel Springer SE.
Resources
More than 15,000 employees are working on continuing to occupy the top journalistic and economic
positions. Axel Springer SE offers them attractive benefits and opportunities for development.
Specific actions
Actions related to training and raising awareness
The maintenance and improvement of companies’ competitiveness is to a great extent dependent
on its employees’ know-how and the development thereof. This is why our seminars focus on our
company’s strategic goals.
G4-DMA-C Report the evaluation of the management approach, including the mechanisms
for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; the results of the evaluation
of the management approach; the consequences the organization will draw.
Mechanisms
Continuous dialog between management and the elected employee representatives, employee surveys;
Results
Employees identify with the company.
Consequences
The company will consistently continue to offer benefits and opportunities for development to its employees.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
Remuneration of rights of use: There are different ways of acquiring rights of use. The regulations to
ensure the preservation and remuneration of these rights of use are accordingly diverse. They can be
essentially categorized as follows:
Salaried employees: Salaried employees transfer the rights of use of the results of their work (these
are essentially works created in the context of their respective activity) to their respective employer.
The transfer is made – in so far as this concerns computer programs – generally without a separate
agreement in accordance with § 69 b of the Copyright Act, in other cases generally in accordance
with the contract of employment. They receive an equitable wage for their work, with which the transfer of rights of use is as a rule also remunerated.
The Axel Springer Code of Conduct ensures the safeguarding of journalistic independence in the
creation of journalistic content.

195
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Freelance (full or part-time) authors: Axel Springer also purchases journalistic content from full or
part-time non-salaried persons. The acquisition of user‘s rights is arranged through contracts and/or
business conditions. Remuneration is in part individually negotiated, in some areas collective agreements apply. Publishers‘ associations and trade unions (DJV -German Federation of Journalists, ver.
di - United Services Union, dju - German Union of Journalists) in Germany have concluded the “Remuneration agreement for freelance full-time newspaper journalists” and the “Collective agreement for
employee-like freelance newspaper journalists” which apply to the area of journalistic freelance employees.
Agencies: Insofar as content is purchased from agencies, the acquisition of rights is either negotiated individually or based on the agencies specified terms and conditions. In case of doubt, the law of
copyright applies.
User content, letters to the editor, interactive services: Readers or users also generate content
– usually without a commercial background – which is included in Axel Springer publications. These
contributions are in part rewarded (e.g. Bild reader reporters, competitions), in part this is unpaid interactive user behavior (e.g. letters to the editor, comments on Internet forums or online portals).
Safety at work, as well as while working as a journalist: On the journey between their workplace
and home, Axel Springer SE employees are covered by the Employers‘ Liability Insurance in Germany.
The same applies to workplace accidents at Axel Springer SE. Axel Springer SE also pays 50 percent
of the costs of a statutory health insurance policy.
Against the background of the kidnapping of two BILD editors in 2011, Axel Springer SE issued a
Corporate Guideline for journeys to areas of war, risk and crisis. This provides the employees concerned with information about the dangers. Journalists, who travel to crisis areas, receive safety training
prior to their journey, which informs them of how to behave in hazardous situations.
Employees themselves decide on the necessity of working in a crisis area. Axel Springer SE has always behaved generously towards employees who have encountered danger.
A.2 Disclosures and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
A.2.1 Aspect: Employment
G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age
group, gender and region
An average of 15,023 persons (excluding apprentices and trainees) were employed by the company
as a whole in 2015. The Group employed an average of 6,289 women (41.9 percent) and 8,733 men
(58.1 percent). You can find a breakdown according to employment type, location and gender here.
Average rate of employee turnover*
The total employee turnover rate in 2015 was 11.8 percent. The rate for women (13.4 percent) was
higher than that for men (10.8 percent).
Length of service and age structure: On the 2015 balance sheet date, the employees of the German
companies had an average length of service with Axel Springer of 10.4 years (PY: 10.5 years); 41.8
percent (PY: 42.5 percent) of the workforce had been with the Group for more than ten years. More
than half of all employees are between 30 and 49 years old. The proportion of severely disabled people in the German companies was on average 3.7 per cent for the year (PY: 3.8 percent).
*Disclosures only for affiliates accounted for through Personalservice GmbH and AS SE

196
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees
The works council and management have agreed a nine-page catalog of voluntary social benefits for
the locations in Germany, as well as German wholly-owned subsidiaries. Further information can be
found here.
Separate agreements have also been reached respectively for the employees at foreign locations.
G4-LA3: Return to work and retention rates after parental leave
All German companies which are accounted for by Personalservice GmbH were taken into consideration (on average approx. 7,117 employees not including trainees/ apprentices/ assistants, of which
4,329 were men and 2,788 women).
A total of 414 employees took parental leave in 2015, of which 254 were women and 160 men. A
further 108 employees were employed on a part-time basis during parental leave in 2015 (of which 94
were women and 14 men).
Information has been collected for this indicator since 2010. In our German locations, the proportion
of employees returning to the workplace after parental leave is at 86.5 percent.

A.2.2 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations
G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes
The communication of significant operational changes is expeditious. Details are regulated in the
Works Constitution Act in Germany.
The managing director or the Human Resources manager is in close contact with employees and
their representatives and they meet regularly or when circumstances require for discussions on a wide
range of subjects. At specially organized events, internal speakers, using practical examples, explain
concepts, strategies, plans and perspectives that are significant for the future of the company or for
developments in the industry.
Important changes are communicated to employees internally via the Intranet, email, and where necessary also the bulletin board.
A.2.3 Aspect: Occupational health and safety
G4-LA5 Health and safety committees
The Safety Engineers at each location are responsible for all matters and measures relating to safety
at work, fire protection and environmental protection. The education and counseling of employees
plays a central role here.
Working Committee Meetings: Representatives of the management and the works council of the
respective locations of the company meet at least four times a year to discuss issues of occupational
health and safety. At these meetings, 100 percent of the workforce is represented by the works council.
G4-LA6 Occupational diseases and accidents at work
This table documents occupational accidents at the printing locations in Germany as well as in the
publishing office locations in Berlin and Hamburg. The statistics are based on the respective local statutory regulations or the guidelines of the respective trade association (insurer). You can find a breakdown of the number of accidents and days lost here.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
There was a work-related fatality in the reporting period at the Essen-Kettwig printing plant.

197
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Health, motivation and creativity of the employees are key success factors for a media company. The
Axel Springer SE in-house health management system was awarded the seal of excellence at the
“Corporate Health Awards” in 2011.
(Note regarding LA6: No differentiation was made between men and women in the documentation of
numbers of accidents due to its lack of relevance.)
A.2.4 Aspect: Training and Education
G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category.
In order to meet the growing challenges - also of a technological nature - facing our industry, the Axel
Springer personnel policy comprises a diverse training and qualification program.
Axel Springer in Germany: A total of 69,829 hours of training and education were carried out in 2015.
5,765 of these hours covered the specific needs of the editorial offices.
The decline in the number of training hours in the comparison of the years 2013 and 2015 is related to
an increase in training activities in the previous reporting period, in particular in the field of the development dialog. The content was well-received and has now been largely implemented.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
The employees are the core of a media enterprise such as Axel Springer. Our creative, competent and
committed employees are an essential prerequisite of our entrepreneurial success. This is supported
with a comprehensive program of training and education.
(Note regarding LA9: No differentiation was made between men and women in the documentation of
participation in relevant programs due to its lack of relevance.)
Table LA9: Average annual number of hours per employee by employee category that the employee
received training or education in Germany

2013

2014

2015

2015 vs. 2013

Total amount spent on training in TEuro

1.831

1.862

1.760

-3.9 %

Total seminar and training
hours

105,095

102,136

69,829

-33%

Seminar hours Editors

16,295

8,760

5,765

-64.6%

Seminar hours Employees

85,499

87,990

62,836

-26.3%

Seminar hours Specialists

1,279

783

514

-59.8%

382

183

-15.6%

Seminar hours Temporary Staff 217

Seminar hours Apprentices
1,805
4,275
531
-70.6%
		

G4-LA10 Programs for lifelong learning
The employees are the core of Axel Springer. Our creative, competent and committed employees are
an essential prerequisite of our entrepreneurial success. In order to develop new skills and to build on
existing strengths, we have an extensive development program.
This ensures the personal advancement of the individual as well as mutual success. Whether in the
development dialog, as part of our extensive range of seminars, at the Axel Springer Media Sales
Academy or completing a sector-specific qualification – the focus is always on the employee. His or
her qualification and education is an investment in the future of the company.

198
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Personnel Development has consistently aligned its qualification activities to the needs of digitization
and intensified this focus in recent years. More than one-third of the 2014 employee training program
consists of newly developed training courses, which address the aspects of the digital transformation.
Along with the already successfully established formats and seminars, the personnel development
measures have a clear focus on digital content.
Moreover we support colleagues who further qualify themselves through in-service advanced vocational training and want to take on new challenges. Success also requires contacts – various networks
exist for this purpose. In this way a targeted exchange of information and the team concept is promoted throughout the whole company. Our mentoring program and cross company mentoring are also
successful elements of the advancement opportunities at Axel Springer.
Those who want to keep themselves up-to-date on which projects are successful in other areas as
well, are advised to pay a visit to the Current Topic. The Digital Campus is also reflected in the Current Topic series of lectures. Here you can find out about new developments in the Axel Springer SE
digitization strategy.

G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development
reviews.
As part of the variable compensation scheme, Axel Springer SE offers its employees in Germany the
opportunity to participate in the target agreement system. The manager and the employee decide
jointly whether it makes sense to participate in the system.
In addition, Axel Springer SE introduced a pilot project for employee development dialogs in Germany
in 2008. The employee development dialog is a regular, binding discussion between the manager and
the employee as annual feedback on their personal level of development. This highlights the need for
development in each case and gives rise to concrete development measures such as, for example,
seminars and job rotation. Around 5,450 managers and employees took part in the development
dialog in 2015.
Since 2009, the development dialog has been gradually extended to the subsidiaries.
A.2.5 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.
The average age of the four-member Executive Board in 2015 was 50. The Supervisory Board and
the Executive Board are made up of 15.4% women and 84.6% men as at 31.12.2015. Detailed information on the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board can be found here.
The number of employees in 2015 (excluding trainees/ apprentices) was approx. 15,023. Of these, 58
percent (8,733) were male and 42 percent (6,289) female. The share of other nationalities in Germany,
589 of 6.892 employees in Germany were foreign (8.54%).
Age

Editors

Salaried
staff

Qualified
staff

Temporary
staff

Trainees/
Apprentices

Total

below 30

7%

17%

2%

4%

95%

13%

30 to 49

62%

61%

39%

36%

5%

59%

over 50

31%

22%

59%

60%

0%

28%

*Disclosures only for affiliates accounted for through Personalservice GmbH and AS SE
und AS SE
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

199

Our responsibility as a media company

Diversity is an essential part of corporate culture for us. Globalization, demographic change and
increasing individualization will further strengthen this development. For us, as a media company that
moves people and picks up on the various facets of life on a daily basis, the diversity within our workforce is a great opportunity to respond creatively to the diverse interests and needs of our customers.
As an innovative and internationally established media enterprise, the optimal and non-discriminatory
cooperation among our employees is a high priority for us. This means the mutual acceptance of
differences in terms of
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

origin,
age,
gender,
religion and belief,
nationality and ethnicity,
sexual orientation, as well as
disability.

This diversity is of inestimable value, just like the personal experience and individual biographies of our
staff.
Axel Springer has initially identified the following priorities which are the focus of our diversity activities:
More women in leadership positions: Our goal is to increase the proportion of women on all levels of
management on average throughout the company to over 30 percent. The „Chancen:gleich!“ (equal
opportunities) project group was launched in 2010 to achieve this. At the end of 2015, the proportion
of women across all levels of management was at around 27.9 percent.
•
•

Demographic change: Migration and age, as well as other aspects of diversity, are in the center of
the work of the Equal Opportunities and Diversity Working Group (AKC).
Work/family balance: The improved work/family balance for all employees as an important guideline for our human resources work.

A.2.6 Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men
G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women
The company is in competition for qualified employees. The remuneration systems are based on the
performance of the employees and the market conditions. Discrimination, e.g., on the grounds of gender or age, is rejected. Pay is determined by the type of work performed, based on the job evaluation.
Individual performance, professional experience and developments on the labor market are taken into
consideration.
(Note regarding LA13: Basic salaries for men and women are equal and are therefore not documented.)
A.2.8 Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms
G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved
through formal grievance mechanisms
More than 15,000 employees are working on continuing to occupy the top journalistic and economic
positions. Axel Springer SE offers them attractive benefits and opportunities for development.
No formal grievances relating to labor practices were filed in the reporting period.

200
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

B Human Rights
The following indicators meet the G4/MSD Guidelines of the “Global Reporting Initiative” (GRI) for the
internationally uniform structuring of sustainability reports. (“MSD” stands for Media Sector Disclosures.)
The abbreviation „HR“ in the GRI Numbers stands for “Human Rights”.
B.1 Management approach for stakeholder concerns: Observance of human rights
G4-DMA-A Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect
material.
•
•

Axel Springer stands up for the freedom of the press. A free press is an essential element of our
democratic society.
In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, the freedom of opinion, the freedom of
expression and of the press are enshrined as fundamental human rights. It is a precondition for
journalistic independence.

G4-DMA-B Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. (Policies, commitments, goals and targets, responsibilities, resources, specific actions)
Policies
The Code of Conduct of Axel Springer SE including a reference to the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights of 1948.
Commitments
Compliance with justice and the law.
Goals and targets
Axel Springer acknowledges and supports the United Nations’ “Universal Declaration of Human
Rights” and does not tolerate any behavior that disregards this. This is how it is set out in the first item
of our International Social Policy. Further information can be found here.
Responsibilities
The ultimate responsibility for labor aspects lies with the Executive Board of Axel Springer SE.
Resources
Actions related to training and raising awareness.
Specific actions
Principles of Leadership were introduced at Axel Springer in 2008. The principles should give managers scope for action, providing transparency with regard to the demands and expectations of the
leadership role. This involves training for employees and executive staff. Read the full text of the Principles of Leadership here.
G4-DMA-C Report the evaluation of the management approach, including the mechanisms
for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; the results of the evaluation
of the management approach; the consequences the organization will draw.
Mechanisms
Verification of compliance with legal requirements, voluntary commitments and corporate guidelines
by Compliance Management.

201
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Results
The results to questions on corporate governance are also published in the Annual Report.
Consequences
Continuation of the development of a company-wide awareness of topics relevant to compliance.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
As a media company, both the aspect of exercising as well as the aspect of supporting social freedoms play a central role in the freedom of expression.
Axel Springer is the only independent media company to have a corporate constitution. The five
principles expressed therein serve as a foundation for publishing operations. They define fundamental
convictions on social policy, yet do not set out an opinion.
Axel Springer stands up for the freedom of the press. A free press is an essential element of our democratic society. The protection of the freedom of the press ranges from the procurement of information to the communication of the news. The protection of the freedom of the press for example,
the determination of the bias of a newspaper, the confidentiality of editorial work, and in particular the
non-disclosure of sources of information in the interest of a broad flow of information. The freedom
of the press may come into conflict with other values that are protected by the Basic Law and is not
unconditionally guaranteed. In order to preserve the freedom of the press from being relativized, the
interpretation of the laws restricting it have always to be guided by the significance of the freedom of
the press, which is in turn constitutive for democracy.
Any influence on content from advertisers, governments or political parties restricts free reporting and
is met with aversion by the reader. Independence is thereby the first prerequisite for excellent journalism.
Guidelines: The editors-in-chief and publishing directors at Axel Springer introduced relevant guidelines to safeguard journalistic independence back in 2003. These include the distinction between
advertising and editorial copy. The guidelines have been part of the Code of Conduct applicable
throughout the Group since 2012.
Charter on Freedom of the Press: Axel Springer SE was one of the signatories of the “European
Charter on Freedom of the Press” in May 2009. This formulates principles for the freedom of the press
from government intervention, and in particular for their right to safety from surveillance, electronic
eavesdropping and searches of editorial departments and computers, and to unimpeded access for
journalists and citizens to all domestic and foreign sources of information. The complete text of the
„European Charter on Freedom of the Press“ can be found at www.pressfreedom.eu.
Promotion of media literacy: Access to knowledge, the understanding of political processes and
the development of media literacy are essential preconditions for participating in democratic decisions. For this reason Axel Springer SE promotes the media literacy of young people.
Commitment to Press Freedom: DIE WELT and WELT KOMPAKT supported the World Press
Freedom Day in 2010 as the exclusive media partner of the “Reporters without Borders” organization.
The front pages of the two daily WELT Group newspapers were published blank on Monday, May 3,
2010 - without lead stories, news, comments or photos. Instead, there was simply a small advert from
“Reporters without Borders” at the bottom right of the front pages, drawing readers’ attention to the
global significance and importance of press freedom.
Online magazine on press freedom: The Axel Springer Akademie publishes an online magazine
on press freedom in Germany. Under the motto “Write it loud!” on the website www.20zwoelf.de, 20
young journalists investigate the issue of media freedom in Germany. With the aid of numerous back-

202
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

ground reports, interviews and videos, they document how attempts are made to influence independent reporting. They also portray people who champion the fundamental right of freedom of the press
in Germany.
“BILD on the election” 2013: In order to give a positive impulse against the falling turnout at elections in recent years, BILD published one day before the election – on Saturday, September 21, 2013
– a thematic special edition with a circulation of more than 40 million copies. The edition illuminated
topical political relationships, examined the parties’ election programs, introduced the candidates for
Chancellor and analyzed the most important opinion polls.
Protection of Intellectual Property: As a media group, Axel Springer is particularly committed to
the protection of intellectual property rights of third parties. The applicable laws are instrumental in the
protection of intellectual property rights. Since these vary internationally, the respective local versions
are to be complied with.
Treatment of sources: Journalists are required to exercise particular care in the treatment of sources
and research. They stand up for freedom of expression and of the press and take decisions on the
public interest in reporting, which are determined by the law and acknowledged rules of journalistic
due diligence.
B.2 Disclosures and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
B.2.1 Aspect: Investment
G4-HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include
human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening.
Every significant investment or procurement undergoes human rights screening as part of the due
diligence processes.
In view of the organization’s growing international presence, Axel Springer SE has adopted a catalog
of social standards. This “International Social Policy” is a set of binding guidelines on social integrity
and applies to all the organization‘s activities worldwide. These standards, for example, form part of
the contracts for the magazines licensed to other publishing companies.
G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of
human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained.
The leadership principles introduced by Axel Springer SE in 2008 are part of the annual continuing
education program for employees and managers. This includes seminars on equality, diversity, health
management, labor law, reflection on the leadership role, intercultural competence, conflict management, and press law. Axel Springer in Germany had a total number of 70,005 training hours in 2015,
thus around 33.3 percent fewer than in 2013.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
The training courses offered relating to editorial content include journalistic ethics (Axel Springer Akademie), Code of Conduct, press law, data protection, etc.
B.2.2 Aspect: Non-discrimination
G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken
Incidents of discrimination are not known. Since August 2006, the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG)
has been in force in Germany, which is used to put into practice the corresponding European Union
anti-discrimination guidelines. In internal seminars, employees have been instructed on the guidelines
of the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG).

203
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

B.2.8 Aspect: Assessment
G4-HR9 Percentage and total number of departments that have been subject to human
rights reviews or human rights impact assessments.
The Group Internal Audit Department is an essential element of modern and efficient corporate management and monitoring (Corporate Governance). Its responsibilities include
•
•
•
•

Risk-based audit of the correctness, efficiency, appropriateness and safety of processes, structures and IT systems in all Group companies and departments;
Assessment of the effectiveness of the centralized and decentralized internal monitoring system
(Risk Management, Internal Control System, Compliance Management System);
Event-related implementation of special orders on behalf of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, for example in cases of suspected fraudulent dealings (Fraud Audits);
Full scope Process and IT Audits for (newly acquired) subsidiaries in Germany and abroad;

Commentary within the framework of the GRI “Media Sector Supplement”:
Media organizations can have a significant impact on the aspects of human rights (including the
freedom of expression, the representation of human rights, cultural rights, intellectual property and the
protection of privacy). Evaluations and impact assessments as to how relevant aspects are integrated
into the company, are material to ensure the impacts of the organization are in accordance with the
values of their content or editorial guidelines. See General Standard Disclosure G4-56.
Independent and critical journalism
Dr. Mathias Döpfner, CEO of Axel Springer SE, writes the following on this subject in his Foreword to
this Sustainability Report:
“The soul and spirit of the Axel Springer company is journalism. We serve our readers with independent and critical information and advice as well as good entertainment. Through our journalistic services we are making a contribution to the strengthening of freedom and democracy. The prerequisite for
this is our economic success.”
Axel Springer is the only independent media company to have a corporate constitution. The five
principles expressed therein serve as a foundation for publishing operations. They define fundamental
convictions on social policy, yet do not set out an opinion.
The promotion of adherence to editorial standards when creating content is a continuous process.
This includes – in addition to a good journalistic apprenticeship and calling in professional advice – actions such as the critique of papers within the editorial offices or also publicly, and the exchange with
Readers‘ Advisory Councilors. Institutions such as Readers‘ Advisory Councils help editorial offices
to focus even more on the interests, concerns and problems of readers. Editorial offices find out even
more directly what is important to readers, what they find good or bad and which issues should be
addressed in more depth.
Media services – whether online or in print – must be convincing through their quality; which is why
the excellent training of the next generation of journalists is especially important. The Axel Springer
Akademie takes a cross-media approach and is for this reason regarded as Germany‘s most modern
school of journalism, successfully integrating classical, traditional journalism with the technology of
cross-media presentation.
Any influence on content from advertisers, governments or political parties restricts free reporting and
is met with aversion by the reader.

204
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Independence is thereby the first prerequisite for excellent journalism. This is also valued by advertisers. Axel Springer SE insists upon the strict separation of editorial copy and advertising. Advertisements are marked.
Readers can lodge complaints against journalistic content with the Press Council, the institution for
voluntary self-regulation of the press, as well as before the courts.
The German Press Council is an organization of the major German publishers‘ and journalists‘ associations such as the Federal Association of German Newspaper Publishers (BDZV), the Association
of German Magazine Publishers (VDZ), the German Federation of Journalists (DJV), as well as the
German Journalists‘ Union (dju). The Press Council was founded on 20 November 1956.
The Axel Springer SE is represented on the board of trustees of “Reporters without Borders”.
Alexander Schröder, Chief Risk & Compliance Officer of Axel Springer SE, participated in the study
published by Transparency International on “Corruption in journalism – perception, opinion, solution”.
B.2.9 Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment
G4-HR10 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that were screened using human rights criteria and actions taken.
Every significant investment or procurement undergoes human rights screening as part of the due
diligence processes.
Business partners are informed of the company‘s Code of Conduct. Since 1995, Axel Springer has
been making sure that paper suppliers comply with the contractually agreed forestry standards with
respect to the clause pertaining to the protection of indigenous peoples. As a customer of publication
paper manufacturers in many countries, the company also visits on-site seeking information on the
social, economic and ecological conditions in forestry as well as in pulp and paper production. The
International Social Policy forms a part of the contracts of the magazines licensed to other publishing
companies for example.
B.2.10 Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms
G4-HR12 Number of complaints and grievances related to human rights as well as methods
and mechanisms for resolution.
No complaints or grievances related to human rights with respect to Governance, Risk & Compliance
at Axel Springer were recorded in the reporting period 2014 and 2015.
Commentary within the framework of the GRI “Media Sector Disclosures”:
The motivation of employees and journalistic credibility are essential prerequisites for the success of a
media company. They form a virtual natural barrier against grievances in the field of human rights.

C. Society
The following indicators meet the G4/MSD Guidelines of the “Global Reporting Initiative” (GRI) for the
internationally uniform structuring of sustainability reports. (“MSD” stands for Media Sector Disclosures.)
The abbreviation “SO” in the GRI Numbers stands for “Society”.

205
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

C.1 Management approach for stakeholder concerns: Journalistic independence and social
responsibility
G4-DMA-A Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect
material.
•
•

As the publisher of digital and printed media, the company is at the heart of society. Journalistic
independence and credibility count among the prerequisites.
A distancing or isolation from social reality would be contrary to the sustainable continued existence of the company.

G4-DMA-B Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. (Policies, commitments, goals and targets, responsibilities, resources, specific actions)
Policies
Axel Springer is the only independent media company to have a corporate constitution. The five
principles expressed therein serve as a foundation for publishing operations. They define fundamental
convictions on social policy, yet do not set out an opinion. Details can be found here.
In addition to these five principles, the company has also defined values that distinguish Axel
Springer‘s corporate culture. In 2008 leadership principles were introduced at Axel Springer, giving
managers a framework for action in their daily work.
Guidelines of Journalistic Independence at Axel Springer: The editors-in-chief and publishing directors
of the company developed guidelines to safeguard journalistic independence at Axel Springer and
introduced them in August 2003 in co-ordination with the Executive Board. Details can be found here.
The catalog of social standards which was published in July 2004 is a binding guideline for social
integrity and applies to all the company‘s activities throughout the world. Axel Springer SE attaches
great importance to good corporate governance in the management and control of the enterprise.
Moreover, with its first environmental report in 1994 the company published a four-point environmental
guideline.
Commitments
The company‘s social commitment is reviewed and updated in an ongoing exchange of ideas with our
stakeholders.
Readers and users of our media services, advertising and print customers, employees, investors,
neighbors, visitors, school pupils, students, scientific institutes, state supervisory authorities and regulators, suppliers, NGOs and the media express particular interest in the organization’s operations as
well as its products at home and abroad.
Goals and targets
Axel Springer is one of the leading integrated multimedia print, online and Web TV companies in
Europe. Whether printed or digital: every medium obeys its own laws, but the quality of the content
is decisive everywhere. News, views, well told stories – that’s what it’s about in the future and what it
was always about. Our work is networked and cross-media thus integrating the different worlds.
It is a question of journalistic credibility for Axel Springer, to commit itself to the concerns of our readers and viewers and of society as a whole. The various spheres of activity of our social commitment
– our media, readers and employees as well as the company itself can be found here.
Responsibilities
The ultimate responsibility for questions relating to social responsibility lies with the Executive Board of
Axel Springer SE.

206
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Resources
Among other things the training of young editors at the Axel Springer Akademie
Specific actions
On 1 October 2015 “Bild” delivered a special edition to all households in Germany. The occasion was
the 25th anniversary of German reunification.
G4-DMA-C Report the evaluation of the management approach, including the mechanisms
for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; the results of the evaluation
of the management approach; the consequences the organization will draw.
Mechanisms
Market research
Results
Confirmation of actions taken.
Consequences
Further development of measures to strengthen journalistic reader-friendliness and credibility.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
The requirements for safeguarding journalistic independence at Axel Springer are laid down in the
following guidelines (excerpt from the Code of Conduct)
•
•

•
•

•
•

Publishing staff as well as editors are called upon to make a clear distinction between editorial
copy and publications for advertising purposes and to adhere to the regulations for paid advertising.
The journalists at Axel Springer ensure jointly with the publishing staff that a distinction is made
between advertising and editorial copy. Advertising, – either through its overall design or major
components, for example, its typography – may not create the impression that it is part of the
title‘s editorial material. If there is any doubt, the advertisement must be clearly marked and in
sufficiently large type as such; attempts by advertising clients or other interested parties to influence content are to be resisted and no agreements may be entered into that could compromise a
journalist‘s independence.
Editorial publications may not under any circumstances be influenced by the personal or business
interests of third parties or the personal economic interests of editors.
Journalists at Axel Springer shall not report on persons with whom they have a close relationship,
especially family members, in the form of copy or photographs unless there is an objective reason
for doing so that has been approved by their superior; shall not use their reporting to reap benefits
for themselves or others; shall consult their superior if the membership of or the holding of an office or a seat in a society, political party, association or other institution, investment in a company,
permitted secondary employment or through a relationship with persons or institutions the impression might be created that the neutrality of their reporting on such societies, political parties,
associations, persons or other institutions is thereby compromised; shall pay particular attention to
the observance of the legal regulations and ethical obligations of the press concerning inside and
other information which may potentially affect security prices.
In order not to endanger independent journalistic work through the exercise of personal advantage, the mere appearance of the fact that journalists‘ freedom of decision could be affected by
the granting of invitations or gifts is to be avoided
The journalists at Axel Springer shall ensure that all costs (travel, entertainment etc.), incurred in
the course of their research are paid by the editorial office; any exceptions are to be approved by
the editor-in-chief; shall not accept gifts that constitute a personal benefit, or – if acceptance is
impossible to refuse – shall pass them on to a charity.

207
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

C.2 Disclosures and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
C.2.2 Aspect: Anti-corruption
G4-SO3 Percentage and total number of business units assessed for risks related to corruption
As part of the integrated Compliance and Risk Management System introduced at Axel Springer, a
systematic collection and evaluation of all annual compliance-related risks, also including corruption,
is carried out every year. Furthermore, corruption-related risks are the subject of audits by the Group‘s
internal audit department. Whenever evidence of corruption-related risks emerges from compliancerelated reporting or the compliance management system, audits and investigations, this flows into
the inventory of risks. In this respect, 100% of the active operational holdings in the risk management
system as well as the divisions of Axel Springer SE were the object of observation by Compliance and
thus corruption-related risks.
G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures
Various measures to provide information and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures and
on legally compliant behavior were carried out in the reporting period. Among other things, communication with the decision makers of Axel Springer SE on issues such as corruption was made possible
through the introduction of an electronic whistleblowing system accessible to external and internal
groups of persons. Furthermore, in 2014 a guideline on the acceptance and granting of gifts and
invitations entered into force and the internal publication of the guideline was accompanied by appropriate communication measures. Every new employee continues to be informed of the Axel Springer
Code of Conduct during the recruitment phase. In addition, the requirements of the Code of Conduct
are taught in seminars and training courses on various topics.
In accordance with its procedural rules, the supervisory board has established four committees –
Executive Committee, Personnel Committee, Nomination Committee and Audit Committee – which
support the work of the plenum. The Audit Committee is kept regularly up-to-date.
In accordance with its procedural rules, the supervisory board has established four committees –
Executive Committee, Personnel Committee, Nomination Committee and Audit Committee – which
support the work of the plenum.
The Audit Committee, notwithstanding the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board as a whole, is responsible for the preparation of the decisions made by the Supervisory Board concerning the adoption
of the financial statements and the approval of the consolidated financial statements, by conducting
a preliminary review of the financial statements, the dependency report and consolidated financial
statements, the management report and the consolidated management report, reviewing the proposal
for the appropriation of the profits, discussing the audit report with the auditor and by monitoring the
financial reporting process and the statutory audit, in particular the independence of the auditor, the
monitoring of the effectiveness of the Risk Management System, the Internal Control System (ICS),
the Compliance Management System as well as the Internal Audit System. It is further responsible
for the audit of the interim financial statements and interim reports and the discussion of the auditor’s
report of the review of the interim financial statements. With regard to the statutory audit, it is responsible among other things for the preparation of the proposal by the Supervisory Board at the Annual
General Meeting on the selection of the auditor, as well as for the granting of the audit mandate to
the auditor and the determination of focal points for the audit. The Audit Committee is composed of
Lothar Lanz as chair, Dr Giuseppe Vita as deputy chair and Oliver Heine, Rudolf Knepper and Dr. h. c.
Friede Springer as further members.
G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
In 2015, in addition to previously existing channels of communication, an electronic whistleblowing
system was introduced that can be used both externally as well as internally, for example to report
cases of corruption. Such instances are subject to a standardized process – where appropriate with

208
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

defined escalation levels. Possible measures range from a detailed analysis of the relationships between cause and effect, the adjustment of processes and internal control systems up to training and
sanctions. The focus is on the prevention of incidents of corruption. Quantitative data is not collected
in order to protect confidentiality.
C.2.3 Aspect: Public Policy
G4-SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and
related institutions by country.
Axel Springer SE does not support any political parties, nor does it make any illicit contributions of this
kind.
Commentary within the framework of the GRI “Media Sector Disclosures”:
Axel Springer SE does not support any political parties, nor does it make any contributions of this
kind.
C.2.4 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior
G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.
There are no legal actions of this type.
C.2.5 Aspect: Compliance with the law
G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for
non-compliance with laws and regulations.
The publishing companies are advised by the legal departments of the company with the aim of
avoiding fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Cases of
significant fines as well as non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations did
not occur.

D. Produktverantwortung
The following indicators meet the G 3.1 MSS Guidelines of the „Global Reporting Initiative“ (GRI) for
the uniform, international structuring of sustainability reports. („MSS“ stands for Media Sector Supplement.)
The abbreviation „PR“ in the GRI Numbers stands for „Product Responsibility“.
D.1 Management approach for stakeholder concerns: Product responsibility and customer
satisfaction
G4-DMA-A Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect
material.
•
•

Customer satisfaction is one of the material prerequisites for the sustainable continued existence
of the company.
Growing customer satisfaction has a positive effect on the company‘s success.

G4-DMA-B Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. (Policies, commitments, goals and targets, responsibilities, resources, specific actions)

209
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Policies
By product responsibility Axel Springer SE refers to the responsibility that the company takes with
regard to its media products. This consists first and foremost of:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

journalistic independence
care in the treatment of sources
the distinction between advertising and editorial copy
the code of conduct of the advertising industry
the protection of minors
data protection and the security of digital information systems
the safeguarding of social and environmental standards along the wood, pulp, paper, printing and
recycling chain as well as in the procurement of advertising media
compliance with justice and the law.

Commitments
Compliance with legal requirements, voluntary commitments and corporate guidelines.
Goals and targets
Axel Springer SE wants to be the world‘s leading digital media company.
Responsibilities
The ultimate responsibility for questions relating to product responsibility lies with the Executive Board
of Axel Springer SE.
Resources
Monitoring is – apart from the responsibility of the main editorial offices and publishing house managers, the legal department, the Human Resources managers, the Data Protection officers, the
Purchasing Department and the Corporate Sustainability Office – central to the Governance, Risk &
Compliance division. Compliance for Axel Springer means compliance with legal requirements, voluntary commitments and corporate guidelines.
Specific actions
Employees and executives are trained within the framework of the Principles of Leadership introduced
in 2008. Editors are instructed in and made aware of quality assurance in journalism in the course of
the training they receive at the Axel Springer Akademie and from their superiors. Training on compliance with data protection regulations is also part of the training program.
G4-DMA-C Report the evaluation of the management approach, including the mechanisms
for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; the results of the evaluation
of the management approach; the consequences the organization will draw.
Mechanisms
include Readers‘ Advisory Councils and market research;
Results
Suggestions for improvement
Consequences
Continuous improvement in customer-friendliness and the assurance of quality standards.

210
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
M2: Methodology for assessing and monitoring adherence to content creation values
The idea of the newspaper has to do with attitude as well: The user and reader wants to know what
editorial content stands for. Unless this attitude is self-evident, journalism loses its appeal. This is as
important today as it was hundreds of years ago – whether on paper or on the Internet.
Axel Springer SE’s broad media portfolio encompasses multimedia brand families such as the BILD
and WELT Groups.
Editors at Axel Springer SE are aware of the responsibility they have for information and opinionforming. Independence is the indispensable foundation of their work. The guidelines on the journalistic
endeavors of all editors safeguard the general conditions that make independent and critical journalism possible at Axel Springer.
Protection of Intellectual Property: As a media group, Axel Springer is particularly committed to the
protection of the intellectual property rights of third parties. The applicable laws are instrumental in the
protection of intellectual property rights. Since these vary internationally, the respective local versions
are to be complied with.
Treatment of sources: Journalists are required to exercise particular care in the treatment of sources
and research. They stand up for freedom of expression and of the press and take decisions on the
public interest in reporting, which are determined by the law and acknowledged rules of journalistic
due diligence.
The editors-in-chief are responsible for the observation and implementation of the guidelines in the
company’s day-to-day editorial activities.
To ensure compliance with laws, voluntary commitments and guidelines, Axel Springer has introduced a Group-wide compliance management system. A Compliance Committee monitors compliance
with the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is part of the compliance organization and is to be
understood as a summary of the Axel Springer rules of conduct, which also include the guidelines for
safeguarding journalistic independence. (Further information can be found here.)
The safeguarding of standards facilitates the continuous exchange with readers. This includes the processing of readers‘ letters and e-mails, the critique of papers, as well as the discussion with Readers‘
Advisory Councilors. (Further information can be found here.)
Online-Netiquette: In order to safeguard standards online as well for example, the BILD.de community
has established relevant guidelines. Among other things, contributions are not tolerated if they discriminate against others because of their gender, age, language, origin, religious affiliation or beliefs, or
if they violate laws. Corresponding entries and user profiles are deleted immediately. Texts, pictures,
and videos may only be uploaded if the author holds the copyright! Quotes are to be identified as
such. With the „REPORT“ function, users have the opportunity to report contributions that are not in
accordance with Netiquette.
M3: Actions taken to improve adherence to content creation values
Axel Springer is the only independent media company to have a corporate constitution. The five
principles expressed therein serve as a foundation for publishing operations. They define fundamental
convictions on social policy, yet do not set out an opinion.
Around 2800 editors were employed by the Axel Springer SE titles in 2013. The promotion of adherence to content creation values is a continuous process. This includes – in addition to a good

211
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

journalistic apprenticeship and calling in professional advice – actions such as the critique of papers
within the editorial offices or also publicly, and the exchange with Readers‘ Advisory Councilors. Institutions such as Readers‘ Advisory Councils help editorial offices to focus even more on the interests,
concerns and problems of readers. Editorial offices find out even more directly what is important to
readers, what they find good or bad and which issues should be addressed in more depth.
Media services – whether in print or online – must be convincing through their quality; which is why
the excellent training of the next generation of journalists is especially important. The Axel Springer
Akademie takes a cross-media approach and is for this reason regarded as Germany‘s most modern
school of journalism, successfully integrating classical, traditional journalism with the technology of
cross-media presentation.
Any influence on content from advertisers, governments or political parties restricts free reporting and
is met with aversion by the reader.
Independence is thereby the first prerequisite for excellent journalism. This is also valued by advertisers. Axel Springer SE insists upon the strict separation of editorial copy and advertising. Advertisements are marked.
Readers can lodge complaints against journalistic content with the Press Council, the institution for
voluntary self-regulation of the press, as well as before the courts.
The German Press Council is an organization of the major German publishers‘ and journalists‘ associations such as the Federal Association of German Newspaper Publishers (BDZV), the Association
of German Magazine Publishers (VDZ), the German Federation of Journalists (DJV), as well as the
German Journalists‘ Union (dju). The Press Council was founded on 20 November 1956.
The organization has had its head office in Berlin since June 2009.
M4: Actions taken in relation to the dissemination and accessibility of content
Actions taken for the dissemination and accessibility of content include, among other things, the
development of press outlets, the expansion of journalistic services on the Internet, either as audio or
moving image files as well as apps. This is accompanied by measures which facilitate the access to
knowledge, the understanding of political processes as well as the development of media literacy.
Digitization: As part of the digitization strategy, existing print titles and content are being transferred
onto digital distribution channels. The service is supplemented through online portals. This promotes
the accessibility of journalistic content.
Readers‘ satisfaction: Within the context of its customer retention initiative, Axel Springer SE compared itself with its German competition for the eighth time in 2015.
•
•
•

Buyers / readers of press products
Users of websites
Advertising customers

Online privacy: The online titles provide their users with detailed information on important issues, such
as privacy policy, personal data, consent, user profiles, disclosure, cookies / web analytics service,
right of access, and right of objection. (data protection using DIE WELT as an example).
Media Protection of Young Persons: The task of Media Protection of Young Persons is to protect
children and adolescents from influences from the adult world, which are likely to impair the development of young people as independent and active members of the community, or even to threaten this
development.

212
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Axel Springer SE respects the legal requirements of the Media Protection of Young Persons and beyond that also pays attention to self-imposed obligations, such as those in Germany imposed by the
German Advertising Standards Council and the German Press Council.
M5: Complaints related to content dissemination
The company’s legal departments examine every single complaint related to the editorial content in
our publications. If legally necessary, replies or corrections are published and a recurrence of violations
prevented; in rare individual cases, material compensation is also paid. In Germany, the legal editing
of our publishing content at an early stage helped to keep the number of incidents of non-compliance
low.
Readers can lodge complaints against journalistic content with the Press Council, the institution for
voluntary self-regulation of the press, as well as before the courts.
The German Press Council is an organization of the major German publishers‘ and journalists‘ associations the Federal Association of German Newspaper Publishers (BDZV), the Association of German Magazine Publishers (VDZ), the German Federation of Journalists (DJV), as well as the German
Journalists‘ Union (dju) in ver.di (German United Services Union). The Press Council was founded on
20 November 1956. The organization has had its head office in Berlin since June 2009.
Complaints against promotional content can be lodged with the advertising industry‘s voluntary selfregulation institutions, as well as before the courts.
The German Advertising Standards Council, founded by the ZAW (Central Association of the German
Advertising Industry) in 1972 as a self-regulating institution, works to settle conflicts between complainants from the population and advertising companies. Members of the groups represented in the
ZAW make up the working panel.
M6: Methods to interact with audiences and results
The continuous exchange with the readers and users of our services is one of the key success factors
for a media enterprise. Numerous activities serve this purpose.
The safeguarding of standards facilitates the continuous exchange with readers. This includes the
processing of readers‘ letters and e-mails. Important instruments for the direct exchange with readers
are the Readers‘ Advisory Councils. They are intended to help us focus even more on the interests,
concerns and problems of readers. They tell us what is important to them, what they find good or bad
and what issues should be addressed in more depth.
bild.de has established a “Community function” to promote the exchange of ideas with readers. The
very active bild.de community on Facebook and Twitter also aids the exchange with users.
Within the context of its customer retention initiative, Axel Springer SE compared itself with its German
competition for the ninth time in 2015.
D.2 Disclosures and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
D.2.1 Aspect: Customer Health and Safety
G4-PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are
assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories
subject to such procedures
Axel Springer is one of the leading integrated multimedia online, print and TV companies in Europe. All
of the life cycle stages of the products and services are continuously assessed in terms of potential for
optimization in the areas of health and safety. There is a focus on the field of press printing.

213
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

The printer‘s trade association ETEM regularly issues position statements in Germany on health issues
in connection with the production (and use) of media products. ETEM has published numerous studies on this topic (www.bgdp.de/index2.htm).
Further studies and descriptions can be found in this Sustainability Report under the Service Menu:
•
•
•

Printing ink and Sustainability (2006): Printing methods, printing inks and raw materials are presented in general and under the aspect of sustainability on 25 pages.
Ecological Learning Processes in the Paper Chain (2000): This study was written at the university
of St. Gallen in Switzerland. Among other things, it describes how companies integrate ecological
insights into their decision-making processes, using Axel Springer SE as an example.
Evaluation of the ecological life cycles of newspapers and magazines (1998): This analysis researches the environmental aspects of pulp and paper production using data gathered in Sweden, Germany, and Canada. It was prepared in co-operation with the Stora Enso and Canfor
companies.

G4-PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring
customer satisfaction.
Axel Springer SE has set itself the goal of becoming Europe’s most customer-friendly media company.
A differentiated measurement and evaluation system has been developed for this purpose. Within the
context of its customer retention initiative, Axel Springer SE compared itself with its German competition for the 9th time in 2015.

D.2.3 Aspect: Marketing
G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes
concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship,
by type of outcomes
Only three complaints were submitted to the German Advertising Council in the reporting
period 2014 - 2015 relating to Axel Springer SE or its subsidiaries:
1. “Cocaine dealer” – advertisement in Welt am Sonntag (2014)
In 2014, there was a complaint about an advertisement from Welt am Sonntag “Cocaine dealer”
(dachshund with white powder on its snout looks into camera; “Have you arranged a meeting with
your cocaine dealer already today?(…) in good company”). The allegation of a breach of ethics and
morality was rejected as follows:
Of course you are correct to say that the displayed image of a dog with white powder on its nose
could be suitable to trivialize the use of cocaine and thereby that of a dangerous drug. On the other
hand however, from our point of view such an intention is not apparent from the overall context of the
advertisement. The display announces rather a detailed report on the use of cocaine in the German
capital. In no way is it suggested that the use of cocaine is something harmless or even desirable.
This also does not result through the use of the term “good company”. For saying this does not in itself state that the use of cocaine itself is something good; rather this shows that even people you might
not expect take cocaine. In doing this, the advertisement literally relates to “bad and good company”.
Against this background, we assume that the advertisement, and in particular the image of the dog,
certainly presents the consumption of cocaine to a certain extent in an ironically exaggerated form.
We do not, however, see a trivialization or even incitement to consume.
2. “Refugees” – Radio trailer for Welt am Sonntag on NDR2 (2015)
In 2015, there was another complaint about a radio trailer from the Welt am Sonntag, which aired on

214
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

NDR2 and took up the political debate about the issue of refugees. The complainant found the contents contemptuous, the criticism was however again rejected by the Advertising Council:
In the spot, the main themes of the advertised Sunday newspaper are called up. The fact that the
fears of the population and their thematisation are addressed, especially in the current political situation, lies in the product advertised. Accordingly we are not of the opinion that fears are being kindled
here in an unacceptable way. The spot describes the political situation concerning the refugee problem and the potential issues deriving from it. Since radio spots are produced several days before the
first broadcast as a rule, it cannot be assumed that the attacks in Paris had already occurred when
the spots were produced.
3. “Sad confession” radio spot for Ampya (2015)
A young girl admits to stealing her sister’s boyfriend. According to the criticism by the complainant,
the content suggests that a breach of trust within the family is not morally reprehensible. The Advertising Council was also unable to find a breach of the code of conduct:
After reviewing the advertising campaign, the German Advertising Council does not call it into question for the following reasons: A teenage girl in her bedroom reports to the camera between stuffed
toys and posters on the wall that she has stolen her sister’s boyfriend. At the same time it is clearly
shown that she is torn between pride and insecurity - and appropriate to her age doesn’t know exactly how she should deal with the situation. We do not see in the spot that abuses of trust or similar
are positively portrayed, but that the chaotic world of feelings confronting young people is shown to
be frequent at that age. Since there was no breach of the code of conduct of the German Advertising
Council, the German Advertising Council will not object.
Commentary within the framework of the GRI “Media Sector Disclosures”: Advertising aimed
to promote sales of the publishing products of Axel Springer SE orients itself towards the principles
and voluntary codes of conduct of the German Advertising Standards Council and complies with its
decisions when complaints are submitted by the public.
D.2.4 Aspect: Media literacy
M7: Actions taken to empower audiences through media literacy skills development
Access to knowledge, the understanding of political processes and the development of media literacy are among the preconditions which are essential for participating in democratic decision-making
processes. For this reason Axel Springer SE promotes the media literacy of young people.
BILD is a project partner of Stiftung Lesen (Reading Foundation): The work of Stiftung Lesen is not
only financed by contributions from foundation councilors and by the public sector, but also by numerous institutions, companies and private persons. Through this support from numerous project
partners, donors and sponsors, more than 140 projects and programs could be achieved that contribute to shaping the reading landscape in Germany.
D.2.5 Aspect: Protection of Customer Data
G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy
and losses of customer data.
In accordance with the legal definition in the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG), personal data in
Germany means “any information concerning the personal or material circumstances of an identified
or identifiable individual”.
The European Union has regulated the treatment of personal data since 1995 in the Data Protection
Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and the European Council. Its implementation into
national law is through the BDSG. This implementation allows for different organizational forms of data
protection in companies. The German regulation follows the model of voluntary self-monitoring in the
form of company Data Protection Officers.

215
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Data Protection Officers have been appointed for the German companies within Axel Springer SE as
outlined in the Federal Data Protection Act (§ 4f BDSG). These Data Protection Officers work towards
compliance with the Data Protection Act and other regulations on data protection at Axel Springer SE
and all its affiliated companies.
The number of inquiries from data protection supervisory authorities and customers has increased
every year since 2007. A continuing increase in the number of external inquiries is expected. These
inquiries were mainly requests for information and contradictions in advertising. The wishes of the
inquirers were complied with in each case.
In addition to the external inquiries, there was a sharp increase in the number of internal inquiries and
projects. This reflects the increasing importance of corporate data protection in all internal procedures and processes. This is taken account of through increased consultation and training, so that the
understanding and sensitivity to the concerns of data protection are increasing continuously.
D.2.6 Aspect: Compliance with the law
G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations
concerning the provision and use of products and services.
No fines were imposed for non-compliance.
The company’s legal departments examine every single complaint related to the editorial content in
our publications. If legally necessary, replies or corrections are published and a recurrence of violations
prevented; in rare individual cases, material compensation is also paid.
In Germany, the legal editing of our publishing content at an early stage helped to keep the number of
incidents of non-compliance low.

216
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Specific Standard Disclosures on Environment

The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sees itself as an ongoing international dialog which, through the definition of performance indicators, involves a number of stakeholder groups worldwide. These include companies, universities, governmental
organizations and non-governmental organizations from the fields of labor, social affairs, human rights and the environment.

Environmental Indicators
The following indicators meet the G4/MSD Guidelines of the “Global Reporting Initiative” (GRI) for the
internationally uniform structuring of sustainability reports. (“MSD” stands for Media Sector Disclosures.)
The abbreviation “EN” in front of the GRI Numbers stands for “Environment”.
1. Management approach for stakeholder concerns:
High environmental standards of Axel Springer SE
G4-DMA-A Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect
material.
•
•

Sustainable growth and a sustainable increase in value emerge from the triad of social, environmental and economic responsibility.
A publishing house committed to critical journalism must itself stand up to close scrutiny with
regard to these standards.

G4-DMA-B Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. (Policies, commitments, goals and targets, responsibilities, resources, specific actions)
Policies
Company Policies - Organization-wide policy that defines the organization’s overall commitment related to the Environmental Aspects.
With its first environmental report in 1994, Axel Springer SE published a four-point environmental
guideline. It still serves today as a practical guide to the measures introduced by the company in the
interests of environmental protection.
To raise environmental consciousness among its readers, business associates and staff.

217
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

To promote the environmentally-friendly production of raw materials by exerting a positive influence on
suppliers.
To use environmentally efficient technologies and materials in all corporate divisions to reduce the
burden on the environment, use materials sparingly and ensure their reusability.
To avoid or reduce the environmental impact by reducing energy and water requirements, emissions
and waste per unit produced.
Commitments
Monitoring
Compliance for Axel Springer means compliance with legal requirements, voluntary commitments and
corporate guidelines. For this, awareness is raised on the part of the employees. Violations of guidelines and regulations can damage the environment, adversely affect the reputation of the company and
cause economic damage.
Against this background appropriate structures and processes have been established to ensure behavior compliant with laws and regulations for all corporate officers, executives and employees. The
Axel Springer SE Code of Conduct gives employees reliable orientation. The Compliance department
monitors compliance.
Goals and targets
Goals regarding performance relevant to the Environment Aspects.
The goal is the continuous improvement of efficiency in the use of resources. This primarily has to do
with the operation of printing plants, server systems and computers, the administration of offices, the
distribution of newspapers and magazines, the procurement of printing paper, the consumption of
water and energy, as well as the generation of waste and emissions.
Responsibilities
The Corporate Sustainability Office is a Group administrative department which is attached to the
Chief Executive Officer‘s division. The Corporate Sustainability Office supports and advises throughout the group all the relevant divisions of the company with respect to the ecological optimization
of processes and coordinates the corresponding pilot projects. In the printing plants as well as the
publishing office locations, environmental and safety officers are responsible for the operative implementation and ensuring of environmental standards. Contacts are also available in the subsidiaries for
questions of sustainability management.
Resources
Corporate Sustainability Office, internal and external experts for processing the GRI indicators, energy
audit, etc.
Specific Actions
Actions related to training and raising awareness
Questions concerning environmental optimization are integrated into education programs as well
as being part of the introductory seminars for trainees. At the same time, sustainability issues are
addressed in internal communications media.
G4-DMA-C Report the evaluation of the management approach, including the mechanisms
for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; the results of the evaluation
of the management approach; the consequences the organization will draw.
Continuous sustainability reporting according to GRI with external assurance.

218
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
The Corporate Sustainability Officer of Axel Springer SE maintains regular contact with the Environment and Safety Officers at the various locations. The company publishes a sustainability report every
two years externally assured to the highest GRI standards.
Transparency in the paper chain is documented through the publication of the suppliers of printing
paper. Contracts with suppliers contain sustainability-related clauses such as the Forestry Standards
which are also verified by the company on site. In 2012 and 2013 these included visits to suppliers –
e.g. jointly with the environmental organization Greenpeace to eucalyptus plantations and short fiber
pulp manufacturers in Uruguay. The proportion of used paper in printing paper averages around 77
percent. 86 percent of newsprint paper contains used paper.
The efficiency in the use of printing paper is optimized by measures used to reduce mill broke. Returns (= unsold copies of newspapers and magazines) are reduced through the continually refined
control of copies delivered to the respective sales outlets.
Newspapers and magazines are supplied to municipal waste paper collection points for recycling by
readers. The collection rate in Germany amounts to approx. 80 percent.
2. Details and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
2.1 Aspect: Materials
G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume
The quantity of the materials used both in the printing process as well as at office locations is documented in the table.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
As an indicator for efficient resource management, the presentation of specific indicators is more important than simply listing absolute consumption figures. The prerequisite for this is the definition of a
functional unit, such as, for example, the ‚square meters of printed paper‘.

2013

2014

2015

For producing our own magazines, printing paper
purchased (in tonnes)

315,385

209,036

150,023

Printing paper which is processed in our own printing
plants in Germany and Hungary for our own and other
products (in tonnes)

159,297

137,857

124,172

Millions of square meters of printed area in our own prin- 7,063
ting plants for our own and other products

5,224

4,922

Supplements and pre-products (in tonnes)

37,087

37,237

42,465

Printing Ink (in tonnes)

2,932

2,611

1,587

Damping-agent concentrate (in tonnes)

181

183

176

Printing Plates (in tonnes)

516

455

479

Printing plate developer (in tonnes)

49

42

44

Lubricants (in tonnes)

16

6

12

Production cleaning agents (in tonnes)

213

246

201

Other operating materials (in tonnes)

5

1

1

Raw materials

Operating Materials

219
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Auxiliary materials
Packaging materials (in tonnes)

257

214

205

Stitching wire (in tonnes)

11

11

9

Note
Due to the sale of a number of magazines (Hörzu, Funk Uhr, TV Neu and Bild der Frau) and by the
integration of Axel Springer Hungary into the Ringier Axel Springer AG in Zurich in 2014, the comparison with the previous year figures from 2013 is no longer meaningful.

G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials
In 2015, around 77 percent (2014: 81 percent) of the newspaper and magazine papers used to print
the company‘s titles included used paper.

G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization
Record of the amount of gas, district heating and electricity used by the company worldwide.

Energy Types

2014

2015

Electricity

91.231 MWh (328.433 GJ)

89.377 MWh (321.759 GJ)

District heating

33.558 MWh (120.810 GJ)

31.394 MWh (113.018 GJ)

Natural gas

19.199 MWh (69.117 GJ)

16.662 MWh (59.984 GJ)

Total
143.989 MWh (518.360 GJ)
137.433 MWh (494.760 GJ)
		
Umrechnungsfaktor GJoule vs. kWh = 1/277,78
Umrechnungsfaktor Erdgas m3 (L- und H-Gas Gemisch): 1 m3 = 11 kWh
Notes on the energy use recorded for the entire company
Digitization and the internationalization of the company have made the collection of data more difficult
in recent years due to the growing number of consolidated subsidiaries. This has reduced the completeness of the energy data documented in the Sustainability Report.
To counter this problem, the company has adopted a new approach: Among other things, the numbers for cost categories – such as energy – are merged in Group Accounting for the entire company. Existing ‘reporting lines’ to the many subsidiaries are now also used to determine the amount of
energy used. For this purpose, the world-wide interface-linked data collection tool “IAS Notes” has
been expanded to include a “Reporting Energy” input mask. This allows for an initial, for the most part
complete record of the energy (natural gas, district heating and electricity) used by the company as
well as the 180 (status 31 January 2015) fully consolidated subsidiaries world-wide for the years 2014
and 2015. This new method of data collection will be further developed and optimized.
The recording of the the quantity of natural gas, district heating and electricity used by the company,
including the fully consolidated subsidiaries, resulted for the year 2015 in a total of 137,433 MWh
(2014 = 143,989 MWh).
Due to the learning curve accompanying the use of this method for the first time to record global
amounts of energy used (electricity, district heating and natural gas), the data obtained using the data
collection tool “IAS Notes” is subject to a number of inaccuracies.

220
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Causes of data inaccuracies:
•

•

Office moves, which occur in a growing company, lead to “mixed” energy quantity accounts and
thus contribute to data inaccuracies. A number of the consolidated subsidiaries reported the
amount of energy (electricity, district heating, natural gas) either only incompletely, clearly implausibly or not at all. Taking the energy costs reported by these companies into account however, it is
clear that the orders of magnitude are negligible for the overall view. Where data reports of energy
amounts were missing, an estimate of energy costs has been made.
Rental accounting transparency: A number of real estate agencies both within and outside the EU,
who rent office space to subsidiaries, report the settlement of energy-related costs with a considerable time lag. With a number of rental contracts, especially those for smaller offices, energy
costs for heating are included in the rental payments. In these cases, the amount of energy used
was determined by using average costs. In cases of incomplete data reporting, average costs
were estimated. In some subsidiaries, international parts of the company were allocated the same
average costs for different countries. Where no energy costs were available, energy amounts were
not projected in order to ensure consistency in cost recording.

External plausibility check
The recording of the the quantity of natural gas, district heating and electricity used by the company, including the fully consolidated subsidiaries, resulted for the year 2015 in a total of 137,433
MWh (2014 = 143,989 MWh). Of this, a total of 105,204 MWh was determined for the year 2014, in
the framework of the external energy audits of the use of natural gas, district heating and electricity
carried out at selected locations in Germany in 2015 and validated by ECG. This corresponds to 69
percent of the use of natural gas, district heating and electricity specified in this report for the overall
company 2014.
The remaining 31 percent specified in this report for the year 2014, are the quantities of natural gas,
district heating and electricity obtained solely through the data collection tool “IAS notes” used by
Group Accounting, which is interface-linked to all parts of the company and subsidiaries world-wide.
As the energy audit was not carried out again for 2015, the share of the externally validated amounts
of energy (electricity, district heating, natural gas) for 2015 is 39 percent and the share of data obtained solely through the data collection tool “IAS notes” used by Group Accounting is 61 percent.
The external validation carried out by ECG is based both on a review of raw data from the load profile
as well as a review of manually recorded energy bills including invoices for additional costs.
Objectives: To record 75 percent of the global use of energy by Axel Springer SE in the form of electricity, district heating and natural gas, in validated quality for the years 2016 and 2017.

G4-EN5 Energy intensity
Data refers to our own newspaper printing facilities in Germany. The digitization and the internationalization of the company have reduced the representativeness of the data reported for the whole company over the past few years, such as for example in the field of energy. This problem arises when
determining the total energy consumed by a large company, including its consolidated business units.
Through an initial, almost complete record of the energy used by the approximately 180 for the most
part digital subsidiaries worldwide by Group Accounting, a significant part of the CO2 emissions calculated from this for the company can now also be documented for 2014 and 2015. Work is currently

221
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

being done on the further differentiation of the data as well as on an intensity ratio appropriate for
Internet companies.
All 3 printing facilities report different values for the energy intensity ratio.
The organization-specific metric used to calculate energy intensity is printed surface area in millions of
m2.
The types of energy included in the intensity ratio are: gas, electricity and district heating.
The ratio refers to the energy consumption within the organization.
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption
Data refers to our own newspaper printing facilities in Germany. The digitization and the internationalization of the company have reduced the representativeness of the data reported for the whole company over the past few years, such as for example in the field of energy. This problem arises when
determining the total energy consumed by a large company, including its consolidated business units.
Through an initial, almost complete record of the energy used by the approximately 180 for the most
part digital subsidiaries worldwide by Group Accounting, a significant part of the CO2 emissions calculated from this for the company can now also be documented for 2014 and 2015. Work is currently
being done on the further differentiation of the data for the whole company.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
The gradual optimization of the energy efficiency and CO2 efficiency of servers and data processing
centers is at the forefront in the area of digital media services. To this end, Axel Springer has taken
part in pilot projects in co-operation with the Federal Environment Agency and the Technical University of Berlin within the scope of the “Green IT Berlin-Brandenburg” initiative. In co-operation with the
Norwegian operators of data processing centers, the “Fjord-IT” pilot project was initiated, involving the
reduction of CO2 emissions by using electricity generated through hydropower.
G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services
With its numerous titles, Axel Springer SE offers editorial content both digitally and in print. Against
this background, indicator EN7 is only of limited relevance, especially as reading editorial content –
whether digital or on paper – does not in itself consume energy. The decision as to whether editorial
content is assimiliated digitally or in print lies with the user. The editorial offices inform users and readers regularly about alternatives and innovations in the field of energy-saving digital readers.
2.5 Aspect: Emissions, effluents, and waste
Notes on emission data
The digitization and the internationalization of the company have diminished the representativeness of
energy data in recent years. Through an initial, to a large degree complete record of the energy (natural gas, district heating and electricity) used by the approximately 180 for the most part digital subsidiaries worldwide by Group Accounting, a significant part of the CO2 emissions calculated from this for
the company can now also be documented for 2014 and 2015. Work is currently being done on the
further differentiation of the data for the whole company.
CO2 emission factors for the specific types of energy are used for the presentation of the CO2 emissions generated by the whole company worldwide. The identification of greenhouse gas emissions
for recorded resource use is made here in tonnes of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). With a view to better
readability, this text only uses the spelling “CO2”.
For the conversion of the various energy resource uses into the resulting CO2 emissions, the World
Resources Institute (WRI, Washington DC) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD, Geneva) have created the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). It is used worldwide by companies and institutions worldwide, including the Department for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs (DEFRA, London). Various institutions periodically publish updated conversion tables for
most of the countries in the world.

222
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

DEFRA data from the years 2014 and 2015 was taken as a basis for this Sustainability Report. As
DEFRA had no rendering value for Mauritius, the DEFRA average value for Africa was taken. Greenhouse Gas Protocol values last published by the WBCSD in Geneva in 2009 were used for the Czech
Republic and Turkey, as no specific DEFRA values were available here either.
(Note: Since June 2016, the emission factors for the production of electricity outside the UK is no
longer available free of charge. This information was still freely available at the time this report was
prepared.)
Overview of the entire company’s energy-related CO2 emissions taking into account a) the combustion of natural gas in the company’s own plants (Scope 1), b) indirect emissions from the purchase of
the energy sources electricity and district heating (Scope 2) as well as c) the indirect emissions resulting in the supply chain for natural gas, electricity and district heating (Scope 3).
CO2 emissions from the combustion of natural gas by location (Scope 1) for 2014 and 2015

Scope-1
Total

2014

2015

3.543 t CO2

3,073 t CO2

CO2 emissions from the purchase of district heating and electricity by location (Scope 2) for 2014 and
2015

Scope-2
Summe

2014

2015

52.195 t CO2

51,336 t CO2

CO2 emissions from services and use of infrastructure (Scope 3)

Scope-3
Summe

2014

2015

9.378 t CO2

9.926 t CO2

The classification into Scope 1, 2 and 3: When considering CO2 emissions resulting from entrepreneurial activity, a distinction is made into three categories: Direct emissions from our own facilities,
known as Scope 1 emissions, indirect emissions from purchased energy sources, known as Scope 2
emissions, and indirect emissions from CO2 emissions in the supply chain and from related services,
known as Scope 3 emissions.
The following tables show the CO2 emissions generated by the company directly, through the combustion of natural gas in our own plants (Scope 1), as well as indirectly, through purchased district
heating (Scope 2) and electricity (Scope 2), in those countries in which consolidated business units
are active. Due to their particular relevance, Scope 3 emissions are shown using the example of resource use in Germany.
G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)
CO2 emissions from the combustion of natural gas by location (Scope 1) for 2014 and 2015

Country

2014

2015

Germany

2.457 t CO2
13.313 MWh

2.169 t CO2
11.762 MWh

Slovakia

555 t CO2
3.008 MWh

371 t CO2
2.011 MWh
223

Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Poland
Hungary
Belgium
Netherlands
Others
Total

280 t CO2
1.517 MWh
189 t CO2
1.027 MWh
21 t CO2
113 MWh
30 t CO2
162 MWh
11 t CO2
61 MWh
3.543 t CO2
19.199 MWh

264 t CO2
1.433 MWh
227 t CO2
1.231 Wh
26 t CO2
138 MWh
16 t CO2
86 MWh
0,01 t CO2
0,055 MWh
3.073 t CO2
16.662 MWh

G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2)
CO2 emissions from the purchase of district heating and electricity by location (Scope 2) for 2014 and
2015

Country

2014

2015

Germany

40.921 t CO2
(103.387 MWh)

38.657 t CO2
(97.794 MWh)

7.334 t CO2
(9.403 MWh)
1.245 t CO2
(2.913 MWh)
413 t CO2
(835 MWh)
729 t CO2
(2.300 MWh)
40 t CO2
(100 MWh)
68 t CO2
(79 MWh)
189 t CO2
(919 MWh)
219 t CO2
(1.987 MWh)
55 t CO2
(129 MWh)
54 t CO2
(186 MWh)
61 t CO2
(122 MWh)
28 t CO2
(145 MWh)
19 t CO2
(626 MWh)

9.098 t CO2
(11.756 MWh)
1.347 t CO2
(3.079 MWh)
676 t CO2
(1.464 MWh)
614 t CO2
(1.930 MWh)
206 t CO2
(517 MWh)
130 t CO2
(151 MWh)
206 t CO2
(998 MWh)
188 t CO2
(1.865 MWh)
50 t CO2
(119 MWh)
49 t CO2
(170 MWh)
41 t CO2
(83 MWh)
30 t CO2
(156 MWh)
19 t CO2
(590 MWh)

Poland
Serbia
Great Britain
Hungary
Netherlands
South Africa
Slovakia
France
Ireland
Spain
USA
Belgium
Switzerland
224

Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Italy
Austria
Mauritius
Others*
Total

17 t CO2
(41 MWh)
12 t CO2
(56 MWh)
6 t CO2
(10 MWh)
784 t CO2
(1.551 MWh)
52.195 t CO2
(124.790 MWh)

11 t CO2
(28 MWh)
8 t CO2
(38 MWh)
4 t CO2
(7 MWh)
1 t CO2
(28 MWh)
51.336 t CO2
(120.771 MWh)

*) The sharp decline in CO2 emissions from 2014 to 2015 under „Other“ results from the divestment
of the activities of Ringier Axel Springer in the Czech Republic which are no longer consolidated from
2015.
G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3)
Scope 3 = CO2 emissions indirectly generated through the purchase of services or through the provision of infrastructure for the purchase of commercial energy.
Example Germany
In 2015, 80 percent (2014: 81 percent) of the quantities of natural gas, district heating and electricity used by the company was accounted for by business units in Germany. This corresponds to 74
percent (2014: 77 percent) of the CO2 emissions generated from these types of energy by the company. Against this background, a differentiated consideration of Scope 3 CO2 emissions should be
made based on the data available for business units active in Germany. Apart from the CO2 emissions
generated in the supply chain for natural gas, electricity and district heating, emissions for externally
purchased mobility and logistics services are also reported here for Germany.
Notes on press distribution logistics:
•
•
•
•

The data relate to the press distribution transport from the printing plants to the trading partners
(wholesalers and railway station bookshops) as well as delivery organizations and special points of
sale;
The weight was collected for the circulations that were logistically supported. Projections were
made on the basis of an annual fixed week. From these the CO2 emissions were estimated;
Account was taken of the entire print run produced in our own and external printing plants in Germany;
The data relate to all the newspaper titles published in Germany by Axel Springer SE (as well as
the titles „Hamburger Abendblatt“ and „Berliner Morgenpost” which are logistically supported for
the Funke Mediengruppe).

CO2 emissions from services and use of infrastructure (Scope 3)
Scope 3 sources for resource use in
Germany

2014

2015

Total in tonnes

42.236 t CO2

36.755 t CO2

Air travel

4.742 t CO2

3.913 t CO2

Local rail transport

85 t CO2

65 t CO2

Car sharing, car rental

570 t CO2

604 t CO2

225
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Delivery of printing paper rolls

11.868 t CO2

8.620 t CO2

Press distribution

18.103 t CO2

16.823 t CO2

Emissions from the electricity supply
infrastructure

6.491 t CO2

6.396 t CO2

Emissions from the district heating
supply infrastructure

46 t CO2

41 t CO2

Emissions from the natural gas supply
infrastructure

331 t CO2

292 t CO2

42.236 t CO2

36.755 t CO2

Total
Notes on press distribution logistics:
•
•
•
•

The data relate to the press distribution transport from the printing plants to the trading partners
(wholesalers and railway station bookshops) as well as delivery organizations and special points of
sale;
The weight was collected for the circulations that were logistically supported. Projections were
made on the basis of an annual fixed week. From these the CO2 emissions were estimated;
Account was taken of the entire print run produced in our own and external printing plants in Germany;
The data relate to all the newspaper titles published in Germany by Axel Springer SE (as well as the
titles &quot;Hamburger Abendblatt&quot; and &quot;Berliner Morgenpost” which are logistically
supported for the Funke Mediengruppe).

G4-EN19 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
A range of measures have been introduced to improve resource efficiency with regard to the emission
of greenhouse gases. These include:
1. Measures for the more complete documentation of the energy used throughout the entire company
2. Carrying out of European energy audits at relevant locations
3. Raising of employees’ awareness at the publishing office locations with regard to energy efficient
behavior (reducing standby energy consumption, etc.)
4. Using more energy-efficient computers.
5. More energy-efficient ventilating systems for cooling or heating in the printing facilities
6. Optimized energy management through periodic shut-downs of equipment in the printing facilities
7. Controlling the lighting using motion detectors at the publishing office locations
8. Trial use of vehicles with alternative drive technology and energy.
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
The gradual optimization of the energy efficiency and CO2 efficiency of servers and data processing
centers is at the forefront in the area of digital media services. To this end, Axel Springer has taken part
in pilot projects in co-operation with the Federal Environment Agency and the Technical University of
Berlin within the scope of the “Green IT Berlin-Brandenburg” initiative. The digitization and the internationalization of the company have reduced the representativeness of the data reported for the whole
company over the past few years, such as for example in the field of energy. This problem arises when
determining the total energy consumed by a large company, including its consolidated business units.
Through an initial, almost complete record of the energy used by the approximately 180 for the most
part digital subsidiaries worldwide by Group Accounting, a significant part of the CO2 emissions calculated from this for the company can now also be documented for 2014 and 2015.

226
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Work is currently being done on the further differentiation of the data for the whole company.
G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting gases
No significant emissions are generated in the company’s production processes by substances which
could contribute to the depletion of the ozone layer.
G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method
The following picture emerges for the printing plants in Germany for the years 2013 to 2015:
Figures in tonnes (t)

2013

2014

2015

2015 vs. 2013

Total residual materials

18,075

14,001

13,124

-27 %

Non-hazardous solid waste for recycling

17,488

13,150

12,259

-30 %

Non-hazardous solid waste for disposal

94

326

325

+246 %

Hazardous solid waste for
recycling

434

477

489

13 %

Hazardous solid waste for
disposal

59

48

51

-14 %

Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
The disposal of printing ink residues, of plastic waste materials, batteries and electrical equipment,
etc. are subject to detailed national and European regulations, with which compliance is reviewed.
Mill broke from the company‘s printing plants is fed into the recycling process through licensed used
paper dealers.
2.8 Aspect: Transport
G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and
materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce.
Fossil fuels are mostly necessary for transporting of goods and people. Three transport areas deserve
special mention with respect to the company‘s operations:
•
•
•

Delivery of printing paper by suppliers
Transport of newspapers and magazines from most publishing companies from the publishing
wholesaler to the kiosks by independent carriers.
C02 emissions caused through business trips by employees in Germany.

2.10 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment
G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
Central purchasing: The screening of our relevant suppliers is generally perpetual. As a rule through
the presentation of relevant certificates and audits, insights into externally assured Sustainability Reports, exchange of paper profiles, waste paper usage quotas, on-site visits as well as personal discussions.
2.11 Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms
G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved
through formal grievance mechanisms
No formal official / regulatory complaints were lodged against our own printers in Germany regarding
violations of permits, requirements, statutory guidelines during the 2014/2015 reporting period.

227
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Specific Standard Disclosures on Economy

The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sees itself as an ongoing international dialog which, through the definition of performance indicators, involves a number of stakeholder groups worldwide. These include companies, universities, governmental
organizations and non-governmental organizations from the fields of labor, social affairs, human rights and the environment.

Economic Indicators
The following indicators meet the G4/MSD Guidelines of the “Global Reporting Initiative” (GRI) for the
internationally uniform structuring of sustainability reports. (“MSD” stands for Media Sector Disclosures.)
The abbreviation “EC” in the GRI Numbers stands for “Economic”.
1. Management approach for stakeholder concern:
Economic performance and profitability
G4-DMA-A Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect
material.
•
•
•
•
•
•

Profitability
Profitable growth
Sustainable increase in the value of the company
Consistently high dividend yield
Fair market valuation of the share
Cooperation based on trust

Without profitability the company has no sustainable continuity. Further details are documented in the
2015 Annual Report.
G4-DMA-B Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. (Policies, commitments, goals and targets, responsibilities, resources, specific actions)
Policies
Company Policies - Organization-wide policy that defines the organization’s overall commitment related to the Economic Aspects.

228
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Commitments
Corporate Values: Our corporate values are the foundation for the strategic and operational development of the Group. They guide every employee in his/her work and are the cornerstones of our
corporate culture. The three corporate values are:
•
•
•

Creativity as the decisive prerequisite for success as journalists as well as for commercial success
Entrepreneurial spirit, defined as imaginative, responsible and result-oriented action taken by employees and management
Integrity towards the company, readers, customers, employees, business associates and shareholders.

Goals and targets
Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Economic Aspects: Value-Driven
Management: The business strategy of Axel Springer is based on the three tenets of extending the
company’s market leadership position in the German-language core business, as well as internationalization and digitization. The overriding goals of this strategy are to ensure profitable, long-term growth
and sustainably increase the value of the company.
Responsibilities
The ultimate responsibility for Economic Aspects lies with the Executive Board of Axel Springer SE.
Resources
Qualified employees and capital
Specific actions
Internationalization and digitization
G4-DMA-C Report the evaluation of the management approach, including the mechanisms
for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; the results of the evaluation
of the management approach; the consequences the organization will draw.
Mechanisms
The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Executive Board. It monitors and advises the
Executive Board in the running of its business operations.
Results
More than 15,000 employees generated total revenues of 3,294.9 million euros and earnings (EBITDA) of 559.0 million euros in 2015.
Consequences
The company will push ahead with internationalization and digitization.
Further details are documented in the 2015 Annual Report.

229
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

2. Disclosures and references for the reporting period 2014 + 2015
2.1 Aspect: Economic Performance
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating
costs, employee wages and benefits, donations and other community investments, retained
earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments (taxes)
Fiscal years 2014 and 2015: (Group)
(*Note: figures only comprise continued operations )
•

Revenues*:
3,294.9 million euros in 2015 and 3,037.9 million euros in 2014.

•

Operating costs*:
Defined as the sum of material costs, personnel expenditure, other operating expenses: 2,975.9
million euros in 2015 and 2,721.7 million euros in 2014.

•

Employee wages and benefits*:
Personnel expenditure in 2015: 1,100.3 million euros (of which wages and salaries: 932.8 million
euros)
Personnel expenditure in 2014: 974.4 million euros (of which wages and salaries: 820.3 million
euros)

•

Donations:
Cannot be calculated at Group level. We do not have this information available in detail.

•

Retained earnings:
Equity capital generated as per 31.12.2015: 1,508.4 million euros;
Equity capital generated as per 31.12.2014: 2,041.2 million euros;

•

Payments to capital providers (equity capital providers):
Dividends for the fiscal year 2014 (paid in 2015): 178.1 million euros; Dividends for the fiscal year
2013 (paid in 2014): 178.1 million euros

•

Payments to governments (taxes):
Tax expenditure* (taxes on income and on earnings) in 2015: 136.2 million euros;
taxes on earnings paid in 2015: 174.9 million euros
Tax expenditure* (taxes on income and on earnings) in 2014: 78.9 million euros;
taxes on earnings paid in 2014: 147.5 million euros

G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change
•
•

No direct effects have been identified to date
Indirect effects: Rising energy costs could have implications for the distribution of newspapers and
magazines, the operation of printing facilities and publishing office buildings as well as the manufacture of printing paper

G4-EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations
Fiscal year 2015: (Group)
• social expenditure (employer contributions to social security, incl. health insurance) Social expenditure: 138.2 million euros
• Pension expenditure, company pension plan, pension plan expenditure: 11.8 million euros

230
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Fiscal year 2014: (Group)
• social expenditure (employer contributions to social security, incl. health insurance) Social expenditure: 130.1 million euros
• Pension expenditure, company pension plan, pension plan expenditure: 8.5 million euros
By participating in the “VarioRente”, a forward-looking deferred compensation company pension plan,
employees of Axel Springer SE in Germany accumulate a sizable balance in their pension account by
the time they enter retirement.
G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government (e.g. subsidies, advertising)
Investment grants:
Liabilities from investment grants as per 31.12.2015: 10.9 million euros
Liabilities from investment grants as per 31.12.2014: 12.4 million euros
Supplementary sector disclosures (G4 Media Sector Disclosures):
The group of shareholders does not include government agencies. The proportion of gross advertising
expenditure by state governments and the federal government as a share of the company‘s advertising revenue (without classifieds) in Germany in the year 2015 was around 0.46 percent.

M1. Significant funding and other support from non-governmental sources (advertisements,
etc.)
Axel Springer SE generated advertising revenues (not including media self-advertising and charitable
institutions) amounting to approximately 1.2 billion euros in 2015. None of the advertisers was responsible for more than an approximate 7 percent share of advertising revenues (not including media
self-advertising and charitable institutions). (Source: Nielsen Media Research GmbH).

2.4 Aspect: Procurement Practices
G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation.
The company generates almost all of its revenue in OECD or EU countries, such as Germany, Hungary, Spain, Switzerland, Slovakia, Poland. The publishing subsidiary in Moscow (Russia), a number of
the locations of the Zanox subsidiary, as well as the location of the RASM AG joint venture in Serbia
are exceptions. Supplies come almost without exception from local sources or the region. One exception, depending upon the location, is the procurement of printing paper, particularly as paper for
newspapers and magazines is only produced in very few countries in the required quantity and quality.
The same is true for the procurement of printing ink, printing machines and computers. An overview of
the origin of the printing paper used by the company can be viewed here.

231
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

How is a sustainability report assured?

The expectations placed on modern sustainability reporting are rising continuously. This picture shows the essential stages of
the external assurance of a sustainability report. (Source: PwC).

PricewaterhouseCoopers AG auditing company (PwC) has performed a review of the material indicators for the reference years 2014 and 2015 to achieve limited assurance. The disclosures assured in
the Sustainability Report are additionally marked as follows:

Assurance of the Axel Springer SE Sustainability Report 2014/2015 by the auditing company PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC)
Since the late 1990s, in addition to the traditional financial reporting and the social and environmental
reporting, through so-called sustainability reporting, comprehensive reporting on economic, environmental and social/societal aspects has become widespread. Sustainability reporting is not only
directed towards the company‘s shareholders, but to a very broad audience of stakeholders, which
include for example the employees, suppliers, customers, current and potential investors, the public,
non-governmental organizations and various public authorities and institutions. In accordance with
the definition of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Reporting comprises “measuring,
disclosing and being accountable to internal and external stakeholders for organizational performance
towards the goal of sustainable development. […] A sustainability report should provide a balanced
and reasonable representation of the sustainability performance of a reporting organization, including
both positive and negative contributions”.
Both management and stakeholders require additional assurance that sustainability reports inform accurately, completely and appropriately on environmental and social/societal aspects, and an external
assurance certificate within the scope of the assurance of the sustainability reporting is increasingly
demanded by companies.

The object and basis of assurance
The object of the assurance is generally the specifically defined material (quantitative) data in the
Sustainability Report. The GRI guidelines provide a comprehensive and internationally accepted recommendation for the content of sustainability reporting. These define economic, environmental and
social standard disclosures as well as information on the strategy, company profile and management
systems as the minimum content of a sustainability report. In concrete terms, the standard disclosures comprise indicators from the areas of Economy, Environment (e.g. disclosures on materials,

232
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

emissions, energy consumption, water consumption, biodiversity, and waste) and Social Impacts
(e.g. disclosures on humane working conditions, observance of human rights, social commitment and
product responsibility).
The central principles for defining the content of the report are materiality, stakeholder engagement,
sustainability context and completeness. The goal of these principles is the definition of the content
of sustainability reports, taking the expectations and demands of the relevant stakeholders into account. The central principles for defining the quality of reported information consist of the principles
of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, reliability, and clarity. They are designed to ensure
the transparency of sustainability reporting and enable stakeholders to make a sound assessment of
performance.
To enhance the credibility of sustainability reporting, the GRI recommends, in addition to the establishment of suitable management systems and reporting processes, having the reports certified by
experts on the basis of the GRI reporting principles.

Assurance procedure
The PwC approach for the assurance of a sustainability report basically follows the same standards
as the audit of other business data and processes, and is followed in accordance with an international
assurance standard („ISAE 3000 Revised“). A special feature of the assurance of sustainability reports,
however, is that there are as yet no statutory provisions and requirements in Germany; meaning that
the object, scope and standard of the assurance procedure are therefore agreed individually and entered in the assurance certificate. The assurance procedure for the business audit of the Axel Springer
SE 2015 Sustainability Report is briefly outlined below:

Design Inspection
At the beginning of an audit, the assurance procedure, the necessary paperwork, documentation
and contacts as well as the schedule are agreed with the client. This serves the senior auditor as a
basis for drawing up a detailed assurance program. The preaudit itself includes the recording of the
relevant systems and processes of sustainability reporting, as well as an assessment of adequacy in
accordance with the agreed assessment criteria (process evaluation).

Audit of the reporting processes
Following this, the assurance team establishes that the relevant reporting processes and process
controls within the company have been complied with, particularly the processes concerning the
gathering, quality assurance and aggregation of data for sustainability reporting (process validation).
This can be done – depending upon the type and complexity of the processes – by process observation or an analysis of individual processes and controls. To do this, the auditor establishes on the one
hand through so-called on-site inspections at the data source that data is fully and correctly recorded.
On the other hand, the understanding of the process acquired during the preaudit ensures that the
essential controls along the entire process chain up to the aggregation of key performance indicators
and their provision for the report can be included in the audit. What is permissible and also desirable
to ensure the efficient performance of assurance, is the use of audit results from third parties, provided
they meet the high standards of assurance procedure and assurance reliability demanded by PwC.

233
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Assurance of selected (quantitative) information
The assurance of the quantitative data in the Sustainability Report is enhanced through analytical
inspections – such as the generation and review of expected values, or the conducting of trend and
deviation analyses – as well as the classical scrutiny of documents. This applies mainly to those
indicators which did not achieve sufficient assurance reliability through the process audits. This can
also apply to individual information for which an individual audit promises higher assurance reliability or
greater efficiency. The assurance is accompanied by a review of the drafts of the Sustainability Report,
to assess the compatibility of their content, language and design with the GRI reporting principles as
well as the quantitative information in the context of the report.

Documentation of the assurance
At the conclusion of the assurance, the assurance findings and any recommendations on improving
the systems and processes of sustainability reporting are discussed with the client and the assurance
certificate is issued. The auditor‘s examination of systems and processes, along with the associated
findings and recommendations, which are recorded in the assurance certificate are often starting
points for the optimization of internal sustainability management.

234
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Appendix

235
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

About Axel Springer

The Axel Springer logo above the main entrance of the Axel Springer building in Berlin. (Photo: Axel Springer SE)

Axel Springer SE is the leading digital publishing house in Europe. The digital media channels make
up almost three quarters of pro forma Group revenues already today. Through consistent internationalization and digitization, Axel Springer SE is not only market leader in the German print business today,
but is also active in more than 40 countries through subsidiaries, joint ventures and licenses. Axel
Springer SE generates more than 40 percent of its turnover with international business.
The company has its headquarters in Berlin, and through subsidiaries, joint ventures and licenses is
active in more than 40 countries. More than 40 percent of turnover comes from international business.
More than 15,000 employees generated total revenues of 3,294.9 million euros and earnings (EBITDA) of 559.0 million euros in 2015.
Mehr Informationen finden Sie auf www.axelspringer.de

236
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Studies and Reports
Sustainability Management at Axel Springer
1. Sustainability Report 2015
2. Sustainability Report 2013
3. Sustainability Report 2011
4. Sustainability Report 2009
5. Sustainability Report 2007
6. Sustainability Report 2005
7. Printing ink and Sustainability (2006)
Printing methods, printing inks and raw materials are presented in general and under the aspect of
sustainability on 25 pages (in German).
8. From Russia....with Transparency (2005)
This report is about the so-called „Tikhvin-Chalna-Project“ and the cooperation of the paper manufacturer Stora Enso with paper customers Axel Springer SE, Random House Group and Time Inc. in
order to increase transparency in the cross-border timber supply chain. The critical review is carried
out by Transparency International, the leading NGO on fighting corruption.
9. Sustainability Balanced Scorecard (2003)
In this research project Axel Springer cooperated with the Universities of Lüneburg and St. Gallen as
well as with companies such as Bahlsen, Volkswagen and the Swiss UBS Bank. The project focussed
on value-driven options of sustainability management and integration of environmental issues in strategic planning documents. The results of this work sponsored by the Federal Ministry of Education
and Science (BMBF) are published in book form by the Gabler publishing house (in German).
10. Tracing Russian Wood Imports (2001)
In a joint project, Axel Springer, together with the Finnish paper manufacturer UPM-Kymmene and
Otto Versand (mail order), has made the wood chain transparent from the forest in Russia to the paper
mill in Finland. The first project report „Tracing Russian Wood Imports“ shows how imports of wood
from Russia are ecologically audited. There is also room for critical voices from the Russian forest
management and the environmental organization Greenpeace Russia.
11. Ecological Learning Processes in the Paper Chain (2000)
This study was written at the university of St. Gallen in Switzerland. Among other things, it describes
how companies integrate ecological insights into their decision-making processes, using Axel Springer as an example (in German).
12. Ecological Improvements in the Paper Chain (1999)
This report, available in German only, describes the background, goals and realization of the cooperation between Otto Versand and Axel Springer with 8,900 Norwegian family-owned forestry enterprises
and the paper manufacturer Norske Skog (in German).
Evaluation of the Ecological Life Cycles of Newspapers and Magazines (1998)
This analysis researches the environmental aspects of pulp and paper production using data gathered in Sweden, Germany, and Canada. It was prepared in conjunction with the StoraEnso and Canfor
companies.

237
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Glossary
Explanation of Abbreviations and Terms
Accessibility: the accessibility and usability of a system for people with disabilities.
Application: alternative designation for a program or software.
Occupational safety/health: includes safety at work, health, environmental and fire protection.
ION: improved offset publication paper
IGN: improved gravure publication paper
Benzol: hydrocarbon contained in petrol. Small amounts escape through exhaust fumes.
Bio-diversity: Diversity of species of flora and fauna
Blog (short for: weblog): a regularly updated website, whose articles (blog posts) are read in reverse
chronological order.
Combined heating and power plant: gas-powered generator for producing power, heating and
cooling
Browser: a software program, which can retrieve,download, buffer and display documents which are
available on the World Wide Web. Popular browsers include Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome and
Safari.
Chlorine: greenish-yellow, toxic gas with an acrid odor. It is still used sometimes for bleaching textiles, cellulose and paper.
Compliance: conformity to laws, voluntary commitments, guidelines and codes.
Community: a community refers to (regular) users of portals, forums or social networks. A characteristic feature of communities is that their users generate the content themselves (User Generated
Content).
Cross-media: Cross-media is the content-based, creative and formal networking of different media
channels and advertising media relevant to target groups, with the aim of achieving maximum advertising success through the multi-channel appeal to target groups.
Data protection: Refers in general to the protection of personal data against misuse thus ensuring
the informational self-determination of the individual, i.e. the fundamental right of the individual to
make his own decisions concerning the disclosure and use of his personal data.
Dioxin: toxic hydrocarbons. They are released, for example, in the production of pesticides.
Discrimination: Discrimination, unequal treatment or degradation of people on the basis of certain
characteristics or properties.
Printing inks: comprising of pigments, binding agents (for the adhesion of the pigment to the paper)
and solvents (to keep the printing ink liquid until it is applied to the surface of the paper).

238
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

ECF: „Elemental Chlorine-Free“ – cellulose bleached with chloride compounds instead of pure chlorine
E-commerce: The sale of products or services on or via the Internet.
Emission: Liquid, solid (dust) or gaseous substances released from technical plants into air and water
Fossil energy: also known as primary energy; naturally formed gaseous, liquid and solid fuels such
as natural gas, oil and coal
Fresh fiber: also known as primary fiber; paper fiber obtained from the resource wood
Information security: Refers to all the planned and implemented technical and organizational aspects that serve the protection of data and information sensitive or critical to the company.
International Social Policy: A catalog of social standards drawn up by Axel Springer on issues
relating to human rights, compliance with the law, child protection, the treatment of employees, health
and safety as well as the work/family balance. These standards are binding worldwide for all of the
company’s activities.
Antitrust law: Legal regulations which deal with the prohibition or the requirements for admissibility of
agreements between companies and other market participants which relate to competition, or contain
requirements relating to behavior, in particular that of market-dominating companies.
Carbon dioxide (CO2): colorless, odorless and tasteless gas. It is formed by, among other things,
combustion of substances containing hydrocarbons (such as, for example, wood, oil, petrol).
Carbon monoxide (CO): odorless, non-irritant but highly toxic gas. It is formed by the incomplete
combustion of fossil fuels.
Highly-volatile non-methane hydrocarbons: odorless, non-irritant but highly toxic gases. They are
formed by the incomplete combustion of fossil fuels.
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA): Analysis of the life-cycle of a product
LWC: „light weight coated“, lightweight rolling press paper, coated on both sides, for magazines,
envelopes and catalogs
Mill broke: printed and unprinted scrap paper
Sustainability: According to the classical definition (Brundtland Report, 1987): „Sustainable development means satisfying the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future
generations to satisfy theirs.“
On Demand: Type of use in which the user may select any unit from a portfolio and consume it immediately.
Regenerative energy: renewable energy sources such as sun, geothermal energy, water, wind and
wood
Resources: Raw materials such as wood, oil, coal, clean water and clean air
SRP: Special Rotogravure Paper

239
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

SC: super-calandered paper, magazine paper smoothed between the rollers of a calandering machine
in the rotogravure process
Sulphur Dioxide (SO2): colorless, highly-toxic gas with an acrid odor, formed in the combustion of
fossil fuels. The major cause of „acid rain“.
Site map: a document that describes the structure of a web site.
Social Media: Social Media refers to digital media and technologies that enable users to swap content and to create media content either on their own or with others. All of the media (platforms) are
understood, which support users in their mutual communication through digital channels and in the
interactive exchange of information.
Stakeholders: The term stakeholder is used to refer to a person or group which has a legitimate interest in the course or outcome of a process or project. The term „stakeholder“ comes from the English.
„Stake“ can be translated as investment, share or claim, „holder“ as owner. The term ‚stakeholder
group‘ is also increasingly catching on.
Nitric/Nitrous Oxides (NOX): toxic combustion gases – result in smog formation, overfertilization
and „acid rain“.
SON: Standard Offset Newspaper publication paper
TCF: „Totally Chlorine Free“, cellulose bleached without chlorine or chlorine compounds
Toluol: Solvent present in the printing inks used in newspaper and catalog rotogravure
Usability: of a web site or software often indicates how often, productive and useful it is used.

240
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Legal notice
Copyright
Copyright 2016 Axel Springer SE. All rights reserved. All types of content (text, photographs, graphics, sound, animations and videos) and their arrangement on the website of Axel Springer SE fall
under the German Copyright Act and other protective laws. Without the prior written consent of Axel
Springer SE such content may only be used within the limiting provisions of the Copyright Act and
subject to other applicable laws.

Liability for links
In its judgment of 12 May 1998, „Liability for Links“ (312 O 85/98), the Regional Court of Hamburg
made it clear that the inclusion of a link may constitute co-responsibility for the content of the linked
page; in other words, it may entail liability. This can only be prevented by expressly dissociating
oneself from such content. Axel Springer SE hereby expressly dissociates itself from all the content
of every page linked to nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de and emphasizes that neither does it have any
influence on the design and content of the linked pages, nor does it adopt such content. If the linked
pages include content that is offensive or illegal and this comes to the knowledge of Axel Springer SE,
such links will be removed immediately.

241
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

Contacts for sustainability
Your feedback is welcome!
Here you will find your main contacts in the publishing and printing locations, in the editorial offices as
well as at the suppliers of printing paper and printing services.

Contact persons at Axel Springer in Germany
Florian Nehm
Corporate Sustainability Officer
Axel-Springer-Straße 65
10888 Berlin
Tel: +49 30 2591 79370
nachhaltigkeit@axelspringer.de
Edda Fels
Head of Corporate Public Relations
Axel-Springer-Str. 65
10888 Berlin
Tel: +49 30 2591 77600
edda.fels@axelspringer.de
Claudia Thomé
Head of Investor Relations
Axel-Springer-Str. 65
10888 Berlin
Tel: +49 30 2591 77421
claudia.thome@axelspringer.de
Paul Haanen
Head of Corporate Purchasing
Axel-Springer-Str. 65
10888 Berlin
Tel: +49 30 2591 79306
paul.haanen@axelspringer.de
Niels Matusch
Head of Group Controlling
Axel-Springer-Straße 65
10888 Berlin
Tel: +49 30 2591 78201
niels.matusch@axelspringer.de

242
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

LA1 Total workforce by employment type and country
Axel	  Springer	  SE
Sustainability
Report	  2015

GRI-­‐Indicator	  LA1

Personnel by occupation
2013

2014

2015

Skilled labourers

2.797
9.167
448
432

2.771
10.457
353
336

2.730
11.572
383
338

Total

12.843

13.917

15.023

Editors
Company employees
Skilled workers

Personnel by location
2013

2014

2015

7.562
5.281

8.190
5.727

8.177
6.846

12.843

13.917

15.023

2.554
346
218
3.819
309
126
64
84
83
945

1.656
307
209
4.709
286
117
612
291
83
501

1.260
282
182
4.889
273
94
772
248
83
750

8.548

8.771

8.833

Switzerland
Other

1.254
0
520
0
409
0
502
374
0
430
1.771

1.237
1.166
866
369
402
8
328
378
0
417
534

1.324
1.299
851
516
434
428
378
353
344
313
339

Total international

5.260

5.705

6.579

13.808

14.476

15.412

National
International
Total

Locations national
Hamburg
Ahrensburg/Offset
Essen-Kettwig
Berlin
Spandau
Munich
Dusseldorf
Cologne
Frankfurt
Branch offices home country
Total
National locations are reported on January 31st.

International subsidiaries
Poland
UK
France
India
Slovakia
United States
Hungary
Serbia
The Netherlands

Total

243
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

LA1 Total workforce by employment type and country
Axel	  Springer	  SE
Sustainability
Report	  2015

GRI-­‐Indicator	  LA1
Breakdown of number of employees by gender
2013
m
Editors
Company employees
Gewerbliche
Total

	  	  	  	  1.673	  
	  	  	  	  4.969	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  720	  
	  

2014
w

	  	  	  	  1.124	  
	  	  	  	  4.199	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  160	  
	  

m

	  	  	  	  1.613	  
	  	  	  	  5.865	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  593	  
	  

2015
w

	  	  	  1.159	  
	  
	  	  	  4.592	  
	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  95	  

m

	  	  1.530	  
	  
	  	  6.614	  
	  
	  	  	  	  	  589	  
	  

w

	  	  	  	  	  	  1.200	  
	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  4.957	  
	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  132	  

8.733

Summe

6.289

12.843

13.917

15.023

2013
3,2%
3,3%
6,5%
6,7%
3,6%

2014
3,1%
3,4%
5,9%
8,2%
3,6%

2015
3,7%
4,0%
7,9%
8,4%
4,3%

2013

2014

2015

10,4

10,5

10,4

2013

2014

2015

41,7

41,6

41,7

2014

2015

Sickness absence (Germany)
Editors
Company employees
Skilled workers
Skilled labourers
Gesamt

Average length of employment (Germany)
Length of employment in years

Average age (Germany)
Average age in years

SHE figures
2013
Axel Springer SE
Axel Springer SE and consolidated
companies

absolut
179
307

%
4,4%
3,7%

183
294

5,2%
3,8%

85
278

4,1%
3,7%

244
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

LA7 Occupational diseases and accidents at work
Axel Springer SE
Sustainability Report 2015

LA7 - Occupational diseases and accidents at work

Reportable
work
accidents

Reportable
accidents
(1000-­‐
employee
quota)

Reportable
commuting
accidents

Reportable
commuting
accidents
(1000-­‐
employee
quota)

Reportable
work
accidents

Reportable
accidents
(1000-­‐
employee
quota)

2013

Reportable
commuting
accidents

Reportable
commuting
accidents
(1000-­‐
employee
quota)

Reportable
work
accidents

Reportable
accidents
(1000-­‐
employee
quota)

2014

Reportable
commuting
accidents

Reportable
commuting
accidents
(1000-­‐
employee
quota)

2015

Publishing	  offices	  Germany
Office	  Berlin
Office	  Hamburg

15

5,74

21

8,04

4

1,38

23

7,35

4

1,36

26

8,86

7

5,18

18

13,31

5

4,90

15

14,70

3

3,10

13

13,50

Own	  printing	  plants
Printing	  plant	  Spandau

9

30,30

5

16,84

9

32,28

0

0,00

2

7,51

2

7,51

Printing	  plant	  Ahrensburg

8

24,62

2

6,15

11

38,10

1

3,50

12

46,20

1

3,80

Printing	  plant	  Kettwig

7

31,96

3

13,70

10

49,75

0

0,00

7

40,23

0

0,00

Seite 1 von 1

245
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

PwC Prüfbescheinigung Seite 1 von 3

Page 1 of 3

Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report regarding sustainability information1

To Axel Springer SE, Berlin
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the sustainability information marked with
in the Sustainability Report of Axel Springer SE (hereafter the
“Sustainability Report”), Berlin, (hereafter the “Company”) for the period from 1 January 2014 to
31 December 2015.
Management’s Responsibility
Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability
Report in accordance with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the information to be assessed.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the
Sustainability Report as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability
disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes
designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of
the Sustainability Report, which is free of material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors.
Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control
We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding independence as well as
other ethical requirements.
The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in particular
the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the joint opinion
of the Wirtschaftsprüferkammer (Chamber of German Public Auditors; WPK) and the Institut der
Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control
for audit firms (“Gemeinsamen Stellungnahme der WPK und des IDW: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”: “VO 1/2006”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory
requirements.

1

Our engagement applies to the German version of the Sustainability Report. This text is a translation of
the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language - the German text is authoritative. The entity is responsible for their website and we do not accept responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported subject matter information or criteria since they were initially presented on the
website.

246
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

PwC Prüfbescheinigung Seite 2 von 3

Page 2 of 3
Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability information marked with
in the Sustainability Report based on our work performed.
Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on external sources of information or expert opinions that are referred to in the Sustainability Report.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
(ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the
assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention
that cause us to believe that the sustainability information marked with
in the Sustainability Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRICriteria.
In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a
reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a
reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner's judgement. This includes the assessment of the risks of material misstatements of the sustainability information marked with

in the Sustainability Report with regard to the GRI-Criteria.

Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures:
 Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability organization and of the stakeholder engagement
 Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Sustainability Report regarding the
preparation process, the underlying internal control system and selected sustainability information
 Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information of the Sustainability Report
 Comparison of selected sustainability information with corresponding data in the consolidated
financial statements and in the group management report
 Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability information in the Sustainability Report regarding the sustainability performance
 Gaining further evidence for selected data of the sustainability report due to inspection of internal documents and reports of external service providers.
Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to
believe that the sustainability information marked with
in the Sustainability Report
of the Company for the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2015 has not been prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.

247
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

PwC Prüfbescheinigung Seite 3 von 3

Page 3 of 3
Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further
development of the Company's sustainability management and sustainability reporting:
 Further formalization of internal processes and controls for reporting sustainability information
 Further adaptation of sustainability reporting to the changing business model, including extension of reporting to subsidiaries outside of Germany.
Restrictions on use and distribution
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. The review has been
performed for purposes of the Company and is solely intended to inform the Company about the
results of the review. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties.

Berlin, 27 October 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Hendrik Fink
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

ppa. Susanne Klages

248
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

Our responsibility as a media company

249
Axel Springer SE, Print Excerpt of the Online Sustainability Report 2013, Source: http://nachhaltigkeit.axelspringer.de

