Show true color

Color

Zones

Acres

Zone 1

1.6

Zone 2

6.9

Zone 3

1.2

Annual Report

2016
Augmented Version

Fiscal 2016:

Another record year for
Bayer – good progress
with the acquisition of
Monsanto
Group sales €46.8 billion (Fx & portfolio adj. + 3.5%)
Substantial sales and earnings increases at Pharmaceuticals
Consumer Health grows with competition
Crop Science successful in a difficult market environment
EBITDA before special items €11.3 billion (+ 10.2%)
Net income €4.5 billion (+ 10.2%)
Core earnings per share €7.32 (+ 7.3%)
Operating cash flow €8.3 billion (+ 20.8%)
Forecast for 2017: further growth in sales and earnings

Cover picture: The digitization of farming aims to support the efficient and sustainable use of resources.
Our cover shows Charles Godoy on his farm near the town of Catalão in Brazil. He monitors his fields on a
daily basis so that he can react quickly to problems.
You can read more in the Magazine section of this Annual Report beginning on page 9.

Key Data
Change
from 2015
(%)

2015

2016

46,085

46,769

+ 1.5

9,573

10,785

+ 12.7

EBITDA before special items 1

10,256

11,302

+ 10.2

EBITDA margin before special items 1

22.3%

24.2%

EBIT 1

6,241

7,042

EBIT before special items 1

7,060

8,130

+ 15.2

Income before income taxes

5,236

5,887

+ 12.4

Net income (from continuing and discontinued operations)

+ 10.2

€ million

Bayer Group
Sales
EBITDA 1

+ 12.8

4,110

4,531

Earnings per share (from continuing and discontinued operations) (€) 1

4.97

5.44

+ 9.5

Core earnings per share (from continuing operations) (€) 1

6.82

7.32

+ 7.3

Net cash provided by operating activities (from continuing and discontinued operations)

6,890

9,089

+ 31.9

17,449

11,778

– 32.5

2,511

2,578

+ 2.7

Total dividend payment

2,067

2,233

+ 8.0

Dividend per share (€)

2.50

2.70

+ 8.0

4,274

4,666

+ 9.2

16.0

17.0

Net financial debt
Capital expenditures
Bayer AG

Innovation
Research and development expenses
Ratio of R&D expenses to sales – Pharmaceuticals (%)
Ratio of R&D expenses to sales – Crop Science (%)
Employees in research and development

10.7

11.7

14,753

15,229

+ 3.8

116,600

115,200

– 1.2

11,176

11,357

+1.6

28

29

Employees
Number of employees 2 (Dec. 31)
Personnel expenses (including pension expenses) (€ million)
Proportion of women in senior management (%)
Proportion of employees with health insurance (%)

96

98

5.0 / 13.9

4.6 / 12.3

20.0

22.1

Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) for Bayer employees

0.42

0.39

– 7.1

Loss of Primary Containment Incident Rate (LoPC-IR) 3

0.22

0.32

+ 45.5

Fluctuation (voluntary / total) (%)
Hours of vocational and ongoing training per employee

+10.5

Safety & Environmental Protection

Total energy consumption (terajoules)

83,182

84,494

+ 1.6

Energy efficiency (MWh/t) 4

6.34

6.77

+ 6.8

Total greenhouse gas emissions (CO 2 equivalents in million t) 5

9.71

9.87

+ 1.6

Specific greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalents in t / manufactured sales volume in t),
according to the market-based method 6

– 8.9

1.69

1.54

Hazardous waste generated (thousand t)

541

547

+ 1.1

Water use (million m³)

346

330

– 4.6

2015 figures restated; figures for 2012-2014 as last reported
1
For definitions of the indicators see Chapter 2.4
2
Employees calculated as full-time equivalents (FTEs)
3
Number of incidents per 200,000 working hours in which chemicals leak from their primary container, such as pipelines, pumps, tanks or drums
4
Quotient of total energy consumption and manufactured sales volume; Life Sciences only
5
Direct emissions from power plants, waste incinerators and production plants and indirect emissions from external supplies of electricity, steam and
refrigeration (according to the market-based method); portfolio-adjusted in accordance with the GHG Protocol
6
Life Sciences without Currenta

At a Glance

Sales1

+

EBITDA Before Special Items1

3.5 %

+

2

Net Income1

10.2%
+
2015

Core Earnings per Share1

+

%

2016

Supplier Management3

Investment in
Research and Development

€4.7 billion

7.3 %

+ 9.2% compared with 2015

98 %
of all strategically important suppliers
evaluated since 2012

Specific Greenhouse Gas Emissions 4

–

18

%

Work-Related Accidents

Proportion of Women
in Senior Management

since 2012

–

1

2015

Change from 2015; 2015 figures restated

2

29 %

7.1%

Currency- and portfolio-adjusted

3

Life Sciences

4

Life Sciences without Currenta

2016

Chairman’s Letter

Innovation is our
core competence

I am pleased to present to you Bayer’s annual report for fiscal 2016.
It has been a very exciting and intensive year – for me personally as well
because I became Chairman of the Board of Management in May.
I would like to thank the entire Board of Management, which started
working in its new constellation at the start of last year, for its commitment to the company. Creating an integrated organizational structure
and appointing the heads of the divisions to the Board of Management
have proven to have been the right steps at the right time. We have a
very good management team that works extremely well together.
I would also like to thank the members of the Supervisory Board for our
trust-based cooperation and all our employees, who displayed great
commitment and personal dedication in making 2016 another successful
year for Bayer.

In 2016, we again substantially raised both sales and earnings and thus
posted a new record for our operating performance. Group sales
increased by a currency- and portfolio-adjusted 3.5 percent to €46.8 billion and clean EBITDA rose by 10.2 percent to €11.3 billion. Core earnings per share advanced by 7.3 percent to €7.32.
At Pharmaceuticals, sales rose by an encouraging 8.7 percent on a
currency- and portfolio-adjusted basis, with our five key growth
products again making a significant contribution to growth. Xarelto™,
Eylea™, Xofigo™, Stivarga™ and Adempas™ posted combined sales
of €5.4 billion, compared with €4.2 billion in 2015. We raised our
assessment of the combined peak annual sales potential of these five
products from our previous estimate of at least €7.5 billion to more than
€10 billion.
Adjusted for currency and portfolio effects, sales at Consumer Health
advanced by 3.5 percent. This division posted substantial gains in Latin
America and Asia / Pacific in particular.
Despite a weak market environment, Crop Science sales matched the
prior-year level. Seeds expanded business significantly and Environmental Science also posted gratifying sales gains. Animal Health grew sales
by a currency- and portfolio-adjusted 4.8 percent.
Covestro remains fully consolidated on account of our continued
majority interest of around 64 percent at present. This business posted
currency- and portfolio-adjusted sales on a level with the prior year.
We are very pleased with the way Covestro has developed since its
stock market listing in October 2015. It confirms that separating the two
enterprises was the right move for both of them. Thanks to its very
good business performance, Covestro has successfully established a
good position on the capital market in its first year of independence;
Bayer has excellent growth perspectives resulting from its focus on the

2

Bayer CEO Werner Baumann

Life Sciences. It remains our intention to divest our entire interest in
Covestro in the medium term.
A particular highlight of 2016 was the agreed acquisition of Monsanto,
which is intended to further strengthen Bayer as a Life Science company
and create substantial additional value in the long term for you, our

3

stockholders, through more innovation, stronger growth and greater
efficiency. The two businesses are highly complementary, both in terms
of their geographical fit and their product portfolios.
It is a good step for Bayer as a whole since the two companies’ combined expertise will improve our ability to help address one of the most
urgent issues of our time: how to feed the some ten billion people who
are expected to be living on our planet by 2050.
Together with Monsanto, we would be better able to provide farmers
worldwide with a product offering that is tailored to their needs and
offers them genuine added value: from the right choice of seeds through
seed treatment to controlling weeds, pests and plant diseases. With
regard to the increasing digitization of farming, Monsanto will give us
valuable expertise.
We are confident that we will be granted all the necessary antitrust
clearances enabling us to close the transaction before the end of 2017.
The acquisition is to be financed through a mix of debt and equity. In
November 2016, we successfully placed mandatory convertible notes as
a first equity measure in this connection.
Despite the large investment being made to acquire Monsanto, we
will continue to pursue organic growth in Pharmaceuticals, Consumer
Health and Animal Health. The necessary funding will also be available
for investments at our sites as well as for smaller acquisitions and
in-licensing.
It goes without saying that this applies to research and development as
well. In 2016, we again increased R&D spending in the Life Science
areas to €4.4 billion. And we are planning a further increase in the current fiscal year because innovation is our core competence. In the Life
Science areas in particular, there is great demand for new products

4

and solutions. For example, better treatments are needed for conditions
such as cancer and cardiovascular disease. Likewise, solutions are
required to achieve the necessary increase in agricultural productivity
and feed the growing world population. In addition, investments in selfcare are designed to keep our aging population healthy and contribute
to the sustainability of public health care systems around the world.
Our investments in research together with targeted in-licensing are the
basis for our long-term growth – as shown by the projects which have
made it into our development pipelines. At Pharmaceuticals, for example,
we estimate the combined peak annual sales potential of six promising
product candidates in the mid- to late-stage pipeline to be at least €6 billion. And the combined peak sales potential of Bayer’s crop protection and
seed technology pipelines should total more than €5 billion from products
that have been or will be brought to market between 2015 and 2020.
Today, any company wishing to remain at the cutting edge of scientific
and technological development needs excellent partners. For this reason, we maintain a network of collaborations and strategic alliances with
leading universities, public research institutes, partner companies and
start-ups. Last year, for example, we concluded a cooperation agreement with Danish company FaunaPhotonics. Together we are seeking to
develop novel sensor solutions which will improve farmers’ ability to
monitor the development of pest populations and thus control pests
more effectively.
Another example is the joint venture named BlueRock Therapeutics
we established with Versant Ventures with combined funding of
US$225 million to develop stem cell therapies for curing a range of
diseases. BlueRock Therapeutics is the second large investment made
by the Bayer Lifescience Center, which has the mission to rapidly
uncover, encourage and unlock fundamental scientific breakthroughs in
medicine and agriculture.

5

We are aware that our employees are the basis for everything we do.
It is their creativity, knowledge and commitment which shape Bayer’s
performance ability. We therefore invest a great deal of effort in recruiting and retaining the best employees for Bayer. To this end, we provide
an attractive working environment and have built a creative corporate
culture that is characterized by diversity and internationality, customer
focus, experimentation, collaboration and trust.
Another reason our people enjoy working for Bayer is because they
know that sustainability and social responsibility are firmly anchored in
our corporate culture. We have committed to upholding the basic tenets
of sustainable development and the Ten Principles of the United Nations
Global Compact. Each year, we contribute to society through our
wide-ranging humanitarian commitment and social sponsorship activities. One example of this is our range of initiatives aimed at supporting
refugees living in Germany. At our sites in Leverkusen and Berlin, we
have established projects to prepare young refugees for subsequent
vocational training.
Our commitment to social responsibility is also shown through our daily
collaboration with smallholder farmers across the world. We support
them through numerous initiatives, especially in Africa and Asia. Our
expertise helps them to grow more food and market their produce more
effectively – thus generating a higher income.
As you can see, Bayer is making good progress in every respect. However, we need a reliable regulatory environment if we are to remain successful in the long term. To this end, legislators will have to make clever
decisions focused on growth and prosperity. We need a Europe that is
flourishing and fit for the future so we will have to inject new strength

6

into the European ideal. The debate on how to achieve this has only just
begun. We view it as a matter of course that we as a company should
actively, openly and transparently contribute to the discourse on important social and political issues.
On behalf of the entire Board of Management, I would like to thank you –
our valued stockholders – for the continuing confidence you have placed
in Bayer.
Sincerely,

Werner Baumann
Chairman of the Board of Management of Bayer AG

7

M ag az ine

10

Magazine

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

Innovation is a cornerstone of Bayer’s
success and critical to achieving our
mission of “Science For A Better Life.”
Through our innovations, we are helping
to solve the major challenges of our
time. With a view to further strengthening
Bayer’s culture of innovation, we have
identified four Focus Behaviors: customer
focus, collaboration and experimentation
– all underpinned by trust.

Customer Focus
Experimentation

Focus on
Innovation

Trust
Collaboration

Passion to innovate: research scientist
Lara Kuhnke from Bayer’s Pharmaceuticals
Division in a Berlin laboratory.

Patient Prasanna Oommen
trusts her physician and
Bayer’s innovative medicines.

Düsseldorf pharmacist Petra Jeremias
advises a customer.

Working toward a common goal:
Jose-Miguel Robles-Turiel from Bayer’s Crop Science Division
and colleague Mira Begic in a meeting.

12

Magazine

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Research issues have become
so complex that no one scientist
alone is able to resolve them.
Dr. Ruth Wellenreuther, alliance manager at the DKFZ

Oncology research at Bayer is committed to improving the lives of
cancer patients. Bayer’s researchers are working together with external
partners to develop new therapeutic approaches to this disease.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Magazine

13

You will ﬁnd a video of the two Heidelberg-based
cancer researchers in our Online Annual Report at
www.bayer.com/ar-cancer

We develop therapies that enable the patient’s
body to detect cancer cells and then defeat
them itself.
Dr. Rafael Carretero, cancer researcher at Bayer

In the Heidelberg
laboratory run
jointly by Bayer
and the German
Cancer Research
Center (DKFZ):
Alliance manager
Dr. Ruth Wellenreuther (left)
and Dr. Rafael
Carretero (right).

14

Magazine

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Areas of oncology research at Bayer

Antibody-drug conjugates
Certain proteins occur more frequently on
the surface of cancer cells than in healthy
cells. Bayer researchers are developing
molecules called antibody-drug conjugates which recognize these proteins.
Like a Trojan horse, they dock onto the
cancer cells and destroy them with a cell
toxin. Antibody-thorium conjugates work
in a similar way and transport radioactive
thorium-227 to the cancer cells. The resulting energy-rich alpha particles destroy
the cancer cells. By using different antibodies, conjugates can be developed for
various tumor types.

Blocking oncogenic signaling pathways
in specific tumor types
The multiplication of cancer cells is to be
halted by intervening in their key molecular
processes. One approach aims to block the
signaling pathways which prevent cancer
cell death and often result in mutations,
while another approach seeks to exploit the
differences in the metabolic activity of tumor
cells. A third approach is investigating cancer stem cells that may result in the development of resistance mechanisms and the failure of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
And a further approach is focused on the
epigenetic changes which play a role in malignant cancers. Bayer scientists are working
to understand these processes better so
they can reverse harmful modifications in
diseased cells.

T

he moment my best friend was told his
mother had died is one I’ll never forget.
We were at school together at the time,”
remembers Dr. Rafael Carretero. Rafael
and Francisco were like brothers. They
lived close to each other in the same neighborhood in Granada, Spain, played soccer in the
street and spent the summers together with their
parents, either hiking in the Sierra Nevada or

We are working to develop innovative treatments for patients with serious diseases such
as cancer in order to extend their lives and
improve their quality of life.
Professor Andreas Busch, head of Drug Discovery at Bayer

on the beach at La Herradura. But then Rafael
experienced how his best friend’s warm-hearted
and cheerful mother suffered the side effects of
chemotherapy and radiation therapy before dying – much too young – of breast cancer. “That
hit me really hard and was one of the reasons
why I decided to devote my life to fighting cancer
– so that other people would be spared this
fate,” says the Bayer researcher.

Immuno-oncology
Every day, cancer cells are formed in the
human body because of a genetic predisposition or as a result of exposure to cigarette smoke, UV radiation or other environmental influences. They are usually
eliminated by the immune system’s cells.
In certain cases, however, they can evade
the immune response and become a
harmful tumor. Bayer researchers are
working mainly in collaboration with scientists from the DKFZ on approaches leading to a reactivation of the immune system
to eliminate the tumor cells without affecting healthy nontumoral cells. The immune
system’s memory function may result in
long-term therapeutic success.

Carretero is now 33, a molecular biologist and scientific manager of a laboratory run jointly by Bayer
and the German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ).
Its 12 employees on the sixth floor of the DKFZ’s
state-of-the-art building in Heidelberg, Germany,
are conducting research to determine how the
body’s own immune system can be reactivated to
combat tumor cells. This approach was also the
subject of Carretero’s PhD at the Hospital Universitario Virgen de las Nieves in Granada. The battle
against cancer has been the common thread
through his life. “We want to develop therapies
that enable the patient’s body to detect cancer
cells and then fight them itself without harming
healthy cells at the same time,” he explains.
What’s special about the laboratory in Heidelberg
is that scientists from both Bayer and the DKFZ
work side by side. “This allows us to pick up on
novel research findings as early as possible so
that they can be channeled into drug development,” explains Dr. Ruth Wellenreuther, alliance
manager at the DKFZ. “Research issues have
become so complex that no one scientist alone is
able to resolve them. Our scientists identify potential new drug targets, and Bayer has extensive
libraries of substances and antibodies. The two

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Magazine

parties’ respective expertises complement
each other ideally, which enables us to reach our
objective more quickly.”
The joint laboratory is one aspect of a partnership that has been in existence since 2009.
Wellenreuther was involved in developing the
framework for the collaboration. “This is an alliance between equals. We clarified all the structural and legal issues right at the beginning, so
when we identify a new target we can move
straight on to searching for suitable active ingredients.” The partnership has already been successful: The first active ingredient to treat brain
tumors and leukemia has been undergoing clinical testing in patients for several months now.
The substance recognizes proteins that are
found only in cancer cells in a subset of patients,
an approach that could enable the development
of effective, patient-specific therapies.
“We are working to develop innovative treatments for patients with serious diseases such as
cancer in order to extend their lives and improve
their quality of life,” says Professor Andreas

Busch, member of the Executive Committee
of Bayer’s Pharmaceuticals Division and head
of Drug Discovery. “Our particular strength at
Bayer is that we have strong expertise in identifying active ingredients and taking them through
all phases of clinical development up to and
including drug approval, for the benefit of the
patients.”
In the battle against cancer, Bayer is pursuing
three main approaches (see page 14): blocking
signaling pathways that lead to uncontrolled cell
division; selectively docking molecules onto
cancer cells to trigger their targeted destruction;
and reactivating the immune system to eliminate
cancer cells itself. This latter approach is the
focus of the research by Carretero and his colleagues. “Our understanding of cancer is constantly improving, but there are still plenty of
unanswered questions,” says Carretero, before
turning his attention to the next test findings
from the laboratory. “Our goal is to make cancer
curable or be able to transform it into a chronic
disease by providing therapeutics that keep
tumor cells in check.”

million
people died of cancer in 2012,
according to the World Health Organization (WHO). In the same year, 14.1 million
people were newly diagnosed with cancer.

In 2012, according to WHO, 32.6 million
people worldwide had been living with
cancer for ﬁve years.
Source: International Agency for Research
on Cancer, World Health Organization

Dr. Rafael Carretero (left) from Bayer in conversation with Dr. Ruth Wellenreuther
and Dr. Stefan Pusch from the German Cancer Research Center in Heidelberg,
Germany.

15

16

Magazine

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Between 10 and 20 percent of people worldwide
(with regional variations) have upper respiratory
allergies, the symptoms of which often impact their
daily lives. Bayer markets well-known and easyto-use products to effectively relieve these allergy
symptoms.

17

Magazine

Allergies and their treatment
with antihistamines

Allergen

1

2
Mast cell
Antihistamine

4

3 Histamine

Histamine
receptor

ulu knows she shouldn’t be on the sofa. “Get down from there!”
commands Jennifer T. Lulu understands straight away. The black
bulldog mix with the trusting eyes knows she has done something
wrong and shoots a guilty glance at her owner before exiting the
room. All that remains on the sofa are black dog-hairs, and until a
few years ago this would have been a major problem. Jennifer is allergic to
dogs and cats.

L

It took her a while to realize this. When she was a student at New York
University, she caught a cold – or at least, she thought that was what she
had. The symptoms suggested as much, but they refused to go away even
after several weeks. An internist in Manhattan correctly diagnosed the
then 22-year-old’s condition: Her immune system overreacts to normally
harmless substances. Like many other sufferers, she is allergic to pollen
and animal hair. “Finally I knew what was going on. But it was also a
shock. I grew up spending tons of time outdoors with my German Shepherd, a Yorkshire Terrier and a Labrador. Now I could no longer even visit
friends who had pets.”
Jennifer quite simply doesn’t have time for allergies. The single mother
lives with her daughters Molly (9) and Lindsey (6) about an hour by car
from New York City. The 42-year-old’s days are tightly scheduled. The
alarm clock rings shortly before 7. Mom makes breakfast, gets her daughters ready for school and then goes jogging or heads over to her gym or
her yoga school, both of which are only a few minutes away. “I don’t have
time for long drives.” Then she starts work in her office adjacent to her
kitchen. Jennifer is vice president of an association that helps students
repay their loans. Her clients attend colleges on the East Coast of the
United States, from Maine to Maryland. Once a month, she travels to the
association’s headquarters in the Midwest.

Tissue cell

An allergy is a hypersensitive reaction
of the body’s immune system to ordinarily
harmless substances known as allergens.
The immune system responds to these
substances as if they were dangerous.
They trigger a defense reaction by the body
to, for example, pollen protein. Following
initial contact with the allergen, the body
develops corresponding antibodies.
1 – If an allergen comes into contact
with the body again, it is recognized by
the mast cells of the body’s defense
system, which are found especially in
the mucous membranes.
2 – Already sensitized by the initial contact,
the mast cells have formed large numbers of special receptors for the allergen. Mast cells release histamine, which
serves as a messenger for the surrounding tissue.
3 – Histamine then docks onto the receptors in the tissue cells, which then
trigger the immune response. The body
reacts with allergy symptoms.
4 – Antihistamines like loratadine, the
active substance in Claritin™, block
histamine from docking onto its receptors, thereby hindering the cascade
triggered by allergens.

18

Magazine

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Regular relaxation:
as often as possible
Jennifer T. attends a
yoga class with
instructor Fiona.

Despite her very busy professional life, Jennifer is also a class mom at her daughters’ school
and a Girl Scout Daisy Troop leader. She lives an active life despite her allergies – and now
she has Lulu, a two-year-old crossbreed she got from an animal sanctuary. “I want my
daughters to grow up with a pet. Dogs provide unconditional love and teach us how to take
responsibility. That’s important to me.”
For Jennifer, spring is a particularly difficult time. “I used to have to sneeze all the time, my
nose would run.” She tried out lots of things to control her allergy symptoms. “Then I started
using Claritin™. It’s exactly right for me. I can be there for my children and I can do my job
and live my life without my allergies holding me back.”
“We know the symptoms that affect allergy sufferers: itchy, watery eyes, sneezing, a runny
or itchy nose. They can have an enormous impact on their daily routine and quality of life,”
says Jay Kolpon, Global Category Business Unit Leader, Allergy. “We want to relieve sufferers
from these symptoms. Our purpose is to enable them to embrace life with all their senses.
Jennifer’s story is a wonderful example of how our products help people live a better life.”

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Magazine

Round the clock
Bayer’s Claritin™ family of products is available in more
than 100 countries worldwide. Claritin™ is the market
leader in the world’s largest OTC market, the United
States. Indications and trademarks vary from country to
country. In the United States, Claritin™ provides 24-hour
nondrowsy relief from runny nose, sneezing, itchy,
watery eyes, and itchy nose or throat, helping sufferers
to actively enjoy their daily lives both indoors and outdoors. Claritin-D™ 12- and 24-hour products relieves
the same symptoms as Claritin™, plus nasal congestion
and sinus congestion and pressure.

Family time in the
garden: Jennifer with
daughters Molly (right)
and Lindsey (left) on
their climbing tree –
Lulu the dog often
joins in (photo at left).

Allergies are
on the rise
Up to 30 percent of all
adults suffer from allergic
rhinitis according to the
World Allergy Organization and these ﬁgures are
set to rise.

Best-selling
product
Claritin™ is the Consumer
Health Division’s best-selling
brand globally.

Our video shows how Bayer’s nonprescription
medicines help patients lead an active life:
www.bayer.com/allergy

Consumer Health can look back on a long
tradition in the self-care market. It began
in 1899 with the launch of Aspirin™,
Bayer’s world-renowned iconic brand.

19

20

Magazine

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Smart fields
The world’s population is growing, but the amount of
farmland available per head is shrinking. Agricultural
productivity will have to increase if we want to safeguard our food supply in the long term. Digitalization
in farming can help us deploy our resources efficiently
and sustainably, enabling farmers to get the best out
of their fields with minimal environmental impact.

Drone

Self-propelled
sprayer

Cell telephony

Tractor

Agriculture is in the grip of a revolution. Modern farmers
are using digital information to optimize harvest yields.
All of this information is stored in a cloud so it can be
accessed by farmers on the move. The photo shows farm
manager Ediney Afonso Dias in a soybean field in Brazil.

Sensors

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Magazine

21

Satellite

Cloud

umming quietly, the drone hovers over the
field, the lens of its camera surveying the
ground below it. Not 200 meters away, a
twin-engined Piper stands in its hangar. The
propeller plane is much faster, but the drone
is better for this job. The remote-controlled aircraft’s
camera delivers high-resolution images from every corner of the soy fields, much better than the Piper could.
If a problem comes up, Ediney Afonso Dias can react
immediately. The Brazilian agronomist can then take
targeted action to control weeds, fungal diseases and
pests without having to treat the entire field. “Cuttingedge, sustainable agriculture needs lots of accurate
information,” says Dias. “Now we don’t have to use
crop protection agents on large areas when only certain sections are affected. That’s good for us farmers
and for the environment.”

H
Silos

Dias, a graduate of the Universidade Estadual de
Goiás in Brazil, has been working on Francisco and
Charles Godoy’s farm near the town of Catalão in the
South American country for four years. A look at his
office reveals the 24-year-old’s structured approach to
farm management. On the walls are whiteboards for
each of the ten farms belonging to the Agricola Godoy
company, which have a total area of 12,500 hectares.
Each farm is divided into plots. For each plot, Dias has
noted in detail how the soil was prepared for sowing,
which soybean variety was planted, and what fertilizers
and crop protection products have been deployed. The
information on the walls is the roadmap for a successful harvest in 2017.
Harvester

Dias’ desk overlooks the barn used to store the harvest, which is currently still empty as the big harvesters
wait for their turn to get to work. Everything is well
prepared for achieving ambitious objectives. Dias plans
to increase this harvest’s yield by around five percent,
without having to use any additional farmland. “Our

22

Magazine

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The soybean plants look healthy to
Joao Miguel (right) and Daniel Tablas,
Bayer’s representative in Catalão,
Brazil. The farm plans to increase
yields using modern technologies.

New technologies and the internet will make
it possible to increase agricultural
productivity by up to 70 percent through
2050 (Beecham Research).

In 2024, 27 billion interconnected devices will be in use
worldwide in the most varied of applications.
225 million will be used in agriculture (Machina Research).

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Magazine

23

Farm manager Ediney Afonso Dias (photo
left) in his office. Data are transmitted to
the on-board systems of tractors controlled by GPS technology (below). The
photo at right shows Francisco Godoy
(2nd from left), his son Charles (right) and
his grandsons Charles Francisco and José
Victor next to his twin-engined Piper.

A video demonstrating the use of new technologies
on Charles Godoy’s farm in Brazil can be found at
www.bayer.com/farming

objective is to increase productivity from 66 to 68 or
70 bags per hectare,” he explains. An important goal,
given that the amount of agricultural land available
per head worldwide is falling while the global population is growing.
New digital technologies can enhance efficiency.
“We monitor our fields every day so that we can quickly
intervene if there is a need for action,” says Charles
Godoy, who is in charge of the farm’s operational business and 40 employees. The 43-year-old has been passionate about farming ever since he was 12. “In the old
days, we would simply drive through the fields in the
tractor and pull out any weeds. Now we can use data
from satellites and drones to boost our productivity.”
Infrared images, for example, provide information about
the status of the plants. Healthy plants have a higher
chlorophyll content and appear red in the images. In
addition to the satellites and drones, sensors on the
state-of-the-art tractors and harvesters provide vital
data on soil condition and plant health. These data flow
into the digital applications that Bayer is developing to
help farmers around the world pursue efficient, sustainable agriculture.

“We provide information which enables farmers to
rapidly take decisions tailored to each individual field,”
explains Tobias Menne, head of Digital Farming at
Bayer. “It ranges from helping them to select the right
crop variety to determining the ideal time for crop protection measures and recognizing plant stress factors
at an early stage.” All of this information is compiled by
the farm manager and transmitted to the tractors and
machinery in the fields which already today are controlled using GPS technology. The driver in the cab
knows at all times exactly where an active ingredient
has to be applied. This is precision agriculture, with no
waste of resources. “Digital farming offers enormous
opportunities,” says Menne. “We can compare the current data with the values from previous growing periods, allowing farmers to react earlier to changes, initiate counter-measures in good time and thus prevent
harvest losses. And it can be used by both small-scale
and large operations.”
Charles Godoy has just one goal: “I want to leave my
two sons Charles Francisco and José Victor a farm that
is operating to the highest technical standards.” And
then he will just use his plane for fun.

24

Contents

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

Contents

To our Stockholders

Chairman’s Letter
Magazine
About this Report
Board of Management
Report of the Supervisory Board
Investor Information

1
9
28
30
32
37

1.4.2.2
1.4.2.3
1.4.3
1.4.3.1
1.4.3.2
1.4.3.3

Production and Logistics
Marketing and Distribution
Safety for People and the Environment
Product Stewardship
Safety
Environmental Protection

2. Report on Economic Position

A

2.1

Combined Management Report

2.1.1
2.1.2
2.1.3

1. Fundamental Information About the Group
1.1
1.1.1
1.1.2
1.1.3
1.2
1.2.1
1.2.2
1.2.3
1.3
1.4
1.4.1
1.4.2
1.4.2.1

Corporate Profile and Structure
Corporate Profile
Corporate Structure
Value Creation
Strategy and Management
Group Strategy and Targets
Management Systems
Sustainability Management
Focus on Innovation
Sustainable Conduct
Commitment to Employees and Society
Responsibility in Value Creation
Procurement and Supplier Management

41
41
41
44
47
47
47
55
55
62
76
76
90
90

2.1.4
2.2

2.2.1
2.2.2
2.2.3
2.2.4

2.3

2.3.1
2.3.2
2.4

Overview of Business Performance
Target Attainment 2016
Economic Position of the Bayer Group
Key Events
Economic Environment
Earnings; Asset and Financial Position
of the Bayer Group
Earnings Performance of the Bayer Group
Business Development by Segment
Value-Based Performance
Asset and Financial Position
of the Bayer Group
Earnings; Asset and Financial Position
of Bayer AG
Earnings Performance of Bayer AG
Asset and Financial Position of Bayer AG
Alternative Performance Measures Used
by the Bayer Group

96
99
102
104
114
119
129
129
129
129
129
130
131
131
136
152
153
157
158
159
161

Bayer Annual Report 2016

25

Contents

Augmented Version

B
3. Report on Future Perspectives and

on Opportunities and Risks
3.1
Future Perspectives
3.1.1
Economic Outlook
3.1.2
Corporate Outlook
3.2
Opportunity and Risk Report
3.2.1
Group-wide Opportunity and
Risk Management System
3.2.2
Opportunity and Risk Status
3.2.3
Planned Acquisition of Monsanto
3.2.4
Overall Assessment of Opportunities and
Risks by the Board of Management

165
165
165
166
167

4. Corporate Governance Report

180

4.1

4.2
4.3
4.3.1

4.3.2

4.3.3
4.3.4
4.4

Declaration by Corporate Management
pursuant to Section 289a and
Section 315, Paragraph 5, of the German
Commercial Code
Compliance
Compensation Report
Compensation of the
Board of Management
Disclosures Pursuant to the
Recommendations of the German
Corporate Governance Code
Compensation of the Supervisory Board
Further Information
Takeover-Relevant Information

167
170
177
179

180
184
187
187

195
198
200
200

Consolidated Financial Statements

Bayer Group Consolidated
Bayer Group Consolidated
of Comprehensive Income
Bayer Group Consolidated
of Financial Position
Bayer Group Consolidated
of Changes in Equity
Bayer Group Consolidated
of Cash Flows

Income Statements
Statements

203
204

Statements
205
Statements
206
Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
of the Bayer Group
1.
Key data by segment and region
2.
General information
3.
Effects of new financial reporting standards
4.
Basic principles, methods and critical
accounting estimates
5.
Segment reporting
6.
Scope of consolidation;
subsidiaries and affiliates
6.1
Changes in the scope of consolidation
6.2
Business combinations and
other acquisitions
6.3
Divestitures, material sale transactions
and discontinued operations

207

208
208
211
211
215
229
232
232
234
237

26

Contents

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

Notes to the Income Statements
7.
Net sales
8.
Selling expenses
9.
Research and development expenses
10.
Other operating income
11.
Other operating expenses
12.
Personnel expenses and
employee numbers
13.
Financial result
13.1
Income (loss) from investments
in affiliated companies
13.2
Net interest expense
13.3
Other financial income and expenses
14.
Taxes
15.
Income / losses attributable to
noncontrolling interest
16.
Earnings per share

239
239
239
239
240
240
241
242
242
243
243
244
246
247

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position
17.
Goodwill and other intangible assets
18.
Property, plant and equipment
19.
Investments accounted for using
the equity method
20.
Other financial assets
21.
Inventories
22.
Trade accounts receivable
23.
Other receivables
24.
Equity
25.
Provisions for pensions and other
post-employment benefits
26.
Other provisions
27.
Financial liabilities
28.
Trade accounts payable

248
248
252
254
257
258
258
260
260
264
273
277
280

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Contents

27
Augmented Version

C
29.
30.
30.1
30.2
30.3
31.

32.

Other liabilities
Financial instruments
Financial instruments by category
Maturity analysis
Information on derivatives
Contingent liabilities and other
financial commitments
Legal risks

280
280
280
286
287
290
291

Further Information

Governance Bodies
Organization Chart
G4 Content Index of the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) with the 10 Principles of the
U.N. Global Compact
Glossary
Five-Year Summary
Financial Calendar and Masthead

Notes to the Statements of Cash Flows
33.
Net cash provided by (used in)
operating activities
34.
Net cash provided by (used in)
investing activities
35.
Net cash provided by (used in)
financing activities
Other Information
36.
Audit fees
37.
Related parties
38.
Total compensation of the Board of
Management and the Supervisory Board,
advances and loans
39.
Events After the End of the
Reporting Period

Responsibility Statement
Independent Auditor’s Report
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance
Report on the Sustainability Information

296
296
296
297
298
298
298

300
301

302
303
313

315
318

320
334
336

28

About this Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

About this Report

This integrated Annual Report combines our financial and
our sustainability reporting. Our aim is to elucidate the
interactions between financial, ecological and societal
factors and underline their influence on our company’s
long-term development, thus providing our stakeholders
with comprehensive and transparent information. The
consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group as of
December 31, 2016, comply with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) valid at the closing date
and with the provisions of the German Commercial Code
in conjunction with German financial reporting standards.
With due regard to these provisions, the combined management report provides an overview of the financial position and results of operations of the Bayer Group. The
Compensation Report for the Board of Management and
the Supervisory Board complies with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. The
consolidated financial statements and the combined management report are published in line with statutory disclosure requirements. The Bayer Group’s sustainability

reporting complies with the “comprehensive” option of the
G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and
is aligned to the ten principles of the U.N. Global Compact
(UNGC). The detailed GRI content index with the corresponding UNGC principles can be found in the “Further
Information” section in the augmented version of the Annual Report. Online we also publish a separate PDF file
with a summary of the U.N. Global Compact Progress
Report based on the criteria of the Blueprint for Corporate
Sustainability Leadership.
Our reporting is also aligned to international guidelines
and recommendations, including those on the definition
and selection of nonfinancial indicators and on reporting
such as those of the OECD and the ISO 26000 standards.
In selecting and measuring our key data we also take into
account the recommendations of the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies (EFFAS) in the case of
nonfinancial indicators, and those of the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol regarding greenhouse gas emissions. We also
consider the recommendations of the World Business
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the
European Chemical Industry Council (Conseil Européen de
l’Industrie Chimique – CEFIC). For 2016 we will again
submit a declaration of conformity with the German Sustainability Code.

Data collection and reporting thresholds

We collected the data of all relevant organizational units
and companies worldwide that fell within the scope of the
Bayer Group’s consolidated financial statements between
January 1, 2016, and December 31, 2016. Covestro has
established its own corporate organization that functions
according to a similar system and comparable processes
to those at Bayer. Facts and figures pertaining to Covestro
are included in all chapters unless otherwise stated.
We mainly use SAP systems to collect financial data
worldwide. We use the global SAP HR information system
and the associated reporting application – the Sustainability Management Annual Reporting Tool (SMART) – to
collect HR indicators and social data. All HSE (health,
safety and environmental protection) performance indicators for the Group are collated in our Group-wide site

information system (BaySIS). The HSE data cover all fully
consolidated companies in which Bayer owns at least
50% of the shares.
Data on occupational injuries, transport accidents and
environmental incidents are collected at all sites worldwide. Environmentally relevant indicators are measured at
all production sites and at relevant research and development sites. In accordance with IFRS 5 (Non-current Assets
Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations), financial indicators are given for continuing operations unless otherwise explicitly stated. The same applies to HR indicators
and our social data. In the case of HSE indicators, the
value shown is the total for the Bayer Group unless otherwise reported. In 2016, the Bayer Group amended its
regions. Europe is reported together with the Middle East

GRI
G4-17,
G4-22

About this report
Bayer Annual Report 2016

29

About this Report

Augmented Version

GRI
G4-22

and Africa. Latin America is a separate region. This reflects the regional responsibilities of the individual members of the Board of Management of Bayer AG. The prioryear figures are restated accordingly. As the indicators in

this report are stated in accordance with commercial
rounding principles, totals and percentages may not always be exact.

External verification

PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the consolidated financial statements
(including the notes thereto) of Bayer AG, Leverkusen,
and the combined management report for the fiscal year
from January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2016, and has
issued an unqualified opinion. All the online annexes that

supplement the management report in the augmented
online version of the Bayer Annual Report 2016 (“Annual
Report 2016 – Augmented Version”) for the fiscal year
from January 1 to December 31, 2016, have been
reviewed by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft on a limited assurance basis.

Additional information

The integrated Bayer Annual Report 2016 is available in a
print version (“Annual Report 2016”) and in an augmented
online version (“Annual Report 2016 – Augmented Version”). The online version contains the notes to the consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group, along
with additional information. The print version contains
numbered online annexes which refer the reader to additional information in the Augmented Version. You can enter

Online annexes

Cross-references within the
Annual Report

The “Annual Report 2016 – Augmented Version” can
be found at www.bayer.com/AR16

these numbers in a search mask on any page of the online
Annual Report to directly access the annexes. Both versions of the Annual Report are available in PDF format for
download from the Bayer website. For further guidance,
the Annual Report contains references to other chapters,
to (Bayer) websites and, in the Augmented Version, to
GRI G4 Materiality Disclosures.

References to websites

Group target

The app of the “Annual Report 2016 – Augmented Version” is available on the
iTunes and Google Play stores. Please search for “Bayer Integrated Reports.”

30

To our Stockholders

Augmented Version

Board of Management

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Board of Management

Erica Mann
Consumer Health

Johannes Dietsch
Finance

Werner Baumann
Chairman

Erica Mann holds a degree in
analytical chemistry and a marketing diploma from her studies in
Johannesburg, South Africa. She
began her career with Eli Lilly &
Company and held positions at
Johnson & Johnson, Lederle Laboratories and Wyeth before moving
into senior management at Pfizer
in the United States. She became
head of Consumer Care at Bayer
HealthCare in 2011. She was
appointed to the Bayer Board of
Management in January 2016.

Johannes Dietsch completed
his training with Bayer as a commercial assistant and business
administrator in 1984. He subsequently held various managerial
positions within the company,
including one in Japan. In 2002,
Dietsch took over as head of the
Finance Department in the Corporate Center. He became Senior
Bayer Representative and CFO of
Bayer in China in 2011. He was
appointed to the Bayer Board of
Management in September 2014.

Werner Baumann studied economics in Aachen and Cologne, joining
Bayer AG in 1988. After holding
positions of increasing responsibility in Spain and the United States,
he became a member of the Board
of Management of Bayer HealthCare. He was appointed to the
Bayer Board of Management in
2010, first as Chief Financial Officer
and then as Chief Strategy and
Portfolio Officer. Baumann has
been Chairman of the Bayer Board
of Management since May 2016.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Dieter Weinand
Pharmaceuticals
Dieter Weinand studied pharmacology, toxicology and biology in
New York. After holding positions at
various companies in the pharmaceutical industry including Pfizer
and Bristol-Myers Squibb, he was
President Global Commercialization
& Portfolio Management at Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Development &
Commercialization Inc. in Princeton.
In 2014, Weinand became head
of the Pharmaceuticals Division at
Bayer. He was appointed to the
Bayer Board of Management in
January 2016.

Dr. Hartmut Klusik *
Human Resources · Technology ·
Sustainability
Hartmut Klusik studied chemistry in
Marburg. After gaining a Ph.D., he began
his professional career at Wolff Walsrode
in 1984. He transferred to crop protection
production at Bayer in Brazil in 1990.
Following assignments in the United
States and Australia and after holding
positions of in creasing responsibility at
Bayer CropScience, he was appointed to
the Board of Management of Bayer
HealthCare with responsibility for Product
Supply. He was appointed to the Bayer
Board of Management in January 2016.
* Labor Director

To our Stockholders

31

Board of Management

Augmented Version

Kemal Malik
Innovation

Liam Condon
Crop Science

Kemal Malik studied medicine
and worked in a London hospital. After holding different
positions of increasing
responsibility at Bristol-Myers
Squibb, he joined Bayer in
1995. In 2007, Malik became a
member of the Executive
Committee, head of Global
Development and Chief Medical Officer of Bayer HealthCare. He was appointed to the
Bayer Board of Management
in February 2014.

Liam Condon studied international marketing in Dublin and
Berlin. He held various positions
of increasing responsibility with
the former Schering AG, Berlin,
Germany, and with Bayer HealthCare in Europe and Asia, including Managing Director of Bayer
HealthCare China and head of
Bayer HealthCare in Germany.
Condon became Chief Executive
Officer of Bayer CropScience in
2012. He was appointed to the
Bayer Board of Management in
January 2016.

32

To our Stockholders

Augmented Version

Report of the Supervisory Board

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Report of the Supervisory Board

During 2016, the Supervisory Board monitored the conduct of the company’s business by the
Board of Management on a regular basis with the aid of detailed written and oral reports received
from the Board of Management, and also acted in an advisory capacity. In addition, the Chairman
of the Supervisory Board maintained a constant exchange of information with the respective
Chairman of the Board of Management and with the other Management Board members. In this
way the Supervisory Board was kept continuously informed about the company’s intended business strategy, corporate planning (including financial, investment and human resources planning),
earnings performance, the state of the business and the situation in the company and the Group
as a whole.
Where Board of Management decisions or actions required the approval of the Supervisory Board,
whether by law or under the Articles of Incorporation or the rules of procedure, the draft resolutions were inspected by the members at the meetings of the full Supervisory Board, sometimes
after preparatory work by the committees, or approved on the basis of documents circulated to
the members. The Supervisory Board was involved in decisions of material importance to the
company. We discussed at length the business trends described in the reports from the Board of
Management and the prospects for the development of the Bayer Group as a whole, the individual
organizational units and the principal affiliated companies in Germany and abroad.

Changes on the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management
The Supervisory Board memberships of Prof. Dr. Ernst-Ludwig Winnacker and Dr. Helmut Panke
ended as of midnight on April 29, 2016, the date of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting elected Johanna (Hanneke) Faber and Prof. Dr. Wolfgang Plischke to succeed them.
The terms of office of the heads of the divisions newly appointed to the Board of Management in
connection with the reorganization of the Bayer Group – Dieter Weinand (Pharmaceuticals), Erica
Mann (Consumer Health) and Liam Condon (Crop Science) – began with effect from January 1,
2016. Dr. Hartmut Klusik (Human Resources, Technology & Sustainability) also joined the Board of
Management effective January 1, 2016. The previous Chairman of the Board of Management,
Dr. Marijn Dekkers, resigned his office effective April 30, 2016. The Supervisory Board appointed
Werner Baumann as his successor.

Work of the Supervisory Board
The full Supervisory Board met five times during 2016 and resolved in writing on a special election
to the Audit Committee. No member of the Supervisory Board attended only half or fewer than
half of its meetings or those of the committees on which he/she served. The average attendance
rate by Supervisory Board members at the meetings of the full Supervisory Board and of its committees held in 2016 was approximately 97 percent. A detailed overview of the attendance of the
individual members of the Supervisory Board at the meetings of the Supervisory Board and its
committees is shown in the “Further Information” section under “Governance Bodies.”
The members of the Board of Management regularly attended the meetings of the Supervisory Board.
The deliberations of the Supervisory Board focused on questions relating to Bayer’s strategy,
portfolio and business activities. The discussions at the respective meetings in 2016 centered on
various topics.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

To our Stockholders

33

Report of the Supervisory Board

Augmented Version

Werner Wenning, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bayer AG

At its February meeting, the Supervisory Board dealt with the departure of Dr. Marijn Dekkers as
Chairman of the Board of Management effective April 30, 2016, and the appointment of Werner
Baumann as new Chairman of the Board of Management for a duration of five years. The Supervisory Board also discussed the Annual Report 2015, the agenda for the Annual Stockholders’
Meeting 2016, the Bayer Group’s risk management system and the status of the Pharmaceuticals
pipeline. At its April meeting, the Supervisory Board examined the business performance to date
in 2016 and the imminent Annual Stockholders’ Meeting.
At an extraordinary meeting in May, the Supervisory Board dealt in detail with the planned acquisition of Monsanto, including the associated financing. Following up on deliberations at earlier Supervisory Board meetings, the strategic aspects of the possible acquisition and the question of
Monsanto’s valuation were discussed at length. At its September meeting, the Supervisory Board
once again dealt in detail with the acquisition of Monsanto and resolved on the final offer conditions for the acquisition. At this meeting, the Supervisory Board also extended the term of office
of Kemal Malik on the Board of Management by an additional five years. In the intervals between
its meetings, the Supervisory Board was regularly informed in writing about the respective status
of the planned acquisition of Monsanto. In addition to the customary reports, the Chairman of the
Supervisory Board was also kept constantly informed in detail about all major developments.

34

To our Stockholders

Augmented Version

Report of the Supervisory Board

Bayer Annual Report 2016

At its meeting in December 2016, the Supervisory Board undertook the routine review of the fixed
compensation of the members of the Board of Management and the pension amounts of the former members of the Board of Management. Also at this meeting, the Board of Management presented its planning for the business operations in the years 2017 through 2019. The Supervisory
Board approved the proposed financing framework for 2017 and also dealt with the strategy of
the Bayer Group and possible courses of action with regard to the remaining interest in Covestro.
In addition, the Supervisory Board resolved to issue an unqualified declaration of compliance with
the German Corporate Governance Code.

Committees of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit Committee, a Human Resources
Committee, a Nominations Committee and an Innovation Committee. The current membership of
the committees is shown in the “Further Information” section under “Governance Bodies.”
The meetings and decisions of the committees, and especially the meetings of the Audit Committee, were prepared on the basis of reports and other information provided by the Board of Management. Reports on the committee meetings were presented at the meetings of the full Supervisory Board.
Presidial Committee: This comprises the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory

Board along with a further stockholder representative and a further employee representative. The
Presidial Committee serves primarily as the mediation committee pursuant to the German Codetermination Act. It has the task of submitting proposals to the Supervisory Board on the appointment of members of the Board of Management if the necessary two-thirds majority is not
achieved in the first vote at a plenary meeting. Certain decision-making powers in connection with
capital measures, including the power to amend the Articles of Incorporation accordingly, have
also been delegated to this committee. On a case-by-case basis, furthermore, the Supervisory
Board can delegate certain responsibilities to the Presidial Committee. Finally, the Presidial Committee may also undertake preparatory work for full meetings of the Supervisory Board.
In 2016, the Presidial Committee was not required to convene in its capacity as the mediation
committee. At a meeting in November 2016, it approved the issue of a mandatory convertible
bond in connection with the financing of the planned acquisition of Monsanto based on a corresponding authorization by the full Supervisory Board.
Audit Committee: The Audit Committee comprises three stockholder representatives and three

employee representatives. The Chairman of the Audit Committee in 2016, Dr. Klaus Sturany, satisfies the statutory requirements concerning the expertise in the field of accounting or auditing that
a member of the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee is required to possess. The Audit
Committee meets regularly four times a year.
Its tasks include in particular oversight of the financial reporting process, the effectiveness and
ongoing development of the internal control system, the risk management system, the internal
audit system, the compliance system and the audit of the financial statements. The Audit Committee prepares the resolutions of the Supervisory Board concerning the financial statements and
management report of Bayer AG and the proposal for the use of the distributable profit, the consolidated financial statements and management report of the Bayer Group and the agreements
with the auditor (particularly the awarding of the audit contract, the determination of the main
areas of focus for the audit and the audit fee agreement). The committee submits a proposal to
the full Supervisory Board concerning the auditor’s appointment, and takes appropriate measures
to determine and monitor the auditor’s independence. The audit focuses particularly on whether
the financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the statutory requirements and
whether the financial reporting provides a true and fair view of the financial position and results of
operations of the company and the Group.
The Audit Committee discusses developments in the area of corporate compliance at each of its
meetings where necessary.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

To our Stockholders

35

Report of the Supervisory Board

Augmented Version

The Chairman of the Board of Management and the Chief Financial Officer regularly attended the
meetings of the Audit Committee. Representatives of the auditor were also present at all the meetings and reported in detail on the audit work and the audit reviews of the interim financial reports.
The meetings focused on a number of topics. At the February meeting, the Audit Committee
discussed the financial statements of Bayer AG and the consolidated financial statements of the
Bayer Group. It also carefully considered the risk report, which covered the risk management
system, operational risks, planning and financial market risks, legal risks, corporate compliance,
process and organizational risks, and the internal control system. At this meeting, the Audit Committee also made a recommendation to the full Supervisory Board concerning the resolution to be
submitted to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on the appointment of the auditor of the financial
statements.
The April meeting mainly dealt with the yearly reports of the Group Compliance Officer and the
Internal Audit department and with determining the main areas of focus for the audit of the 2016
financial statements. At its July meeting, the Audit Committee addressed the audit budget for
2017 and the scope of non-audit-related services by the external auditor. As at each meeting, it
also discussed the interim financial report and legal and compliance issues. At its meeting in October, the Audit Committee dealt with the regular agenda items and with the tax strategy of the
Bayer Group, value management, the audit conducted pursuant to Section 20 of the German
Securities Trading Act (WpHG) (EMIR), the new requirements for the Independent Auditor’s Report
pursuant to ISA 700 / 701, and the upcoming change of external auditor.
Human Resources Committee: On this committee, too, there is parity of representation between
stockholders and employees. It consists of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and three other
Supervisory Board members. The Human Resources Committee prepares the personnel decisions
of the full Supervisory Board, which resolves on appointments or dismissals of members of the
Board of Management. The Human Resources Committee resolves on behalf of the Supervisory
Board on the service contracts of the members of the Board of Management. However, it is the
task of the full Supervisory Board to resolve on the total compensation of the individual members
of the Board of Management and the respective compensation components, as well as to regularly review the compensation system on the basis of recommendations submitted by the Human
Resources Committee. The Human Resources Committee also discusses the long-term succession planning for the Board of Management.

The Human Resources Committee convened on three occasions in 2016. The matters discussed
at these meetings concerned the compensation and contracts of the members of the Board of
Management, as well as the preparation of the departure of Dr. Marijn Dekkers as Chairman of the
Board of Management and the appointment of Werner Baumann as his successor.
Nominations Committee: This committee carries out preparatory work when an election of stock-

holder representatives to the Supervisory Board is to be held. It suggests suitable candidates for
the Supervisory Board to propose to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election. The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the other stockholder
representative on the Presidial Committee.
During four conference calls in 2016, the members of the Nominations Committee discussed
candidates for the special elections to the Supervisory Board that took place at the 2016 Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting and for the elections to the Supervisory Board at the 2017 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting.
Innovation Committee: The Innovation Committee is primarily concerned with the innovation
strategy and innovation management, the strategy for the protection of intellectual property, and
major research and development programs at Bayer. Within its area of responsibility, the committee advises and oversees the management and prepares any Supervisory Board decisions. The
Committee comprises the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and five other members of the Supervisory Board, with parity of representation between stockholder and employee representatives.

36

To our Stockholders

Augmented Version

Report of the Supervisory Board

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The Chairman of the Board of Management and the member of the Board of Management responsible for Innovation regularly attend the meetings of the Innovation Committee.
The Innovation Committee convened twice in 2016. At its February meeting, it dealt with innovation management at Bayer and the development of the Bayer Lifescience Center. At its September
meeting, it dealt once again with the development of the Bayer Lifescience Center, as well as with
digital innovations at Bayer.

Corporate governance
The Supervisory Board dealt with the principles of corporate governance at Bayer. Among the
topics discussed were the scope of dialogue between the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and
investors. In December, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board issued a new
declaration concerning the German Corporate Governance Code.

Financial statements and audits
The financial statements of Bayer AG were prepared according to the requirements of the
German Commercial Code and Stock Corporation Act. The consolidated financial statements of
the Bayer Group were prepared according to the German Commercial Code and the International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The combined management report was prepared according
to the German Commercial Code. The auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft,
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Essen, has audited the financial statements of Bayer AG, the
consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group and the combined management report. The
conduct of the audit is explained in the auditor’s reports. The auditor finds that Bayer has complied, as appropriate, with the German Commercial Code, the German Stock Corporation Act
and/or the International Financial Reporting Standards endorsed by the European Union, and
issues an unqualified opinion on the financial statements of Bayer AG and the consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group. The financial statements of Bayer AG, the consolidated
financial statements of the Bayer Group, the combined management report and the audit reports
were submitted to all members of the Supervisory Board. They were discussed in detail by the
Audit Committee and at a meeting of the full Supervisory Board. The auditor submitted a report on
both occasions and was present during the discussions.
We examined the financial statements of Bayer AG, the proposal for the use of the distributable
profit, the consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group and the combined management
report. We have no objections, thus we concur with the result of the audit.
We have approved the financial statements of Bayer AG and the consolidated financial statements
of the Bayer Group prepared by the Board of Management. The financial statements of Bayer AG
are thus confirmed. We are in agreement with the combined management report and, in particular,
with the assessment of the future development of the enterprise. We also concur with the dividend
policy and the decisions concerning earnings retention by the company. We assent to the proposal
for the use of the distributable profit, which provides for payment of a dividend of €2.70 per share.
The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Board of Management and all employees for their
dedication and hard work in 2016.
Leverkusen, February 21, 2017
For the Supervisory Board:

Werner Wenning

Chairman

Bayer Annual Report 2016

To our Stockholders

37

Investor Information

Augmented Version

Investor Information
> Long-term return on Bayer stock still ahead of the market despite a
>
>

decline in the share price in 2016
€4 billion in mandatory convertible notes issued as a financing component
for the agreed acquisition of Monsanto
Dividend increase to €2.70 per share proposed
1

Performance of Bayer Stock in 2016
Indexed; 100 = Xetra closing price on December 31, 2015; source: Bloomberg
Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

120
110
100
90
80
70

Bayer –12.3%

DAX +6.9%

DJ EURO STOXX 50 +3.7%

The Stock Market in 2016
Stock markets post moderate gains after a turbulent year
Fiscal 2016 was characterized by significant price fluctuations. At the beginning of the year, the
financial markets were unsettled by growth concerns in China. The decline in oil prices, the Brexit
vote in the United Kingdom, the U.S. presidential election and the monetary policy of the central
banks caused significant fluctuations on the capital markets over the course of the year. The
European Central Bank maintained its zero-interest policy and initially decided to expand its bond
purchasing program. With a further interest rate hike, the U.S. Federal Reserve maintained its
effort to implement a controlled departure from the phase of extremely low interest rates.
The German stock index DAX saw a decline of more than 15 percent in the first two months of
2016, falling below the 9,000-point mark in February. A phase of recovery then set in, followed
by a volatile lateral movement that lasted through the beginning of December. After a strong finish
in December, the DAX closed the year at 11,481 points – its fifth consecutive profitable year of
growth. This equates to growth of about 6.9 percent for 2016.
Following a similar path, the European equities index EURO STOXX 50 (performance index)
rose 3.7 percent, ending the year at 6,458 points. Share price performance in the United States
and Japan varied. The S&P 500 index climbed by 9.5 percent, while the Nikkei 225 was largely
unchanged.

38

To our Stockholders

Augmented Version

Investor Information

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Bayer share price declines
Including the dividend of €2.50 per share paid at the beginning of May, Bayer stock earned a
negative return of minus 12.3 percent in 2016 after several years of what in some cases were
substantial gains. Bayer stock ended the year at €99.13, thus underperforming the reference
indices. The EURO STOXX Chemicals Index (performance index) climbed by 7.8 percent in 2016,
while the EURO STOXX Health Care Index (performance index) rose by 2.4 percent.
2

Bayer Stock Data
2015

2016

Earnings per share

€

4.97

5.44

Core earnings per share from continuing operations 1

€

6.82

7.32

Equity per share

€

30.77

38.57

Dividend per share

€

2.50

2.70

Year-end price ²

€

115.80

99.13

High for the year ²

€

146.20

111.25

Low for the year ²

€

108.00

84.42

Total dividend payment

€ million

2,067

2,233

million shares

826.95

826.95

€ billion

95.8

82.0

million shares

2.3

2.7

Price / EPS ²

23.3

18.2

Price / core EPS ²

17.0

13.5

Price / cash flow ²

14.0

9.9

2.2

2.7

Number of shares entitled to the dividend (Dec. 31)
Market capitalization (Dec. 31)
Average daily share turnover on German stock exchanges

Dividend yield

%

2015 figures restated
1
For details on the calculation of core earnings per share see Combined Management Report, Chapter A 2.4
2
Xetra closing prices (source: Bloomberg). The calculation is based on the indicator “Net cash provided by (used in) operating
activities, continuing operations.”

Positive financing environment for Bayer in receptive markets
2016 began very weakly for issuers of corporate bonds. Investor behavior was characterized
by uncertainty and reticence until the market environment improved at the end of the first quarter.
Thereafter, the bond purchasing program of the European Central Bank also served to further
improve financing conditions and costs. The interest levels for many maturities dipped into the
negative zone and did not rise again substantially until the fourth quarter, although the absolute
level remained at a historic low. Volatility remained very high at times before easing considerably
in the second half of the year.
Bayer redeemed all bonds maturing in 2016 without refinancing. In November, €4 billion in threeyear mandatory convertible notes were issued. This was the largest transaction of this kind to
date for a European nonfinancial company. Through this issue, Bayer implemented a major component of the planned equity financing for the agreed acquisition of Monsanto. Further details of
outstanding bonds are given in Note [27] to the consolidated financial statements.

Long-term return on Bayer stock still ahead of the market
A long-term investor who purchased Bayer shares for €10,000 five years ago and reinvested all
dividends would have seen the value of the position grow to €22,546 as of December 31, 2016,
giving an average annual return of 17.7 percent. That was above the return on the DAX (plus
14.2 percent) and the EURO STOXX 50 (plus 10.5 percent, performance index) in the same period.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

To our Stockholders

39

Investor Information

Augmented Version

Dividend increase to €2.70 per share
The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board will propose to the Annual Stockholders’
Meeting that the dividend be increased by €0.20 to €2.70 per share. Thus we once again intend
that our stockholders should participate in last year’s positive business performance. The resulting payout ratio of 37 percent calculated on core earnings per share is within our target corridor
of 30 percent to 40 percent.

See Chapter 2.2.1 of the
Combined Management
Report for core EPS

The dividend yield calculated on the share price of €99.13 at year end 2016 amounts to 2.7 percent and the total dividend payment to €2,233 million.
3

Dividends Per Share and Total Dividend Payments
2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

3.0
2.70 €
2.50 €
2.5

2.25 €
2.10 €
1.90 €

2.0
1.65 €
1.5

1.35 €

1.40 €

1.40 €

1.50 €

1.0
0.5
0.0

€1,032 million €1,070 million €1.158 million €1,240 million €1,364 million €1,571 million €1,737 million €1,861 million €2,067 milllion €2,233 million
Dividend per share (€)

Total dividend payment (€ million)

Investor relations focused on the acquisition of Monsanto
Last year our investor relations (IR) activities focused on the announcement made and the agreement reached regarding the acquisition of Monsanto. In this connection, there were many questions from capital market participants pertaining to strategic alignment, financing and value creation.

GRI G4-26, G4-27

Bayer’s management and the Investor Relations team last year communicated directly with investors and analysts during roadshows and investor conferences. Our Meet Management conference
in September gave investors and analysts an opportunity to engage in direct dialogue with Bayer’s
top management. As in previous years, private investors also had an opportunity to find out about
our company at various stockholder forums at which the Investor Relations team was present.

A sustainable investment
We continued our intensive dialogue with sustainability-oriented investors, analysts and rating
agencies in 2016. Our discussions focused on business ethics, product stewardship and safety.
In 2016, Bayer again qualified for inclusion in major sustainability indices, including the Dow Jones
Sustainability World, the FTSE4Good (Europe, Global and Environmental Leaders Europe 40) and
the STOXX® Global ESG Leaders. In addition, Bayer was once again evaluated by the CDP as one
of the leading international pharmaceutical companies in the areas of climate protection and sustainable water management.

www.bayer.com/awards

40

To our Stockholders

Augmented Version

Investor Information

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A growing number of stockholders
Our ownership structure continues to show the international distribution of our capital stock. The
highest proportion of our outstanding shares, almost 29 percent, is held by investors in the United
States and Canada, followed by Germany with about 22 percent. Bayer has a 100-percent free
float as defined by Deutsche Börse, the operator of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The number of
Bayer stockholders rose substantially in 2016. At the end of 2016, approximately 360,000 stockholders were listed in our share register – an increase of more than 20 percent compared with the
previous year.
4

Shareholder Composition – Regional Allocation
4.2% Denmark, Finland,
Norway, Sweden

6.1% Not covered by survey

2.5% Benelux
4.4% Austria, Switzerland,
Liechtenstein

28.6% U.S.A. & Canada

4.5% Other countries
9.6% France, Spain, Italy,
Portugal
22.4% Germany
17.7% U.K. & Ireland

Source: IPREO

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

41

1.1 Corporate Profile and Structure

Augmented Version

Combined
Management Report
of the Bayer Group and Bayer AG as of December 31, 2016

1. Fundamental Information
About the Group
1.1 Corporate Profile and Structure
> Health care and nutrition: Bayer helping to solve global challenges
> Innovations drive the success of the Life Science businesses
> New structure supports implementation of corporate strategy

1.1.1 Corporate Profile
Bayer is a Life Science company with a more than 150-year history and core competencies in the
areas of health care and agriculture. With our innovative products, we are contributing to finding
solutions to some of the major challenges of our time. A growing and aging world population requires an adequate supply of food and improved medical care. Our research and development
activities are therefore focused on improving people’s quality of life by preventing, alleviating and
treating diseases. At the same time, we are making an important contribution to providing a reliable supply of high-quality food, feed and plant-based raw materials. Our understanding of the
biochemical processes in living organisms helps us address these demanding challenges.
Our goal is to achieve and maintain leadership positions in our markets. In this way we create
value for our customers, stockholders and employees, at the same time strengthening the company’s earning power. We are committed to operating sustainably and addressing our social and
ethical responsibilities. We also respect the interests of all our stakeholders. Employees with a
passion for innovation enjoy excellent development opportunities at Bayer. All this goes to make
up our mission – Bayer: Science for a Better Life.
In fulfilling our mission, we are guided by our corporate values. Represented by the acronym LIFE
(Leadership, Integrity, Flexibility and Efficiency), these values apply to everyone at Bayer and are
firmly integrated into our global performance management system for managerial employees. Our
value culture ensures a common identity throughout the enterprise across national boundaries,
management hierarchies and cultural differences.

42

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.1 Corporate Profile and Structure

Augmented Version

Bayer Worldwide 2016

North America
Sales
Employees
R&D2

Latin America

€12,806 (12,621)1 million
15,800 (16,000) 1
€1,081 (1,051)1 million

Sales
Employees
R&D2

€5,108 (5,494)1 million
12,500 (13,000)1
€71 (65)1 million

Germany
Headquarters
Bayer Group
Leverkusen
Pharmaceuticals
Berlin
Crop Science
Monheim am Rhein
Animal Health
Monheim am Rhein

Pharmaceuticals
Cologne
Berlin
Wuppertal
Bergkamen
Leverkusen
Weimar
Consumer Health
Darmstadt
Bitterfeld-Wolfen
Grenzach

Covestro
Leverkusen

Crop Science
Monheim am Rhein
Frankfurt am Main
Dormagen
Knapsack
Animal Health
Monheim am Rhein
Kiel
Covestro
Leverkusen
Brunsbüttel
Dormagen
Uerdingen

U.S.A.
Pharmaceuticals
San Francisco
Whippany
Berkeley
Indianola
Consumer Health
Memphis
Morristown
Cleveland
Myerstown

Mexico
Consumer Health
Lerma

Crop Science
Lubbock
Morrisville
Raleigh
Sacramento
Kansas City
Animal Health
Shawnee
Covestro
Pittsburgh
Baytown

Brazil
Animal Health
São Paulo

Argentina
Consumer Health
Pilar

2015 figures in parentheses
1 2015 figures restated
2 Research and development
Significant research and development location
Significant production location

France
Consumer Health
Gaillard
Crop Science
Lyon
Sophia Antipolis

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

43

1.1 Corporate Profile and Structure

Augmented Version

A 1.1.1/1

Europe / Middle East / Africa
Sales
Employees
R&D2

Asia / Pacific

€17,823 (17,707)1 million
59,500 (58,800)1
€3,285 (2,944)1 million

Finland

Netherlands

Pharmaceuticals
Turku

Crop Science
Nunhem

Sales
Employees
R&D2

€11,032 (10,263)1 million
27,400 (28,800)1
€229 (214)1 million

Norway

Belgium

Switzerland

Pharmaceuticals
Oslo

Crop Science
Ghent

Headquarters
Consumer Health
Basel

Covestro
Antwerp

Italy
Pharmaceuticals
Garbagnate
Japan
Pharmaceuticals
Tokyo
Osaka
Shiga

China
Thailand

Pharmaceuticals
Beijing

Covestro
Map Ta Phut

Consumer Health
Chengdu
Covestro
Shanghai

Indonesia
Consumer Health
Cimanggis

India

New Zealand

Crop Science
Vapi

Animal Health
Auckland

44
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.1 Corporate Profile and Structure

1.1.2 Corporate Structure
Following the stock market flotation of Covestro, we reorganized the Bayer Group effective January 1, 2016, and are now focusing on our Life Science activities. These businesses hold leading
positions in innovation-driven, rapidly growing markets. Together, the Life Science businesses
make up a strong, attractive and balanced portfolio that is resistant to fluctuations in demand and
to potential risks. Our operations are managed in three divisions – Pharmaceuticals, Consumer
Health and Crop Science – and the Animal Health business unit, which are also reporting segments. Bayer still holds about 64% of Covestro AG. Covestro therefore also remains a fully consolidated reporting segment. The operational business is supported by the corporate functions –
including Technology Services, which was integrated into Bayer AG effective July 1, 2016 – Business Services and the service company Currenta.
The following changes were made to the corporate structure in the past fiscal year:
> In April 2016, Bayer AG deposited shares it held in Covestro AG in Bayer Pension Trust e.V.

The number of shares deposited amounted to 10 million, or 4.9%, of the shares outstanding.
> In May 2016, Crop Science signed an agreement to divest the Consumer business of

Environmental Science, which has since been reported retrospectively for 2015 and 2016 under
discontinued operations. Environmental Science therefore now comprises only the business for
professional users. The divestment was closed at the start of October 2016.
A 1.1.2/1

Bayer Group Structure in 2016
Board of Management

Pharmaceuticals

Consumer Health

Crop Science
Animal Health

Corporate Functions & Business Services

Currenta (60%)

Covestro (around 64%)

In 2016, the Bayer Group comprised 301 consolidated companies in 78 countries throughout the
world.
Reporting of the regions in the Annual Report has been adjusted to reflect the distribution of responsibilities on the Board of Management. Africa / Middle East is now no longer reported together
with Latin America but with Europe.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

45

1.1 Corporate Profile and Structure

Augmented Version

The Pharmaceuticals segment focuses on prescription products, especially for cardiology and
women’s healthcare, and on specialty therapeutics in the areas of oncology, hematology and ophthalmology. The division also comprises the radiology business, which markets diagnostic imaging
equipment together with the necessary contrast agents.
The Consumer Health segment markets mainly nonprescription (OTC = over-the-counter) products in the dermatology, nutritional supplement, analgesic, gastrointestinal, cold, allergy, sinus and
flu, foot care and sun protection categories.
The Crop Science segment is a world-leading agriculture enterprise with businesses in seeds,
crop protection and nonagricultural pest control. The Crop Protection / Seeds operating unit markets a broad portfolio of high-value seeds and innovative pest management solutions, while at the
same time providing extensive customer service for sustainable agriculture. The Environmental
Science operating unit provides products and services for professional nonagricultural applications, such as vector and pest control and forestry.
The Animal Health segment ranks among the leading international innovators in its field. It develops and markets products and solutions for the prevention and treatment of diseases in companion and farm animals.
The corporate functions and Business Services operate as Group-wide competence centers in
which business support services are bundled. Currenta is the service company responsible for
managing and operating the Chempark sites in Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen.
Covestro is one of the world’s leading suppliers of high-tech polymer materials and develops innovative product solutions for a wide variety of everyday uses.

Vector control:
see Glossary

46

A Combined Management Report

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.1 Corporate Profile and Structure

Online Annex: A 1.1.2-1
A 1.1.2-1/1

Product and Activities of the Segments
Indication/Application/Business

Core activities and markets

Main products and brands 1

Pharmaceuticals
Cardiology

Hypertension, pulmonary hypertension, heart attack Xarelto™, Adalat™, Aspirin™ Cardio, Adempas™
and stroke, thrombosis

Oncology

Liver cancer, renal cell carcinoma, prostate cancer, Nexavar™, Xofigo™, Stivarga™
colorectal cancer, gastrointestinal stromal tumors
(GIST)

Ophthalmology

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic
macular edema (DME)

Hematology

Hemophilia A

Kogenate™ / Kovaltry™

Women’s health

Contraception, gynecological therapy

Mirena™ product family, YAZ™ / Yasmin™ /
Yasminelle™

Infectious diseases

Bacterial infections

Avalox™ / Avelox™, Cipro™, Ciprobay™

Radiology

Contrast agents; diagnostic imaging equipment for
use with contrast agents

Gadovist™, Ultravist™, Medrad Spectris
Solaris™, Medrad Stellant™

Other indications

Multiple sclerosis

Betaferon™ / Betaseron™

Dermatology

Wound care, skin care, skin and intimate health

Bepanthen™, Canesten™

Nutrition

Multivitamin products, dietary supplements

One A Day™, Elevit™, Berocca™, Supradyn™,
Redoxon™

Analgesics

General pain relief

Aspirin™, Aleve™

Gastrointestinals

Gastric complaints

MiraLax™, Rennie™, Iberogast™

Allergy

Allergies

Claritin™

Eylea™

Consumer Health

Cough and cold

Cough and cold

Aspirin™, Alka-Seltzer™, Afrin™

Footcare

Footcare

Dr. Scholl’s™

Suncare

Sun protection

Coppertone™

Fungicides

Biological and chemical products to protect crop
plants from fungal diseases

Flint™, Fox™, Luna™, Nativo™, Prosaro™,
Serenade™, Xpro™

Insecticides

Biological and chemical products to protect crop
plants from harmful insects

Belt™, BioAct™, Confidor™, Movento™,
Sivanto™

Crop Science

Herbicides

Chemical crop protection products to control weeds Adengo™, Alion™, Basta™, Corvus™, Liberty™

SeedGrowth

Biological and chemical seed treatments to protect
against fungal infection and pests

Seeds

Seeds and traits for cotton, canola, rice, soybeans, Arize™, Credenz™, FiberMax™, InVigor™,
wheat and vegetables
Nunhems™, Stoneville™

Environmental Science

Products for professional pest control, vector
control, forestry, golf courses and parks, railway
tracks

CropStar™, Gaucho™, Poncho™

Esplanade™, Fludora™, Interface™, K-Othrine™,
Maxforce™, Pistol™, Signature™

Animal Health
Companion animals business

Veterinary medicines and solutions to protect and
Advantage™ product family, Seresto™,
maintain the health of companion animals, focusing Drontal™, Baytril™
on antiparisitics and anti-infectives

Farm animals business

Veterinary medicines and solutions to treat and
Baytril™
prevent parasitic diseases, anti-infectives,
immunostimulants, pharmacological treatments and
farm hygiene products

Covestro
Polyurethanes

Raw materials for flexible and rigid foams and for
thermoplastics

Polycarbonates

Granules, sheets and films

Polycarbonate product group

Coatings, Adhesives, Specialties

Raw materials for surface coatings and adhesives
and specialties

Hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI) product group

1

The order of the products listed is no indication of their significance.

Diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI), toluene
diisocyanate (TDI) and polyether polyol product
groups

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

47

1.2 Strategy and Management

Augmented Version

1.1.3 Value Creation
By delivering innovative products and solutions in its core businesses, Bayer creates value for its
stakeholders at all stages of the value chain. We operate production sites worldwide, invest in
research and development, work with international and local suppliers and contribute to the economic development of our target markets. As an employer, we provide jobs in industrialized,
emerging and developing economies and create purchasing power through the salaries we pay.
We contribute to public finances and thus support public infrastructure through the payment of
taxes and other levies.
A 1.1.3/1

Value Chain Stages
See also A 1.4.2
Research,
development
and innovation

Procurement
and
supply chain

Production

Logistics

Distribution
and
marketing

Use

The value added statement shows the direct financial value our business activities create for
our stakeholders. We define value added as the company’s total operating performance in the
previous fiscal year less the costs of procured and consumed goods and services, depreciation,
amortization, impairment losses and impairment loss reversals.
A 1.1.3/2

Bayer Group Value Added 2016
€3.7 billion

Depreciation, amortization, impairment losses
and impairment loss reversals

€11.4 billion Employees (62%)
€2.2 billion Stockholders1 (12%)

€25.9 billion

Material costs /
other expenses

€47.8 billion
Total operating
performance2

€0.7 billion Lenders (4%)
€18.2 billion
Value added

€1.6 billion Tax authorities (9%)
€2.3 billion Reserves / other3 (13%)

1
2
3

Bayer AG dividend proposal for 2016
Total operating performance = sales + other operating income + financial income / equity-method income (loss)
Includes dividend for minority shareholders of Covestro AG

1.2 Strategy and Management
> Corporate strategy targets long-term profitable growth
> Group targets include financial and nonfinancial data
> Sustainability management integrated in all processes

1.2.1 Group Strategy and Targets
Our mission “Bayer: Science For A Better Life” guides our endeavors to address some of today’s
most pressing global challenges in health and nutrition through better medicines and a sufficient
quantity of high-quality food for a steadily growing and aging population. Together with our partners, we are developing innovative solutions to tackle these challenges and thus improve people’s
quality of life.

48
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.2 Strategy and Management

We want to safeguard our company’s long-term success in balance with ecological responsibility
and societal acceptance. Sustainability is embedded in all our business practices as a fundamental condition for achieving this.

www.bayer.com/strategy

Our diversified portfolio of Life Science businesses delivers profitable growth. We continuously
strive to develop our businesses such that they assume leading positions in the respective industries and segments. This development is sustained by our core competencies of innovation, customer focus, quality, process excellence and portfolio management, and by our people.
To advance the consistent implementation of our strategy, we have set ambitious group targets for
our company in the areas of growth and profitability, innovation, sustainability and employees.
These targets are explained in more detail on the following pages.

Strategies of the Segments
Pharmaceuticals
At Pharmaceuticals, our largest segment in terms of sales, we focus on researching, developing
and marketing specialty-focused innovative medicines that provide significant clinical benefit and
value, primarily in the therapeutic areas of cardiology, oncology, gynecology, hematology and
ophthalmology. In this way, we are addressing the growing requirements of patients, physicians,
health care payers and regulatory agencies.
We will continue to drive growth with our successfully launched products Xarelto™, Eylea™,
Stivarga™, Xofigo™ and Adempas™. We are continuing to expand the use of these medicines
through comprehensive clinical development programs – some of them in collaboration with other
pharmaceutical companies – and to make them available to further patient groups.
To drive sustainable growth, we are continually increasing our investment in research and development, focusing on the areas with the greatest potential for innovation such as cardiology, oncology and gynecology. We aim to continue supplementing our own innovation strength through
targeted external collaborations. In addition, we are expanding and supplementing our development portfolio through licensing agreements and acquisitions.
Moreover, we are seeking to further increase our efficiency as a means of ensuring the availability
of resources for investment in innovation.
To improve access to our products in developing and emerging countries (Access to Medicine),
we are implementing economically feasible concepts and further developing our compounds for
the treatment of neglected tropical diseases alongside our philanthropic activities.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

49

1.2 Strategy and Management

Augmented Version

Online Annex: A 1.2.1-1

Target: improving people’s quality of life
As an innovation company, we are addressing current challenges by improving people’s quality
of life through disease prevention and therapy. Within the scope of our entrepreneurial possibilities, we seek to make a responsible contribution to the benefit of society. Our Access to Medicine (ATM) activities are aligned to our company’s expertise and our specific product portfolio.
Here we distinguish between not-for-profit and economically feasible activities. The former include our efforts in respect of neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). Having signed the London
Declaration, Bayer is collaborating with other pharmaceutical companies and stakeholders to
help control or if possible eliminate 10 of these tropical diseases by 2020. Each of the companies involved contributes its respective expertise. In this connection, we have been providing
the WHO (World Health Organization) free of charge with two of our active ingredients to treat
African sleeping sickness and Chagas disease for more than 10 years. In 2016, we supplied
one million tablets of Lampit (active ingredient: nifurtimox) for the treatment of Chagas disease
and additionally contributed €300,000 for logistics and distribution. Given the gratifying and
continuous decline in the number of patients suffering from African sleeping sickness, the
10,000 Germanin ampoules we supplied in 2015 will be sufficient for treatment through 2018.
Since 2013, we have also been supporting WHO mobile intervention teams in the Democratic
Republic of Congo, the country with the highest incidence of African sleeping sickness.
Additionally, we are working with DNDi (Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative) to develop a
new treatment for river blindness. As part of the TB Drug Accelerator program, Bayer is opening parts of its substance library to support the search for new compounds to combat tuberculosis. In 2016, we formed a collaboration with the University of Dundee, Scotland, and the University of Cape Town, South Africa, to study an approach resulting from that program. We are
optimizing a special formulation of our active ingredient nifurtimox that will allow more accurate,
weight-based dosing in the treatment of Chagas disease, especially for children. The related
Phase III study was launched in 2016 in Argentina, Colombia and Bolivia.

Improved access to medicines
Our family planning programs are economically feasible and facilitate improved access to hormonal contraceptives for women in developing countries. These programs make our products
available to international development partners at preferential prices.
In some countries, where sections of the population have no access to innovative medicines via
health care systems, we have established patient assistance programs for selected products.
These aim particularly to provide access to oncology and cardiovascular products and products to treat chronic diseases such as multiple sclerosis and hemophilia. Such programs exist
in the United States and China, for example, as well as in a number of countries in South and
Southeast Asia and Southeastern Europe.
Every two years, the Access to Medicine (ATM) Index analyzes the top 20 research-based
pharmaceutical companies in terms of their efforts to improve access to medicines and health
care in developing countries. The rating mainly focuses on infectious diseases such as HIV, malaria and neglected tropical diseases, indications for which Bayer’s portfolio has a limited offering. In 2016, Bayer placed 12th (10th in the 2014 ranking) with its access programs for hormonal contraceptives, its collaboration with the WHO and other development projects.

50
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.2 Strategy and Management

Consumer Health
The growing and aging world population represents an increasing challenge to public health care
systems. For this reason, the issue of self-care is gaining importance for millions of people, as well
as for governments, health care systems and health care payers.

See also A 1.1.2

Our Consumer Health segment is responding to this change with its mainly nonprescription (OTC)
brand products to treat and prevent diseases and to improve well-being, providing consumers
with the corresponding self-care solutions. Our strategy is aimed at further building on our strong
position in the market for over-the-counter medicines, nutritional supplements and other self-care
products in selected categories.
Increasing competition for consumer attention combined with ongoing industry and distribution
channel consolidation require a stronger focus on brand building, key markets and consumercentric innovation. In order to drive the organic growth of our core brands, such as Claritin™,
Aspirin™, Aleve™, Bepanthen™, Canesten™, Alka-Seltzer™, Dr. Scholl’s™, One a Day™,
Coppertone™, Elevit™ and Berocca™, we are investing in product innovation and geographical
expansion. We additionally intend to further strengthen our positions in key markets such as the
United States, Brazil, Russia and China through product developments, marketing innovations
and new digital offerings.
We also plan to continue selectively pursuing external growth opportunities that arise from the
progressive consolidation of the OTC industry in order to expand our presence in strategic focus
categories and markets by way of acquisitions.

Crop Science
Our Crop Science segment is aligned to the long-term trends of the agricultural markets. Our aim
is to help shape the future of the agricultural industry with innovative offerings that enable the
production of sufficient high-quality food, animal feed and renewable raw materials for a growing
world population despite the limited amount of available arable land. We want to contribute to
global food security through an environmentally friendly and sustainable increase in agricultural
productivity. Our innovation strength is intended to benefit both our customers and society as a
whole and be the source of our long-term growth. Crop Science’s strategy is built on three cornerstones: leading the way in innovation, increasing customer centricity and promoting and further
developing sustainable farming practices.

See also A 1.3

To lead the way in innovation and develop holistic solutions, we aim to build on our expertise in
the integration of seed technology with chemical and biological crop protection. In so doing, we
support our customers with improved and innovative solutions tailored to specific local requirements. Innovative technologies are increasingly being applied in research and development in
order to enhance our product portfolio. Examples here include new breeding technologies to improve yields or computational life sciences for the collection, processing and analysis of extensive
research and development data as the basis for faster and more customer-focused development.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

51

1.2 Strategy and Management

Augmented Version

Another major part of our strategy is customer centricity along the entire value chain, which is
coupled with the continuous optimization of distribution. We aim to offer our customers integrated
solutions for the most important crops. In response to the increasing digitization of agriculture, we
plan to develop a proprietary digital platform and specific data models in the area of digital farming so that we can give farmers more customized and sustainable agronomic recommendations
for improving their yields. We are also seeking to support smallholder farmers in developing and
emerging economies with specially tailored and sustainable solutions that help them optimize their
agricultural production methods and improve their standard of living.
In line with our commitment to sustainable agriculture, we promote and improve corresponding
farming practices. Moreover, we are steadily expanding our successful food chain partnerships. In
these projects, Crop Science works with all participants in the food chain to sustainably safeguard
and increase yields, and to satisfy the quality criteria in the food chain. With the Bayer Forward
Farming initiative, we cooperate with farmers to develop and promote innovative solutions for the
respective crops and facilitate sustainable agriculture. We plan to establish model operations
known as “ForwardFarms” in all major agricultural markets by 2018.
Cooperation is crucial to the implementation of these strategic priorities. To find innovative and
sustainable solutions to the challenges facing the agricultural industry, we maintain numerous
collaborations and partnerships with leading research institutes and partners from the public and
private sectors.
On September 14, 2016, as the logical next step in our evolution as a Life Science company, we
signed a binding agreement to acquire Monsanto Company. Monsanto’s shareholders approved
the merger at an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting held on December 13, 2016. Subject to
receipt of the required regulatory approvals, successful closing of the transaction is anticipated by
the end of 2017. Together we would be able to offer a broader portfolio of innovative products
customized to serve farmers’ many needs and individual requirements. In the medium to long
term, the combined enterprise would be able to bring innovations to the market faster and provide
its customers with better solutions and an optimized product offering on the basis of agricultural
analysis and supporting digital farming applications.

Animal Health
Driven by an increasing world population and higher incomes, the animal health market remains
very attractive. In the companion animals segment, we are benefiting from growing pet ownership
rates. In the farm animals segment, moreover, the aspiration to adopt Western lifestyle habits is
leading to higher meat consumption.
In the companion animals business, Animal Health has a strong position in the field of parasiticides. To safeguard and further expand this position, we are focusing on maintaining the strong
performance of the Seresto™ collar, opening up new distribution channels and leveraging the
brand equity of the Advantage™ product family.

www.bayer.com/
foodchain

See also A 1.3

52
Augmented Version

See also A 1.3

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.2 Strategy and Management

In the farm animals business, we are focusing on parasiticides and anti-infectives for the treatment
of infectious diseases. We are striving to develop new options for the prevention and treatment
of diseases in livestock. In this connection, we recently launched the innovative, nonantibiotic
immunostimulant Zelnate™. Additionally, we strengthened our antiparasitics business in the United
States with the acquisition in January 2017 of the Cydectin™ endectocide portfolio.

Covestro
As a global supplier of high-tech polymer materials and associated application solutions for many
areas of modern life, Covestro supplies key industry sectors such as the automotive, construction
and electronics industries. Driven by macro trends such as climate change, the diminishing availability of fossil resources, the expanding global population, urbanization and increasing mobility, the
company is seeking to achieve profitable growth in the long term. Through its products – alongside polycarbonates especially raw materials for polyurethanes, coatings, adhesives and sealants
as well as speciality products – Covestro aims to help master these challenges in line with its
vision “To make the world a brighter place.” It operates efficient, safe and environmentally friendly
production facilities and processes that are capable of serving the anticipated growth in demand.
Covestro intends to further optimize cost structures and efficiency throughout the company.

Targets and key performance indicators
Our strategy is aimed at achieving economic growth balanced with our responsibility for the environment and society. We measure our progress in this on the basis of ambitious Group targets
along the value chain. These targets are in the areas of growth and profitability, innovation, sustainability and employees.
In this way, we aim to make clear the challenges we have identified in our core business in the
context of sustainable development, and at the same time to highlight the continuous improvements we are committed to making throughout the Group. The current status of our progress in
these areas is documented in the following table and the respective chapters.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

53

1.2 Strategy and Management

Augmented Version

A 1.2.1/1

Bayer Group Targets

1

Target

Target attainment (as of 2016)

New or adjusted target

Growth and Profitability
Increase in Group sales (Fx & portfolio adj.); forecast issued in
February 2016: low-single-digit percentage increase to more than
€47 billion

3.5% increase to €46.8 billion

Low- to mid-single-digit percentage
increase (Fx & portfolio adj.) to more
than €49 billion

Increase in EBITDA before special items; forecast issued in
February 2016: mid-single-digit percentage increase

10.2% increase

Mid-single-digit percentage increase

Increase in core earnings per share; forecast issued in February
2016: mid-single-digit percentage increase

7.3% increase

Mid-single-digit percentage increase

Group: increase in R&D investment to €4.5 billion (2016)

€4.7 billion

Increase in R&D investment to
€4.8 billion (2017)

Pharmaceuticals: transition of 10 new molecular entities (NMEs)
into development (2016)

12 new molecular entities (NMEs)
transferred

Transition of 10 new molecular entities
(NMEs) into development (2017)

Consumer Health: transition of 20 consumer-validated concepts
into early development (2016)

30 new concepts transferred

Transition of 25 consumer-validated
concepts into early development (2017)

Crop Science: transfer of 3 new molecular entities (NMEs), plant
traits or biologics into confirmatory technical proof-of-concept field
studies (2016)

Start of field studies on
4 new molecular entities (NMEs)
and 1 new plant trait

Transfer of 3 new molecular entities
(NMEs), plant traits or biologics
into confirmatory technical proof-ofconcept field studies

98%

Target unchanged

Evaluation of all potentially high-risk suppliers with significant Bayer 83%
spend (2020)

Target unchanged

Development and establishment of a new sustainability standard
for our supply base (2020)

Target unchanged

Innovation

See A 1.3 for more information

Sustainability
Supplier management
Evaluation of all strategically important suppliers (2017)

In implementation

See A 1.4.2.1 for more information

1

All targets other than “Growth and Profitability” and R&D investment targets do not include Covestro.

54

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.2 Strategy and Management

Augmented Version

A 1.2.1/1 continued

Bayer Group Targets

1

Target

Target attainment (as of 2016)

New or adjusted target

Improvement of 10% in energy efficiency (2020);
reference value 2012: 8.86 MWh/t

6.77 MWh/t (24% improvement)

Improvement of 10% in energy
efficiency (2020); reference value 2015:
143 kWh/€1,000 external sales

Reduction of 15% in specific greenhouse gas
emissions (2020); reference value 2012: 1.88 t CO 2/t

1.54 t CO2/t (–18%)

Reduction of 20% in specific
greenhouse gas emissions (2020);
new reference value (2015):
54.5 kg CO2/€1,000 external sales

Establishment of water management at all sites in water-scarce
areas (2017)

95%

Target unchanged

Reduction of 35% in occupational safety incident rate (Recordable
Incident Rate – RIR) (2020); reference value 2012: 0.50

RIR 0.40 (–20%)

Target unchanged

Reduction of 30% in process and plant safety incidents
(Loss of Primary Containment Incident Rate – LoPC-IR) (2020);
reference value 2012: 0.21

LoPC-IR 0.17 (–19%)

Target unchanged

66%

Target unchanged

97%

Target unchanged

Continuous improvement in employee engagement; reference
value 2012: 85%

87%

Target unchanged

Increase in the proportion of women in senior management
to 35% (2020); reference value 2010: 21%

31%

Target unchanged

Increase in the proportion of senior managers from outside the
European Union, the United States or Canada to 25% (2020);
reference value 2013: 18%

21%

Target unchanged

Resource efficiency

See A 1.4.3.3 for more information

Safety

See A 1.4.3.2 for more information

Product stewardship
Conclusion of assessment of hazard potential of all substances
(>99%) used in quantities exceeding one metric ton per annum
(2020)
See A 1.4.3.1 for more information

Compliance
Annual compliance training for virtually 100% of Bayer managers
See A 4.2 for more information

Employees

See A 1.4.1 for more information

1

All targets other than “Growth and Profitability” and R&D investment targets do not include Covestro.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

55

1.2 Strategy and Management

Augmented Version

1.2.2 Management Systems
One of the prime objectives of the Bayer Group is to achieve profitable growth in order to steadily
increase the enterprise value and sustain the company as a going concern. Economic planning
and management for the company takes place within a framework for the divisions determined by
the Board of Management in the course of the strategic management process and translated into
specific targets during operational planning. Continuous monitoring of business developments
complements the planning and management process, and key management and performance
indicators are regularly updated. This process also involves tracking the implementation of the
strategic objectives and adopting countermeasures in the event of deviations from the budget.
Moreover, the Board of Management uses targets and performance indicators to steer the company’s sustainable alignment.
We use the following indicators to plan, manage and monitor the development of our business.

Operational management indicators
The main parameters in economic management within the Bayer Group at the operational level are
figures for sales, earnings and tied-up capital, which therefore also significantly affect short-term
variable compensation.

See also A 2.4

Growth is measured primarily in terms of the change in sales after adjusting for currency and portfolio effects (Fx & p. adj.) in order to reflect the operational business development of the Group
and the divisions. A key measure of profitability at the Group and division levels is EBITDA before
special items. The EBITDA margin before special items, which is the ratio of EBITDA before special items to sales, serves as a relative indicator for the internal and external comparison of operational earning power. Another important profitability indicator for the Bayer Group is core earnings
per share, which is the core net income divided by the weighted average number of shares.

New value-based indicator: return on capital employed
At the strategic level, Bayer introduced the return on capital employed (ROCE) for fiscal 2016. This
indicator of value-based performance replaces the cash value added (CVA) and cash flow return
on investment (CFROI). The periodic capital return is measured by comparing ROCE with the
weighted average cost of capital. This supports the management in evaluating long-term business
development.

See also A 2.2.3

Management of the Covestro segment
The principal indicators used for internal management in the Covestro segment are core volume
growth, return on capital employed (ROCE) and free operating cash flow. These indicators also
serve as the basis for short-term incentive awards to all Covestro employees. For management
at Group level, however, the indicators used by Covestro are converted into those defined for
Bayer above.

1.2.3 Sustainability Management
To us, sustainability means safeguarding our future viability and, as part of corporate strategy, is
integrated into everyday procedures. We underline our mission as a company that acts sustainably through our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact and the Responsible Care™ initiative,
and through our active global involvement in leading initiatives such as the World Business Council
for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Bayer is committed to the U.N. Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) and released a position outlining the company’s stance on these in 2016. Our innovations, products and services make a contribution to overcoming some of the biggest global
challenges, including the SDGs of zero hunger and good global health care in particular.

www.bayer.com/unsdg

U.N. Global Compact:
see Glossary

56
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.2 Strategy and Management

Clear responsibilities and structures defined
GRI G4-18

www.bayer.com/policies

As part of Bayer’s corporate strategy, sustainability is firmly established at Board level. Responsibility for the Group’s sustainable orientation lies with the Board of Management member responsible for Human Resources, Technology and Sustainability in his role as Chief Sustainability Officer,
and with the Corporate Health, Safety & Sustainability function introduced in 2016. Operational
implementation is effected with the help of nonfinancial targets and performance indicators
throughout the value chain, based on a clear definition of responsibilities in the corporate structure
and the identification of key areas of activity using a materiality analysis. Corporate policies ensure
our sustainability principles are firmly established in business operations and are implemented
through management systems, committees and processes. The ongoing review and revision of
directives and regular internal audits ensure that our management systems are continuously improved and aligned to the specific respective requirements.
Covestro has established its own sustainability organization that functions according to a similar
system and comparable processes to those at Bayer. The following information in this chapter
does not include Covestro, unless otherwise indicated.
A 1.2.3/1

Structure of Sustainability Management
Sustainability management

Organization

Member of the Board of
Management responsible for Human
Resources, Technology and
Sustainability
Corporate Health, Safety &
Sustainability function
Group committees focusing on
sustainability and HSEQ issues

Major areas of activity

Product and process innovation

Steering, measurement
and documentation

Employee relations & development

Group policies on, for example,
– human rights
– compliance
– sustainable development
– responsible marketing

Business ethics

Targets / indicators

Product stewardship

HSEQ management systems
and audits

Access to Medicine
Sustainable food supply

Safety
Environmental protection / resource
efficiency
Supplier management

Opportunity and risk management
Integrated Annual Report with
independent auditing

Stakeholder engagement /
partnering
Societal engagement
Commitment to standards and organizations such as WBCSD, GRI, U.N. Global Compact, Responsible Care

Materiality analysis and areas of activity updated
GRI G4-18, G4-23,
G4-26, G4-27

www.bayer.com/
materiality

www.bayer.com/
areas-of-activity

We regularly analyze what the major stakeholders expect and require and match this against our
own assessment. This enables us to identify at an early stage the latest developments along with
sustainability-related opportunities and risks, which we can then incorporate into our strategy.
After Covestro became independent and Bayer realigned itself as a Life Science company, we
examined our areas of activity in 2016. This involved reviewing the issues in our last materiality
analysis and assessing their relevance in view of the reorganization. Selected internal and external
stakeholders evaluated the relevance to Bayer of the issues identified in respect of sales, costs,
risk and reputation. The results were entered into a materiality matrix in line with the internal and
external perspectives. The next step was to condense the issues relevant to Bayer, leading to 11
areas of activity. The Board of Management approved the entire process. The following graphic
shows our areas of activity and their assignment to the stages of the value chain.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

57

1.2 Strategy and Management

Augmented Version

A 1.2.3/2

Areas of Activity Across the Different Stages of the Value Chain
Value chain stages
Areas of activity

Research, Leistungskennzahlen
Procurement
development, and supply
Production
chain
innovation

Logistics

Distribution
and
marketing

Use

Product and
process innovation
Access to Medicine
Sustainable food supply
Employee relations &
development
Business ethics
Product stewardship
Safety
Environmental protection /
resource efficiency
Supplier management
Stakeholder engagement /
partnering
Societal engagement

The content index of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) with the corresponding U.N. Global
Compact principles and the key GRI aspects assigned to our areas of activity can be found in the
augmented version of the Annual Report. There we indicate whether we are able to exert influence within or outside the company. An overview of our areas of activity, their definitions, the
corresponding Group targets and the assigned GRI aspects is available on our sustainability
website.

GRI: see Glossary

www.bayer.com/
gri

Stakeholder dialogue promotes acceptance and business success
As a company, Bayer is a part of society and of public life. Ongoing and systematic dialogue with
our stakeholders is therefore particularly important to us. Their expectations and viewpoints affect
public acceptance of Bayer and thus our commercial success. They enable us to recognize trends
and developments in society and our markets at an early stage and provide input for the continuing development of our business activities, risk management and reporting. We take the wideranging requirements of our stakeholders seriously and consider them in our business operations.
The open dialogue with them also enables us to build trust in our products and the social value of
our services. We distinguish four main stakeholder groups with which we interact.

GRI G4-26, G4-27

58
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.2 Strategy and Management

A 1.2.3/3

GRI G4-24

Stakeholder Dialogue: Our Most Important Interest Groups
Bayer

Partners
Customers
Suppliers
Employees
Associations
Universities / schools

Financial market
participants
Investors
Banks
Rating agencies

Social interest groups
General public
NGOs
Local communities
Competitors

Regulators
Lawmakers
Politicians
Authorities

Online Annex: A 1.2.3-1

Diverse stakeholders in focus
GRI G4-25

We involve our interest groups, among other means, on the basis of our Stakeholder
Engagement Process. This describes how their expectations, regarding a particular project for
example, can be charted and dialogue with them steered. The engagement process is regularly
reviewed based on social trends.
A 1.2.3-1/1

Stakeholder Engagement Process

Preparation
Identification

Controlling

Characterization

Interaction

Strategy
development

Prioritization
Clustering

Early and open dialogue for new projects
GRI G4-26

To ensure the long-term acceptance and appreciation of our business, we seek to link the interests of our stakeholders to our corporate strategy. Bayer approaches key social and political
players right from the start of a new project to canvass their support. The open dialogue makes
it possible to identify opportunities and risks early on. We use a manual to guide our stakeholder engagement in strategic decision-making processes such as investment projects and
launching new products. The associated internal platform, the Virtual Resource Center, provides corresponding online tools. The concept is currently being applied to various projects at
Bayer and undergoing continuous further development based on the practical experience obtained. In addition, senior managers are receiving systematic training to improve interaction
with critical stakeholders.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

59

1.2 Strategy and Management

Augmented Version

Collaboration formats aimed at specific target groups
Bayer’s regular stakeholder activities range from dialogue at local, national and international
level and active involvement in committees and specialist workshops all the way through to
comprehensive information programs, issue-related multi-stakeholder events and participation
in international initiatives and collaborations. Our stakeholder dialogue also involves systematic
monitoring.
Below and in the relevant chapters, we use examples to provide an insight into our engagement in 2016 with respect to our four most important stakeholder groups.

Our partners
Customers and suppliers

More on this topic can be found in Chapter A 1.4.2.1 and A 1.4.2.3.
Employees

More information about internal communications can be found in Chapter A 1.4.1.
Universities and scientific institutions

Bayer’s research and development activities are supported by international collaborations with
leading universities, public-sector research institutes and partner companies. More about this
can be found in Chapter A 1.3.1.
Schools and universities

You can find more information on Bayer’s comprehensive activities in dialogue with school and
university students in Online Annex A 1.4.1-15 of this Annual Report.
Associations

Bayer is an active member of, or holds leadership positions in, numerous associations and their
committees. Examples include the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI; VicePresidency), the German Equities Institute (DAI; Presidency) and the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC; Executive Director Sustainability). Bayer also currently provides the Chairman of the Executive Board of econsense, the Forum for Sustainable Development of German
Business.
Our segments are active members of their respective industry associations and committees.
For example, Pharmaceuticals is on the boards of both the European (EFPIA) and the American
(PhRMA) pharmaceutical trade associations. Consumer Health has leadership functions in relevant industrial and trade associations. The member of the Bayer Board of Management responsible for Consumer Health is on the Board of Directors of the WSMI (World Self-Medication Industry) federation. Representatives of the segment are on the boards of regional selfmedication associations in the United States, Latin America and Europe, where Bayer currently
holds the vice-presidency.
Crop Science is represented on the boards of the international crop protection association
CropLife International, its regional associations CropLife America, Asia, Latin America and Africa & Middle East, the European Crop Protection Association (ECPA) and the presidium of the
German agricultural association Industrieverband Agrar.
Animal Health is represented on the Board of Directors of the international association Health
for Animals and the International Federation of Animal Health (IFAH-Europe) among other organizations.

GRI G4-26

GRI G4-24

60
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.2 Strategy and Management

Covestro holds the Presidency of PlasticsEurope, the association of European plastics manufacturers, and is represented on the Executive Committee of the World Plastics Council. It is
also represented on the Executive Committee of CEFIC and the Board of VCI.

Financial market players
Investors, banks and rating agencies

More information on our dialogue with the capital market – stockholders, capital investment
companies, institutional investors, banks and rating agencies – can be found in the “Investor Information” chapter of this Annual Report.

Regulators
Legislators, authorities and politicians
GRI G4-26

The framework for the company’s operations is essentially determined by authorities, legislators
and politicians. The dialogue with authorities and ministries worldwide includes discussions
with political decision-makers and active involvement in specialist committees and cooperation
projects. Our active participation in political decision-making processes is explicitly sought by
the key players involved.
Lobbying

www.bayer.com/
pol-involvement

www.bayer.de/uslobbying-disclosure

In its Corporate Policy “Code of Conduct for Responsible Lobbying,” Bayer sets out binding
rules for its involvement in political matters, aiming to ensure transparency in any collaboration
with the representatives of political institutions. The Group’s Public and Governmental Affairs
Committee established the principles for the alignment of Bayer’s political work. This especially
includes developing the company’s political positions as well as determining the position of the
Board of Management on important political issues. In 2016, Bayer’s political lobbying focused
among other things on social debate regarding good framework conditions for developing innovative Life Science technologies and products, evidence-based regulation and the necessary
reforms for the regulatory approval of crop protection products and in the area of seeds. A further focal point was submitting proposals for creating sustainable health care systems and
strengthening self-care as a key factor in this process. Bayer also promotes the prevention of
additional burdens for innovation and is involved in various policy areas: from energy, chemicals
and trade policy to climate protection and sustainability. In addition, the company actively supports the protection of intellectual property – a key prerequisite for continuing to invest significantly in the development of innovative products. More information on our political principles
and positions can be found on the internet.
Our liaison offices in Berlin, Brussels, Washington, Moscow, Brasília and Beijing are key touchpoints between the company and political stakeholders. Bayer actively participates in existing
transparency initiatives. It publishes details of costs, employee numbers and any of the other
statistics required in each country, e.g. in the transparency registers of the European institutions and the U.S. Congress. Bayer goes far beyond the statutory requirements in doing so. For
instance, the Group also publishes data for countries such as Germany where there is no legal
requirement to publish such information. In 2016, the costs incurred at the liaison offices for
human resources, material and projects totaled approximately: €1.4 million in Berlin, Germany;
€1.9 million in Brussels, Belgium; €7.3 million in Washington, United States; €0.2 million in
Moscow, Russia; €1.3 million in Brasília, Brazil; and €1.1 million in Beijing, China.
According to our corporate policy, we have committed not to make any direct donations to
political parties, politicians or candidates for political office. However, some associations to
which the Group belongs make donations on their own initiative, in compliance with statutory
regulations.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

61

1.2 Strategy and Management

Augmented Version

In the United States, a number of our employees use the Bayer Corporation Political Action
Committee (BayPac) to make private donations supporting candidates for parliamentary office.
Political action committees in the United States are state-regulated, legally independent employee groups. In the United States, companies are legally prohibited from donating to political
candidates in Federal elections directly. In many cases, such direct donations by companies are
legally prohibited for elections at state and local level too, but irrespective of the legislation
Bayer’s internal regulations do not permit them anyway. Donations through BayPac are therefore not corporate donations. The BayPac contributions are regularly reported to the U.S. Federal Election Commission and can be viewed on its website.

www.fec.gov

Social interest groups
Nongovernmental organizations, the public, the local community and competitors

Bayer is involved in a variety of projects, thematic initiatives and specialist conferences at a national and international level in order to play an active role in the common task of shaping sustainable development. Alongside exchange and cooperation with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and supranational organizations, this primarily involves dialogue with the public.

GRI G4-26

Among other involvement, Bayer is actively engaged in the U.N. Global Compact and its initiatives, the CEO Water Mandate and Caring for Climate, as well as the Global Compact LEAD
network and local networks. We have also acted as an organizational stakeholder in the Global
Reporting Initiative since 2004.
As a co-initiator of the “Zukunft der Industrie” (Future of Industry) group, Bayer was involved in
several events in Germany during the Week of Industry initiative that took place for the first time
in 2016. This demonstrated the impressive performance and innovative spirit of industry as well
as its vital contribution to the prosperity of German society.
Segments develop specific dialogue formats

Pharmaceuticals is an active participant in the social dialogue addressing sustainability issues
and creates forums to encourage exchange and develop viable problem-solving approaches
together with partners. Pharmaceuticals supports the International Dialogue on Population and
Sustainable Development conference in close collaboration with various governmental and
nongovernmental organizations. Here, approaches for tackling internationally relevant issues in
reproductive health are worked on and experiences of implementing the U.N. Millennium Development Goals are shared.
As part of their partnership, Consumer Health and the U.S. NGO, the White Ribbon Alliance
(WRA), make a joint contribution to the U.N.’s “Every Woman Every Child” campaign. Its goal is
to work at local level to reduce the mortality rate of mothers, infants and children. Consumer
Health also supports the United Nations Population Fund’s (UNFPA) “Safe Birth” campaign.
Crop Science has initiated various dialogue formats to improve knowledge transfer in agriculture, highlight the improvements in sustainable agriculture and increase communication with
stakeholders such as farmers, public-sector decision-makers and society as a whole. For instance, Bayer has joined forces with industry business partners to organize numerous visits to
Hof ten Bosch, a farm near Brussels, Belgium, with the goal of providing E.U. representatives,
journalists and other stakeholders with a practical example of how digital farming works and
can be further expanded. Crop Science sees great potential in digitizing agriculture and is
therefore working with partners, for example, to develop digital farming applications for farmers
that support them in decision-making processes and help them to optimize their work routines.

GRI G4-26

62
Augmented Version

www.bayer.com/ag-edu

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.3 Focus on Innovation

Crop Science pursues an intensive societal dialogue about the benefits of science and innovation in agriculture today. The Agricultural Education program is primarily aimed at encouraging
young people to take a greater interest in agriculture and food production. In addition to practical exercises in student laboratories, the program also includes scholarships for agricultural
science students and the sharing of ideas about the future of agriculture at international youth
conferences such as the Youth Ag-Summit. And AgLearn, a new online offering, offers a practical approach to learning with online experiments relating to plant growth.
Dialogue with the local community builds trust

GRI G4-26

An important part of our stakeholder dialogue takes place in the direct vicinity of our sites. We
are working on being recognized everywhere as a reliable partner and attractive employer that
is aware of its social responsibility. The involvement of the local community plays a decisive
role, for example, in the success of any investment project.
Dialogue with neighbors in the communities surrounding our production sites is anchored in a
corporate policy on site management. Community dialogue is jointly maintained by the sites
and the relevant country organization. In Germany, dialogue with the local community is handled via the Chempark neighborhood offices among other means.
For Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health, exchange with neighbors at the production sites is
a particularly high priority as it helps make the operation of the facilities in question transparent.
It involves organizing guided tours and dialogue events and providing informational material for
various stakeholder and age groups. Regular exchange is also maintained in networks with representatives of local governments and other resident companies. Crop Science regularly uses
forums, print media and personal discussions with citizens’ initiatives, representatives of church
communities and the regional press to keep its neighbors continually informed, for instance at
the Dormagen, Frankfurt-Hoechst and Knapsack sites in Germany. Close dialogue with stakeholders is also taking place in the communities around sites in other countries, such as in the
United States.
Covestro initiates dialogue with neighbors, the public and nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs) on a case-by-case basis. In the United States, for example, dialogue takes place
through the Community Advisory Panels (CAPs). These organize regular meetings, for example
with local government or the community, in order to provide information on current issues.
Covestro enters into direct dialogue with social interest groups in particular when commissioning new facilities.

1.3 Focus on Innovation
> Excellence in research and development
> Groundbreaking technologies in the Life Sciences
> Global open innovation network

Innovation is a cornerstone of our mission “Science For A Better Life” and a core element of our
strategy. We define innovations as new solutions that generate added value for our customers and
society. Our activities focus on innovative products based on our strong research and development competencies. They are accompanied by process, service and business model innovation.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

63

1.3 Focus on Innovation

Augmented Version

With our innovative solutions, we are responding to the global challenges in medical care and the
need to safeguard an adequate food supply. Here we focus on three key elements: excellence in
research and development, the application of groundbreaking technologies, and open innovation.
Excellence in research and development

Group target 2016:
increase in R&D investment to €4.5 billion;
see also A 1.2.1

The success of our company is based on excellence in research and development (R&D). The
know-how and skills of our employees are our most valuable resource in this endeavor. We develop new molecules and technologies in the research-intensive fields of medicine and modern agriculture and invest continuously in research and development projects.
We maintain a global network of research and development locations, where more than 15,000
scientists are employed. The focus of the research projects is determined by the R&D strategies of
our segments. In 2016, we increased our research and development investment by 9.8% (Fx adj.)
to €4,666 million. We plan to invest around €4.8 billion in research and development in 2017.
A 1.3/1

Research and Development Expenses in 2016

R&D expenses
€ million
Pharmaceuticals
Consumer Health

R&D expenses
before
special items
€ million

Share of
R&D expenses
%

R&D expenses
before
special items
% of sales

R&D employees
FTE

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2,450

2,787

2,402

2,736

57.3

59.7

15.7

16.7

8,003

7,934

250

259

232

234

5.8

5.6

3.8

3.9

347

331

Crop Science

1,082

1,164

1,082

1,156

25.3

24.9

10.7

11.7

5,073

5,631

Animal Health

134

140

134

140

3.1

3.0

9.0

9.2

285

308

Reconciliation

96

55

96

55

2.2

1.2

8.7

5.2

40

9

Life Sciences

4,012

4,405

3,946

4,321

93.7

94.4

11.6

12.4

13,748

14,213

Covestro
Group

262

261

261

261

6.3

5.6

2.2

2.2

1,005

1,016

4,274

4,666

4,207

4,582

100

100

9.1

9.8

14,753

15,229

2015 figures restated

Patents protect Bayer’s intellectual property

Globally reliable protection of intellectual property rights is particularly relevant for an innovation
company like Bayer. We therefore endeavor to obtain patent protection for our products and technologies in the major markets depending on the legal framework. At the end of 2016, we owned
approximately 50,800 valid patent applications and patents relating to some 5,000 protected
inventions worldwide.
Online Annex: A 1.3-1

Patent protection is essential

Patent terms vary according to the laws of the country granting the patent. In view of the high
investment required for product research and development, the European Union (E.U.) member
states, the United States, Japan and some other countries extend patent terms or issue supplementary protection certificates to compensate for the shortening of the effective patent protection period due to regulatory approval processes for new drugs.
The term of a patent is normally 20 years. Since it takes an average of 12 years to develop a
new medicine, only eight years of patent protection generally remain following the product’s
approval. In most cases it would be impossible to cover the substantial costs incurred in the
research and development of innovative medicines or of new indications or dosage forms for
existing drugs without this protection. We are therefore committed worldwide to protecting
both the international patent system and our own intellectual property. The following table
shows the expiration dates for the Bayer Group’s significant patents.

www.bayer.com/
political-position-ip

64

A Combined Management Report

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.3 Focus on Innovation

A 1.3-1/1

Pharmaceuticals Patent Expiration Dates
Market
Germany

France

U.K.

Italy

Spain

Japan

China

Switzerland

2028 e

2028

2023 a

2028

2028

2027

2023

2028

2023 b

2023 a

2023

2030

2030

2030

2030

2030

2030

2030

2030

2030b

2030

2030 b

2020 a

2025

2020 a

2025

2025

20212023 d

2020

2025

2020 b

–

2020

2027

20282029 d

2027 b

2027

2027 b

–

2027

Brazil

U.S.A.

Canada

Products

Adempas™
Active ingredient
Production process /
intermediate
Eylea™
Active ingredient
Formulation

2027

2027

2027

2027

Kogenate™
Active ingredient
Formulation

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2021

2017

2017

2017

2017

2017

2020

2017

2017

2020

2016

2017
2021

Kovaltry™
Active ingredient

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Formulation

2017

2017

2017

2017

2017

2020

2017

2017

2020

2016

2017

Production process

2018

2018

2018

2018

2018

2018a

2018

2018

2023

2017

2018

2029

2029

2029

2029

2029

2029

2029

2029

2029 b

2029 b

2029

Active ingredient

2021

2021

2021

2021

2021

20212025 d

2020

2021

2025

2020

2020

Salt form

2022

2022

2022

2022

2022

-

-

2022

-

-

-

2025

20252026 d

2025

2025

2025 b

2027

2025

2026

2026

2026 b

2026 f

2026

Mirena™
Inserter
Nexavar™

Polymorph
Formulation

2025

2025

2025

2025

2026

2026

2026

2026

2026

20262027 d

2028

2028

2024a

2028

2028

2026 d

2024

2028

2024 b

2031

2024

d

2025

2025

2025 b

2031 c

2025

Stivarga™
Active ingredient
Formulation

2025

2025

2025

2025

2025

2026

Production process

2031

2031

2031

2031

2031

2031

2031

2031

2031b

2031

2031

2023

2023

2023

2023

2023

20222025 d

2020

2023

2022

2024 e

2020

2024

2024

2024 b

2024

2024

2019

2024

–

2020 a

2019

2031

b

2031

2031 b

Xarelto™
Active ingredient
Formulation

2024

2024

2024

2024

2024

20252028 d

2024

2024

2024

2024

2024

2019 a

Xofigo™
Use
Production process
a

2031

2031

2031

Current expiration date; patent term extension applied for
Patent application pending
c
Patent term revised
d
Application-specific term extension(s)
e
Patent term extension granted
f
Notice of allowance received
b

2031

2031

2031

2031

2031

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

65

1.3 Focus on Innovation

Augmented Version

Groundbreaking technologies in the Life Sciences

With our strategic innovation unit, the Bayer Lifescience Center (BLSC), we focus on new groundbreaking technologies. In May 2016, Bayer and ERS Genomics, Ireland, signed an agreement
giving Bayer access to ERS’s CRISPR-Cas9 genome-editing patents. The agreement granted
Bayer rights for defined research applications of this technology in selected strategic areas. In
August 2016, Casebia Therapeutics, a company established by Bayer and CRISPR Therapeutics
in March 2016, launched operations in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and San Francisco, California,
United States. The goal of Casebia Therapeutics is to develop new, trend-setting therapeutics to
treat blood diseases, blindness and congenital heart disease. In December 2016, Bayer and Versant Ventures established the company BlueRock Therapeutics, which will be active in the area of
regenerative medicine. The company plans to develop highly efficient therapies based on induced
pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) to cure various cardiovascular diseases, neurological disorders and
diseases of the central nervous system.
Global open innovation network

Partnerships are integral to our innovation strategy. That is why we work within a network of alliances with start-ups, academic institutes, industry, suppliers and other partners. Our open innovation network spans all parts of the company along the value chain. Our open innovation portal
offers a platform for collaborations in all parts of the company. We also invest in venture capital
funds that finance life science start-up companies, among other projects.

See the segment sections for details

www.innovate.bayer.com

Online Annex: A 1.3-2

Scientists from Bayer are involved in constant dialogue with renowned research institutes
and support partnership projects in the public and private sectors. In 2016, public funding
worth more than €12 million was spent on more than 50 projects worldwide. This is equivalent
to roughly 0.3% of our annual R&D expenses. We also participate in industry associations, assume professorships at universities worldwide and regularly invite scientists, university and
school students to attend events such as symposiums on health topics or research days for
school students. We view this as an investment in our own future.

GRI G4-26

Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals focuses on indications with high medical need in the areas of cardiovascular
disease, oncology, gynecology, ophthalmology and hematology. We conduct research and development activities at several locations, mainly in Germany, the United States, Japan, China, Finland
and Norway.
In line with our targets for 2016 we transferred 12 new molecular entities from our research pipeline into preclinical development in the reporting year. We define a new molecular entity (NME) as a
new chemical or biological substance that has not been in development to date. In preclinical
trials these substances are examined further in various models with respect to their suitability for
clinical trials and linked “first-in-man” studies. In 2016, we conducted clinical trials with several
drug candidates from our research and development pipeline. We strengthened products that
were already on the market through life cycle management activities to further improve their application and / or expand their spectrum of indications.
Progress in clinical Phase II projects

The following table shows our most important drug candidates currently in Phase II of clinical
testing:

Bayer worldwide; see
also A 1.1.1/1

Group target 2016:
transition of 10 new
molecular entities
(NMEs) into
development;
see also A 1.2.1

66
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.3 Focus on Innovation

A 1.3/2

Research and Development Projects (Phase II)

1

Projects

Indication

Anetumab ravtansine (mesothelin ADC)

Cancer

Ang2 antibody + aflibercept

Serious eye diseases 2

BAY 1142524 (chymase inhibitor)

Heart failure

BAY 2306001 (IONIS-FXIRx)

Prevention of thrombosis 3

Copanlisib (PI3K inhibitor)

Recurrent / resistant non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL)

Molidustat (HIF-PH inhibitor)

Renal anemia

Neladenoson bialanate (BAY 1067197)

Chronic heart failure

PDGFR-beta + aflibercept

Wet age-related macular degeneration 2

Radium-223 dichloride

Breast cancer with bone metastases

Radium-223 dichloride

Cancer, various studies

Regorafenib

Cancer

Riociguat

Diffuse systemic sclerosis

Riociguat

Cystic fibrosis

Rivaroxaban

Secondary prevention of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) 4

Vilaprisan (S-PRM)

Symptomatic uterine fibroids5

Vilaprisan (S-PRM)

Endometriosis

1

As of January 31, 2017
2
Sponsored by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
3
Sponsored by Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
4
Sponsored by Janssen Research & Development, LLC
5
Based on positive Phase II study data, the decision was taken to initiate Phase III studies.
The nature of drug discovery and development is such that not all compounds can be expected to meet the predefined project goals.
It is possible that any or all of the projects listed above may have to be discontinued due to scientific and / or commercial reasons and
will not result in commercialized products. It is also possible that the requisite U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European
Medicines Agency (EMA) or other regulatory approvals will not be granted for these compounds. Moreover, we regularly review our
research and development pipeline so that we can give priority to advancing the most promising pharmaceuticals projects.

Below are the most significant changes that occurred in 2016 compared with the previous year:
In March 2016, we expanded our existing cooperation with Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
United States, to jointly develop a combination therapy of the angiopoietin2 (Ang2) antibody
nesvacumab and aflibercept for the treatment of serious eye diseases. Two ongoing Phase II clinical studies are evaluating the combination therapy as a single intravitreal injection in patients with
wet age-related macular degeneration or diabetic macular edema.
Also in March 2016, the study involving BAY 1007626, or progestin IUS (contraception), was
discontinued. Clinical development of roniciclib (cancer) was discontinued. Bayer does not intend
to pursue the development of refametinib (cancer) and the project will be returned to Ardea
BioSciences, Inc., United States.
In May 2016, we terminated our Phase II study investigating riociguat (tradename: Adempas™)
in patients with pulmonary hypertension associated with idiopathic interstitial pneumonia (PH-IIP)
following the recommendation of an independent data monitoring committee (DMC).
We also will not further pursue the development of BAY 98-7196 + anastrozole (intravaginal ring)
for the indication endometriosis.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

67

1.3 Focus on Innovation

Augmented Version

In September 2016, our partner Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., United States, published the
first data from a clinical Phase II study investigating the treatment of wet age-related macular
degeneration with rinucumab, a PDGFR-ȕ antibody, in combination with aflibercept (tradename:
Eylea™). Although the study failed to meet its primary endpoint, a statistically significant improvement in visual acuity after 12 weeks, Regeneron will, however, continue the study as planned.
Further data will be analyzed after 28 weeks and following the conclusion of the trial (after 52
weeks). Bayer will then examine the available data and decide on the next steps.
Progress in clinical Phase III projects

The following table shows our most important drug candidates currently in Phase III of clinical
testing:
A 1.3/3

Research and Development Projects (Phase III)

1

Projects

Indication

Amikacin Inhale

Pulmonary infection

BAY 1841788
(ODM-201, AR antagonist)

Nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer

BAY 1841788
(ODM-201, AR antagonist)

Metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer

Ciprofloxacin DPI

Non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis

Copanlisib (PI3K inhibitor)

Various forms of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL)

Damoctocog alfa pegol
(BAY 94-9027, long-acting rFVIII)

Hemophilia A

Finerenone (MR antagonist)

Diabetic kidney disease

Radium-223 dichloride

Combination treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer

Regorafenib

Colon cancer, adjuvant therapy

Rivaroxaban

Prevention of major adverse cardiac events (MACE)

Rivaroxaban

Anticoagulation in patients with chronic heart failure 2

Rivaroxaban

Long-term prevention of venous thromboembolism

Rivaroxaban

Prevention of venous thromboembolism in high-risk patients after discharge
from hospital 2

Rivaroxaban

Embolic stroke of undetermined source (ESUS)

Rivaroxaban

Peripheral artery disease (PAD)

Tedizolid

Pulmonary infection

Vericiguat
(BAY 1021189, sGC stimulator)

Chronic heart failure 3

1

As of January 31, 2017
Sponsored by Janssen Research & Development, LLC
3
Sponsored by Merck & Co., Inc., United States
The nature of drug discovery and development is such that not all compounds can be expected to meet the predefined project goals.
It is possible that any or all of the projects listed above may have to be discontinued due to scientific and / or commercial reasons and
will not result in commercialized products. It is also possible that the requisite U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European
Medicines Agency (EMA) or other regulatory approvals will not be granted for these compounds. Moreover, we regularly review our
research and development pipeline so that we can give priority to advancing the most promising pharmaceuticals projects.
2

Below are the most significant changes that occurred in 2016 compared with the previous year:
In the first quarter of 2016, we decided to focus our development activities for finerenone on the
indication of diabetic kidney disease. A study in the indication of chronic heart failure will therefore
not be carried out.

68
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.3 Focus on Innovation

In May 2016, a clinical Phase III study investigating regorafenib (tradename: Stivarga™) in unresectable liver cancer reached its primary endpoint, a statistically significant improvement of overall
survival. The study investigated regorafenib in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma whose disease had further progressed during prior treatment with sorafenib (tradename: Nexavar™). Based
on these data, we submitted regorafenib for marketing authorization for the treatment of unresectable liver cancer in Europe, Japan and the United States in the third quarter of 2016.
In June 2016, we agreed with Orion Corporation, Espoo, Finland, to expand the global clinical
development program for the novel androgen receptor (AR) antagonist BAY-1841788 (ODM-201).
A new clinical Phase III study is evaluating BAY-1841788 in men with newly diagnosed metastatic
hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) who are starting first-line hormone therapy.
In June 2016, we formed a new research partnership with the U.S. National Surgical Adjuvant
Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP), a leading clinical trials cooperative group. A clinical Phase III
study will investigate regorafenib as a single agent for adjuvant treatment following completion of
standard adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with advanced but not yet metastatic colon cancer.
In September 2016, a new clinical Phase III trial was initiated to evaluate vericiguat, a soluble
guanylate cyclase (sGC) stimulator, in patients suffering from chronic heart failure with reduced
ejection fraction. The development and commercialization of vericiguat are part of the worldwide
strategic collaboration between Bayer and Merck & Co., Inc., United States (through a subsidiary),
in the field of sGC modulation.
In February 2017, the Phase III COMPASS study with Bayer’s rivaroxaban in patients with coronary or peripheral artery disease showed overwhelming efficacy and met its primary endpoint
early.
Clinical trials are an essential tool for determining the efficacy and safety / tolerability of new developmental products before they can be used to diagnose or treat diseases. The benefits and risks
of new medicinal products must always be scientifically proven and well documented. All clinical
trials at Bayer satisfy strict international guidelines and quality standards, as well as the respective
applicable national laws and standards.
Online Annex: A 1.3-3

Transparency through publication of clinical trials
Bayer publishes information about clinical trials in line with the respective applicable national
laws and according to the principles of the European (EFPIA) and U.S. (PhRMA) pharmaceutical
associations, these principles being defined in a joint position paper.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

69

1.3 Focus on Innovation

Augmented Version

Pharmaceuticals publishes information on its own clinical trials both in the publicly accessible
register www.ClinicalTrials.gov and in its own “Trial Finder” database. In the case of approved
products, summarized results of Phase II, III and IV clinical trials are accessible online through
the “Trial Finder.” Upon request, scientists can receive access to anonymized data at the patient level via the portal www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com.
Further information on our globally uniform standards, the monitoring of studies and the role of
the ethics committees can be found on the internet.
Filings and approvals

We regularly evaluate our research and development pipeline in order to prioritize the most promising pharmaceutical projects. Following the completion of the required studies with a number of
these drug candidates, we submitted applications to one or more regulatory agencies for approvals or approval expansions. The most important drug candidates in the approval process are:
A 1.3/4

Main Products Submitted for Approval

1

Projects

Indication

Regorafenib

Europe, Japan, U.S.A.: second-line treatment for unresectable liver cancer

Rivaroxaban 2

U.S.A.; secondary prophylaxis of acute coronary syndrome (ACS)

1
2

As of January 31, 2017
Submitted by Janssen Research & Development, LLC

In February 2016, Bayer received approval from the European Commission for Kovaltry™
(Bay 81-89-73) for the treatment of hemophilia A in patients of all age groups. Kovaltry™ is an
unmodified recombinant factor VIII product that in clinical trials has demonstrated efficacy and
tolerability as an on-demand therapy and for prophylactic use two or three times per week by
hemophilia A patients. In March 2016, Kovaltry™ was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW).
In March 2016, the Japanese MHLW granted marketing authorization for Xofigo™ (radium-223
dichloride) for the treatment of adult patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer and bone
metastases.
In May 2016, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Gadavist™ / Gadovist™
(active ingredient: gadobutrol) as the first contrast agent for use with magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) to evaluate known or suspected supra-aortic or renal artery disease in patients of
all ages.
In September 2016, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved our new low-dose
levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system with the brand name Kyleena™. The new system
releases the lowest daily hormone dose in an intrauterine system for up to five years of effective
protection against pregnancy. It uses the smallest T-shaped body available today for implantation
in the uterus for the purpose of contraception with active ingredient-releasing systems. In October
2016, furthermore, we successfully completed the corresponding decentralized registration procedure for the European Union. On this basis, it is expected that the health authorities of the E.U.
member states will grant national marketing authorizations in the coming months.

www.bayer.com/ethicsin-rnd

70
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.3 Focus on Innovation

In November 2016, an expansion of indications was filed for Stivarga™ (active ingredient:
regorafenib) in the United States, Japan and Europe. The filings pertain to the second-line treatment of patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. Stivarga™, an oral multikinase inhibitor, is already approved under this brand name in numerous countries for the treatment of
metastatic colorectal cancer and unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors. The
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted priority review status to regorafenib in the registration process for the expansion of indications (supplemental New Drug Application, sNDA). The
Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) granted priority review status for the
registration filing in January 2017.
See also A 1.3
“Global open innovation
network”

Cooperations

We augment our own research capacities through collaborations and strategic alliances with
external industrial and academic research partners. In this way we gain access to complementary
technologies and external innovation potential. The following table shows examples of the main
collaborations:
A 1.3/5

Main Cooperations in 2016
Partner

Cooperation objective

Broad Institute

Strategic partnership in the field of genome and drug research in cardiology
aimed at using findings from human genetics to develop new cardiovascular
therapies and in the field of oncology to identify and develop active ingredients
that target tumor-specific gene alterations

German Cancer Research Center
(DKFZ)

Strategic partnership for the development of new therapeutic options in
oncology, especially in immunotherapy

Evotec AG

Collaboration to identify development candidates for the treatment of
endometriosis and kidney diseases

ImmunoGen Inc.

Cooperation in the field of antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) for novel tumor
therapies

Janssen Research &
Development,
LLC of Johnson & Johnson

Development of Xarelto™ (rivaroxaban)

Merck & Co., Inc.

Development and marketing collaboration in the field of soluble guanylate
cyclase (sGC) modulation

MorphoSys AG

Development of antibody-drug conjugates using MorphoSys’s HuCAL
technology

Orion Corporation

Development of ODM-201 for the treatment of patients with prostate cancer

Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc.

Development of Eylea™ (aflibercept) to treat various eye diseases
Development of a combination therapy of rinucumab, a PDGFR-beta
(beta-type platelet derived growth factor receptor) antibody, and aflibercept for
the treatment of wet age-related macular degeneration
Development of a combination therapy of the angiopoietin2 (Ang2) antibody
nesvacumab and aflibercept for the treatment of serious eye diseases

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

71

1.3 Focus on Innovation

Augmented Version

Online Annex: A 1.3-4
A 1.3-4/1

Other Cooperations in 2016
Partner

Cooperation objective

BioInvent International AB

Access to antibody library with in-licensing of antibodies

Compugen Ltd.

Collaboration for the research and development of new immunotherapy
approaches in oncology

Dimension Therapeutics, Inc.

Development of a novel gene therapy for hemophilia A

Inception 4, Inc.

Research into new approaches for the treatment of various eye
diseases

Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Development of an antisense molecule for the prevention of thrombosis

Leica Biosystems Ltd.

Development of diagnostic tests in personalized oncology treatment

Ludwig Boltzmann Institute

Research into lung vascular disease, especially pulmonary hypertension

Merck & Co., Inc.

Codevelopment of tedizolid to treat various infections

Nektar Therapeutics

Codevelopment of a targeted antibiotic inhalation therapy for lung
infections (amikacin inhale)

Novartis AG

Development of a targeted antibiotic inhalation therapy for lung
infections (ciprofloxacin DPI)

OncoMed Pharmaceuticals Inc.

Discovery and development of novel anticancer stem cell therapeutics

Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc.
of Amgen Inc.

Codevelopment of Nexavar™ (sorafenib) for various types of cancer

Peking University

Research cooperation and establishment of a research center for joint
projects

Seattle Genetics Inc.

Access to technologies for antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) for novel
tumor therapies

Tsinghua University

Research cooperation and establishment of a research center for joint
projects

University of Oxford

Strategic research alliance for the development of novel gynecological
therapies

Ventana Medical Systems, Inc.

Development of diagnostic tests in personalized oncology treatment

Wilmer Eye Institute of Johns Hopkins
University

Research and development of innovative drug products to treat serious
back-of-the-eye diseases

Science and cooperation centers

In addition to these cooperations, we operate our own science and innovation centers. We coordinate primarily our research partnerships in Asia through our innovation centers in Beijing,
China; Singapore; and Osaka, Japan. In Berlin, Germany, and San Francisco, California, United
States, we operate the CoLaborator™, an incubator model for young life science companies.
The objective of the global CoLaborator™ concept is to offer these companies suitable laboratory and office infrastructure in the direct vicinity of Bayer’s own research facilities and the opportunity to exchange experiences with Bayer experts.
In the area of crowdsourcing, we established another global initiative named
Grants4Indications™ in February 2016. This program promotes the exploration of new therapeutic indications for Bayer’s active ingredients. We are also continuing the Grants4Apps™,
Grants4Targets™ and PartnerYourAntibodies™ programs. In 2016, we launched the AACRBayer Innovation and Discovery Grants together with the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR). The objective is to develop new treatment options for cancers with high medical need. In addition, the East Coast Innovation Center was established in 2016 in Cambridge/Boston, Massachusetts, United States.
In the area of venture capital, we are active with the “High-Tech Gründerfonds” and Versant
Ventures.

Further information on
this can be found at:
www.innovate.bayer.com/
what-we-offer

72
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.3 Focus on Innovation

Consumer Health
Bayer worldwide; see
also A 1.1.1/1

See also A 1.1.2

Group target 2016:
transition of
20 consumer-validated
concepts into early
development

Our development activities for nonprescription (OTC) products focus primarily on the areas of
dermatology, dietary supplements, pain relief, gastrointestinal complaints, allergy relief and cold
symptoms, as well as foot and sun care products. Developments aligned to the desires and
needs of consumers range from new formulations, delivery forms and solutions for specific customer requirements to new packaging designs, technical applications (apps, Custom Fit Kiosk for
Dr. Scholl’s™ products) and medical devices. Consumer Health maintains a global network of
research and development facilities, with sites in the United States, France, Germany and China.
Transitioning of current prescription medicines to OTC status (Rx-to-OTC switches) forms an integral part of our innovation strategy designed to offer new self-care solutions to consumers. In
2016, we were able to realize 30 new consumer-validated concepts and thus exceeded the target
we had set.
In 2016, we introduced a number of new product line extensions for existing brands in various
markets, including as follows:
The April 2016 expansion of our Claritin™ portfolio in the United States included ClariSpray™, a
24-hour nasal spray for treatment of allergy symptoms.
We began marketing Aleve™ Direct Therapy in the United States in June 2016, thereby expanding
our range of analgesic products. This medical device for transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation is used to help relieve lower back pain and tension.
We expanded our Alka-Seltzer™ product family in the United States in July 2016 to include another cold medicine in the Alka-Seltzer Plus™ line.
We launched the new 2-phase system for Elevit™ (Elevit™1 and Elevit™2) in Germany in October
2016. These two complementary products for the healthy development of babies are specially
tailored to the increased nutrient requirements of women in the conception and pregnancy phases.

Crop Science
Bayer worldwide; see
also A 1.1.1/1

Crop Science maintains a global network of research and development facilities. While research is
carried out centrally at a few dedicated sites, development of crop protection products as well as
plant breeding and trait development activities take place both at these sites and at numerous
field testing and breeding stations in all regions. Our scientists working across the areas of seed
traits, seed technology, seed breeding, agricultural chemistry and biologics closely collaborate as
part of our integrated research approach. This optimally combines complementary technical expertise from chemical and biological research and development.
To develop better agronomic recommendations for farmers, we develop, for example, digital products and services that help them with analyses and the evaluation of conditions in the field and
provide them with extensive geographical information that enables better decision-making for
mastering a variety of challenges.
At Crop Protection, we pursue the goal of identifying and developing innovative, safe and sustainable active ingredients for use as insecticides, fungicides, herbicides and crop efficiency products
by foliar and soil application as well as seed treatment. Here, we use research methods such as
high-throughput screening and computational life sciences for the identification and optimization
of new chemical and microbial leads. In addition, we expand the area of applications for our active
ingredients and their performance through new mixtures and through the development of innovative formulations.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

73

1.3 Focus on Innovation

Augmented Version

In Seeds we are conducting research to optimize plant traits and are developing new varieties in
cotton, oilseed rape / canola, soybeans, rice, wheat and vegetables. Our researchers are working
both on increasing the yield potential of crops and on enhancing the quality of the crop. Examples
include altering the profile of rapeseed / canola oil or enhancing the properties of cotton fibers. We
are also targeting the development of plants that deliver higher yields under occasionally adverse
climatic conditions. Further areas of focus include developing new herbicide tolerance and insect
resistance traits based on novel modes of action, and improving disease tolerance.
Environmental Science further develops substances either from our own agricultural portfolio

or from external partners for professional uses in non-agricultural areas. This includes solutions
for controlling pests such as cockroaches or rodents in public areas and the food industry, or to
control weeds on roads or railways. In the area of vector control, we develop solutions with resistance-breaking properties for controlling mosquitoes that can transmit malaria, dengue fever
or Zika.
Research and development pipeline

Our product pipeline contains numerous new crop protection products, seed varieties and enhanced products (life cycle management). We estimate the combined peak sales potential of
products with launch dates between 2015 and 2020 to be more than €5 billion. In 2016, we
launched confirmatory technical proof-of-concept field studies for four active ingredients and one
new crop trait, thus exceeding our Group target. A new plant trait is a specific characteristic that
has not yet been available or offered at Bayer for the crop plant in question. The following table
shows selected new products that are expected to be launched by 2020.
A 1.3/6

Product Innovation Pipeline

1

Market launch

Product group

Indication / crop

Product / plant trait

2017

Biological crop protection

Insecticide

BioAct™ Liquid

2017

Seeds

Cotton

Glytol TwinLink Plus™
(dual herbicide tolerance and insect
resistance)

2017

Seeds

Rice

Pest resistance and disease tolerance
(native traits)

2017

Seeds

Rice

Flood tolerance (native trait)

2017

Seeds

Soybeans

Balance™ GT
(dual herbicide tolerance)

2018

Seeds

Oilseed rape / canola

Dual herbicide tolerance

2018

Seeds

Rice

Salt tolerance (native trait)

2019

Chemical crop protection

Insecticide

Tetraniliprole

2019

Chemical crop protection

Fungicide

Tiviant™

2019

Seeds

Oilseed rape / canola

Herbicide tolerance

2019

Seeds

Oilseed rape / canola

New oil profile (native trait)

2019

Seeds

Rice

Dual disease tolerance (native trait)

2019

Seeds

Soybeans

Triple herbicide tolerance

2020

Seeds

Oilseed rape / canola

Dual herbicide tolerance

1

Planned market launch of selected new products
As of January 30, 2017

Group target 2016:
transfer of 3 new molecular entities (NMEs),
plant traits or biologics
into confirmatory technical proof-of-concept
field studies;
see also A 1.2.1

74
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.3 Focus on Innovation

New products and registrations

In 2016, Crop Science received marketing authorization in certain countries for new mixtures and
formulations, as well as for expanded indications for existing products. For example, we were
granted authorization to market the herbicide indaziflam and its core brand AlionTM in Brazil and
the new herbicide mixture DiFlexxTM Duo in corn in the United States. The herbicide active ingredient triafamone and its Council TM formulations were approved in Japan. We also received further
marketing authorizations and the approval of expanded indications for the biological fungicide
Serenade TM ASO in various countries and for the nematicide VelumTM prime in southern Europe
and Africa.
In July 2016, furthermore, the European Commission approved the dual herbicide tolerance trait
Balance™ GT in soybeans for food and feed uses. Balance™ GT is owned by MS Technologies
and is being codeveloped through a joint development agreement between that company and
Bayer. The launch of soybeans with this new trait is planned for 2017, pending approval by the
regulatory authorities.
Major success can be achieved with vegetables and many broad-acre crops using conventional
and molecular plant breeding methods. As vegetables are intended especially to be marketed and
eaten fresh, merchants and consumers have particularly strict requirements and expectations
regarding their taste, appearance, nutrient content and shelf life. We continuously launch new
vegetable seed varieties with these quality traits. In addition, we launch numerous new broad-acre
crop varieties every year.
Environmental Science expanded its product range for forestry in Indonesia, Argentina and Brazil
by launching the herbicide Esplanade™ F. Furthermore, the two new products DerigoTM and
PistolTM Flexx supplemented our portfolio for vegetation control in noncrop areas. We are continuously expanding our range of products for the maintenance of golf courses by developing and
introducing various innovative solutions such as the nematicide IndemifyTM and the fungicide
ExterisTM in the United States. We are also supporting professional pest control around the world
by expanding the MaxforceTM range of insecticides.
Cooperations
See also A 1.3
“Global open innovation
network”

Crop Science is part of a global network of partners from diverse segments of the agricultural
industry and academic research.
A 1.3/7

Crop Science: Important Cooperations
Partner

Cooperation objective

CSIRO

Increase in wheat yields by means of native plant traits – discovery,
validation and integration

Elemental Enzymes

Use of microbes to improve soil health and thereby increase crop
productivity

GRDC

Herbicide Innovation Partnership for the discovery and development of
innovative weed management solutions

IVCC

Joint development of new substances to control mosquitoes that transmit
diseases such as malaria and dengue fever

Targenomix

Development and application of systems biology approaches to achieve a
better understanding of metabolic processes in plants

Embrapa

Cooperation on several R&D objectives in various areas of relevance for
agriculture in Brazil, e.g. Asian soybean rust

Jülich Research Center

Research collaboration focused on phenotyping for plant breeding, research
into plant traits and the development of biologicals

Planetary Resources International

Decision-making aids for farmers that enable more targeted deployment of
crop protection products in fields using satellite technology

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

75

1.3 Focus on Innovation

Augmented Version

Online Annex: A 1.3-5

We formed new partnerships in 2016: in April 2016, Crop Science announced a five-year research partnership with the Institute of Geography and the Department of Informatics of the
University of Hamburg that is aimed at jointly developing new digital solutions for agriculture
based on geoinformatics methods and models. These enable the IT-based visualization of the
consequences of agricultural processes using relevant geobasic data such as soil, climate, land
relief and usage parameters. In September 2016, Crop Science announced a five-year research
partnership with the Jülich Research Center in Germany that is focused on phenotyping for
plant breeding, research into plant traits and the development of biologicals. In October 2016,
Bayer and the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences announced a research collaboration
aimed at better understanding the genetic factors that impact wheat yields so that these can
be increased.
In our open innovation initiatives Grants4Targets and Grants4Traits, we invite partners from academic research institutes, start-ups and other companies to join us and together drive innovation in the areas of crop protection and trait development. By investing in venture capital funds,
furthermore, we support up-and-coming companies in agricultural technologies. We have developed various venture capital funds with partners such as Flagship Ventures, Trendlines and
Finistere Ventures LLC.

Animal Health
At Animal Health we focus our research and development activities on antiparasitics, antibiotics,
medicines to treat noninfectious disorders and nonantibiotic alternatives for infectious diseases.
We endeavor to improve the health and well-being of companion and farm animals through innovations that also include digital solutions. Here Animal Health also pursues the “one health” concept: we offer animal health products that reduce the risk of transmission of disease pathogens to
humans, such as endoparasiticides for cats and dogs or ectoparasiticides to protect especially
against fleas and ticks. Through our initiative focusing on companion vector-borne diseases
(CVBD) and with the leading global scientists who participate in this initiative, we are setting
trends in the establishment of scientific principles and the fight against vector-borne diseases.
Our central research activities are conducted through the Life Sciences platform in conjunction
with the research and development department at Pharmaceuticals and in close collaboration with
Crop Science.
New products and registrations

In January 2017, the European regulatory authorities approved a new product to protect honey
bees against the Varroa mite. Before the product can be marketed, this decision must be implemented in national law.
Cooperations

Animal Health reinforces its business by continually identifying further product development candidates through new and existing collaborations.
In May 2016, we entered into an agreement with BioNTech AG, Germany, to develop novel mRNA
vaccines and therapeutics specifically for veterinary medicine applications.
Also in May 2016, we signed a global license agreement with TransferTech Sherbrooke, Quebec,
Canada, to advance a novel vaccine candidate developed at Université de Sherbrooke. The new
vaccine is intended to help protect dairy cattle from mastitis caused by the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus.

www.cvbd.org

76
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Covestro
Innovation is a core element of Covestro’s strategy. The company is accounting for current and
future needs and trends through systematic innovation management, a strong global presence
with major innovation centers and pronounced customer centricity.
With the objective of maintaining and building on its own competitive position, Covestro continuously works to achieve innovations and improvements in products and in production and processing techniques, as well as with respect to business models and processes. The main goals
here are to improve the performance of products and processes, increase their cost efficiency and
open up new areas of application.
The focus in the Polyurethanes Business Unit (BU) is partly on increasing the flame retardance and
insulation properties of the materials it supplies. The business unit is also researching alternatives
to petrochemical raw materials. The Polycarbonates BU focuses mainly on reducing the weight of
the relevant materials, increasing their energy efficiency and safety, and expanding design options.
The Coatings, Adhesives, Specialties BU concentrates on further developing its own technology
platforms and the related products in order, for example, to increase their efficiency and sustainability.
Cooperation is integral to the innovation management concept of Covestro. The company closely
cooperates with customers, scientific institutions, start-up companies and academic spin-offs.

1.4 Sustainable Conduct
1.4.1 Commitment to Employees and Society
>
>
>
>

Attracting, developing and retaining the best managers and employees
Corporate culture: dialogue, diversity, innovation
Creating attractive working conditions
Wide-ranging societal engagement

Our business success is based to a large extent on the knowledge, skills, commitment and satisfaction of our employees. As a modern international employer, we offer our employees attractive
conditions and wide-ranging individual development opportunities. The key to this is our highly
effective system of vocational and ongoing training, which we are continuously extending. Alongside professional training, we focus on conveying our corporate values (LIFE) and establishing a
dialogue-oriented corporate culture based on trust, respect for diversity and equality of opportunity. That plays a part in employee satisfaction – along with our responsible approach to structuring working conditions, which includes fair and respectful treatment at work, a transparent,
competitive and equitable compensation system, company pension plans, the ability to combine
working with family commitments, flexible worktime arrangements and a working environment
that fosters health.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

77

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Our global human resources strategy is designed to help us meet business needs in the future as
well. It is adopted by the primary decision-making body of Bayer’s HR function, the HR Leadership Team, which also sets binding policies and defines priorities for all regions and organizational
units. The HR Leadership Team is led by the Head of Human Resources & Organization. Our
Group-wide Employee Survey, which is normally conducted about every two years, and our institutionalized feedback discussions and analyses aim to achieve a steady rise in satisfaction with
Bayer as an employer. They enable us to monitor the effectiveness of our activities and make any
necessary improvements. Focal areas include strengthening our innovation culture, which provides
a trustful basis that encourages creativity, experimentation, collaboration and customer focus in all
areas. In the most recent Employee Survey we received an employee satisfaction rating of 87%,
thereby achieving our Group target.
As well as promoting our competitiveness, our forward-looking human resources strategy reflects
our social responsibility to provide secure employment and stable incomes, and to foster social
integration. We are also committed to supporting the general well-being of our employees with a
wide range of projects and initiatives in the central areas of health, education and meeting basic
social needs.

Employee data
Slight reduction in Group headcount

On December 31, 2016, Bayer employed approximately 115,200 people worldwide (2015:
116,600), a slight decrease from the prior year. In Germany we had some 37,000 employees
(2015: approximately 36,600), which was 32.1% of the total Group workforce (2015: 31.4%).
There was a reduction in the number of employees in the Asia / Pacific, Latin America and North
America regions, but a slight increase in the Europe / MiddleEast / Africa region. While the headcount in the Consumer Health, Crop Science, Covestro and Pharmaceuticals segments decreased, there was an increase in the number of employees included in the Reconciliation and at
Animal Health. The breakdown by function shows fewer employees working in sales and more in
R&D. The proportion of women in the workforce was unchanged from the previous year at 37%.
Similarly, in 2016 there was no significant change in the age structure compared with the previous
year.
On the reporting date, our employees had worked for the Bayer Group for an average of eleven
years. The level of voluntary fluctuation (employee-driven terminations) was 4.6% in 2016 (2015:
5.0%), slightly below the previous year’s figure. The overall fluctuation rate was 12.3%, a decrease
of 1.6 percentage points compared with the previous year. This figure includes all employer- and
employee-driven terminations, retirements and deaths. This shows that we were again successful
in retaining staff in the company for long periods. Our workforce only includes a small number of
employees on temporary contracts and hardly any temporary employees from staffing agencies.

GRI G4-26

Group target:
continuous improvement
in employee satisfaction;
see also A 1.2.1

78

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

A 1.4.1/1

Employee Data

2015

2016

Change
in %

116,600

115,200

– 1.2

2015

2016

Change
in %

Europe /
Middle East /Africa

58,800

59,500

+ 1.2

North America

16,000

15,800

– 1.3

Asia / Pacific

28,800

27,400

– 4.9

Latin America

13,000

12,500

– 3.8

2015

2016

Change
in %

Pharmaceuticals

40,500

40,100

– 1.0

Consumer Health

13,500

12,800

– 5.2

Crop Science

23,300

22,400

– 3.9

Animal Health

3,800

4,000

+ 5.3

Reconciliation

19,700

20,300

+ 3.0

Life Sciences

100,800

99,600

– 1.2

15,800

15,600

– 1.3

2015

2016

Change
in %
– 0.8

Total

by Region
51.6% Europe /
Middle East / Africa

10.9% Latin America

23.8% Asia / Pacific

2016
13.7% North America

by Segment

13.5% Covestro

34.8% Pharmaceuticals

17.6% Reconciliation

2016

3.5% Animal Health
11.1% Consumer
Health

19.5% Crop Science

Covestro

by Function
8.3% General administration
Production
13.2% R&D

34.9% Marketing and
distribution

2016

43.6% Production

50,600

50,200

Marketing and
distribution

41,700

40,200

– 3.6

R&D

14,700

15,200

+ 3.4

9,600

9,600

0.0

General
administration

Women

by Gender
62.6 % Men

North America

2016

37.4% Women

Europe /
Middle East /Africa
Asia / Pacific
Latin America
Total

by Age Group in %
30
25

28 27

4

5

0.1 0.1

20 – 29

2016

22,100

22,300

36,700

37,200

6,200

6,200

9,700

9,600

10,400

10,000

18,500

17,400

4,900

4,600

8,100

7,900

43,600

43,100

73,000

72,100

30 – 39

40 – 49 50 – 59

Total

2015

2016

2015

2016

Women

5.8

5.2

13.9

12.9

Men

4.5

4.3

13.9

12.0

Total

5.0

4.6

13.9

12.3

In %

10

< 20

2015

Voluntary

15 14

2015

2016

23 24

15
5

2015

Fluctuation in %
30 30

20

Men

> 60

2016

2015 figures restated; values rounded to the nearest hundred; number of employees in full-time equivalents (FTE)

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

79

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Online Annex: A 1.4.1-1
A 1.4.1-1/1
1

Employees by Employment Status, Region and Gender 2016
Permanent employees
Europe / Middle East / Africa

Temporary employees

Women

Men

Total

Women

Men

Total

21,200

35,800

57,000

1,100

1,400

2,500

North America

6,100

9,500

15,600

100

100

200

Asia / Pacific

9,700

16,900

26,600

300

500

800

Latin America

4,400

7,000

11,400

200

900

1,100

41,400

69,200

110,600

1,700

2,900

4,600

Total
1

The number of employees on either permanent or temporary contracts is stated in full-time equivalents (FTE) and rounded to the
nearest hundred. Part-time employees are included on a prorated basis in line with their contractual working hours.

The next table contains further information on the breakdown of employee fluctuation by region,
gender and age.
A 1.4.1-1/2
1

Employee Fluctuation by Region, Gender and Age Group

%

Women

Europe / Middle
East / Africa

North America

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

Asia / Pacific

Latin America

2016

2015

2016

Total
2015

2016
12.9

8.3

9.4

15.7

15.5

22.2

17.6

19.2

15.9

13.9

20.4

17.8

36.1

22.8

24.9

21.0

29.1

22.7

24.5

20.0

30 – 49

7.0

9.2

14.1

13.7

20.4

16.1

17.4

14.5

12.6

12.2

>= 50 3

5.5

6.2

13.2

16.5

29.1

18.9

12.9

14.3

9.1

9.8

Men

8.0

7.3

13.2

14.3

23.6

18.6

19.2

17.4

13.9

12.0

< 30 2

< 30 2

28.7

17.9

35.8

25.6

31.3

27.6

31.4

28.3

30.7

23.8

30 – 49

6.1

6.2

10.0

11.1

21.7

16.5

16.0

13.8

12.3

10.7

>= 50 3

5.2

5.8

12.8

15.8

17.2

13.8

19.4

20.5

8.7

9.3

Total

8.1

8.1

14.2

14.8

23.1

18.3

19.2

16.8

13.9

12.3

1

The data include all employer- and employee-driven terminations, retirements and deaths.
The comparatively high proportion of employees in the < 30 age group is due to the inclusion of employees on temporary
contracts (working for 2 – 6 months of the year) and other short-term employees. It does not include apprentices.
3
The fluctuation rates for the >= 50 age group are mainly due to retirements.
2

At our significant locations of operation, we use temporary personnel from staffing agencies on
a small scale, primarily in response to short-term personnel requirements, fluctuations in order
levels, temporary projects or long-term illness. In Germany, temporary staff make up 2.4% of
the total workforce. At our significant locations of operation, the average is 3.5 %.

Attracting, developing and retaining the best managers and employees
Employer branding targets both current and prospective employees

Innovations, changing customer requirements and a strong competitive environment are just some
of the reasons why we welcome open-minded employees who question the status quo. A professional approach to attracting suitable talents is key to this. In 2016, we established our uniform
employer brand “Passion to Innovate | Power to Change” around the world. This expresses what
we expect of our employees and, at the same time, what we as a company offer them. We use
our employer branding internally to enhance employee identification and externally to position the
company on the employment market. In total, the Bayer Group hired 12,012 new employees in
2016.

Significant locations of
operation: see Glossary

80
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Online Annex: A 1.4.1-2
A 1.4.1-2/1
1

New Hires by Region and Gender
Europe / Middle
East / Africa

North America

Asia / Pacific

Latin America

Total

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

Women

2,513

2,318

1,024

754

1,569

1,265

666

599

5,772

4,936

< 30

1,179

1,147

308

220

937

697

375

318

2,798

2,383

30 – 49

1,221

1,058

515

366

611

543

286

278

2,634

2,245

114

113

201

168

21

24

5

3

341

308

Men

3,480

3,057

1,406

1,008

2,762

2,026

1,082

986

8,729

7,076

< 30

1,815

1,634

503

316

1,709

1,114

611

523

4,638

3,587

30 – 49

1,452

1,246

597

478

1,009

888

452

437

3,509

3,049

>= 50

212

177

307

214

45

23

19

26

583

440

Total

5,994

5,375

2,430

1,762

4,330

3,291

1,748

1,584

14,502

12,012

>= 50

2015 figures restated
The figures also include the discontinued operations.
1
Converted into full-time equivalents (FTE)

Our excellent reputation as an employer is shown by numerous external surveys, awards and
accolades.
High level of vocational and ongoing training
www.bayer.com/career

www.bayer.com/training

Significant locations of
operation: see Glossary

Vocational training plays a key role at Bayer in order to meet the need for skilled employees. We
provide sound training in more than 20 different occupations and offer more vocational training
places than required to meet our needs. In Germany alone, around 1,145 young people embarked
on a vocational training course at Bayer in 2016. In addition, Bayer offers trainee programs in
Germany in areas such as financial management, human resources and engineering. Furthermore
we give young people an opportunity to gain an early insight into a practical work environment.
Overall, we provided some 2,800 professional internships for students around the world in 2016.
A key aim of our personnel development strategy is to create an environment where all employees
have the opportunity to develop their full potential. In the spirit of “lifelong learning”, we help employees in all fields broaden their knowledge and skills and keep up with the latest changes
throughout their working lives. Support ranges from knowledge sharing and peer learning to programs that take up new trends and perspectives. On average, employees at our significant locations of operation received 22.1 hours of vocational and ongoing training in 2016.
Online Annex: A 1.4.1-3

At the heart of our ongoing training concept is the Group-wide Bayer Academy, which bundles
our extensive continuing education offerings for employees and which was once again honored
with the renowned Brandon Hall Group Excellence Award in bronze in 2016. Alongside systematic development of managerial employees, it offers continuous professional training through
various functional academies. In 2016, the average cost of training per employee was approximately €409. The next table contains a further breakdown of vocational and ongoing training.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

81

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

A 1.4.1-3/1

Training Activities in Hours in 2016 by Employee Group and Gender

1

Women

Men

Total

Senior management

24.3

16.7

18.6

Junior management

30.9

28.5

29.5

Specialists

20.2

15.8

17.5

Overall average

23.7

19.6

21.2

Employee group

The figures also include the discontinued operations.
1
Selected training activities in the countries covered by the global training system, in which we generated approximately 72% of
our sales in 2016; the gender-specific averages assume 50% women and 50% men for the United States and Japan as statutory
regulations preclude differentiation by gender in these countries.

Development Dialogue and feedback on performance

The aim of the Development Dialogue is to define possible perspectives for further career development as a basis for a development plan that fosters employees’ personal strengths and addresses areas in which they would like to develop further. Some 31,000 Development Dialogues
were held and documented in 2016.
Specific and differentiated feedback forms the basis for positive personal development. Bayer
encourages a culture of candid feedback to help employees achieve their individual goals within
the framework of corporate targets. This is supported by our Group-wide performance management system, which includes obligatory feedback discussions where employees receive meaningful feedback from their supervisors on fulfillment of their professional and behavioral objectives.
This assessment also determines the level of their variable compensation. In 2016, this system
covered about 63% of our total workforce. Of the participants 45% were female and 55% male.

Development Dialogues
were held in 2016.

of all Bayer employees
take part in performance
feedback.

Wide-ranging career opportunities

Thanks to our wide-ranging business activities, we offer employees throughout the Group good
opportunities for development. Vacancies throughout the Bayer Group, from nonmanagerial right
up to senior management level, are advertised via a globally accessible platform. In 2016, around
11,700 vacancies in 63 countries were posted here. International assignments are also an important element in employee development. Around 1,000 employees around the world participated in international assignments in 2016.

Corporate culture: dialogue, diversity, innovation
Ethical standards established

Fairness and respect are central elements of our corporate culture. That includes observing Groupwide standards of conduct and protecting employees from discrimination, harassment and retaliation. These standards are set forth in the corporate policy on Fairness and Respect at Work.
Communication at all levels

We involve our employees in business processes through active dialogue and further develop
employee communication formats. The previously separate intranet sites for different countries
and companies have been combined in a single platform covering all employee needs. Informing
staff promptly and extensively about upcoming changes, in compliance with the applicable national and international regulations, is very important to us. We engage in open and trustful dialogue
with employee representatives.

Bayer employees
on international
assignments

82
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Online Annex: A 1.4.1-4

GRI G4-26

The main dialogue formats are regular employee assemblies, information events for managers
and the European Forum, where employee representatives from all European sites engage in
discussion with the Board of Management on issues of central relevance to the company.
Our employees actively use opportunities to discuss company-specific issues and scope for
optimization via various communication channels. For example, Bayer fosters a culture of innovation at the workplace through two platforms for employee suggestions: the Bayer Ideas Pool
and the Ideas Forum. The suggestions made by employees on improving processes, occupational safety and health protection are rewarded and utilized. In total, 3,408 ideas were submitted in 2016. Around 45% of the suggestions for improvement evaluated in 2016 were implemented. In the first year of implementation alone, those improvements that led to
quantifiable benefits generated savings of more than €13 million. In 2016, Bayer distributed bonuses of around €1.7 million for the implemented proposals. Another example of employee participation is the Board of Management's appeal to all employees to submit suggestions on improving the Group-wide performance management system via the “WeSolve” platform.
Diversity and internationality are hallmarks of Bayer

Diversity: see Glossary

A diverse employee structure is vital for our company’s competitiveness. By embracing diversity
we improve our understanding of changing markets and consumer groups, gain access to a
broader pool of talented people and benefit from the enhanced innovative and problem-solving
abilities that are demonstrably associated with high cultural diversity. Mutual understanding and a
gender and cultural balance, especially at management level, are important success factors. We
have an inclusive approach: diversity is integrated into all relevant human resources processes
and driven forward by the management.
Online Annex: A 1.4.1-5

Bayer has officially adopted the United Nations’ Women’s Empowerment Principles, a set of
seven principles that sum up how women can be strengthened in the workplace, on the employment market and in the community. The company is also a founding member of the German “Chefsache” network sponsored by the German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Its members
are committed to working together to develop practically oriented strategies to drive diversity
and gender balance in their organizations.
Group target 2020:
increase in the proportion of senior managers
from outside the European Union, the United
States or Canada to
25%; see also A 1.2.1
Group target 2020:
increase the proportion
of women in senior
management to 35%;
see also A 1.2.1

Overall, the Bayer Group employs people from around 150 different nations. Around 21% of our
senior managers come from outside Western Europe, the United States and Canada. We aim to
increase this to 25% by 2020 in accordance with our Group target. At our significant locations of
operation we hired 390 employees for senior management, 70% of whom are employed in their
country of origin.
Group-wide, Bayer had raised the proportion of women at senior management level to around
29% by the end of 2016 (2015: 28%). Without Covestro the proportion was 31%. Our aim is to
raise this to 35% by 2020.
Online Annex: A 1.4.1-6

Of the members of our Group Leadership Circle – the senior management level below the
Board of Management – in which 31 nationalities are currently represented, around 67% come
from the country in which they are employed. The proportion of women also increased in the
Group Leadership Circle. By year-end 2016, it was made up of 84% men (2010: 93%) and 16%
women (2010: 7%).

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

83

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

The next table shows the proportion of men and women in various employee categories.

Bayer Group Workforce Structure

A 1.4.1-6/1

A 1.4.1-6/2

Total

Proportion of Women in the
Workforce 2016
%

1

Women

Men

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

Senior management

3,100

3,300

8,000

8,100

11,100

11,400

Junior management

11,300

11,400

16,600

16,600

27,900

28,000

Skilled employees

29,200

28,400

48,400

47,400

77,600

75,800

Total

43,600

43,100

73,000

72,100

116,600

115,200

800

800

1,800

1,800

2,600

2,600

Apprentices

2015 figures restated
1
Number of employees converted into full-time equivalents (FTE) and rounded to the nearest hundred

71

63
37

29

Total
Senior
(115,200 FTEs) management
(11,400 FTEs)
Women
Men

Creating attractive working conditions
Competitive compensation and variable pay

Our compensation system combines a basic salary reflecting performance and responsibility with
elements based on the company’s success, plus extensive additional benefits. Adjustments based
on continuous benchmarking make our compensation internationally competitive.
We attach great importance to equal pay for men and women, providing fair and competitive
compensation and informing our employees transparently about the overall structure of their compensation.
Online Annex: A 1.4.1-7

Binding and transparent compensation structures

At Bayer, individual salaries are based on each employee’s personal and professional abilities
and the level of responsibility assigned to them. At managerial level, this is based on uniform
evaluation of all positions throughout the Group using the internationally recognized Hay method. In areas of the Group and jobs that fall within the scope of a binding collective bargaining
agreement, there are no differences in pay based on gender either. This also applies for the
compensation of apprentices. In the Emerging Markets and developing countries, too, compensation levels are aligned to local market conditions. In the majority of cases, full- and parttime employees at our significant locations of operation receive the same rates of pay. The situation differs with regard to employees on temporary contracts as they are not entitled to longterm compensation components such as pension plans in some countries.
Our compensation concept also includes variable one-time payments. More than €1,400 million is
earmarked for bonus awards to employees for 2016 under the Group-wide short-term incentive
(STI) program. In many countries, employee stock programs enable our staff to purchase Bayer
shares at a discount. We also offer senior managers throughout the Group “Aspire,” a uniform
long-term compensation program based on the development of the share price.
Our personnel expenses for continuing operations amounted to €11,357 million in 2016 (2015:
€11,176 million). The change was mainly due to salary adjustments and higher employee bonuses, which together outweighed currency effects.

Significant locations of
operation: see Glossary

Short-term incentive
program: see Glossary

See also Note 12 to
B Consolidated Financial
Statements

84
Augmented Version

See also Note 25 to
B Consolidated Financial
Statements

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Alongside attractive compensation for their work, Bayer contributes to the financial security of its
present and former employees after their retirement. The present value of total pension obligations
at the end of 2016 was €28,995 million. Personnel expenses in 2016 included pension expenses of
€1,064 million. Payments of €1,131 million were made in 2016 to current retirees.
A 1.4.1/2

Personnel Expenses and Pension Obligations
€ million

Personnel expenses
of which pension expenses
Pension obligations 1
Pension benefits paid

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

9,194

9,430

9,693

11,176

11,357

681

897

834

1,060

1,064

22,588

20,682

27,771

26,809

28,995

887

925

942

997

1,131

2015 figures restated; figures for 2012–2014 as last reported
1
Present value of defined benefit obligations for pensions and other post-employment benefits

Work-life balance

Present and future employees attach great importance to achieving a balance between employment and their personal and family lives. In many countries our commitment in this area goes well
beyond the statutory requirements. We offer our employees flexible working hours and support in
child care and caring for close relatives.
In 2015, Bayer introduced uniform conditions for short-term mobile working in Germany through a
new General Works Agreement with the Works Council. In addition, employees in Germany can
convert part of their salary into free time through the “BayZeit” long-term account. There are similar programs in other countries as well.
In 2016, the Bayer Group had some 10,700 part-time employees, in particular in Europe. This
figure represents 9% of the total headcount.
Online Annex: A 1.4.1-8
A 1.4.1-8/1

Percentage of Part-Time Employees by Region and Gender
Women

Men

Total

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

23.0

23.8

11.6

12.2

16.0

16.7

North America

1.2

1.3

0.2

0.1

0.6

0.6

Asia / Pacific

2.1

2.6

0.1

0.2

0.8

1.1

Latin America

0.1

0.1

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.1

12.7

13.5

6.0

6.5

8.5

9.1

%

Europe / Middle East / Africa

Total
2015 figures restated

Bayer enables both men and women to take parental leave. Since national parental leave regulations vary widely from country to country, we only compile data for our significant locations of
operation. These represent a selection of countries in which we generate around 81% of our
sales. 1,621 women and 687 men at these locations took parental leave in 2016. By the end of
the year, around 1,583 employees on parental leave had returned to work.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

85

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Online Annex: A 1.4.1-9

The next table shows the number of employees who have returned after the standard statutory
parental leave program of up to three years per child and Bayer’s more far-reaching “Family &
Career” model (up to six years), using Germany as an example. By the end of 2016, 70.4% had
returned to work. 50.6% of women and 94.2% of men who took parental leave in 2014 returned to work.
A 1.4.1-9/1

Employees Returning from Parental Leave using Germany as an Example

Employees who have taken parental leave
since 2014

Men

Total

% Absolute

% Absolute

54.5

1,101

Still on parental leave /
with a dormant employment contract

43.5

479

4.8

44

25.9

523

Returned by 2016

50.6

557

94.2

865

70.4

1,422

5.9

65

1.0

9

3.7

74

Terminated 1
1

Women
% Absolute

45.5

918

100.0

2,019

Includes employees who have left the company due to employer- and employee-driven terminations, severance agreements and
expiration of contracts

The General Works Agreement on caring for close relatives helps Bayer employees in Germany to
combine working with their role as carers.
Online Annex: A 1.4.1-10

Our employees can take up to 10 days’ paid leave to provide emergency care for family members. For longer periods, they are entitled to work part-time. During this time, their salary is
topped up by drawing funds from their long-term account. Alternatively, employees who need
to care for close relatives full-time can take unpaid leave for up to six months (up to one year in
exceptional cases).
Initiatives to promote health and ensure safe working conditions

Our occupational health management activities include many regular preventive programs, ranging
from ergonomic workplaces and stress management to incentive systems to promote healthy
behavior.
Online Annex: A 1.4.1-11

The “Healthy at Bayer” initiative helps employees in Germany take action at work to promote
their health, with offerings ranging from preventive check-ups through programs to encourage
healthy eating to exercise at sports clubs supported by Bayer. Health management also includes support for treating illnesses and reintegration measures.
We have activities and programs to enhance the health and vitality of our employees in many
countries. One example is “B Well” in the United States, where individual health targets are defined and programs are specially designed to achieve them. The health and personal development of employees in Mexico is supported by “Vive con Bien Estar,” a broadly based initiative
by the Human Resources, Medical Services, Security and Communications units.
We aim to provide employees in all countries with access to affordable and targeted health offerings such as regular medical check-ups, sports programs, rehabilitation and on-site medical care.
We also ensure safe working conditions and thus an environment where our employees can work
without fear and undertake international business travel without risk. Our employee representatives are included in operational health management and are actively involved in its development.

86

A Combined Management Report

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Online Annex: A 1.4.1-12

Binding agreements at Group level

The Bayer European Forum – which brings together management and employee representatives – has signed the Luxembourg Declaration on Workplace Health Promotion in the E.U. This
involves a network of around 200 companies which aims to identify and share best practices
and encourages joint measures by employers, employees and society to improve health and
well-being at the workplace.
Group-wide initiatives in Germany include the General Works Agreements on lifetime working
and demographic change and on addressing demographic change at nonmanagerial level at
Bayer. These agreements contain measures to reduce the workload of shift workers who work
regular night shifts from the age of 55 and of all other nonmanagerial employees in Germany
from the age of 57. Further, they include measures to ease the return to work of nonmanagerial
employees after long-term illness, and an extensive health screening program for all employees.
More than 98% of those who were eligible took part in the program to reduce the workload of
older employees in 2016.
Social responsibility for employees worldwide

%
of Bayer employees have
a company pension plan.

More than 70% of Bayer employees worldwide are included in a Bayer pension plan. The benefits
provided depend on the legal, fiscal and economic conditions in each country, employee compensation and years of service. Nearly all employees worldwide either have statutory health insurance
or can obtain health insurance through the company.
A 1.4.1/3

Health Insurance and Pension Coverage
Health insurance 1

Pension plans ²

2015

2016

2015

Europe / Middle East / Africa

98

98

85

86

North America

93

99

99

100

Asia / Pacific

95

96

39

39

Latin America

95

99

54

57

Total

96

98

72

74

%

2016

2015 figures restated
1
Government or employer- / employee-funded
2
Programs to supplement statutory pension plans

Our social responsibility is also reflected in our approach to restructuring, which includes efforts to
take account of our employees’ interests. In Germany, which remains Bayer’s largest operational
base with 37,000 employees, business-related dismissals are excluded through the end of 2020
for a large proportion of employees under an agreement with the employee representatives.
In 2016, the working conditions for around 61% of our employees worldwide were governed by
collective or company agreements. At various country companies, the interests of the workforce
are represented by elected employee representatives who have a right to be consulted on certain
personnel-related decisions. The contractually agreed working hours of our employees do not
exceed 48 hours a week in any country.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

87

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Online Annex: A 1.4.1-13
A 1.4.1-13/1

Percentage of Collective Agreements by Region

%

Europe / Middle East / Africa
North America

1

2015

2016

84

84

5

5

44

45

Latin America

53

52

Total

60

61

Asia / Pacific

2015 figures restated
1
Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements, especially on compensation and working conditions

Our understanding of our role as a socially responsible company includes a commitment to helping disadvantaged people. We employ some 2,600 people with disabilities in 29 countries. That is
around 2% of our total workforce. 36% are female and 64% male. Most employees with disabilities work for our companies in Germany, where they made up 5.1% of the workforce in 2016.

people with
disabilities work for
the Bayer Group.

Global respect for human rights
Bayer fully supports human rights and has set out its stance in a binding global policy. We are
committed to respecting and fostering human rights within our sphere of influence and to reporting transparently on the results of our activities in this area. Alongside working conditions in the
Bayer Group, this centers on our expectation that human rights will be respected at all stages in
the supply chain, as detailed in our Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition, our LIFE values and
Corporate Compliance Policy commit all employees around the world to fair and lawful conduct
toward staff, colleagues, business partners and customers. We are a founding member of the
U.N. Global Compact and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and a range of globally recognized declarations applicable for multinational corporations.

See also A 1.4.2.1

Online Annex: A 1.4.1-14

These include, in particular, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the Tripartite
Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, and the core
labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). We also observe the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
In 2016, around 87% of our employees received training in the main aspects of our Human Rights
Position, in training sessions totaling 220,000 hours. That included training for internal and external security staff. The compliance organizations at Group and country level monitor compliance
with the relevant corporate policies. If there are signs of violation, employees can contact their
Compliance Officer at any time, anonymously if required. Alternatively, they can contact the
Group-wide compliance hotline.

Societal engagement
Bayer’s societal engagement focuses on people working innovatively in the areas of education &
science and health & social needs who are committed to achieving a lasting improvement in living
conditions. This also extends to a further focus area – sports & culture – although our involvement
in professional soccer does not form part of our social sponsorship activities.

ILO core labor standards: see Glossary

See also A 4.2

88
Augmented Version

See also A 1.2.1-1

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Our Access to Medicine (ATM) activities give patients in developing countries and the Emerging
Markets access to our products.
Bayer’s foundation work centers on two globally active foundations that are linked to the company
– the Bayer Science & Education Foundation for Life Sciences, education and medicine, and the
Bayer Cares Foundation for social innovations and social commitment. An interdisciplinary committee chaired by the member of the Bayer Board of Management responsible for Innovation holds
responsibility for the strategic orientation and coordination of our societal engagement. The
Group-wide donation allocation and management policies form the basis for our foundation and
donation activities. A large number of the initiatives are implemented in collaboration with partner
organizations such as non-governmental organizations. An independent panel made up of internal
and external judges decides how foundation funding is allocated. Covestro is responsible for its
own social commitment activities. Donations are allocated on the basis of internal Covestro regulations.
In 2016, we invested (incl. Covestro) a total of around €48 million (2015: €51 million) in charitable
activities worldwide. This was aimed at improving the quality of life at the company’s various locations and contributing to solving social challenges.
Online Annex: A 1.4.1-15
A 1.4.1-15/1

Societal Engagement in 2016

€14 million Health and basic
social needs
€20 million Sports and culture

€48 million
total

€14 million Education and science

For Bayer, pioneering achievements in science and society are fundamental to progress and
success. For that reason, promoting cutting-edge research and supporting education and social innovation are key objectives of the Bayer foundations. Selected activities from the three
key areas of health and basic social needs, education and science, and sports and culture are
set out below.

Activities focusing on health and basic social needs
Encouraging social innovation

In 2016, the Bayer Cares Foundation gave the former Aspirin Social Award a new strategic orientation. Now called the Aspirin Social Innovation Award, the accolade has an international
reach for the first time, focusing on social innovation in the areas of health and nutrition. All five
award-winners received €20,000 of funding to expand their charitable business initiatives.
Supporting creative voluntary work

Last year, the Bayer Cares Foundation provided first-time funding for 73 volunteering projects
of employees in 37 countries within the framework of the Bayer Volunteering Program. In Germany, an additional 26 projects of individuals not working at Bayer were also supported. The
total funding amounts to around €341,000. All the projects offer innovative approaches to help
solve social problems in the areas of health, nutrition and education in the catchment areas of
the company’s sites.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

89

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Rapid assistance in the event of natural disasters

In 2016, Bayer was once again active in supporting people experiencing acute hardship as a
result of natural disasters. For example, we provided medicines worth €250,000 free of charge
to assist in the medical care of the victims of a severe earthquake in Ecuador.

Activities focusing on education and science
Award-winning pioneering achievements

The Bayer Science & Education Foundation’s Otto Bayer Award 2016 worth €75,000 went to
Dr. Dirk Trauner from the University of Munich (LMU Munich). Working in the field of photopharmacology and chemical optogenetics, he is developing novel switches that use light to
precisely control all kinds of processes in cells. This may open up new chemotherapeutic
treatment opportunities, for example to cure blindness and cancer.
In 2016, the Bayer Early Excellence in Science Award worth €10,000 to each recipient went to
three young researchers from Germany and Switzerland for their successful work in the fields of
medicine, biology and chemistry.
Getting young people excited about science

The Bayer Science & Education Foundation helped talented young individuals in 2016 by
awarding 245 scholarships worth a total of more than €1 million to students, postgraduates
and apprentices in the fields of natural, life and agricultural science and medicine. This funding
is intended in particular to facilitate research projects abroad. For the first time ever, youngsters
from India and Africa joined children from German and U.S. schools at the Science Teens camp
in the United States. Bayer was once again involved in the student support programs geared to
national requirements in over 20 countries. To this end, our country organizations cooperated
with universities, museums and other educational institutions.
In Germany, the focus in 2016 was on promoting innovative teaching projects, with total funding of some €550,000 for 37 specific measures at schools and other educational institutions in
18 towns and cities. The three Baylab student laboratories offered school classes a professional infrastructure that was used by over 7,500 schoolchildren and teachers in 2016 as a supplement to normal tuition.
Education program for refugee children

In 2016, the Science4Life Academy founded in 2015 by the Bayer Science & Education Foundation along with the Berlin Senate and other educational organizations produced scientific
teaching materials geared specifically to the needs of refugee children and tested them at pilot
schools in Berlin. The next steps are to evaluate the results and pass these on to all Germany’s
Federal states. In addition, the funding is to be used for a dictionary for refugee children.

Activities focusing on sports and culture
We continued our recreational, disabled and competitive sports activities in 2016. The Bayer
sports clubs again made a key contribution to the broad range of sporting activities around the
German sites in North Rhine-Westphalia. The 23 clubs have a total of around 45,000 members.
In 2016, the major clubs also became more intensely involved as professional service providers
for the company’s occupational health management.

90
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Bayer once again expanded its cultural activities in 2016, among other things by extending the
stART program for talented young artists with the stARTacademy. A total of around 120 music,
dance, theater and art events took place in 2016, including an art exhibition with selected
works from the Bayer Collection.

1.4.2 Responsibility in Value Creation
> Sustainability criteria consistently anchored in the supply chain
> Strengthening efficiency and flexibility in production and logistics
> Ethical action shapes dialogue and partnership with our customers

We aim to offer our customers innovative products and high-quality solutions. This requires us to
efficiently and responsibly steer processes at all value creation stages: in procurement, in production, in logistics and in distribution.
Our supply chain is designed at both a global and regional level according to clear, sustainabilityoriented criteria and standards. We not only examine and evaluate our suppliers’ sustainability
performance, but also offer them support through partnership-based cooperation and training
measures. In this way, we are able to implement our requirements together with our suppliers in
the face of serious challenges such as eliminating child labor.
We continuously work at our production sites to react more rapidly to market developments and
to achieve our ambitious quality and safety objectives through increased flexibility and the expansion of capacities. To achieve this, we invest continuously in our global production network.
We steer our logistics services in equal measure according to quality, safety and environmental
aspects.
Our partnership with our customers is shaped by responsibility. We integrate them at an early
stage into our processes and address their needs with regard to the use of our products. We
systematically analyze their satisfaction with our performance and safeguard our long-term business success by deriving optimization measures from this analysis.

1.4.2.1 Procurement and Supplier Management
The procurement organization supplies the company with goods and services around the world.
We exert influence on society and the environment as a result of our procurement activities and
supplier relationships. Not just economic, but also ethical, ecological and social principles are
therefore anchored in our Procurement policy, which is binding for all employees.

www.covestro.com/en/
company/procurement/
overview

Procurement (excluding Covestro) has been organized since 2016 as a corporate function that
acts centrally on behalf of all segments. Synergies can be leveraged by pooling know-how and
procurement volumes. Our procurement activities are directed by the Procurement Leadership
Team, which acts as the highest decision-making body for procurement issues. The team is led by
the Head of Procurement, who reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer. Covestro has its own
procurement organization. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, all information hereafter with the
exception of the Group targets includes Covestro.
Procurement operates according to uniformly established procurement and supplier management
processes. Long-term contracts and active supplier management for strategically important goods
and services are important elements here. Thus we not only minimize procurement-specific risks
such as supply bottlenecks or significant price fluctuations, but also safeguard the company’s
competitiveness and ensure smooth production processes.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

91

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

We procured goods and services in 152 countries during the reporting period. Procurement spend
from transactions with approximately 110,900 suppliers amounted to some €21.8 billion. In 2016,
our procurement spend in Germany, the United States and Switzerland accounted for nearly 68%
of our expenditures in OECD countries, which in turn made up about 54% of the Bayer Group’s
global procurement spend. Brazil, India and China together accounted for about 66% of expenditures in the non-OECD countries or about 13% of the total spend. The following table contains
information about Bayer’s procurement volumes and supplier shares based on the regional origin
of goods and services.

€

billion

Bayer’s procurement
spend in 2016

Online Annex: A 1.4.2.1-1
A 1.4.2.1-1/1

Procurement Spend and Number of Suppliers in OECD and Non-OECD Countries in 2016
Spend

Suppliers

€ billion

%

Number

%

Germany

5.3

24.2

22,108

19.9

United States

5.3

24.2

11,540

10.4

Switzerland

1.2

5.6

1,789

1.6

Other

5.7

26.0

42,649

38.5

17.5

80.0

78,086

70.4
3.1

OECD countries

Total
Non-OECD countries
China

1.9

8.7

3,432

India

0.5

2.3

3,785

3.4

Brazil

0.5

2.2

2,546

2.3

Other
Total

1.5

6.9

23,052

20.8

4.4

20.1

32,815

29.6

Bayer purchases locally wherever possible in order to adequately react to the requirements of our
sites and strengthen regional economies. In 2016, this applied to 71% of our procurement spend
at our main business locations, and also 71% of procurement spend in all countries worldwide.
The following table shows the main procurement products in 2016.
Online Annex: A 1.4.2.1-2
A 1.4.2.1-2/1

Main Procurement Products
Pharmaceuticals

Zetia (finished product), cell media culture (raw material), Betaferon (interferonbeta-1b) (bulk product) and Eylea protein (bulk product), packaging materials

Consumer Health

Active ingredients (e.g. naproxen sodium, loratadine, paracetamol), vitamins
(e.g. vitamin C and B), auxiliaries, finished products (e.g. Canesten, Dr. Scholl’s,
Berocca), packaging materials

Crop Science

Active ingredients (e.g. mancozeb), adjuvants and solvents (e.g. rapeseed oil,
toluene, ammonia), complex intermediates (e.g. pyridine polyfluoride),
packaging materials

Animal Health

Active ingredients (e.g. moxidectin, praziquantel and permethrin), finished
products, packaging materials (e.g. Seresto tins)

Covestro

Key basic raw materials are benzene and phenol, propylene oxide, toluene,
acetone and hexamethylenediamine

The use of renewable raw materials plays only a subordinated role at Bayer for portfolio reasons.
We primarily use renewable raw materials when it makes technical, economic and ecological
sense to do so.

Local procurement:
see Glossary

92
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Online Annex: A 1.4.2.1-3

At Pharmaceuticals, a number of hormones are synthesized through certain sterols and phytosterols that result as byproducts during the production of plant oils from soybeans, oilseed
rape / canola or sunflowers, as well as during wood processing. We additionally purchase various steroids that are manufactured from diosgenin or its intermediate stages. This substance is
usually obtained from yam grown in countries such as China. We also use raw materials such
as water, glucose, yeast, soybean starch, castor oil and corn steep water in our fermentation
processes.
For some products, Consumer Health uses extracts of plant leaves. We take great care with
the cultivation and extraction of the raw materials for manufacturing plant-based pharmaceuticals. The controlled, integrated cultivation and extraction of plant-based raw materials take
place according to local regulations, e.g. the GACP (Good Agricultural and Collection Practice)
guidelines of the European Medicines Agency.
Crop Science processes soy, e.g. in the production of crop protection products. To support the
maintenance of sustainability criteria in soy cultivation, Crop Science is a member of the Round
Table for Responsible Soy (RTRS) and, starting in 2017, intends to purchase RTRS certificates
corresponding to the soybean consumption in its production. In addition, we cooperate with
farmers to support the certification of their soybean production in accordance with international
standards.
We use a small amount of palm oil derivatives in some of our Life Science products. As the
production of palm oil is often associated with social and ecological problems, Bayer takes part
in the Round Table for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). In 2017, we plan to purchase so-called
RSPO credits, which promote the sustainable production of palm oil, according to the quantities used by us.
Covestro is developing processes for the replacement of raw materials derived from crude oil.
In 2016, for example, it launched the commercial production of a curing agent for polyurethane
coatings and adhesives based on renewable raw materials. The product is 70% based on raw
materials derived from biomass that does not compete with food production.
Bayer sustainability requirements defined in its Supplier Code of Conduct

Bayer regards adherence to sustainability standards within its supply chain as a crucial factor in
the value chain and an important lever for minimizing risks. A four-step process is thus established
throughout the Group to improve sustainability practices in the supply chain comprising the elements awareness-raising, supplier nomination, sustainability performance evaluation and development. It is defined in a special instruction and centrally steered by a sustainability team whose
management reports to the Procurement Leadership Team.
Our sustainability requirements are established in Bayer’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Based on
the principles of the U.N. Global Compact and our Human Rights Position, it establishes the basic
foundation for this cooperation. For this reason, not just economic standards, but also ethical and
environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards apply for the selection and evaluation of
new and existing suppliers. The Code of Conduct is integrated into electronic ordering systems
and contracts throughout the Bayer Group. Furthermore, our standard supply contracts contain
clauses that authorize Bayer to verify suppliers’ compliance with our sustainability requirements.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

93

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Evaluating the sustainability performance of our suppliers

Bayer verifies the observance of the Code requirements by our suppliers through online assessments and on-site audits. Suppliers are selected for these evaluations based on a combination of
country and material risks as well as strategic importance in accordance with our Group targets.
By 2017, Bayer plans to evaluate all strategically important suppliers according to sustainabilityrelevant criteria (target attainment as of 2016: 98%). This group includes suppliers with a major
influence on business in terms of, for example, procurement spend and long-term collaboration
prospects (3-5 years). By 2020, we also aim to evaluate all those suppliers with a significant procurement spend (> €1 million p.a.) that are regarded as potentially high-risk suppliers (target attainment as of 2016: 83%).
Bayer carries out the online assessments together with an established provider of sustainability
performance evaluations (EcoVadis). The assessment criteria comprise the areas environment,
labor practices and human rights, ethics and sustainable procurement. On-site audits are carried
out by independent external auditors. Audits are based on the criteria of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative and the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI). In both initiatives,
Bayer works together with other companies to standardize sustainability assessments and audits
of suppliers in the same industry and to leverage synergies by sharing information. In line with our
Group target, we plan to develop and introduce a sustainability standard for our suppliers by
2020. In addition, Bayer auditors evaluate suppliers with regard to sustainability aspects focusing
on health, safety and environmental protection.
Online Annex: A 1.4.2.1-4
A 1.4.2.1-4/1

Supplier Assessments and Audits
Sustainability assessments 1 via the EcoVadis platform
Sustainability audits ² by external auditors
Sustainability / HSE ³ audits by Bayer auditors

2015

2016

521

795

71

73

107

168

1

Initial and re-assessments of suppliers working for Bayer; initiated by Bayer and shared as part of the TfS initiative
Initial and follow-up audits of suppliers working for Bayer; initiated by Bayer and shared as part of the TfS
and PSCI initiatives
3
Health, safety, environmental protection
2

Within the scope of the TfS initiative, a total of 1,773 supplier assessments using EcoVadis and
241 audits – performed, for example, in Poland, Mexico and South Korea – were successfully
completed in 2016. In the same year, 51 shared audits were carried out through PSCI, for example in China, India, Israel and Brazil.
Verifying the requirements with new suppliers

Our Life Science businesses undertake separate evaluations of suppliers with regard to the
contract manufacturing of quality-relevant goods and services. These evaluations cover the areas of health, safety and environmental protection among others and are performed prior to the
commencement of business operations.
Furthermore, the Life Science businesses obligate potentially risky, newly selected suppliers
with a prospective annual procurement spend in excess of €1 million to undergo an EcoVadis
sustainability assessment or an on-site audit. The relevant suppliers evaluated in this way in
2016 met our sustainability requirements.

Group target 2017:
evaluation of all strategically important suppliers
Group target 2020:
evaluation of all potentially high-risk suppliers
with significant Bayer
spend; see also A 1.2.1

www.tfs-initiative.com
www.pscinitiative.org

Group target 2020:
development and
establishment of a new
sustainability standard
for our supply base;
see also A 1.2.1

94
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

The online assessments and on-site audits are analyzed and documented so that – in the event of
unsatisfactory results – specific improvement measures can be defined with the suppliers. In
2016, this applied above all to the categories Ethics, Sustainable Procurement and Health and
Safety. In 2016, 24 suppliers (3% of those evaluated) posted a critical result (assessment level
low). These suppliers were requested by Bayer to rectify the identified weaknesses on the basis of
specific action plans. Overall some 400 of our suppliers improved their sustainability performance
in 2016.
Online Annex: A 1.4.2.1-5
A 1.4.2.1-5/1

Online Supplier Assessments by Category
Environment

4%

78%

18%

Labor practices and
human rights

3%

87%

10%

Fair business
practices

7%

87%

6%

Sustainable
procurement

9%

84%

7%

0

Valuation levels:

Low

10

20

Medium

30

40

High

50

60

70

80

90

100

Number of suppliers assessed: 795

Improvement measures in the supply chain taking effect

We monitor the implementation of the improvements demanded by us through re-assessments
or follow-up audits. Numerous suppliers also voluntary undergo a re-assessment in order to
improve their results. In 2016, 583 suppliers underwent a re-assessment through the EcoVadis
platform, of whom approximately 67% improved their sustainability performance. Nine follow-up
audits verified the rectification of previously identified deficiencies. In 2016, Bayer was not
prompted to end any supplier relationship due solely to sustainability performance.

Conflict minerals:
see Glossary

Additional verification processes were established for the fulfillment of further international regulations. This applies, for example, to regulations that require companies to disclose the origin of
certain raw materials such as so-called conflict minerals.
Online Annex: A 1.4.2.1-6

Target: elimination of conflict raw materials

International regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Act in the United States obligate companies
to disclose the origin of certain raw materials. The purpose of this is to rule out that minerals
from conflict regions such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo or its neighboring countries find their way into products through the supply chain. Bayer has questioned about 150 of
its first-tier suppliers who could potentially be impacted by this issue. Nearly 65% of them confirmed to us that they do not procure potential conflict minerals. It was agreed with the remaining suppliers during verification processes that they must ensure compliance with the requirements.
Training measures and dialogue on the issue of sustainability
GRI G4-26

We support our procurement employees in the implementation of our procurement processes and
sustainability requirements with targeted Group-wide training measures. In the reporting period,
244 procurement employees completed training courses explaining the EcoVadis sustainability
assessment process. We also offer our suppliers a wide range of development and dialogue opportunities in order to familiarize them with Bayer’s sustainability requirements.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

95

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Online Annex: A 1.4.2.1-7

In 2016, Crop Science used its Supplier Days in India and China as an important dialogue platform for sustainability requirements. Covestro also carried out a Supplier Day in India for its
strategically important suppliers. In addition, we offered further Supplier Days, training and
workshops in China and India in cooperation with our industry initiatives PSCI and TfS. The
Supplier Academy developed by TfS in 2016 and the sustainability webinars developed by
PSCI itself offer further training components for suppliers.
Tackling child labor in the seed supply chain

A key challenge for sustainable supplier management in the Group is to counter child labor in the
seed supply chain of the Crop Science segment. Our position on this is unequivocal and includes
a strict ban on child labor. We therefore also obligate our suppliers along our value chain to strictly
refrain from employing children. For many years, Bayer has taken systematic action to prevent
child labor in the cotton, rice and vegetable seed supply chain in India, Bangladesh and the Philippines through its Child Care Program and conducts inspections locally. In 2016, Bayer for the
first time also inspected external producers of vegetable seed in China and Thailand. No cases of
child labor were identified. In addition, Bayer continues to raise awareness of the issue among its
suppliers and their local environment and clearly communicates its requirements.
Online Annex: A 1.4.2.1-8

Bonuses and sanctions for suppliers

Crop Science’s comprehensive activities in its Child Care Program include the observation and
monitoring of the seed produced through wage labor in India. To this end, the corporate auditor
EY (formerly Ernst & Young), India, carries out unannounced visits to farms in four Indian districts, among other measures. Suppliers who can verify that they strictly observe our ban on
child labor receive a bonus along with training in raising agricultural efficiency. Graduated sanctions are applied for noncompliance. These range from written warnings to termination of the
contract in the case of repeated noncompliance.
Supporting school education is a key element

Bayer regards school attendance not only as essential for children’s development but also as
an effective tool for preventing child labor. We therefore also visit the parents of children we find
working in the fields to convince them of the importance of school education. We promote this
in India with the “Learning for Life” initiative within our Child Care Program, which focuses both
on fostering scientific knowledge and on general vocational training. This covers everything
from reintegrating children into the regular school system to vocational training measures. Between 2005 and the end of 2016, “Learning for Life” reached more than 6,200 children and
young people.
Thanks to a stringent monitoring system, which is supported by local educational initiatives,
there are now only very few instances of child labor among our contractors, which we nonetheless
closely track and immediately put a stop to.
The Child Care Program Advisory Council, comprised of international experts and recognized
professionals, supports Bayer in the protection of children’s rights and the objective of seed production without child labor. We measure the success of our comprehensive program using the
indicator “Child labor incidence as a percentage of total monitorings of laborers.”

www.bayer.com/
child-care

96

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Online Annex: A 1.4.2.1-9

The table informs about the development of the indicator that Bayer uses in the evaluation of
child labor cases.
A 1.4.2.1-9/1

Child Labor Incidence in the Production of Cotton and Vegetable Seed
for Bayer in Relation to the Total Number of Monitorings 1

0.15

80,000

109,000

2015/2016
101,000

2014/2015

85,000

67,000

65,000

50,000

0.20
40,000

Child labor incidence in %

0.25

2013/2014

64,000

104,000

0.30

2012/2013

86,000

2011/2012

91,000

2010/2011
114,000

2009/2010

0.10
0.05
0
Number of monitorings of laborers (cotton)
Number of monitorings of laborers (vegetables) 2

1

2

Child labor incidence in relation to number of monitorings (cotton)
Child labor incidence in relation to number of monitorings (vegetables) 2

The figures cover several growing cycles per cultivation year. In India the cultivation year runs from the middle of one year to the middle of the next, depending on
climatic conditions and the various seed types. Cumulated depiction on the basis of control inspections performed (at least 3 per cultivation season for
vegetables and up to 6 per season for cotton).
Vegetable seed included in field monitoring from 2010 / 2011 onward; for vegetables, cultivation areas and number of monitorings refer to a combination of
various seed types. Each type of seed has its own monitoring intensity.

1.4.2.2 Production and Logistics
Production according to high quality, safety and environmental standards

See also A 1.4.3.2 and
A 1.4.3.3

Bayer operates production facilities at more than 140 sites in 39 countries. The safe and responsible operation of our facilities and the comprehensive safety of our employees and the people
who live near our sites are of utmost importance to Bayer. Bayer also places great importance on
protecting the environment and using materials and energy efficiently. We use our HSEQ management systems to steer these processes. Our commitment to environmental protection, health
and safety extends beyond the scope of legal requirements. For capital expenditure projects exceeding €10 million, it particularly includes factoring in environmental aspects and performing a
voluntary ecological assessment. In the case of acquisitions, we examine whether the applicable
environmental and occupational safety regulations and fundamental employee rights are complied
with at the production sites in question. Group policies additionally stipulate that new production
sites must not be set up in areas that are statutorily protected with regard to natural characteristics, biodiversity or other factors.
Online Annex: A 1.4.2.2-1

Few sites close to protected areas

In an updated comparison of the geographical coordinates of our production sites against
those of internationally recognized protected areas (ASEAN Heritage, Barcelona Convention,
UNESCO-MAB Biosphere Reserve, Wetlands and World Heritage Convention and Ramsar
Convention), we identified three sites that are within a radius of three kilometers from such areas. These are the Blesbokspruit protected areas in South Africa, Moreton Bay in Australia and
Reserva Costa Atlantica de Tierra del Fuego (Atlantic Coast of “Land of Fire”) in Argentina.
None of the sites examined is directly located in any of the named protected areas.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

97

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health
Both segments operate their own production sites around the world at which active ingredients
are manufactured and at which formulation and packaging services are performed for the product
portfolio.
Both Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health continuously invest in their global production networks. Production capacities for the manufacture of hemophilia A products are being established
at the Wuppertal and Leverkusen sites in Germany through the perennial and currently biggest
capital expenditure program of Pharmaceuticals with a total volume of €720 million. The Beijing
site in China is also being considerably expanded with a capital expenditure volume of some
€100 million. Consumer Health’s biggest investment project, also with a volume of around €100
million, comprises the modification and expansion of its production sites in China.

Bayer worldwide:
see also A 1.1.1/1

€

million

is being invested in
production capacities for
hemophilia medicines.

A 1.4.2.2/1

Strategic Investments in Property, Plant and Equipment at Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health
2016
Pharmaceuticals

Production capacities for new rFactor VIII therapies in Wuppertal and Leverkusen,
Germany
Expansion of R&D laboratory capacities in Wuppertal, Germany
Modernization of research facilities in Berlin, Germany
Modernization of site infrastructure in Wuppertal and Leverkusen, Germany
Expansion of production capacities in Beijing, China
Expansion of Quality Control Biologics in Berkeley, California, United States

Consumer Health

Reconstruction and expansion of production site in Majinpu, China

2015
Pharmaceuticals

Production capacities for new rFactor VIII therapies in Wuppertal, Germany
Expansion of R&D laboratory capacities in Wuppertal, Germany
Modernization of research facilities in Berlin, Germany
Modernization of site infrastructure in Wuppertal and Leverkusen, Germany
Expansion of production capacities in Beijing, China
Expansion of Quality Control Biologics in Berkeley, California, United States

Consumer Health

–

Crop Science
The products of Crop Science are mainly produced at the segment’s own production sites. Numerous decentralized formulation and filling sites enable the company to quickly react to the
needs of local markets. At these sites the active ingredients are processed according to local
requirements and application areas. Packaging of the products also takes place in these facilities.
Production of seeds takes place at locations close to our customers in Europe, Asia, and North
and South America at our own farms or under contract.
We invested some €2.4 billion overall in property, plant and equipment between 2013 and 2016
to satisfy increased demand for crop protection products and seed. In addition to the expansion
of production capacities, this included expansion of our research and development facilities. Here
the focus was on the United States and Germany and on our network of breeding stations for
various crops in Europe, North and Latin America.

Bayer worldwide:
see also A 1.1.1/1

€

billion

was invested by
Crop Science between
2013 and 2016 in the
production of crop
protection products
and seed.

98
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

A 1.4.2.2/2

Strategic Investments in Property, Plant and Equipment at Crop Science
2016
Capacity expansions for herbicides in the United States and Germany
Construction of a production facility for insecticides in Dormagen, Germany
Expansion of production capacities for fungicides in Dormagen, Germany
Expansion of R&D facilities in Monheim, Germany
Establishment of breeding stations for various plant species worldwide
Expansion of R&D facilities in Raleigh, North Carolina, United States
2015
Capacity expansions for herbicides in the United States and Germany
Construction of production facilities for insecticides in Vapi, India, and Dormagen, Germany
Expansion of production capacities for fungicides in Dormagen, Germany
Expansion of R&D facilities in Monheim, Germany
Establishment of breeding stations for various plant species worldwide
Expansion of R&D facilities in Raleigh, North Carolina, United States

Animal Health
We procure the active ingredients for our Animal Health products both from internal sources within
Bayer and external suppliers worldwide. Our globally marketed animal health products are mainly
manufactured at the sites in Kiel, Germany, and Shawnee, Kansas, United States.

Covestro
Bayer worldwide: see
also A 1.1.1/1

Covestro’s network includes eight world-scale production sites. We also operate several production facilities in selected countries for the formulation and supply of customized polycarbonate
granule compounds and the manufacture of semi-finished products (polycarbonate sheets).
Covestro also operates regional production facilities for derivatives of the Coatings, Adhesives,
Specialties Business Unit and for functional films made of polycarbonate or thermoplastic polyurethane. Covestro continuously invests in its global production network:
A 1.4.2.2/3

Strategic Investments in Property, Plant and Equipment at Covestro
2016
Capacity expansion of MDI facility in Brunsbüttel, Germany
Start-up of a production line for CO2 -based polyols in Dormagen, Germany
Continuation and finalization of capital expenditure projects from 2014
– Doubling of production capacity for polycarbonate in Shanghai, China
– Doubling of production capacity for the aliphatic isocyanate HDI in Shanghai, China
2015
Construction of a production line for CO 2 -based polyols in Dormagen, Germany
Continuation of capital expenditure projects from 2014
– Doubling of production capacity for polycarbonate in Shanghai, China
– Doubling of production capacity for the aliphatic isocyanate HDI in Shanghai, China

Efficient logistics concept implemented
See also A 1.4.3

Logistics at Bayer comprises not just the transport and warehousing of goods, but in fact the
entire steering and monitoring of all flows of goods and logistics data for the Bayer Group. We
work continuously to develop logistics concepts that account for safety, environmental and cost
aspects in equal measure. Areas of focus in the ecological field include the reduction of energy
consumption and CO2 emissions, for example by minimizing air transport or using logistic concepts that include rail- and waterways.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

99

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

With an agile corporate structure, we operate according to management systems and directives
with global validity. We use both internal capacities and external logistics partners for storage and
transport services. Bayer selects these according to strict safety, environmental and quality criteria. Alongside the Corporate Supply Chain unit, each segment maintains its own logistics activities
that are aligned toward the unique circumstances of the respective business model and products.

1.4.2.3 Marketing and Distribution
Our marketing and distribution activities are primarily geared toward acquiring new clients and
retaining existing customers over the long term. In this area too, responsible practices are a top
priority for Bayer.

Close distribution network and intensive customer dialogue
To consolidate and further build on our position in the different markets, we continuously work to
optimize our market- and customer-specific distribution network and customer dialogue. Depending on market conditions, we supply our customers in the health care sector, in agriculture, in
industry and in the private sector through wholesalers, specialist retailers or direct sales organizations. We have established our distribution channels at the international, regional and local levels
in accordance with demand.
A high level of customer satisfaction is essential for our long-term success. We therefore systematically analyze both the diverse needs and satisfaction of, as well as complaints made by, our
customers in the respective segments. We foster partnership and dialogue with our customers
with the help of a variety of distribution tools and marketing formats.
Online Annex: A 1.4.2.3-1

Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health
Numerous distribution channels in the health care sector

The products of Pharmaceuticals are primarily distributed through wholesalers, pharmacies and
hospitals. The products of Consumer Health are generally sold in pharmacies, with supermarket
chains, online specialists and other large retailers also playing a significant role in certain markets such as the United States.
Broad range of customer dialogue

Our customer environment includes in equal measure patients, consumers, physicians, pharmacists, caretakers, patient organizations, health policy decision-makers and opinion leaders,
partners from research and development, and health authorities and health care payers. Our
activities with all customer groups ultimately focus on the health and well-being of patients and
consumers. Owing to the heterogeneity of these groups we take specific steps in each case
when entering into dialogue with our customers.
Market research provides us with information on our customers’ needs and positions that we
use as a basis for further activities. Through surveys with respect to various indications, therapeutic areas and regions, we regularly assess the satisfaction of our customers.
Different legal requirements apply for prescription medicines than for nonprescription medicines
or medical devices with regard to the collection of customer satisfaction data. Taking account
of these requirements, the Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health segments conduct primary
market and data research. Systematic internet analyses additionally give us a better understanding of our stakeholders’ opinions, interests and networks.

100
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Pharmaceuticals, for example, engages in dialogue with patient organizations and groups so as
to improve disease awareness and market access for innovative therapies.
Consumer Health has now successfully introduced its excellence program to improve customer
orientation in 22 countries, with more to follow in 2017. With this program we aim to make
Bayer the leading health care company in the areas of market development strategies, distribution and trading.
Crop Science
User-oriented distribution system at Crop Protection

We market our crop protection products in more than 120 countries, mainly through wholesalers or directly through retailers. Our seeds are sold to growers, seedling companies, specialist
retailers and the processing industry. Plant traits developed using modern breeding methods
are either incorporated into proprietary seed varieties or licensed to other seed companies. We
market our Environmental Science range of pest and weed control products through wholesalers and specialist retailers to professional users in the green industry, forestry, industrial vegetation management and pest control, as well as in the area of public health to combat malaria
and dengue fever, for example. The latter is mainly transacted through tendering by government agencies and NGOs.
Marketing to customers through new technologies

The customers of Crop Science vary according to product, region and culture. This results in
different customer wishes and trends such as industrialization 4.0 with new technologies like
digital farming and also rising demands with respect to food safety and quality.
We want to focus more strongly on our customers and their special needs and offer them tailored solutions. As a result, we realigned our Marketing organization in 2016. Through our locally aligned marketing activities (“field marketing”) in particular, we want to improve both the
speed and content of our customer relations. In addition, we want to determine customer satisfaction through surveys every two years depending on the country organization. In 2016, we
conducted such surveys in Japan and Hungary.

www.forward
farming.com

Crop Science is intensifying its direct cooperation with farmers through the Bayer Forward
Farming initiative. Our solutions for sustainable agriculture in practice are demonstrated at
Bayer ForwardFarms. Since the program was launched, Crop Science has been successively
expanding this type of cooperation worldwide.
Animal Health

Depending on national regulatory frameworks, we market our animal health products through
veterinarians and other distribution channels such as pharmacies or retail stores. Depending on
the respective market segment, Animal Health conducts studies on customer satisfaction and
customer retention. Performance indicators are developed from long-term studies in order to
measure customer satisfaction.
Covestro

Covestro’s products are mainly supplied to the automotive and transportation, construction,
wood processing and furniture, and electrical / electronics industries. Covestro markets its
products mostly through regional and local distribution channels. Three globally established
supply chain centers for Covestro’s most important regions pool all information streams from
order acceptance to dispatch planning, delivery and complaint acceptance. They serve as the
central link to the customers and aim to ensure the rapid and smooth processing of orders.
Covestro systematically analyzes customer satisfaction worldwide through the regular evaluation of complaints and assessments by customers. Corrective and prevention measures are derived from this.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

101

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Commitment to ethical conduct

In the development, sale and marketing of our products, we do not tolerate bribery or any other
form of improper exertion of influence on our business partners. The corresponding rules of conduct are established in our Corporate Policy “Responsible Marketing & Sales.” Furthermore, we
are committed to ethical advertising and communication for all our products and services. Our
minimum standards are derived from laws and other statutory regulations, industry codes and
internal rules.
As part of our compliance management system, we register and investigate any suspected violation of our responsible marketing principles. This applies to complaints both from within the company and as notified to us from outside.
Our corporate policy and the respective training programs are implemented decentrally in the
segments.
Online Annex: A 1.4.2.3-2

Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health
The marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and nonprescription (overthe-counter = OTC) medications are strictly regulated and subject to relevant laws that we are
committed to observing. Also applicable at Bayer at the global or regional levels are industry
codes adopted by relevant associations of the pharmaceuticals and medical devices industries.
In many countries, furthermore, these standards are further concretized by local codes – all of
which apply to prescription pharmaceuticals and many of which additionally apply to nonprescription medicines.
All codes of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) serve as a binding minimum global standard for all pharmaceutical products marketed by
Bayer. In addition, Bayer observes the codes of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) for dealings with health care professionals and patient organizations. The WHO’s Ethical Criteria for Medicinal Drug Promotion, together with national ethical
standards that are usually also enshrined in industry codes at the local level, represent the minimum global standard for the advertising of human pharmaceutical products at Bayer.
All the aforementioned codes contain provisions governing, among other issues, advertising
material standards, the distribution of samples, cooperation with medical and pharmaceutical
specialist groups in connection with speaker and consultancy contracts, and scientific studies.
Adherence to these codes is designed to ensure the independence of both health care professionals and patient organizations. Based on the new EFPIA transparency code and the corresponding local interpretations, Pharmaceuticals discloses any grants to health care professionals and organizations annually for the preceding calendar year.
Bayer compliance rules supplement codes

The most important internal Bayer corporate policy is our Anti-Corruption Procedure. The key
requirements and the minimum global standard for compliant and ethical conduct are summarized in the Anti-Corruption Compliance Manual, which applies worldwide at Pharmaceuticals
and Consumer Health. Principles for ethically and legally acceptable advertising for pharmaceuticals and medical devices are set out in a further Bayer corporate policy. Should several regulations be relevant, Bayer principally applies the more stringent standards.

Compliance: see
Glossary

See also A 3.2.1
and A 4.2

102
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Training measures on product-related communication and anti-corruption are fundamental elements of the system at Bayer. The principles communicated in these training courses provide
an overview of globally applicable minimum requirements for cooperation with key stakeholders
in the health care industry, such as physicians, hospitals or patient organizations. The courses
explain general compliance principles and also give specific instructions in relation to nonreciprocal benefits and the exchange of services with health care professionals.

Crop Science
Crop Science follows the guidelines of its Product Stewardship Policy with regard to the distribution and use of its crop protection products. This policy, which also satisfies the requirements of the Corporate Policy “Responsible Marketing & Sales,” is based on the International
Code of Conduct issued by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
We carry out training courses on this topic worldwide and make available corresponding materials to the employees online.
Responsible business practices in marketing and sales are addressed at Crop Science in compliance training courses and are also an integral element of marketing and sales excellence
training measures.

Animal Health
In the marketing and use of its products, Animal Health not only observes statutory regulations,
but also further-reaching Group-wide policies and voluntary industry-wide commitments. Where
several regulations are applicable, Animal Health principally observes the more stringent requirements. Most of our companion and farm animal products are subject to the provisions of
drug advertising law.

Covestro
In the marketing of its products, Covestro consistently observes its Responsible Marketing &
Sales Policy. The importance of observing antitrust law and preventing corruption is regularly
emphasized in training programs, internal communications and discussions with management.

1.4.3 Safety for People and the Environment
> High level of product stewardship and risk prevention determines our activities
> Occupational health and transportation safety further improved
> More efficient use of energy and water


We are fully aware of our stakeholders’ high expectations regarding our products and processes.
The quality and safety of our products, the safe and responsible operation of our facilities and the
comprehensive protection of our employees and the people who live near our sites are of the
utmost importance to us. Bayer also considers environmental protection and the responsible use
of natural resources to be extremely important.
Responsibility for health, safety, environmental protection and quality (HSEQ) lies with the Group
Board of Management. Group-wide HSEQ management systems are in place and incorporated
into the business processes. Responsibility for steering and control lies with the two new corporate functions, “Health, Safety & Sustainability” and “Quality,” which stipulate responsibilities and
framework conditions, among other things, through corporate policies, targets and key performance indicators (KPIs).
Operational responsibility lies with the corresponding line organizations of the segments, which
steer HSEQ independently with management systems, committees and working groups. All relevant HSEQ performance indicators from our production sites are compiled in a Group-wide Bayer
site information system (BaySIS). The continuous review and revision of policies by the corporate

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

103

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

functions, regular mandatory internal audits and external certification processes ensure that the
systems at all production sites effectively meet the specific requirements in each case.
The excellent performance of our HSEQ management systems for the areas of health, safety,
environmental protection and quality also reduces running costs by avoiding damage and disruptions to work and production.

Standards and certifications
Bayer’s HSEQ management systems are based on recognized international standards. Regular
upkeep of the management systems and appropriate training and certification also underpin our
commitment to the chemical industry’s Responsible Care™ initiative and in particular the guidelines of the Responsible Care Global Charter.
With regard to HSE management system coverage based on energy consumption, around 95%
of all our production sites had an HSE management system audited by Bayer in 2016. Some 97%
of our business activities were certified externally to at least one internationally recognized standard. A Group-wide certification plan aims to achieve virtually complete coverage in accordance
with external standards in both environmental and occupational safety management by 2017. One
hundred percent coverage is not feasible owing to the frequent changes in our site portfolio.
A 1.4.3/1

Standards and Certifications
in % of business activities based on energy consumption

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Certification to external standards
ISO 14001 certification / EMAS validation

84

84

91

93

94

OHSAS 18001 1 certification

30

30

34

80

86

–

–

40

47

49

2

ISO 50001 certification
Degree of coverage with certification to at least one of the
above standards
HSE management systems internally audited by Bayer
1
2

89

90

95

93

97

99

99

94

96

95

The rise in 2015 is due to the increased OHSAS 18001 certification of Covestro sites.
Group values determined from 2014 onward

Quality management

The Quality function ensures uniform quality standards across all segments and functions along
with the continuous improvement of all quality-related processes. The quality requirements derived
from regulatory requirements, permits and authorizations, relevant standards of nongovernmental
organizations and industry associations and customer expectations are regularly reviewed and
integrated into an internal quality management system.
Our segments have quality management systems based on sector-specific international standards. Group-wide, coverage with this kind of certification is over 98% based on energy consumption.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3-1

Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health

The quality management system of these two segments forms the basis for the highest possible safety standards in the manufacturing of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, which are
subject to strict quality requirements. It is therefore based on internationally recognized standards such as ISO (e.g. ISO 9001, 17025 and 13485) and ICH (International Conference on
Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use),
as well as on rules for good working practice (GxP) in the development and manufacture of
pharmaceuticals (e.g. Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP)), Good Distribution Practices (GDP)
and Good Clinical Practices (GCP). Compliance with the relevant standards is regularly audited
by internal experts, regulatory authorities and external consultants. These audits also cover our
suppliers and institutes sub-contracted by us.

GxP: see Glossary

104
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Crop Science

Product manufacture at Crop Science is performed according to ISO 9001. Compliance with
manufacturing standards and registered product specifications is regularly monitored by external auditors. All our products are approved/authorized by the relevant national authorities and
thus fulfill the respective requirements with regard to quality and user safety.
Animal Health

Our veterinary medicine products also comply with stringent GxP quality standards stipulated in
relevant statutory requirements applying to development, approval, manufacture, marketing and
safety monitoring. According to this, safety is to be ensured for the animals to be treated, people and the environment alike. Within the scope of the statutory approval procedures and, if required, re-registrations, Animal Health carries out studies in order to verify the quality, efficacy
and safety of its products. Regular official inspections and internal audits check compliance
with legal requirements. The audits also cover institutes subcontracted by us, service providers
and suppliers.
Covestro

Covestro’s quality management system is certified to the international standard ISO 9001. Over
99% of reporting production and nonproduction sites worldwide are certified.

1.4.3.1 Product Stewardship
We consider product stewardship to mean that our products satisfy the highest quality standards
and are safe for people, animals and the environment when properly used. All substances and
finished products undergo extensive testing and evaluation in the interest of product safety. We
assess possible health and environmental risks along the entire value chain and implement the
appropriate measures to mitigate risks based on this.
We strictly observe the legal requirements, and our voluntary commitment and internal standards
go beyond these in many areas. This is steered by the Corporate Health, Safety & Sustainability
function, which is responsible for implementing the related policies and maintaining the HSE management systems.

Implementing statutory requirements
https://echa.europa.eu/
regulations/reach

Extensive legal regulations apply to all Bayer products. Chemical substances are subject to the
European chemicals regulation REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of
Chemicals) and the CLP regulation (Regulation on Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures). The classification and labeling of chemicals enables users in the European
Union to become informed about the risks associated with chemicals.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-1

Requirements of the REACH and CLP regulations met

The registration obligation under REACH applies irrespective of marketing activities for all substances that we produce or import in quantities of more than one metric ton. There is also an
authorization procedure that limits the use of particularly hazardous substances or can lead to
their replacement or ban. To fulfill the requirements of REACH, we have approved Group-wide
and segment-specific policies.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

105

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Already registered substances are also regularly evaluated by the authorities. For Bayer substances this can result in additional testing requirements, new risk management measures or
inclusion in the REACH authorization procedure. To date, one Bayer substance has required
authorization. The authorities enforce the implementation of REACH through regular inspections. So far none of the inspections at Bayer has resulted in complaints. We also require our
suppliers to confirm conformity with REACH for all substances they supply to us.
In the European Union, the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for the classification and labeling of chemicals is implemented through the CLP regulation. The purpose of the GHS is to
achieve a globally standardized system for classifying chemicals and labeling them appropriately on packaging and in safety data sheets. Bayer assesses all its marketed products and implements the GHS worldwide.
Before any product is introduced to the market, we assess it to determine whether it is safe.
Furthermore, the end products from our Life Science segments – such as pharmaceuticals, crop
protection products and biocides – are subject to specific approval / authorization procedures.

Biocides: see Glossary

Voluntary commitment by Bayer
Since 1994, Bayer has supported the voluntary Responsible Care™ initiative of the chemical industry and the associated Responsible Care™ Global Charter. We cover all main elements of the
charter at all Group sites with our HSEQ management systems. We are also actively involved in
the further development of scientific risk assessment through our work in associations and initiatives.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-2

Comprehensive support for association activities

International associations such as the European and international chemical industry associations (CEFIC,ௗICCA) and the OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development),
as well as initiatives such as ECETOC (European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of
Chemicals), work to evolve the scientific assessment of chemicals, develop new test methods
and oversee the implementation of statutory regulations. Bayer actively supports these efforts
through its activities in the associations. We are also involved, for example, in the ICCA LongRange Research Initiative and in the WHO and E.U. action plans for improving health and environmental protection. In addition, we support the Global Product Strategy (GPS), a voluntary
commitment of the chemical industry initiated by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Its objective is to improve knowledge about chemical products, especially in
Emerging Markets and developing countries, and thus increase safety in the handling of these
products.
We continuously evaluate our substances’ properties already at the research and development
stage. The development of products with undesirable properties is discontinued in application of
the precautionary principle.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-3

We accept the precautionary principle as explained in Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration of the
United Nations and communiqué COM (2000) 1 of the European Commission as a possible
consumer protection and risk management tool. It is applied whenever there is no final scientific certainty in a given area and evidence also exists that people or the environment could suffer significant or irreversible damage. In our view, the focus should not be unilaterally on hazard
potential, but rather on a balanced benefit-risk evaluation.

www.icca-chem.org/
responsible-care

106
Augmented Version

Group target 2020:
assessment of the
hazard potential
of all substances
> 1 metric ton p.a.;
see also A 1.2.1

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

In Europe we operate under strict legal requirements. We voluntarily apply comparable standards
around the world, independent of the respective national legislation. In this way we are ensuring
that substance assessments comparable to those established under REACH will also be applied
at all non-European Bayer sites. We support this through our Group target for product stewardship: by 2020, we will assess the hazard potential of all substances of our Life Sciences (> 99%)
used in quantities exceeding one metric ton per annum. By the end of 2016 we had assessed
66% of these substances. The applicable assessment steps and measures are established in our
Corporate Policy “Substance Information and Availability.”
We carry out risk assessments for chemicals according to recognized scientific methods such as
those described in the Guidance on Information Requirements and Chemical Safety Assessment
of the ECHA (European Chemicals Agency). Should the analysis reveal that it is not safe to use a
certain chemical, we take the steps to mitigate risks.

Product information for safe use
We pay special attention to our customers in the safe handling and use of our products. Bayer
compiles safety data sheets for all products regardless of whether or not these are legally required. We offer suitable packaging information for all end consumer products, an example being
package inserts for pharmaceuticals.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-4

Continuous examination and communication

Risk mitigation measures can range from revised application recommendations to the substitution of a substance. In this case, the use of the substitute must be economically and technically
feasible. The substitution of chemicals is basically a continuous task for the chemical and
pharmaceutical industry in order to generate new or substantially improved products and processes. This is integral to our commitment to Responsible Care.
Safety data sheets are the central means of communication for safety-relevant information
about substances and mixtures in the supply chain. Targeting professional users, they contain
information on the substance’s properties and on its safe use. In addition, technical information
is provided for professional use.
In accordance with the respective product safety and information obligations, all segments compile product information both for raw materials and for intermediates or end products. IT systems
enable worldwide access to this information, including as regards product labeling.

Risk assessment of products on the market
Our stewardship also involves the monitoring of all products that are already available on the market. We have established processes throughout the company aimed at addressing inquiries on
product safety or problems with our products. This feedback is consistently accounted for in our
risk assessment, which also covers substances that are regarded as potentially high-risk by regulatory authorities and independent institutions.

Responsible use of biotechnology
We currently use biotechnological methods in pharmaceutical product development and
production and in the area of crop protection. At Pharmaceuticals, the products involved include
Betaferon™ / Betaseron™, Eylea™ and Kogenate™, while at Animal Health this concerns
Zelnate™ – a nonantibiotic immunostimulant product. Further biotechnologically manufactured
active ingredients are undergoing clinical development. Plant biotechnology can improve and
secure crop yields and the stress tolerance of plants.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

107

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

For Bayer, safety is a priority in the use of biotechnology. In addition to legal and regulatory requirements, Bayer has formulated a corporate policy on the responsible use of gene technology.
We provide our stakeholders with comprehensive information about our products and services in
accordance with our Corporate Policy “Responsible Marketing & Sales.”
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-5

Activities of the segments

Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Health and Animal Health have established strict safety measures
for handling biological agents in the global “Biological Safety” and the “Requirements for the
safe handling of biological agents” procedural instructions.
Crop Science has established the necessary requirements for the responsible use of biotechnology in both the Product Stewardship Policy and the Seeds Stewardship Directives. Furthermore, Crop Science maintained its focus on the conscientious use of plant biotechnology
products through its membership of the Excellence Through Stewardship (ETS) organization.
Audits by ETS-certified auditors are required to maintain ETS membership, and in 2016 Crop
Science completed eight audits in Europe, the United States and Africa.

Our commitment to preserving biodiversity
We take into account influences on biodiversity throughout the entire value chain and have established our principles in our own position. There we commit ourselves to the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and the associated Nagoya Protocol, which regulates access to
genetic resources and the balanced and fair sharing of the arising benefits. Crop Science commits
itself through an internal policy to ensure that Bayer only acquires and uses genetic resources in
harmony with international and national legislation.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-6

Biodiversity strengthens the resilience of ecosystems and is a key condition for the maintenance of sustainable agriculture. With its products and services, Crop Science contributes to
this. Our goal is to help our customers to integrate responsible crop protection methods into
agricultural operations and to preserve soil and water quality and the habitats of insects, pollinators and birds. We work together with farmers on solutions for producing more food through
sustainable agriculture without, for example, increasing the use of crop protection products.
Various ecological enhancement measures are undertaken to support resilient ecosystems,
such as enhancing the biodiversity of pollinators by planting flowering strips and the more extensive cultivation of slopes to protect against erosion. These can help farmers improve, for example, soil fertility and water regulation in their fields, or boost the pollination activities of insects and thus increase their yields and biodiversity. At the Bayer ForwardFarms, the host
farmers and the company demonstrate to the public how sustainable agriculture and ecological
enhancement measures work in practice.
In addition, as a member of the Association of Research-Based Pharmaceutical Companies,
Bayer supports the association’s position on the U.N. Convention on Biological Diversity.
Among other things, a corresponding policy, which applies to all sites of Pharmaceuticals and
Consumer Health, takes into account that both segments concentrate on the chemical synthesis of substances using state-of-the-art technologies in medicinal, combinatorial and computational chemistry. If natural substances are used during research into new pharmaceuticals, they
are first checked with respect to compliance with the Convention on Biological Diversity.

www.forward
farming.com

108
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Commitment to animal welfare
www.animalstudies.
bayer.com

Animal studies are legally required and essential from a scientific viewpoint to assess the safety
and efficacy of our products. We aim to minimize the use of study animals and to employ alternative methods whenever possible. We respect all legal requirements pertaining to animal welfare,
compliance with which is verified through both regulatory authorities and internal audits. Bayer’s
principles on animal welfare and animal studies apply in countries without special legislation.
Bayer’s Global Animal Welfare Committee monitors compliance with these guidelines within the
Bayer Group and in external studies. Our principles also apply to both the research institutes we
commission and our suppliers, whose compliance with our animal welfare requirements we regularly monitor.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-7

Commitment to reducing animal studies

3Rs principle:
see Glossary

www.etoxproject.eu/
www.imi-marcar.eu/
project.html
www.imi.europa.eu/
content/k4dd

Innovative Medicines
Initiative (IMI):
see Glossary

Based on the performance indicators of our Animal Welfare Committee, we each year analyze
the development of animal numbers, the distribution according to species and the burden
placed on our test animals, as well as evaluate studies and discuss possible steps in accordance with the 3Rs principle (replace, reduce, refine). We are able to demonstrate that since
2005, the number of study animals used per €1 million research budget (including animals in
Bayer studies performed by contract research organizations) has declined from 96 animals to
around 27 animals in 2016.
Bayer participates in several consortia and projects that aim to reduce the number of animals
used in studies or improve the studies’ validity. We participate, for example, in the Center for
Alternatives to Animal Testing (CAAT), and scientists from Pharmaceuticals are involved in the
leadership of the eTOX project and in the MARCAR and K4DD projects within the scope of the
Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI). Employees from Crop Science are represented on the
Board of Administration and the Scientific Committee of the European Centre for Ecotoxicology
and Toxicology of Chemicals (ECETOC). In Germany, we are active in the Centre for Documentation and Evaluation of Alternative Methods to Animal Experiments.

Protection against product counterfeiting
Counterfeit medicines and crop protection products harbor substantial risks for patients and consumers. Product counterfeiting can only be addressed internationally through a joint approach by
industry, associations, governmental agencies and nongovernmental organizations. Bayer consistently advocates the strengthening and expansion of existing laws and provisions aimed at the
identification and confiscation of illegal products. We want to additionally protect customers and
products through extensive measures of our own.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-8

Combating counterfeit medications
www.bayer.com/
counterfeits

Through the “Beware of Counterfeits” campaign, Bayer informs patients on the internet about
the risks of counterfeit pharmaceuticals and provides patients with tips on how they can protect themselves. Through the use of various technological means in production, we constantly
strive to ensure that patients, too, can distinguish between original and counterfeit products.
We support the establishment of a Europe-wide system for the identification of original pharmaceuticals that satisfies the requirements of the E.U. Falsified Medicine Directive. In addition,
Bayer participates in the Pharmaceutical Industry Initiative to Combat Crime of Interpol to counteract pharmaceutical counterfeiting. In 2016, a research project (ALPhA) supported by the
German Ministry of Education and Research with Bayer’s participation was completed. This established the need for a minimum harmonization of criminal conduct definitions and penalties at
the E.U. level in criminal law relating to medicine. Close cooperation between all stakeholders is
necessary in the future to achieve practical success in fighting counterfeiting and prevent the
sale of counterfeit pharmaceuticals on the internet. Bayer is intensively involved in such alliances and has been a partner to the “Innovation Power for Safety in Industry” initiative since 2016.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

109

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Combating illegal crop protection products

To protect against the import of counterfeit and illegal crop protection products into the E.U.,
Crop Science intensively advocates the uniform interpretation and implementation of existing
E.U. regulations in all E.U. member states. We support regulatory authorities worldwide through
chemical analysis to identify counterfeit products. In addition, we conduct our own inspections
in the market in all countries and actively support initiatives by associations. In 2016, we reviewed our strategy to protect against illegal crop protection products and rolled the revised
version out worldwide.
As part of our product stewardship programs, we provide information material about the risks
of counterfeit and illegal crop protection products and train customers, dealers, farmers and
regulatory authorities. We document all indications of suspicious and potentially counterfeit or
illegal Crop Science products. We work constantly to counterfeit-proof our products through
the use of security features. In 2016, we identified patent and trademark violations in China, India and Brazil, and successfully defended our rights.

Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health
Benefit-risk management for pharmaceuticals and medicinal products

The Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health segments continuously assess the medical benefitrisk profile of their pharmaceuticals and medicinal products throughout their entire product life
cycle. The efficacy, safety and tolerability of pharmaceuticals are studied in Phases I-III of preclinical and clinical development. The documentation submitted to the regulatory authorities contains
the results of these studies and a comprehensive benefit-risk assessment. It is essential for a new
pharmaceutical or medicinal product to satisfy regulatory safety requirements if it is to receive
marketing authorization. According to these regulations, the segments continue to compile safetyrelevant information in a dedicated database following market launch. This information is continuously assessed and the benefit-risk balance regularly evaluated by medical experts of various
disciplines in the global Pharmacovigilance Department. In this process, Bayer works closely with
the regulatory and supervisory authorities at international and national levels. Further safetyrelevant information is compiled using Post-Authorization Safety Studies (PASS) conducted after
approval. The results are entered into the PASS registry in compliance with E.U. pharmacovigilance legislation.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-9

Responsibility of safety management teams

The Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health segments have a global pharmaceutical monitoring
system in which experts from various disciplines work together in safety management teams
(SMTs). These teams evaluate the benefit and safety data and other relevant product information so as to identify potential safety concerns at an early stage or detect possible changes
in the benefit-risk ratio.
In addition to internal safety data from clinical trials, post-marketing studies and spontaneous
adverse event reports, the company uses external databases and information from scientific
publications to conduct assessments. SMTs produce detailed safety risk management plans
that are updated as soon as relevant new benefit-risk data become available. Implementation of
risk mitigation activities is coordinated by local SMTs in the country organizations. All processes
are documented, regularly updated and integrated into the quality management system.
Should risks be identified, Bayer immediately undertakes steps to safeguard the health of patients and consumers in coordination with the authorities. These measures range from updating
product information for patients, consumers and physicians through patient education brochures and further training measures for medical specialists to direct communication with medical experts (Direct Healthcare Professional Communication, DHPC) and even product withdrawals if necessary.

The most important
regulatory authorities for
Bayer are:
– the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration
(FDA)
– the European Medicines Agency (EMA)
– the Pharmaceuticals
and Medical Devices
Agency Japan (PMDA)
– the China Food and
Drug Administration
(CFDA)

Pharmacovigilance:
see Glossary

110
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Analysis of residues of pharmaceuticals in the environment

Active pharmaceutical ingredients can enter the environment through human or animal excreta,
through improper disposal or during production. Surface waters are particularly relevant here.
Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health carry out their own ecotoxicological investigations of
pharmaceutical residues and degradation products to assess the potential environmental impact
of these products. In connection with the approval process for human and veterinary pharmaceuticals in Europe and the United States, an environmental risk assessment takes place for all new
active ingredients. Based on currently available information, the existing concentrations of individual active pharmaceutical ingredients in drinking water do not have any relevant adverse effects on
human health. This subject is dealt with in particular by a WHO report on pharmaceuticals in
drinking water published in 2012 that comes to the conclusion that traceable effects on human
health through the current extent of exposure via drinking water are highly improbable. We are
following the discussion and actively participating in the stakeholder dialogue.
Bayer complies worldwide with all statutory requirements regarding wastewater thresholds at its
production sites. In line with the regulatory requirements, these are reviewed by supervisory authorities and external consultants and also at regular intervals through audits by internal experts.
To further reduce or completely avoid traces of pharmaceuticals entering the environment, we are
taking our own measures in production. In addition, as part of the Eco-Pharmaco-Stewardship
initiative of European pharmaceutical associations, we have adopted their methods for the risk
assessment of pharmaceutical traces in production wastewater. Bayer has reviewed its production
sites according to these methods and, where necessary, taken site-specific measures aimed at a
further reduction. We are also participating actively in various research projects to develop reduction measures.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-10

Participation in extensive research projects
www.medicinesforeurope
.com/keytopics/#section-5

Bayer coordinates the “Intelligence-led Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment”
project in Europe, which seeks new ways to improve environmental risk assessment. The goal
is to develop models and methods for determining possible environmental risks of pharmaceutical substances in early development stages and to prioritize for further environmental assessment existing substances that previously have not been evaluated.
In Germany, Bayer, as member of the steering committee, participated in the “Risk Management of Emerging Compounds and Pathogens in the Water Cycle” initiative sponsored by the
German Ministry for Education and Research (BMBF). At the conclusion of the initiative in 2016,
the results were presented and, overall, Germany’s flowing waters were attested to be in good
condition. Within the scope of the precautionary principle, however, further-reaching purification
of wastewater is recommended for the future.
Bayer is also involved in the stakeholder dialogue initiated by the German government in 2016
on the issue of micropollutant strategy. This dialogue process is aimed at developing a strategy
to prevent the water-polluting effects of certain chemicals, including active pharmaceutical ingredients. The results and recommended measures are expected to be summarized in a position paper in the summer of 2017.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

111

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Crop Science
Focusing on product safety

Product safety and environmental compatibility play a central role in the development of crop
protection products and technologies so that they are harmless to people and animals and can be
used without constituting an unjustifiable ecological burden. For this they require official authorization, which is regulated by numerous international and national laws and provisions. The requirements for marketing authorization, particularly as pertains to the environment, have risen sharply
in recent years. Crop Science satisfies all the regulatory requirements of the countries in which our
products are sold.
In tests required by law, Crop Science already examines the products during the development
phase with regard to their mode of action, their (eco)toxicological properties and the extent of
potential remaining trace concentrations in plants and the environment. Each new crop protection
active ingredient and each new technology must undergo these studies and tests to ensure that
the active ingredient can be applied effectively as a product and that its use or that of the relevant
technology is safe for people, animals and the environment.
Furthermore, Bayer has made a voluntary commitment to market only those crop protection products whose active ingredients are registered in at least one OECD country. In its sale and application of crop protection products and technologies, Crop Science observes the International Code
of Conduct on Pesticide Management of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO). We implement all major aspects of responsible product handling in our Product Stewardship Program, which is based on the principles of our Product Stewardship Policy.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-11

Model projects for water protection in agriculture

The targeted use of crop protection products that minimize discharge outside of the treated
crops is very important to Crop Science. Through best management practices, Crop Science
supports agriculture in safe and environmentally friendly land cultivation and the disposal of residual liquids following the application of crop protection products.
In the area of water pollution mitigation, we give recommendations and advice to our customers particularly with regard to biological remediation systems such as Phytobac™. These systems are intended to prevent point source discharges of crop protection active ingredients into
water bodies that are generated during the filling and cleaning of spraying devices or the disposal of residual liquids. The system is now being tested in numerous E.U. countries and offered commercially by suppliers. In Europe, around 4,100 remediation systems are currently in
operation.
Erosion and runoff processes on agricultural land can also lead to substance emissions into adjacent water systems. In this context, we are collaborating with external partners on the development of a web-based geoinformation system for water protection in agriculture. This enables
the visualization of site-related risks by means of high-resolution risk maps supplemented with
proposals for proven procedures. It is planned for this system to be used as an advisory tool for
water protection in agriculture.
To more effectively account for increasing demands with regard to environmental protection
and occupational health and safety, Crop Science and its external partner agrotop GmbH have
developed a closed, contamination-preventing discharge system for liquid crop protection
products. It consists of sealed canisters that enable partial and full discharge and completely
clean themselves.

www.bayer.com/
phytobac

112
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Bayer Bee Care: strengthening bee health
www.beecare.bayer.com

As a Life Science company, we know how important healthy bees are as pollinators for sustainable food production and are aware of the key role they play in ecosystems. Promoting the health
of pollinators and sustainable agriculture is of tremendous importance for our business. Within our
Bee Care Program, we combine all activities in the area of pollinator health and safety. We operate
Bee Care Centers in Germany and the United States for this purpose and have also established a
global Bee Care network.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-12

Objectives of the Bee Care Program

Health problems among bees and other pollinators are caused by a number of complex factors.
These include pests, parasites, disease, extreme environmental and weather conditions, the
availability of food, and certain agricultural and beekeeping practices. Bayer is involved in numerous projects and partnerships to more closely study these factors and strengthen bee
health.
Within the framework of the Bee Care Program, we proactively approach numerous stakeholder
groups – including industry partners, scientists, farmers, beekeepers, governmental agencies,
nongovernmental organizations, investors and representatives of the food value chain. Our goal
is together to seek opportunities for cooperating in the field of bee and general pollinator health
and to make our activities more transparent. For example, in 2016 we participated in a round of
discussions in London on bee protection organized by Hermes Investment Management.
Activities to effectively protect bees

In North America, Bayer has launched a public appeal to create new foraging habitat for bees
as part of its “Feed a bee” initiative. In addition, in the United States, through the partnership
with the bee research society “Apis m.,” important stimulus was gained in 2016 for implementing research projects whose results benefit beekeeping (Healthy Hives 2020 program).
In Germany, Bayer looks at how insect biodiversity-enhancing measures work and is conducting a major, multi-year study on this subject in agriculturally oriented regions. In South America,
we finance projects studying the attractiveness of various crops so as to better understand the
relationship between pollinators and local crops and to optimize the use of crop protection
products.
In connection with research into controlling the Varroa mite, a dangerous parasite for honey
bees, Bayer has developed a plastic strip treated with an active ingredient that protects beehives from mite infestation. The product is expected to be available to beekeepers by 2017 to
combat the Varroa mite.
We do everything possible to minimize risks to bees – through extensive safety testing, risk assessment, product stewardship measures and the development of bee-friendly crop protection
products and processes.
Ongoing re-evaluation of neonicotinoids
Neonicotinoids:
see Glossary

We are convinced that neonicotinoids are user-safe insecticides with a positive environmental
profile, and are not dangerous to bees when used responsibly and according to labeling instructions. This was confirmed by risk evaluations performed during marketing authorization reviews by the responsible authorities of countries outside Europe. In Europe, however, Bayer
products that contain two of our neonicotinoid compounds have been prohibited since 2013
from use in crops that are attractive to bees. The European Commission has recently instructed
the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) to examine all newly available data and reports from
the past two years. The results are expected for the beginning of 2017.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

113

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Bayer has brought the restriction on neonicotinoid use in the E.U. before the Court of Justice of
the European Union in order to clarify the legal basis of the Commission’s decision. This decision is based on an assessment by the EFSA that in turn is based on neither a validated nor an
officially recognized risk assessment system. With a view to future investment decisions, the
company is primarily asking that the court clarify the regulatory framework.
Involving customers and partners

The application of crop protection products requires the greatest possible care. We therefore
support our customers and partners worldwide in the proper and safe handling of our seed and
crop protection products. Targeted training measures particularly for farmers and dealers are designed to improve safety for users and thus also the environment and consumers. The objective is
to increase the scope of our training activities worldwide.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-13

Training for farmers and Bayer employees

We continued our training activities worldwide in 2016. Farmers were taught how to use
crop protection products effectively and safely, and thus increase the yield and quality of their
harvested goods. Subsequently, new marketing possibililties can arise that offer smallholder
farmers in particular the chance to generate higher profits.
Safe use training offerings are an important aspect here. In 2016, around 950,000 farmers
worldwide were trained in the safe use of crop protection products. The majority of these training measures took place as part of customer events since safety training is an integral part of
our business activity. We also conducted safe use training courses in numerous countries in
2016 in cooperation with partners such as local, regional and international associations.
Bayer focuses on training activities in countries where there are no statutory requirements as
regards certification in the safe handling of crop protection products. We therefore establish
plans of action with our regional organizations for the respective prioritized countries that are
then implemented locally.
Our product stewardship measures also include internal employee training measures. Our
Product Stewardship Policy provides information on all principles for the responsible handling
of our products, combined with specific instructions for use for our employees and those who
work with our products.
Users of our products can contact Crop Science through a range of communication channels
should they have complaints or feedback or wish to report any incidents. These include direct
contact with our sales staff; our standard hotline, which is printed on all our product packaging;
and, in Germany for example, the “Agrar Telefon” expert hotline.

Animal Health
Safety standards for animal health products

In line with the statutory requirements, strict safety and quality standards also apply to animal
health products, animal feed and feed additives. Within the scope of the approval / authorization
procedures, Animal Health carries out detailed studies in order to ensure the safety of its products
for the treated animals, people and the environment alike. A particular focus lies on monitoring
veterinary pharmaceutical safety and on activities aimed at responsible product use.

114
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-14

Safety and control system for animal health products

We continuously compile all safety-relevant information such as reports of suspected adverse
effects of pharmaceuticals in our own global safety database. This information is evaluated and
reported to the responsible authorities in accordance with national regulations. In this process,
Animal Health works closely with the responsible regulatory and supervisory authorities at the
national and supranational levels. This includes especially the European Medicines Agency
(EMA) and the national agencies in the EEA, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the responsible authorities in other countries.
Responsible use of antibacterial active ingredients

We work together with veterinarians, pharmacists, farmers and private animal-owners worldwide to promote the correct handling of our products. We participate in the “European Platform
for the responsible use of medicines in animals” and engage in dialogue with stakeholders from
academia, politics and society.
In line with our “Prudent Use Policy,” we support the responsible use of antibiotics, in particular
of fluoroquinolones. We are convinced that effective antibacterial active ingredients are essential for the treatment of infectious diseases in animals. Animal Health promotes their proper use,
for example through strict guidelines. We also work intensively on the development of alternative strategies to antimicrobial treatment. Since 2015, we have been marketing Zelnate™, a
nonantibiotic immunostimulant.

Covestro
Comprehensive assessment of health, safety and environmental risks

www.productsafetyfirst.
covestro.com

The safe handling and use of our products are of utmost importance. Besides statutorily required
safety information, therefore, Covestro provides additional information such as safety summaries
within the scope of the Global Product Strategy (GPS) of the International Council of Chemical
Associations (ICCA). Covestro complies with all regulatory requirements for the protection of
consumer health, including the use of the chemical bisphenol A. The company makes available
both GPS information and product safety assessments through the “Product Safety First” internet portal.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.1-15

As a contribution to the safe handling of chemicals, risk assessments are conducted according
to recognized scientific principles. Here Covestro makes use, for example, of the Guidance on
Information Requirements and Chemical Safety Assessment of the ECHA (European Chemicals
Agency). On the basis of a hazard assessment and an exposure assessment, it is determined
what additional information is required to describe the risk posed by a product. All product
groups undergo a multi-stage product safety assessment.

1.4.3.2 Safety
Safety management and the continuous development of a safety culture are a cornerstone of
corporate responsibility in the Bayer Group. Preventing accidents and incidents in day-to-day
work, when operating production facilities, and on work-related travel and transportation routes
where people or the environment may suffer harm or damage has top priority for us. Responsibility
for safety is defined through appropriate directives such as our Corporate Policy “Safety at the
Bayer Group.” Our safety management is based on four pillars:

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

115

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

A 1.4.3.2/1

Safety Pillars
Act SAFE, Respect LIFE !

Occupational Health
& Safety

Process &
Plant Safety

Transportation Safety

Product Stewardship

Behavioral Safety

Occupational health and safety
Safeguarding the occupational health and safety of our employees, and of the employees of contractors and suppliers on our company premises and under the supervision of Bayer, is one of our
core tasks. This entails preventing work-related accidents and occupational illnesses, assessing
potential hazards, ensuring comprehensive risk management and creating a healthy working environment. The rate of occupational injuries has been falling for several years. Intensive training
once again contributed to this success in 2016.
The basis of our reporting on occupational injuries is the Recordable Incident Rate (RIR), which
covers all injuries to employees requiring medical treatment that goes beyond simple first aid.
This includes injuries both with and without lost workdays. In 2016, the RIR rate dropped to
0.39 cases per 200,000 hours worked, corresponding to 489 occupational injuries worldwide.
This means that, in statistical terms, one recordable incident occurred for almost every
516,000 hours worked. We were also able to improve with respect to our Group target (RIR excl.
Covestro). The Lost Time Recordable Incident Rate (LTRIR), which exclusively records reportable
injuries with lost workdays, was higher than in the previous year.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.2-1

Occupational illnesses are included in both parameters (LTRIR and RIR), regardless of whether
or not they are listed in national registers of occupational diseases. As lists of occupational diseases are not globally standardized and in many countries do not exist at all, we document all
occupational illnesses, provided they have been diagnosed and recognized by a physician. 14
new cases of occupational illnesses were reported throughout the Bayer Group in 2016. Most
of these were related to the musculoskeletal system and were caused, for example, by computer work or lifting.
Bayer universally and regularly subjects all workplaces to a risk assessment and a hazard analysis. These analyses are used to derive risk mitigation measures that, in conjunction with targeted studies, are designed to prevent occupational illnesses from arising. In accordance with
our occupational health and safety policy, we offer our employees regular medical examinations
– in some cases on a mandatory basis – in all countries in which this is legally permissible. The
focus here is on the risks that exist at each workplace. Furthermore, all respective countryspecific provisions for mandatory examinations are complied with.
Regrettably, four people lost their lives in work-related accidents in 2016. Two Bayer employees
were killed in traffic accidents and two contractor employees died after falling from heights, including from scaffolding. All the fatalities occurred in India.

See also A 1.4.1

Group target 2020:
reduction of 35% in
occupational safety
incident rate (RIR);
see also A 1.2.1

116
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

A 1.4.3.2/2

Recordable Occupational Injuries
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Occupational injuries without lost workdays (RIR 1 )

0.49

0.47

0.43

0.42

0.39

Occupational injuries without lost workdays (RIR 1 ) Life Sciences

0.50

0.49

0.44

0.43

0.40

Occupational injuries with lost workdays (LTRIR 2 )

0.27

0.26

0.22

0.21

0.23

2

2

4

2

4

of which Bayer employees

2

1

3

2

2

of which contractor employees 3

–

1

1

–

2

Fatal injuries (total)

1
2
3

RIR = Recordable Incident Rate
LTRIR = Lost Time Recordable Incident Rate
Employees working for third parties whose accidents occurred on our company premises and under Bayer supervision

Online Annex: A 1.4.3.2-2
A 1.4.3.2-2/1

Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) by Region
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Europe / Middle East / Africa

0.58

0.75

0.68

0.62

0.46

North America

0.53

0.49

0.64

0.58

0.65

Asia / Pacific

0.21

0.20

0.14

0.12

0.14

Latin America

0.42

0.31

0.25

0.32

0.38

Total

0.49

0.47

0.43

0.42

0.39

2015 figures restated

As in previous years, we hardly recorded any accidents involving contact with chemicals in 2016.
A significant proportion of our accidents and injuries have behavior-linked causes. Our Behavioral
Safety Program launched by the Group Board of Management is addressing this problem.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.2-3

Behavioral Safety Program heightens safety awareness
This initiative focuses on safety-conscious conduct by our employees. To prevent behaviorrelated accidents, we introduced an extensive Behavioral Safety Program in 2015. To this end,
the existing safety culture was recorded and evaluated in all fields of work, primarily, however,
in the production units. We evaluated 54 sites of the Crop Science, Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health segments around the world in 2016 and, based on the results of these evaluations, drew up plans of action. Intensive training measures are in place to prevent accidents
and injuries in the future before they happen. Initial behavioral improvements have been identified in areas in which the program has already been implemented. Specific training goals are
designed to help reduce the Recordable Incident Rate.

Process and plant safety
We aim to design and operate our processes and facilities in such a way that they do not pose
any inappropriate risks to employees, the environment or the community. To improve the safety of
our production facilities and processes worldwide, Bayer is continually working to further develop
the safety culture, the expertise of employees and the relevant standards for assessing risks. The
corresponding Corporate Policy “Process and Plant Safety” updated in 2016 specifies globally
harmonized procedures and standards. This is regularly reviewed to take into account changes in
legislation, new procedures and additional quality assurance processes.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

117

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Online Annex: A 1.4.3.2-4

In a key move to maintain and improve safety awareness, the globally binding training program
TOPPS (Top Performance in Process and Plant Safety) has been further extended. Participation
in this program is compulsory for all Bayer employees who are able to influence process and
plant safety at production and auxiliary facilities and is documented in the Bayer training system. This rule has become an integral part of the Group’s HSEQ management systems. TOPPS
training documentation for face-to-face training and web-based training is available in several
languages.
The central Bayer competence center for process and plant safety in Leverkusen, Germany, the
regional centers in Asia and the United States, and plant safety experts at all production sites
work together in a global network.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.2-5

Our experts work in international working groups such as the European Chemical Industry
Council (CEFIC) on developing a global reporting standard for key performance indicators in
plant safety and are also heavily involved in sharing experiences in this area, both nationally and
internationally, at an industrial level.
A globally standardized KPI – Loss of Primary Containment (LoPC) – applies as an early indicator
for plant safety incidents and is integrated into Group-wide safety reporting. LoPC refers to the
leakage of chemical substances or energy in amounts above defined thresholds from their primary
containers, such as pipelines, pumps, tanks or drums. The LoPC Incident Rate (LoPC-IR) indicates the number of LoPC incidents per 200,000 hours worked. In 2016, the LoPC-IR was 0.32
(2015: 0.22). Bayer’s LoPC reporting is based on the standards of the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC), which apply throughout Europe.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.2-6

The causes of every reported LoPC incident are analyzed to further improve safety at existing
plants. The results of the cause analyses are publicized across the Group. The LoPC-IR parameter and the globally established training program for process and plant safety are helping us to
improve employees’ safety awareness.
The reporting threshold was set at such a low level that even material and energy leaks that
have no impact on employees, neighbors or the environment are systematically recorded and
reported. This approach supports our commitment to maintain the integrity of our facilities.
A 1.4.3.2/3

Rate of Plant Safety Incidents (LoPC-IR)
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Loss of Primary Containment Incident Rate (LoPC-IR) 1

0.38

0.35

0.23

0.22

0.32

LoPC-IR 1 Life Sciences

0.21

0.16

0.13

0.11

0.17

1

Number of LoPC incidents per 200,000 working hours

Group target 2020:
reduction of 30% in
process and plant
safety incidents;
see also A 1.2.1

118
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

As part of its Group-wide crisis management, Bayer operates a global early warning system – the
Bayer Emergency Response System.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.2-7

A corporate policy provides a globally applicable standard procedure for recording and reporting unusual incidents such as hazards to the safety of our employees, plants or facilities, and
regulates the Bayer Group’s crisis management. The handling of such incidents is the responsibility of the local crisis organization/emergency response team. For this purpose, organizational precautions with defined responsibilities and procedures have been implemented at the
sites/in the countries. Depending on the situation, these involve business partners and the local
community around the sites.

Transportation safety
Great importance is attached to transportation safety within the Bayer safety culture. This applies
both to the transportation of our products on public routes, particularly of hazardous goods, and
to processes such as loading, unloading, classification, labeling, packaging and selecting the right
logistics partners. These are decided on using a defined procedure, and their fulfillment of safety
and quality standards is assessed. The implementation of a dedicated corporate policy ensures
that all materials are handled in line with applicable regulations and the potential hazard they
pose. As part of our voluntary Responsible Care activities, transportation safety instructions are
also drawn up for nonhazardous materials and corresponding distribution safety audits performed.
Our transportation safety management is an integral part of HSE management and is implemented
by a network of experts and users with practical experience.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.2-8

Details are specified in the corporate policies “Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ)
Audits” and “Transportation Safety.” A globally aligned transportation safety committee acts as
a forum for exchanging information and standardizing procedures between the segments. In
2016, the panel focused on issues such as training in transportation safety, the review of internal process instructions and the evaluation, selection and auditing of our logistics service providers.
In total, well over three million transport movements took place in 2016. Bayer aims to minimize
the number of incidents through preventive measures. Despite our extensive safety precautions
and training activities, residual risks can result in transport incidents. These include accidents that
cause personal injury or significant damage to property and environmental impact resulting from
the release of substances or leakage of hazardous goods. They are recorded in detail and assessed based on defined criteria. The 12 transport incidents in 2016 were mainly traffic accidents.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.2-9
A 1.4.3.2-9/1

Transport Incidents by Means of Transport
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Road

6

8

11

11

12

Rail

0

0

1

1

0

Sea

0

3

0

0

0

Total

6

11

12

12

12

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

119

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

The following table provides an overview of the transport incidents in 2016.
A 1.4.3.2-9/2

Transport Incidents 2016

1

Personal
injury
Crop Science, Belford Roxo, Brazil, February 13, 2016
During transportation, a truck loaded with Bayer product tipped over, causing a product spill.
This was cleaned up and disposed of in a professional manner.

No

Covestro, Verona, Italy, March 18, 2016
During transportation, the packaging of a pallet was damaged, leading to leakage of a product.
The product was cleaned up and disposed of in a professional manner.

No

Covestro, Erftstadt, Germany, April 12, 2016
During an evasive maneuver, a tank trailer loaded with a Covestro product tipped over on a
highway. No product leaked out.

Yes

Crop Science, Thane, India, June 13, 2016
A truck loaded with Bayer product was involved in a traffic accident. A passer-by died as a result
of the accident.

Yes

Covestro, Le Muy, France, June 27, 2016
A truck loaded with Covestro product collided with other vehicles at the tail end of a traffic jam. A
driver from a transport company died as a result of the accident. No product leaked out.

Yes

Covestro, São Paulo, Brazil, July 5, 2016
During transportation, drums containing product were damaged. These and the product that had
leaked into the catchment space were cleaned up and disposed of in a professional manner.

No

Covestro, Springfield, Missouri, United States, July 10, 2016
A truck trailer overturned during transportation. Around 2,500 kg of granules escaped. The content
of the container and the released granules were taken up and disposed of in a professional
manner. The driver suffered minor injuries.

Yes

Covestro, Oldenburg, Germany, August 17, 2016
During loading at a logistics service provider, a product container was damaged. The material that
had leaked inside the truck and the residual amount still in the container were taken up and
disposed of in a professional manner.

No

Pharmaceuticals, Leverkusen, Germany, October 27, 2016
A truck loaded with Bayer product collided with a mobile sign truck. A highway maintenance
worker died as a result.

Yes

Covestro, Tashkent, Uzbekistan, November 3, 2016
During transportation, two product containers were damaged. The material that had leaked inside
the tank and the residual amount still in the containers were taken up and disposed of in a
professional manner. One of the customer’s employees suffered a slight injury.

Yes

Crop Science, Belford Roxo, Brazil, November 19, 2016
Following a collision with another vehicle, a truck loaded with Bayer product tipped over, spilling
the content of one container on the road. This was cleaned up and disposed of in a professional
manner.

No

Crop Science, Villefranche, France, November 22, 2016
While loading a truck, a container of product was damaged by a forklift truck. The product was
cleaned up and disposed of in a professional manner.

No

1

Standard practice at Bayer is to record every fatality reported to us relating to our business activities. A difference between the
number of fatalities in Table A 1.4.3.2/2 and Table A 1.4.3.2-9/2 may occur because for occupational injuries, by definition, we
show only fatalities of Bayer and contractor employees who were under immediate Bayer supervision.

1.4.3.3 Environmental Protection
We meet our responsibility to protect the environment in many different ways. We are continuously
working to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities and develop product solutions that benefit the environment. For us, an efficient approach to raw materials and energy
makes both ecological and economic sense. Our measures help reduce environmental impact and
at the same time cut the costs associated with materials, energy, emissions and disposal.
We use many means to make our production processes more resource-friendly and lower the
emissions they generate. In line with our claim we are also committed to minimizing wastewater
pollution. Systematic waste management and recycling activities reduce the amount of materials
to be disposed of.

120
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Responsibilities and framework conditions are stipulated at Group level, e.g. by corporate policies,
targets and key performance indicators (KPIs). We use certified HSEQ management systems to
control operational implementation. Our environmental standards apply worldwide.

Energy consumption
Total energy consumption slightly higher than last year

In 2016, the Group’s total energy consumption rose by 1.6% to 84.5 petajoules. In calculating the
total energy consumption, we differentiate between primary energy consumption – mainly of fossil
fuels for our own generation of electricity and steam – and secondary energy consumption, which
reflects the purchase of electricity, steam and refrigeration energy and the use of process heat.
Primary energy consumption rose in 2016 by 1.0% and secondary energy consumption by 2.2%.
This increase in energy requirements is due to increased production activities at the Leverkusen
and Krefeld-Uerdingen sites in Germany.
A 1.4.3.3/1

Energy Consumption in the Bayer Group

1

2012

TJ

Primary energy consumption for the in-house
generation of electricity & steam

2013

2014

2015

2016

49,047

47,582

45,572

42,996

43,424

Natural gas

30,411

29,796

31,580

28,813

27,552

Coal

15,954

15,094

12,611

12,755

13,420

656

416

421

350

465

1,005

1,282

833

1,523

1,800

Liquid fuels
Waste
Other 2
Secondary energy consumption
Electricity 3
Steam
Steam from waste heat (process heat)
Refrigeration energy

1,021

994

127

(445)

187

34,137

33,266

39,745

40,186

41,070

25,849

25,560

28,070

27,177

25,977

(121)

(801)

3,579

4,694

3,576

9,144

9,146

9,639

9,974

10,010

(735)

(639)

Total energy consumption

83,184

80,848

85,317

83,182

84,494

Total energy consumption Life Sciences

28,481

27,972

26,288

24,677

26,243

1
2
3

(650)

(459)

(586)

Energy consumption is netted which may result in negative values.
E.g. hydrogen
The proportion of primary energy sources used in generating the electricity consumed depends on the respective national
electricity mix.

Energy efficiency target of Life Science areas achieved and newly formulated

We measure energy efficiency based on the relationship between energy consumption in megawatt hours (MWh) and manufactured sales volume (in metric tons). With a reduction of 0.5%, the
manufactured sales volume of the Life Sciences was about the same level as the previous year,
while energy consumption rose by around 6.3%, mainly at our service company Currenta, which
serves among other functions as the energy provider for Bayer and third parties. As a result, our
energy efficiency deteriorated by around 6.8% compared with the previous year.
A 1.4.3.3/2

Energy Efficiency
in MWh/t

Energy efficiency of Life Sciences

Group target 2020:
improvement of 10%
in energy efficiency;
see also A 1.2.1

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

8.86

8.54

7.62

6.34

6.77

In line with our Group target, we are endeavoring to improve energy efficiency by 10% by 2020
compared to 2012. With an increase in energy efficiency of almost 24% compared with the base
year 2012, we had achieved this target by the end of 2016.
On account of Covestro becoming legally independent, the magnitude of our manufactured sales
volume and also our energy requirement has significantly fallen. For that reason, when calculating

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

121

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

our energy efficiency in the future we want to use a more appropriate reference value for our
product portfolio. With effect from reporting year 2017, we shall indicate energy efficiency for our
Life Science areas Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Health, Crop Science and Animal Health as the
relationship between the energy we use and our external sales, instead of the manufactured sales
volume. For that reason, we have adjusted our previous target so that it is now to improve our
energy efficiency by 10% by 2020 compared with the base year of 2015.
Combined heat and power processes account for high proportion of in-house energy generation

Around 90% of our own energy generation comes from highly efficient combined heat and power
processes. In addition, we purchase electricity on the market – through energy exchanges, for
example. The electricity and heat generated and purchased are used in our own production facilities and third-party facilities (especially of Lanxess Deutschland GmbH as the other shareholder of
our service company Currenta). The proportion of renewable energies is determined by the energy
mix of our energy suppliers. We comment in detail on these issues in our CDP Report.

CDP: see Glossary

www.bayer.com/
CDP-Climate

Air emissions
At Bayer, air emissions are caused mainly by the generation and consumption of electricity, steam
and process heat. Thanks to the various measures in our Bayer Climate Program – such as introducing energy management systems and production / process innovations – we have achieved a
significant reduction in emissions over the past 10 years, which goes hand in hand with an improvement in energy efficiency. We have documented our successful reduction of greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions in the CDP reports and in 2016 received an excellent rating, the leadership status with the highest score of A.
As a Life Science company too, we want to continue helping to protect the climate on several
levels. This includes reducing our production-related emissions with ambitious targets relating to
energy efficiency and cutting specific greenhouse gas emissions. In the future, we will be focusing
more on lowering emissions in nonproduction areas. These include our vehicle fleet (Sustainable
Fleet initiative), looking into increased use of electric vehicles (electric mobility programs), further
developing our information and communication technologies (Green IT) in terms of environmental
aspects and investigating potential ways to lower greenhouse gas emissions along the value
chain.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.3-1

We are also working further to reduce our CO2 emissions in connection with our global fleet of
over 25,000 vehicles. At an average level of 145 g/km for the just over 5,000 vehicles newly
registered in 2016, these remained at approximately the same level as in 2015 (141 g/km). Our
goal is to reduce average CO2 emissions to 110 g/km for new vehicles registered in 2020. To
achieve this, we shall implement further measures in 2017 such as pilot projects on e-mobility.
Transparency on greenhouse gas emissions

Bayer reports all Group greenhouse gas emissions in line with the requirements of the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). Direct emissions from our own power plants, waste incineration
plants and production facilities (Scope 1) and indirect emissions from the procurement of electricity, steam and refrigeration energy (Scope 2) are determined at all production locations and relevant research and administrative sites.
Since 2015, we have reported in line with the updated GHG Protocol guideline for Scope 2, which
states that indirect emissions must be reported according to both the location-based and the
market-based methods.

GHG Protocol:
see Glossary

122
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

A 1.4.3.3/3

Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions

1

Million metric tons of CO 2 equivalents

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Total direct emissions 2

4.24

4.09

4.02

4.41

4.30

0.75

0.73

0.69

0.91

0.73

of which from Life Sciences 3
Total indirect emissions 4 according
to the location-based method
of which from Life Sciences 3

4.71

4.85

5.03

4.94

5.00

0.88

0.89

0.90

0.88

0.88

Total indirect emissions 4 according
to the market-based method

4.72

4.91

5.53

5.30

5.57

of which from Life Sciences 3

0.93

0.93

0.96

0.92

0.93

Total greenhouse gas emissions according
to the market-based method 5
of which from Life Sciences 3
Specific greenhouse gas emissions from Life Sciences 3
(t CO 2 e / t) according to the market-based method 5,6

8.96

9.00

9.55

9.71

9.87

1.68

1.66

1.65

1.83

1.66

1.88

1.83

1.72

1.69

1.54

1

Portfolio-adjusted in accordance with the GHG Protocol
In 2016, 84.21% of emissions were CO 2 emissions, 15.38% N 2 O emissions, just under 0.37% partially fluorinated hydrocarbons
and 0.04% methane.
3
Excluding Currenta
4
Typically, CO 2 in incineration processes accounts for over 99% of all greenhouse gas emissions. When determining indirect
emissions, our calculations are therefore limited to CO 2 and indicate direct emissions in CO 2 equivalents.
5
The market-based method of the new Scope 2 GHG Protocol most reliably reflects the indirect emissions and the success of
emissions reduction measures, so we used emissions volumes calculated using this method when calculating the total and specific
greenhouse gas emissions.
6
Specific Group emissions are calculated from the total volume of direct emissions, indirect emissions calculated using the marketbased method of the new Scope 2 GHG Protocol and emissions from the vehicle fleet, divided by the manufactured sales volume of
the segments in metric tons. Quantities attributable to the supply of energy to external companies are deducted from the direct and
indirect emissions.
2

In line with the GHG Protocol, in our energy balance we include all greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the conversion of primary energy sources into electricity, steam or refrigeration energy,
even though a significant proportion of our direct emissions comes from the generation of energy
that is delivered to other companies. Consequently, our absolute figures for greenhouse gas emissions are higher than the actual emissions resulting from Bayer’s business activities alone.

Group target 2020:
reduction of 15% in
specific greenhouse
gas emissions;
see also A 1.2.1

In 2016, we recorded a slight increase of 1.7% in total GHG emissions in the Group, although
those of the Life Sciences without Currenta fell by 9.5%. Direct emissions diminished across the
Group by 2.4%, mainly due to the sale of the chemical park infrastructure at the site in Institute,
West Virginia, United States. Indirect emissions (market-based method) rose by 5.1%. This was
essentially due to enhanced energy requirements as a result of increased production activities at
the Chempark Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen sites in Germany. We were again
able to reduce the specific greenhouse gas emissions (total emissions divided by the manufactured sales volume) of our Life Sciences (here excluding Currenta). With a reduction of 18% compared with 2012 levels, we have already achieved our previous Group target of reducing specific
greenhouse gas emissions by 15% by the year 2020.
As with the calculation method for our energy efficiency, we are also intending to change our reporting of specific greenhouse gas emissions from 2017 onward. We are planning to indicate
these as the relationship between the greenhouse gas emissions of our Life Sciences and our
external sales instead of the manufactured sales volume. We have thus adjusted our Group target
accordingly and are looking to achieve a 20% reduction in specific greenhouse gas emissions by
2020 compared with 2015. This new target more adequately reflects our contribution to climate
protection and takes into account our new corporate orientation as a Life Science company.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

123

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

The reporting of all relevant indirect emissions from the value chain is bindingly regulated by the
GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting & Reporting Standard. Following a
thorough examination, Bayer has identified nine essential Scope 3 categories, which we report on
in detail in the CDP Report.

www.bayer.com/
CDP-Climate

In 2016, the Bayer Group was involved in European emissions trading with 18 plants in total. The
greenhouse gas emissions of these plants amounted to approximately 2.32 million metric tons of
CO2 equivalents.
Other direct emissions into the air reduced

Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) fell by 23.0% in 2016. Emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) excluding methane decreased by 30.5%.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.3-2

The main source of both types of emissions is the Crop Science site in Vapi, India, which
accounts for 96.0% of ODS emissions and 48.0% of VOC emissions at Bayer. The project initiated at this site four years ago to reduce these emissions continues to have an impact.
Group-wide VOC emissions fell by 30.5% compared with the previous year, and ODS emissions by 23.0%. Another subproject was implemented at Vapi in 2016: a central waste air
treatment facility brings together the many different sources of emissions at the site, which in
the future will lead to a further significant reduction in these emissions.
Through the optimized operation of the power plants at the German sites in Leverkusen and
Krefeld-Uerdingen, total emissions of sulfur dioxides fell by 15.3%. Particulate emissions also
declined, in this case by 29.1%, caused by the reduction at the Covestro site in Baytown, Texas, United States. Nitrogen oxide emissions were 2.2% lower. Carbon monoxide emissions increased by 7.4%, on the other hand. This is the result of an improved analysis method at the
German sites in Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen.
A 1.4.3.3-2/1

Other Direct Air Emissions
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

1

0.0163

0.0157

0.0148

0.0117

0.0090

VOC 2

2.60

2.27

2.12

1.61

1.12

CO

1.00

0.94

0.91

0.93

1.00

NO X

3.07

2.51

2.36

2.42

2.36

SO X

1.85

1.32

1.22

1.17

0.99

Particulates

0.18

0.16

0.25

0.23

0.16

1,000 metric tons

ODS

1
2

Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) in CFC-11 equivalents
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) excluding methane

Higher number of environmental incidents
The number of environmental incidents – i.e. incidents that result in the release of substances into
the environment – increased from two to three in 2016. Factors that determine whether there is a
reporting obligation include, in particular, the nature and quantity of the substance, the amount of
damage caused and any consequences for nearby residents. In accordance with our internal
voluntary commitment, we report any leakage of substances with a high hazard potential from a
quantity of 100 kg upward.

A 1.4.3.3/4

Number of Environmental
Incidents

2012

5

2013

10

2014

4

2015

2

2016

3
0

6

12

124
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Online Annex: A 1.4.3.3-3
A 1.4.3.3-3/1

Environmental Incidents 2016
Personal
injury
Pharmaceuticals, Wuppertal, Germany, April 18, 2016
A large volume of wastewater flowed into a nearby river on account of a leak at a sewer shaft.
The leak could be repaired.

No

Pharmaceuticals, Karachi, Pakistan, June 23, 2016
During transfer from a main container to a day tank, 2,000 l of diesel accidentally leaked
into a drain.

No

Covestro, Antwerp, Belgium, July 28, 2016
An unintentional leak of solvent occurred upon starting a pump. The contaminated soil was taken up
and disposed of in a professional manner after consultation with the relevant authorities.

No

The following incident was registered and analyzed but does not count as an environmental
incident under Bayer criteria.
A 1.4.3.3-3/2

Incident Not Considered an Environmental or Transport Incident under Bayer Criteria
Animal Health, Kiel,
Germany, April 3, 2016

Description

Comments

Spillage of liquid waste in a
storeroom

A waste container fell down causing the spillage
of a flammable liquid product. This was cleaned
up and disposed of in a professional manner. Due
to the small quantity involved, the incident was not
recorded as an environmental incident but as a
plant safety incident (LoPC).

Use of water and emissions into water
Effective water management at sites in water-scarce areas

Clean water in sufficient quantities is essential for supplying our production sites and the surrounding areas. In the future too, industrial water usage must not lead to local problems such as a
shortage of water for the people living in the area. Our Water Position commits us to compliance
with international and local legislation to protect water resources and use them efficiently.

Group target 2017:
establishment of water
management at all sites
in water-scarce areas;
see also A 1.2.1

We used the WBCSD Global Water Tool™ to identify all Bayer sites that are located in regions
affected or threatened by water shortage. In line with our Group target, these sites are to establish
a water management system that takes the local conditions sufficiently into account by 2017. This
involves analyzing their water usage, quality and discharge data annually along with site-specific
initiatives using a method developed at Bayer. During the evaluation in 2015, specific measures
were agreed to initiate more effective water management at the sites where there is room for improvement. The analysis in the reporting year revealed that the proportion of sites examined that
have effective water management has increased from around 58% (2015) to 95% (2016).
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.3-4

This has been achieved, for example, by establishing measures to control water consumption
more closely and make greater use of rainwater. In addition, the efficiency of treatment cycles in
production processes has been further improved and measures have been taken to recycle water. Employee training and awareness campaigns encouraging economical water usage have
also proved productive.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

125

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Bayer supports the CEO Water Mandate of the U.N. Global Compact with the goal of working
with key stakeholders to develop sustainable strategies for water usage. In our annual response to
the CDP Water Disclosure, we report in detail on our water usage, the company-specific water
footprint and the associated opportunities and risks. This represents a progress report for the
CEO Water Mandate.
Water use

In 2016, total water use in the Group fell by 4.8% to around 330 million cubic meters. Some 79%
of all water used by Bayer is cooling water that is only heated and does not come into contact
with products. It can be returned to the water cycle without further treatment in line with the relevant official permits. At our production facilities, we endeavor to use water several times and to
recycle it. Water is currently recycled at 36 sites, accounting for 42% of the total water use. The
various forms of recycling include closed cooling cycles, reuse of treated wastewater and recirculation of steam condensates as process water. A total of around 11.8 million cubic meters of water was reused in 2016.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.3-5
A 1.4.3.3-5/1

Water Use in the Bayer Group in 2016 (million m³)
Water usage 1

Sources of water

1

2

Surface water

187 (57%)

Boreholes /
springs

124 (37%)

Cooling water

260 (79%)

13 (4%)

Other sources

6 (2%)

Once-through
cooling water

248 (77%)

Losses due to evaporation 12 (4%)
from cooling water circuits
12 (4%)

of which
recycled / reused

Drinking water
supplies

Water discharged 1

Process wastewater
47 (15%)
with subsequent treatment

Production ²

70 (21%)

Process wastewater
13 (4%)
without subsequent treatment

The differences between volumes of water consumed and water discharged can be explained, for example, by
unquantified losses due to evaporation, leaks, quantities of water used as raw materials in products and volumes of condensate
generated through the use of steam as a source of energy.
Sum from production processes, sanitary wastewater and rinsing and cleaning processes in production

The amounts of water from each source have remained at a comparable level since 2012.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.3-6
A 1.4.3.3-6/1

Net Water Intake by Source
2012

2013

2014

2015

384

361

350

346

330

of which from surface water

248

226

223

212

187

of which from boreholes / springs

million m³

Water consumption

2016

123

120

112

118

124

of which from public drinking water supplies

7

9

9

10

13

of which from other sources, e.g. rainwater

6

6

6

6

6

CDP: see Glossary

www.bayer.com/
CDP-Water

126

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

Wastewater treatment benefits environment
A 1.4.3.3/5

Process Wastewater
Volume
million m3

2012

65

2013

63

2014

66

2015

61

2016

60
0

40

80

All wastewater is subject to strict controls before it is discharged into the various disposal channels. The total quantity of wastewater, including process and sanitary wastewater, was 60 million
cubic meters in 2016, which is 3.1% down on 2015. 78.5% of Bayer’s wastewater worldwide was
purified in wastewater treatment plants (Bayer or third-party facilities). Following careful analysis,
the remaining volume was categorized as environmentally safe according to official provisions.
Part of it was used to water gardens and agricultural land.
The goal is to minimize our emissions into wastewater. For this reason, in 2016, alternative
means were applied, for example, for the disposal of 0.148 million cubic meters of productcontaining wastewater such as incineration, distillation or chemical treatment. Discharges of
phosphorus into wastewater fell by 14.2%, due among other reasons to reduced production
volumes at the Kaohsiung site in Taiwan. All other emissions into water were lower than last year
or at the same level.
A 1.4.3.3/6

Emissions into Water
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Phosphorus

0.15

0.11

0.10

0.10

0.09

Nitrogen

0.70

0.69

0.76

0.56

0.57

TOC 1

1.42

1.53

1.20

1.16

1.14

Heavy metals

0.0098

0.0091

0.0063

0.0064

0.0054

Inorganic salts

1,048

946

845

927

931

4.25

4.58

3.59

3.48

3.42

1,000 metric tons

COD 2
1
2

Total organic carbon
Chemical oxygen demand; calculated value based on TOC figures (TOC x 3 = COD)

Waste and recycling
Systematic waste management minimizes material consumption and disposal volumes. Safe
disposal channels with separation according to the type of waste and economically expedient
recycling processes serve this purpose. Production fluctuations and building refurbishment / land
remediation work also influence waste volumes and recycling paths.
Higher volumes of waste

In 2016, the total volume of waste generated rose by 1.9% and the volume of nonhazardous
waste by 3.1%, in particular due to demolition work at the Crop Science site in Institute, West
Virginia, United States. With regard to hazardous waste generated, the volume from the power
plant at the Chempark Leverkusen site rose by 1% owing to the recent categorization of fluidized
bed ash as hazardous waste.
A 1.4.3.3/7

Waste Generated

1

1,000 metric tons

Total waste generated
Hazardous waste 2
of which hazardous waste from production
1
2

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

1,014

899

896

940

958

603

467

487

541

547

397

417

442

488

507

Waste generated by Bayer only
Definition of hazardous waste in accordance with the local laws in each instance

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

127

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Augmented Version

The volume of waste disposed of rose by 2.2% in total. The volume proportions for the three main
types of disposal (landfill, incineration and recycling) have remained similar over the past five
years.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.3-7

Recycling refers to processes that reutilize waste in some way. In 2016, the volume of recycled
waste was 290,000 metric tons. Expressed as a proportion of the total waste disposed of, this
represented a level of 30%. The amount of recycled waste depends on site-specific conditions
such as changes to the product portfolio, other production volumes, variations in the intensity
of construction measures and recycling projects.
A 1.4.3.3-7/1

Waste by Means of Disposal
1,000 metric tons

Total volume of waste disposed of 1
Volume removed to landfill

2012

2013

2014

2015

1,021

915

898

949

2016
969

360

293

248

248

267

Volume incinerated

341

351

363

371

336

Volume recycled

301

249

260

296

290

19

22

27

34

76
547

Others ²
Total volume of hazardous waste
disposed of 3

603

467

487

541

Volume removed to landfill

175

53

65

75

67

Volume incinerated / recycled

428

414

422

466

480

1

Bayer serves as a certified waste disposal plant operator at various sites. At these locations, Bayer disposes not only of its own
waste but also of waste from third parties (companies not belonging to the Bayer Group). For that reason, the volume of waste
disposed of differs slightly from the volume of waste generated by Bayer.
2
E.g. passed on to third parties (e.g. providers / waste disposal companies)
3
Waste generated by Bayer only; definition of hazardous waste in accordance with the local laws in each instance

In 2016, the waste incineration plants operated by Currenta generated approximately 675,000
metric tons of steam from the incineration of around 230,000 metric tons of hazardous waste
from the Chempark sites and some external production companies. Compared to using fossil
energy sources, this reduced CO2 emissions in 2016 by approximately 160,000 metric tons.
Recycling potential realized

In addition to satisfying economic and environmental criteria, the recycling and treatment of our
materials also has to comply with legal requirements. This results in restrictions, in particular in the
areas of pharmaceuticals and crop protection. Throughout the Group, we make use of opportunities for recycling within the framework of legal regulations.
Online Annex: A 1.4.3.3-8

Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Health and Animal Health

Production-related recycling takes place in line with the requirements of the relevant production
site. When determining the best means of disposal, recycling options are explicitly included,
and are to be considered preferable to landfilling or incineration. The disposal of pharmaceutical products is subject to strict safety criteria, so no recycling is possible for the portfolios of
these segments. Packaging materials are recycled in line with national regulations as part of the
country-specific infrastructure for waste disposal.

128
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

1.4 Sustainable Conduct

Crop Science

Material-based recycling is important in Crop Science’s active ingredient and intermediate
product manufacture. Solvents, catalysts and intermediates are repeatedly processed and returned to the production process. Since these are recycling steps that are closely linked with
the process, there is no global regulation. Material-based recycling is regulated separately at
each production site. In the global process development of active ingredients and intermediates, material recycling is considered an important development criterion. In accordance with
Crop Science’s global Environment Policy, all Crop Science sites are obliged to prevent, recycle
and reduce waste and dispose of it safely and in line with good environmental practices.
Crop Science does not take back crop protection products it has sold, except in the case of
production defects. Packaging materials are disposed of or recycled in line with national legislation. In many countries with no legal regulation, the industry has set up a returns system in collaboration with other providers.
Returns of obsolete stocks of crop protection products are limited to justifiable individual cases. However, the crop protection product industry has set up voluntary initiatives in various
countries for the proper disposal of obsolete stocks. As part of its activities in the CropLife association, Crop Science is working with the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO) and the World Bank to support the proper collection and disposal of obsolete stocks in
Africa.
Covestro

Covestro supports the reuse and processing of its materials. For example, some waste with a
high calorific value generated by production processes can undergo thermal recycling to produce steam for the company’s own production facilities.
In parallel to this, Covestro is endeavoring to reduce the amount of waste resulting from product usage. Examples include its involvement in associations such as PlasticsEurope. Covestro
continues to support, for example, the “Zero Pellet Loss” initiative, with the goal of preventing
the loss of plastic pellets on the way from production to the finished article delivered to the customer.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

129

2.1 Overview of Business Performance

Augmented Version

2. Report on Economic Position
2.1 Overview of Business Performance
2.1.1 Target Attainment 2016
A 2.1.1/1

Forecast 2016 1

Adjusted forecast 2016 2

Target attainment

Low-single-digit
percentage increase 3

Unchanged

3.5% increase 3

More than €47 billion

€46 – 47 billion

€46.8 billion

EBITDA before
special items

Mid-single-digit
percentage increase

High-single-digit
percentage increase

10.2% increase

Core earnings
per share

Mid-single-digit
percentage increase

High-single-digit
percentage increase

7.3% increase

Group sales

1 Issued

in February 2016

2 Issued

in October 2016

3 Currency-

Group targets 2016:
growth and profitability;
see also A 1.2.1

and portfolio-adjusted

2.1.2 Economic Position of the Bayer Group
The Bayer Group had a very successful year in 2016 – both strategically and operationally. We
achieved a new record in terms of operating performance. Sales improved by 3.5% on a currency- and portfolio-adjusted basis and EBITDA before special items increased by a substantial
10.2%. Pharmaceuticals again showed a convincing performance, with pleasing sales and earnings growth. This was chiefly attributable to the continued strong development of our key growth
products Xarelto™, Eylea™, Xofigo™, Stivarga™ and Adempas™. Consumer Health increased
sales but earnings declined. Despite a persistently difficult market environment, sales and
EBITDA before special items of Crop Science were constant. Animal Health posted sales gains
but earnings were at the prior-year level. Overall, sales and earnings of our Life Science businesses continued to develop positively. Covestro saw strong earnings growth due to lower raw
material costs, while sales were level year on year. Core earnings per share of the Bayer Group
increased by 7.3%. We thus met our full-year forecasts for these key data, some of which were
raised in October 2016.

2.1.3 Key Events
On September 14, 2016, Bayer signed a definitive merger agreement with Monsanto Company,
headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, United States, for US$128 per share. This represents a
transaction value of around US$66 billion. At a special meeting on December 13, 2016, Monsanto’s stockholders approved the company’s merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of Bayer AG.
The agreed acquisition reinforces our leadership position as a Life Science company and is a
major strategic step forward for our Crop Science business. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of required approvals from the relevant antitrust and other
authorities. We expect closing of the transaction by the end of 2017.

Record operating
performance

130
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.1 Overview of Business Performance

2.1.4 Economic Environment
Global economy remains weak
See also A 2.2.2

The global economy grew somewhat more slowly in 2016 than in the previous year. The pace of
growth in the United States was much slower, especially as a result of restrained investment
activity. The economy in Europe also clouded somewhat, despite low interest rates. This was due
particularly to the uncertainty surrounding the schedule and shape of the United Kingdom’s exit
from the European Union. The Emerging Markets once again registered solid growth that was
down only slightly against the previous year.
A 2.1.4/1

Economic Environment
Growth 1
2015

Growth 1
2016

World

+ 2.8%

+ 2.5%

European Union

+ 2.2%

+ 1.9%

+ 1.5%

+ 1.8%

United States

+ 2.6%

+ 1.6%

Emerging Markets ²

+ 4.0%

+ 3.8%

of which Germany

2015 figures restated
1
Real GDP growth, source: IHS Global Insight
2
Including about 50 countries defined by Global Insight as Emerging Markets in line with the World Bank
As of February 2017

Currency development

Sales and EBITDA before special items of the Bayer Group in 2016 were impacted by negative
currency effects of approximately €900 million (–1.9%) and about €15 million (–0.1%), respectively.
Sales and EBITDA before special items of our Life Science businesses included negative currency
effects of around €750 million (–2.1%) and about €10 million (+0.1%), respectively.
A 2.1.4/2

Currency Development Life Sciences
Delta Fx
effect on
sales

Delta Fx
Of which
effect on
delta Fx
clean effect from
EBITDA
hedging

2015

2016

CAD

1.42

1.47

(75)

(15)

37

CNY

6.97

7.36

(133)

26

80

(123)

10

54

228

43

(36)

€ million

GBP

0.73

0.82

JPY

134.28

120.06

RUB

67.23

73.79

USD

1.11

1.11

All currencies

(73)

(85)

(31)

9

162

171

(755)

8

329

Source: Bloomberg, annual average closing rates

While hedging transactions had a negative effect on earnings of €308 million in 2015, they made a
positive contribution of €21 million in 2016. This represents a year-on-year increase of €329 million
in the effect of hedging transactions on earnings. Sales, on the other hand, were impacted by conversion to currencies which appeared weaker. The margin for our Life Science businesses gained
0.6 percentage points from these opposing effects.

A Combined Management Report

131

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position
of the Bayer Group
2.2.1 Earnings Performance of the Bayer Group
See also A 2.4
A 2.2.1/1

Bayer Group Summary Income Statements
€ million

Net sales

Q4 2015
11,285

Q4 2016 Change %
11,820

2015

+ 4.7

2016 Change %

46,085

46,769

+ 1.5

Cost of goods sold

(5,397)

(5,395)

0.0

(21,040)

(20,295)

– 3.5

Selling expenses

(3,320)

(3,537)

+ 6.5

(12,272)

(12,474)

+ 1.6

Research and development
expenses

(1,256)

(1,313)

+ 4.5

(4,274)

(4,666)

+ 9.2

(566)

(685)

+ 21.0

(2,092)

(2,256)

+ 7.8

Other operating income (+)
and expenses (–)

175

(101)

EBIT 1

921

789

– 14.3

6,241

7,042

General administration expenses

Financial result

(166)

(36)

– 78.3
+ 12.8

(164)

(252)

+ 53.7

(1,005)

(1,155)

+ 14.9

Income before income taxes

757

537

– 29.1

5,236

5,887

+ 12.4

Income taxes

(166)

(119)

– 28.3

(1,223)

(1,329)

+ 8.7

Income after income taxes (total)

583

507

– 13.0

4,098

4,826

+ 17.8

(30)

54

613

453

of which attributable to
non-controlling interest
of which attributable to Bayer AG
stockholders (net income)

(12)
– 26.1

4,110

295
4,531

+10.2

2015 figures restated
1
For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

Group sales up 3.5% (Fx & portfolio adj.)
Sales of the Bayer Group rose by 3.5% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €46,769 million (reported: +1.5%) in
2016, including €4,809 million in Germany. Our Life Science businesses contributed to this performance, growing sales by 4.7% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €34,943 million.
Sales of Pharmaceuticals advanced by an encouraging 8.7% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €16,420 million. This development continued to be driven primarily by our key growth products. Consumer
Health also raised sales by 3.5% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €6,037 million. Despite a weak market
environment, Crop Science posted sales of €9,915 million to match the prior-year level (Fx & portfolio adj.: +0.1%). Sales of Animal Health rose by 4.8% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €1,523 million.
Covestro sales were level year on year at €11,826 million (Fx & portfolio adj.: 0.0%).
A 2.2.1/2

Changes in Sales
Life Sciences

Group

%

2015

2016

2015

Volume

+ 5.1

+ 3.9

+ 4.4

+ 4.2

Price

+ 0.6

+ 0.8

– 1.7

– 0.7

Currency

+ 5.0

– 2.2

+ 5.8

– 2.0

Portfolio

+ 5.0

0.0

+ 3.6

0.0

+ 15.7

+ 2.5

+ 12.1

+ 1.5

Total
2015 figures restated

2016

132

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

The cost of goods sold fell by 3.5% to €20,295 million in 2016, mainly due to lower raw material
costs at Covestro. The ratio of the cost of goods sold to total sales therefore declined year on
year to 43.4% (2015: 45.7%). The selling expenses of €12,474 million (+ 1.6%) amounted to
26.7% of sales (2015: 26.6%). Research and development (R&D) expenses rose by 9.2% to
€4,666 million, mainly due to higher R&D investment at Pharmaceuticals. The ratio of R&D expenses to sales was 10.0% (2015: 9.3%). General administration expenses climbed by 7.8% to
€2,256 million, due especially to the establishment of administrative functions at Covestro. The
ratio of general administration expenses to total sales therefore increased to 4.8% (2015: 4.5%).
The substantially lower balance of other operating expenses and other operating income of minus
€36 million (2015: minus €166 million) resulted mainly from positive effects from derivatives to
hedge planned sales.

EBITDA before special items considerably improved
+

%

growth in EBITDA
before special items

EBITDA before special items of the Bayer Group moved forward by 10.2% to €11,302 million
(2015: €10,256 million). Pharmaceuticals improved EBITDA before special items by 13.8% to
€5,251 million (2015: €4,616 million). This substantial increase in earnings was largely due to the
good development of business, particularly for our key growth products. Consumer Health saw a
decline in EBITDA before special items by 3.1% to €1,411 million. Favorable business development and cost synergies only partly offset the higher cost of goods sold and negative currency
effects of about €65 million. EBITDA before special items of Crop Science came in at the prioryear level, up 0.6% to €2,421 million. A positive currency effect of about €140 million and higher
selling prices stood against lower volumes, higher research and development expenses and higher
impairment losses on trade accounts receivable in particular. EBITDA before special items of Animal Health was also level with the previous year with a change of 0.6%, while Covestro registered
a substantial 19.6% increase in EBITDA before special items to €1,984 million.

Depreciation, amortization and special items
See also A 2.4

Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses were 12.3% higher in 2016 at €3,743 million
(2015: €3,332 million), comprising €2,235 million (2015: €1,802 million) in amortization and impairments on intangible assets and €1,508 million (2015: €1,530 million) in depreciation and impairments on property, plant and equipment. A total of €566 million (2015: €136 million) in impairments constituted special items. EBITDA for the reporting year amounted to €10,785 million. In
2016, the following special effects were taken into account in calculating EBIT and EBITDA before
special items:
A 2.2.1/3

Special Items Reconciliation

1

€ million

Before special items

EBIT
Q4 2015
1,037

EBIT
Q4 2016
1,376

EBIT
2015
7,060

EBIT
2016
8,130

EBITDA
Q4 2015
1,916

EBITDA
Q4 2016
2,179

EBITDA
2015

EBITDA
2016

10,256

11,302

Pharmaceuticals

(190)

(310)

(299)

(558)

(136)

(152)

(241)

(167)

Consumer Health

(55)

(199)

(237)

(292)

(52)

(38)

(234)

(115)

Crop Science

301

(39)

222

(143)

295

(37)

222

(141)

Animal Health

(19)

(5)

(64)

(7)

(8)

(4)

(30)

(6)

Reconciliation

(9)

(34)

(109)

(88)

(9)

(34)

(109)

(88)

Restructuring

(9)

(34)

(76)

(83)

(9)

(34)

(76)

(83)

Litigations

–

–

(32)

(5)

–

–

(32)

(5)

Revaluation of other receivables

–

–

(1)

–

–

–

(1)

–

A Combined Management Report

133

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A 2.2.1/3 (continued)

Special Items Reconciliation

1

€ million

EBIT
Q4 2015

Total special items Life Sciences

EBIT
Q4 2016

EBIT
2015

EBIT
2016

(587)

(487)

(1,088)

28

Covestro

(144)

Total special items

–

(332)

–

EBITDA
Q4 2015
90

EBITDA
Q4 2016

EBITDA
2015

EBITDA
2016

(265)

(392)

(517)

(128)

–

(291)

–

(116)

(587)

(819)

(1,088)

(38)

(265)

(683)

(517)

of which cost of goods sold

(169)

(193)

(440)

(412)

(144)

(53)

(363)

(93)

of which selling expenses

(118)

(221)

(198)

(317)

(107)

(39)

(183)

(99)

of which research and
development expenses

(51)

(18)

(67)

(84)

(9)

(17)

(23)

(50)

of which general administration
expenses

(43)

(69)

(203)

(185)

(43)

(69)

(203)

(185)

of which other operating income /
expenses
After special items

265
921

(86)
789

89
6,241

(90)
7,042

265
1,878

(87)
1,914

89

(90)

9,573

10,785

2015 figures restated
1
For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

EBIT
EBIT increased by 12.8% in 2016 to €7,042 million, including special charges of €1,088 million
(2015: €819 million). These mainly comprised €561 million for impairment losses on intangible
assets, charges of €242 million in connection with efficiency improvement programs and
€100 million in costs for the integration of acquired businesses. Further special charges of
€94 million were related to provisions for litigations, while €86 million were connected with the
agreed acquisition of Monsanto. EBIT before special items rose by 15.2% to €8,130 million (2015:
€7,060 million).

See also A 2.4

+
growth in EBIT

Net income increased by 10.2%
Including a financial result of minus €1,155 million (2015: minus €1,005 million), income before
income taxes was €5,887 million (2015: €5,236 million). The financial result comprised items including net interest expense of €548 million (2015: €455 million), interest cost of €294 million
(2015: €287 million) for pension and other provisions, and currency hedging costs of €193 million
(2015: €254 million). After tax expense of €1,329 million (2015: €1,223 million), income after income taxes was €4,826 million (2015: €4,098 million). Including income after income taxes from
discontinued operations and income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net income for 2016
amounted to €4,531 million (2015: €4,110 million; + 10.2%).

Core earnings per share increased by 7.3%
Earnings per share (total) rose by 9.5% to €5.44, while core earnings per share from continuing
operations increased by 7.3% to €7.32. In November 2016, Bayer placed €4 billion in mandatory
convertible notes without granting subscription rights to existing stockholders of the company.
According to IAS 33.23, the weighted average number of shares increases as soon as the notes
contract is signed, and this increase must be taken into account in calculating undiluted and diluted earnings per share. The new weighted average number of shares is based on the minimum
conversion price of €90, which determines the maximum conversion ratio.

See also A 2.2.4

%

134
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

A 2.2.1/4

Core Earnings per Share

1

Q4 2015

€ million

Q4 2016

2015

2016

EBIT (as per income statements)

921

789

6,241

7,042

Amortization and impairment losses / loss reversals on intangible assets

2,235

529

724

1,802

Impairment losses / loss reversals on property, plant and equipment

55

14

115

35

Special items (other than amortization and impairment losses / loss reversals)

38

265

683

517

1,543

1,792

Core EBIT

8,841

9,829
(1,155)

(164)

Special items in the financial result

(120)

(61)

(150)

(105)

Income taxes (as per income statements)

(166)

(119)

(1,223)

(1,329)

Special items in income taxes

(39)

Tax effects related to amortization, impairment losses / loss reversals
and special items

(252)

(1,005)

Financial result (as per income statements)

–

(39)

–

(149)

(294)

Income after income taxes attributable to noncontrolling interest
(as per income statements)

30

Above-mentioned adjustments attributable to noncontrolling interest

(39)
896

1,009

5,642

6,094

826,947,808

849,167,808

826,947,808

832,502,808

1.08

1.19

6.82

7.32

–

0.10

0.13

0.41

1.08

1.29

6.95

7.73

Core net income from continuing operations

(755)

(838)

(54)

12

(295)

(3)

(39)

(13)

Shares
Weighted average number of shares
€
Core earnings per share from continuing operations
Core earnings per share from discontinued operations
Core earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations
2015 figures restated
1
For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

Online Annex: A 2.2.1-1
Group targets 2016:
growth and profitability;
see also A 1.2.1

Development in the fourth quarter of 2016
Group sales in the fourth quarter of 2016 rose by 4.8% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €11,820 million

(reported: + 4.7%). Germany accounted for €1,103 million of this figure.
Sales of Pharmaceuticals improved by 7.1% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €4,275 million (reported:
+ 7.3%), due especially to the strong business development of our key growth products. Consumer Health increased sales by 4.4% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €1,539 million (reported: + 2.2%).
Sales of Crop Science were down slightly year on year, falling by 1.6% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to
€2,404 million (reported: + 0.0%). Animal Health posted a 3.1% gain in sales to €329 million.
Sales of the Life Science businesses amounted to €8,823 million overall (Fx & portfolio adj.:
+ 3.6%). Business at Covestro expanded by 8.6% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €2,997 million (reported: + 8.0%).
EBITDA before special items of the Bayer Group improved by 13.7% to €2,179 million in the

fourth quarter of 2016 (Q4 2015: €1,916 million). At Pharmaceuticals, EBITDA before special
items climbed by 12.2% to €1,217 million (Q4 2015: €1,085 million). This increase in earnings
was due to the very good development of business, particularly for our key growth products.
EBITDA before special items of Consumer Health receded by 3.4% to €372 million. At Crop
Science, EBITDA before special items edged ahead by 1.2% to €351 million (Q4 2015:
€347 million). EBITDA before special items of Covestro moved forward by a substantial 45.1%
to €373 million (Q4 2015: €257 million).

A Combined Management Report

135

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

EBIT of the Bayer Group declined by 14.3% to €789 million in the fourth quarter of 2016

(Q4 2015: €921 million) after special charges of €587 million (Q4 2015: €116 million). These
mainly comprised €330 million for impairment losses on intangible assets as well as charges of
€104 million in connection with efficiency improvement programs and charges of €85 million related to litigations. Also included were costs of €34 million in connection with the agreed acquisition of Monsanto and €30 million for the integration of acquired businesses. EBIT before special items advanced by 32.7% to €1,376 million (Q4 2015: €1,037 million).
A 2.2.1-1/1

Bayer Group Quarterly Sales, EBIT and EBITDA before Special Items
Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Total

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

Sales

11,793

11,854

12,003

11,833

11,004

11,262

11,285

11,820

46,085

46,769

EBIT

1,925

2,320

1,823

2,138

1,572

1,795

921

789

6,241

7,042

EBITDA before special items

2,922

3,387

2,888

3,054

2,530

2,682

1,916

2,179

10,256

11,302

€ millions

After a financial result of minus €252 million (Q4 2015: minus €164 million), income before income taxes was €537 million (Q4 2015: €757 million). The financial result mainly comprised net
interest expense of €147 million (Q4 2015: €46 million), interest cost of €85 million (Q4 2015:
€67 million) for pension and other provisions, and currency hedging gains of €39 million
(Q4 2015: currency hedging losses of €67 million). Net interest expense in the prior year included interest income of €109 million in connection with a litigation (DOW). After income tax expense of €119 million, income from discontinued operations after taxes and noncontrolling interest, net income in the fourth quarter of 2016 came to €453 million (Q4 2015: €613 million).
Earnings per share decreased to €0.53 (Q4 2015: €0.74). Core earnings per share from continuing operations rose to €1.19 (Q4 2015: €1.08).
Cash inflows from operating activities (total) climbed by a substantial 45.6% to €2,732 million
(Q4 2015: €1,877 million) and resulted mainly from the significant increase in EBIT and a tangible decrease in additional cash tied up in working capital. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we paid
income taxes amounting to €119 million (Q4 2015: €166 million). Net financial debt fell by
€4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016 to €11.8 billion (September 30, 2016: €15.8 billion),
largely as a result of cash inflows from operating activities and the issuance of mandatory convertible notes. The net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefits decreased by
€3.4 billion against September 30, 2016, to €11.1 billion, due primarily to a rise in long-term
capital market interest rates for high-quality corporate bonds.

136

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

2.2.2 Business Development by Segment
Pharmaceuticals
Market growth below the prior-year level

In 2016, growth in the pharmaceuticals market slowed to 6% (2015: 10%). Growth in demand
weakened particularly in the United States, but also in Europe and Japan. The pace of growth
held steady in Asian and Latin American markets.
A 2.2.2/1

Key Data – Pharmaceuticals
Change %
Q4 2015

€ million

Sales

Q4 2016

Reported Fx & p adj.
+ 7.3

+ 7.1

Change %
2015
15,308

2016

3,986

4,275

16,420

Volume

+ 9.2%

+ 7.2%

+ 9.1%

+ 9.0%

Price

– 0.6%

– 0.1%

0.0%

– 0.3%

Currency

+ 0.2%

+ 0.2%

+ 4.6%

– 1.4%

0.0%

0.0%

– 0.4%

0.0%

Reported Fx & p adj.
+ 7.3

+ 8.7

Reported

Fx adj.
+ 9.7

Change in sales

Portfolio

Reported

Fx adj.

Sales by region
Europe / Middle East / Africa
North America
Asia / Pacific
Latin America
EBITDA 1
Special items

1,618

1,684

+ 4.1

+ 6.0

5,981

6,417

+ 7.3

972

1,107

+ 13.9

+ 12.6

3,937

4,194

+ 6.5

+ 6.7

1,121

1,203

+ 7.3

+ 3.6

4,319

4,775

+ 10.6

+ 8.6

+ 8.0

+ 11.0

275

281

+ 2.2

1,071

1,034

– 3.5

949

1,065

+ 12.2

4,375

5,084

+ 16.2

+ 12.2

4,616

5,251

30.2%

32.0%

3,028

3,389

(136)

EBITDA before special items 1
EBITDA margin before special items 1

(152)

1,085

1,217

27.2%

28.5%

(241)

+ 6.5

(167)
+ 13.8

EBIT

569

606

Special items

(190)

(310)

EBIT before special items 1

759

916

+ 20.7

3,327

3,947

+ 18.6

Net cash provided
by operating activities

911

1,326

+ 45.6

3,157

3,368

+6.7

(299)

+ 11.9

(558)

2015 figures restated; Fx & p adj. = currency- and portfolio-adjusted; Fx adj. = currency-adjusted
1
For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

+

%

growth in sales at
Pharmaceuticals
(Fx & portfolio adj.)

Significant increase in sales

Sales of Pharmaceuticals rose by an encouraging 8.7% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €16,420 million in
2016, driven mainly by our key growth products. Xarelto™, Eylea™, Stivarga™, Xofigo™ and
Adempas™ posted total combined sales of €5,413 million (2015: €4,231 million). The Pharmaceuticals business expanded noticeably in all regions.

A Combined Management Report

137

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A 2.2.2/2

Best-Selling Pharmaceuticals Products
Change %
€ million

Xarelto™
of which U.S.A.
Eylea™
of which U.S.A. 1
Kogenate™ / Kovaltry™
of which U.S.A.
Mirena™ product family
of which U.S.A.
Nexavar™
of which U.S.A.
Betaferon™ / Betaseron™
of which U.S.A.
YAZ™ / Yasmin™ / Yasminelle™
of which U.S.A.
Adalat™
of which U.S.A.
Aspirin™ Cardio
of which U.S.A.
Glucobay™
of which U.S.A.
Avalox™ / Avelox™
of which U.S.A.
Gadavist™ / Gadovist™
of which U.S.A.
Xofigo™
of which U.S.A.
Ultravist™
of which U.S.A.
Stivarga™
of which U.S.A.
Total best-selling products
Proportion of Pharmaceuticals sales
Total best-selling products in U.S.A.

Q4 2015

Change %

Q4 2016

Reported

Fx adj.

2015

2016

Reported

Fx adj.

650

836

+ 28.6

+ 27.9

2,252

2,928

+ 30.0

+ 30.8

122

161

+ 32.0

+ 32.6

393

489

+ 24.4

+ 24.5

354

426

+ 20.3

+ 20.9

1,228

1,625

+ 32.3

+ 33.0

0

0

.

.

0

0

.

.

286

288

+ 0.7

+ 0.4

1,155

1,166

+ 1.0

+ 1.1

92

106

+ 15.2

+ 13.7

370

394

+ 6.5

+ 6.0

226

268

+ 18.6

+ 17.2

968

1,043

+ 7.7

+ 8.8

141

178

+ 26.2

+ 23.4

639

701

+ 9.7

+ 9.3

231

224

– 3.0

– 3.7

892

870

– 2.5

– 1.6

84

80

– 4.8

– 6.6

324

312

– 3.7

– 4.0

190

185

– 2.6

– 2.9

824

734

– 10.9

– 9.9

84

94

+ 11.9

+ 10.2

394

386

– 2.0

– 2.1

168

159

– 5.4

– 4.5

706

678

– 4.0

+ 0.1

25

21

– 16.0

– 14.7

134

128

– 4.5

– 4.4

152

147

– 3.3

0.0

633

624

– 1.4

+ 2.7

1

0

.

.

4

1

.

.

131

135

+ 3.1

+ 5.8

524

538

+ 2.7

+ 7.4

0

0

.

.

0

0

.

.

142

123

– 13.4

– 9.8

523

515

– 1.5

+ 3.3

1

1

.

.

2

3

.

.

85

81

– 4.7

– 0.2

379

353

– 6.9

– 2.0

(2)

1

.

.

2

5

.

.

79

88

+ 11.4

+ 11.0

290

346

+ 19.3

+ 19.7

21

24

+ 14.3

+ 14.5

86

104

+ 20.9

+ 20.5

69

90

+ 30.4

+ 29.7

257

331

+ 28.8

+ 29.3

47

59

+ 25.5

+ 25.7

182

225

+ 23.6

+ 23.6

83

80

– 3.6

– 1.9

318

316

– 0.6

+ 3.5

2

2

.

– 2.5

6

6

.

+ 1.2

77

77

.

– 2.2

313

275

– 12.1

– 11.7

43

42

– 2.3

– 6.9

181

142

– 21.5

– 22.0

2,923

3,207

+ 9.7

+ 10.0

11,262

12,342

+9.6

+11.3

73%

75%

74%

75%

661

769

2,717

2,896

Fx adj. = currency-adjusted
1
Marketing rights owned by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., U.S.A.

Sales by product
> Sales of Xarelto™ increased substantially in 2016, due particularly to expanded volumes in

>
>
>

>

Europe and Japan. We also posted significant gains for our license revenues – recognized as
sales – in the United States, where Xarelto™ is marketed by a subsidiary of Johnson &
Johnson.
We once again recorded strong growth with our eye medicine Eylea™, due especially to the
successful development of business in Europe, Canada and Japan.
Sales of the blood-clotting medicines Kogenate™ / Kovaltry™ increased slightly, mainly because
of the successful introduction of Kovaltry™ in the United States.
The considerable increase in sales of the hormone-releasing intrauterine devices of our
Mirena™ product family (Mirena™, Jaydess™ / Skyla™ and Kyleena™) resulted particularly
from the positive development in prices in the United States and from the introduction of the
new low-dose product Kyleena™.
We registered a slight decline in sales of our cancer drug Nexavar™ that was chiefly
attributable to higher competitive pressure in the United States.

+

%

growth in sales of
our key growth products
(Fx adj.)

138

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

> The decline in sales of our multiple sclerosis treatment Betaferon™ / Betaseron™ resulted

mainly from weaker business performance in Europe and the United States.
> Currency-adjusted sales of our YAZ™ / Yasmin™ / Yasminelle™ line of oral contraceptives were

>
>
>
>
>

>
>
>
>

level with the previous year. Higher demand in China and Russia stood against weaker business
development in Europe, Brazil and the United States.
Sales of Adalat™, our product to treat hypertension and coronary heart disease, rose slightly
compared with the previous year; this was due especially to expanded volumes in China.
The increase in sales of Aspirin™ Cardio for the secondary prevention of heart attacks was
owed mostly to an improved business situation in China and Latin America.
Business with our diabetes treatment Glucobay™ expanded; here we benefited from continuing
high demand in China.
Sales of our antibiotic Avalox™ / Avelox™ fell slightly. The weak development of business in
Canada and Europe was only partly offset by higher demand in China.
We once again posted strong growth in sales of our MRI contrast agent Gadavist™ / Gadovist™
that was attributable particularly to the significant expansion of volumes in Japan and the
United States.
Sales of our cancer drug Xofigo™ advanced substantially, due particularly to the positive
development of business in the United States and Europe.
Our X-ray contrast agent Ultravist™ posted an increase in sales that resulted mainly from
higher volumes in Latin America and Europe.
Sales of our cancer drug Stivarga™ were well below the prior-year level, due especially to
stronger competition in the United States.
Sales of Adempas™ to treat hypertension came in at €254 million (2015: €181 million; Fx adj.
+39.3%) and included the proportionate recognition of the one-time payment resulting from the
sGC collaboration with Merck & Co., United States, as was previously the case. Business
developed especially positively in the United States.

Earnings

In 2016, we raised EBITDA before special items by 13.8% to €5,251 million. The substantial
growth in earnings was largely attributable to our very good business development. Significantly
higher investments in research and development and negative currency effects of around €65
million had an opposing effect.
EBIT of Pharmaceuticals increased by 11.9% to €3,389 million, including special charges of
€558 million (2015: €299 million). These resulted particularly from charges of €401 million associated with Essure™, mainly for impairment losses on intangible assets. Further charges were associated with accounting measures of €88 million in connection with litigations and charges of
€69 million for efficiency enhancement programs.
A 2.2.2/3
1

Special Items Pharmaceuticals
€ million

Restructuring

EBIT
Q4 2015

EBIT
Q4 2016

EBIT
2015

EBIT
2016

EBITDA
Q4 2015

EBITDA
Q4 2016

EBITDA
2015

EBITDA
2016

(132)

(51)

(174)

(69)

(120)

(51)

(158)

(67)

Litigations

(2)

(89)

(16)

(88)

(2)

(89)

(16)

(88)

Integration costs

–

Impairment losses /
impairment loss reversals
Divestments

(43)
–

Revaluation of
other receivables

(13)

Total special items

(190)

1

–
(170)
–
–
(310)

(2)
(43)
3
(67)
(299)

For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

–
(401)
–
–
(558)

–
(1)
–
(13)
(136)

–
(12)
–
–
(152)

(2)
(1)
3
(67)
(241)

–
(12)
–
–
(167)

A Combined Management Report

139

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Online Annex: A 2.2.2-1

The development of Pharmaceuticals in 2016 is shown in the following graphics (A 2.2.2-1/1, A
2.2.2-1/2 and A 2.2.2-1/3).
A 2.2.2-1/1

Pharmaceuticals Quarterly Sales
€ million

Q1

2015
2016

3,562
3,889

Q2

2015
2016

3,890
4,104

Q3

2015
2016

3,870
4,152

Q4

2015
2016

3,986
4,275
0

500

1,000

1,500

2,000

2,500

3,000

3,500

4,000

4,500

5,000

2015 figures restated

A 2.2.2-1/2

Pharmaceuticals
Quarterly EBIT

A 2.2.2-1/3

Pharmaceuticals
Quarterly EBITDA before Special Items
€ million

€ million

Q1

2015
2016

747
698

Q1

2015
2016

1,085
1,261

Q2

2015
2016

772
988

Q2

2015
2016

1,193
1,352

Q3

2015
2016

940
1,097

Q3

2015
2016

1,253
1,421

Q4

2015
2016

569
606

Q4

2015
2016

1,085
1,217

0

200

2015 figures restated

400

600

800

1,000

1,200

0

200

400

600

800

1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600

140

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Consumer Health
Market growth weaker than in the prior year

In 2016, global development of the Consumer Health market was below the prior-year level at 4%
(2015: 5%). Reasons for this included particularly the low rate of transitioning prescription medicines to over-the-counter status (Rx-to-OTC switch), a weaker cold season and reduced demand
in the Emerging Markets.
A 2.2.2/4

Key Data – Consumer Health
Change %
Q4 2015

€ million

Sales

Q4 2016

1,506

1,539

Volume

+ 6.8%

Price

+ 3.0%

Currency
Portfolio

Reported Fx & p adj.
+ 2.2

+ 4.4

Change %
2015

2016

6,076

6,037

+ 1.5%

+ 3.0%

+ 0.6%

+ 2.9%

+ 3.1%

+ 2.9%

– 1.2%

– 2.2%

+ 2.7%

– 4.1%

+ 0.2%

0.0%

+ 34.3%

0.0%

Reported Fx & p adj.
– 0.6

+ 3.5

+ 1.5

Changes in sales

Sales by region
Europe / Middle East / Africa

490

499

+ 1.8

+ 2.7

1,955

1,918

– 1.9

North America

630

649

+ 3.0

+ 1.6

2,635

2,627

– 0.3

– 0.1

Asia / Pacific

188

194

+ 3.2

+ 3.2

738

781

+ 5.8

+ 8.1

198

197

– 0.5

+ 18.7

748

711

– 4.9

+ 17.1

333

334

+ 0.3

1,222

1,296

+ 6.1

– 3.4

1,456

1,411

24.0%

23.4%

Latin America
EBITDA 1
Special items

(52)

EBITDA before special items 1
EBITDA margin before special items 1
EBIT

372

25.6%

24.2%

194

Special items

(38)

385

(55)

68

(234)

– 64.9

(199)

(115)

768

695

(237)

(292)

– 3.1
– 9.5

EBIT before special items 1

249

267

+ 7.2

1,005

987

– 1.8

Net cash provided
by operating activities

140

221

+ 57.9

816

874

+7.1

2015 figures restated; Fx & p adj. = currency- and portfolio-adjusted; Fx adj. = currency-adjusted
1
For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

+

Sales up year on year

%

growth in sales at
Consumer Health
(Fx & portfolio adj.)

Sales of Consumer Health rose by 3.5% (Fx & portfolio adj.) in 2016 to €6,037 million. We
achieved significant gains in Latin America and Asia / Pacific on a currency-adjusted basis, and
Europe / Middle East / Africa contributed to sales growth with a slight increase. Sales in North
America came in at the prior-year level.

A Combined Management Report

141

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A 2.2.2/5

Best-Selling Consumer Health Products
Change %

Change %

Q4 2015

Q4 2016

Reported

Fx adj.

2015

2016

Reported

Fx adj.

134

122

– 9.0

– 12.6

627

605

– 3.5

– 2.6

Aspirin™

128

126

– 1.6

+ 0.5

473

463

– 2.1

+ 2.4

Aleve™

105

115

+ 9.5

+ 8.6

413

416

+ 0.7

+ 2.1

Bepanthen™ / Bepanthol™

85

90

+ 5.9

+ 6.2

355

362

+ 2.0

+ 9.2

Canesten™

66

64

– 3.0

+ 10.0

267

269

+ 0.7

+ 13.4

Alka-Seltzer™ product family

81

87

+ 7.4

+ 7.7

251

253

+ 0.8

+ 2.2

Dr. Scholl’s™ 1

62

55

– 11.3

– 11.7

253

235

– 7.1

– 6.9

One A Day™

65

67

+ 3.1

+ 1.7

211

222

+ 5.2

+ 5.3

8

17

+ 112.5

+ 96.0

217

219

+ 0.9

+ 1.4

43

48

+ 11.6

+ 10.4

162

182

+ 12.3

+ 17.2

777

791

+ 1.8

+ 2.2

3,229

3,226

– 0.1

+ 3.2

52%

51%

53%

53%

€ million

Claritin™ 1

Coppertone™ 1
Elevit™
Total
Proportion of Consumer Health sales

Fx adj. = currency-adjusted
1
Trademark rights and distribution only in certain countries outside the European Union

Sales by product
> Business with our antihistamine Claritin™ receded overall. Sales in Asia / Pacific were down

>

>

>
>

>

>
>

>
>

against the strong prior year due to intensified competition and to price controls for prescription
medicines in Japan. The gratifying increase in the United States due to a product line extension
with ClariSpray™ only partly offset this effect.
Sales of our analgesic Aspirin™ increased moderately. The gains in the United States and Latin
America more than offset declines in Europe that resulted from a weak cold season. Including
business with Aspirin™ Cardio, which is reported under Pharmaceuticals, sales climbed by
5.0% (Fx adj.) to €1,001 million (2015: €997 million).
We registered a slight increase in sales of our analgesic Aleve™ that resulted from very
favorable development in the United States, where we benefited from the addition of Aleve
Tens™ to our product portfolio.
Sales of our Bepanthen™ / Bepanthol™ wound healing and skin care products advanced
strongly, especially in Europe and particularly in France, Germany and Russia.
We achieved significant growth with our skin and intimate health brand Canesten™ thanks to
expanded volumes in all regions. Business developed especially well in Germany, due primarily
to Canesten Gyn™.
The Alka-Seltzer™ family of products to treat gastrointestinal complaints and cold symptoms
registered slight growth that was mainly attributable to a product line extension in the United
States.
Sales of our Dr. Scholl’s™ foot care products declined due to higher competitive pressure and
a weak market environment in the United States.
We recorded pleasing sales development in the United States with our One A Day™ vitamin
product, largely as the result of product line extensions and the expansion of our distribution
channels.
Sales of our sunscreen product Coppertone™ were up slightly against the previous year. Higher
demand in Asia / Pacific and Latin America more than offset declines in the United States.
Business with our prenatal vitamin Elevit™ saw particularly strong development. We posted
double-digit-percentage growth rates in Asia / Pacific and Europe / Middle East / Africa.

142

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Earnings

In 2016, EBITDA before special items declined by 3.1% to €1,411 million. Earnings were diminished by a higher cost of goods sold and negative currency effects of approximately €65 million.
These factors were partly compensated by the positive development of sales and cost synergies.
EBIT of Consumer Health decreased by 9.5% to €695 million due to special charges of
€292 million (2015: €237 million). These included €160 million for impairment losses on intangible
assets (Triderm™ and Citracal™), €100 million for the integration of acquired businesses and
€32 million for efficiency enhancement measures.
A 2.2.2/6
1

Special Items Consumer Health
EBIT
Q4 2015

€ million

Restructuring
Integration costs

EBIT
2016

EBITDA
Q4 2015

EBITDA
Q4 2016

EBITDA
2015

EBITDA
2016

(4)

(9)

(5)

(32)

(1)

(8)

(2)

(15)

(30)

(225)

(100)

(50)

(30)

(225)

(100)

–

(160)

(160)

–

Revaluation of
other receivables

(1)

Total Special Items

EBIT
2015

(50)

Impairment losses / impairment
loss reversals

1

EBIT
Q4 2016

(55)

–

–

(7)

(199)

(237)

–

(1)

(292)

(52)

–

–

–

–

(7)

(38)

(234)

–
(115)

For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

Online Annex: A 2.2.2-2

The development of Consumer Health in 2016 is shown in the following graphics (A 2.2.2-2/1,
A 2.2.2-2/2 and A 2.2.2-2/3).
A 2.2.2-2/1

Quarterly Sales Consumer Health
€ million

Q1

2015
2016

1,556
1,520

Q2

2015
2016

1,590
1,553

Q3

2015
2016

1,424
1,425

Q4

2015
2016

1,506
1,539
0

2015 figures restated

200

400

600

800

1,000

1,200

1,400

1,600

1,800

2,000

A Combined Management Report

143

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A 2.2.2-2/2

Consumer Health
Quarterly EBIT

A 2.2.2-2/3

Consumer Health
Quarterly EBITDA before Special Items
€ million

Q1

2015
2016

174
243

Q2

2015
2016

Q3
Q4

€ million

Q1

2015
2016

369
383

191
190

Q2

2015
2016

362
328

2015
2016

209
194

Q3

2015
2016

340
328

2015
2016

194
68

Q4

2015
2016

385
372

0

50

100

150

200

250

0

100

200

300

400

2015 figures restated

Crop Science
Persistently weak market environment

Overall, the global seed and crop protection market contracted slightly by around 1% in 2016
(2015: –2%). Whereas there was a small increase in demand for high-quality seed, sales of crop
protection products decreased worldwide.
Positive growth momentum in 2016 came from the North America and Eastern Europe regions.
Market volumes decreased in Latin America, due especially to macroeconomic developments,
unfavorable weather conditions and high inventories of crop protection products, particularly in
Brazil.
A 2.2.2/7

Key Data – Crop Science
Change %
€ million

Sales

Q4 2015

Q4 2016

Reported Fx & p adj.
0.0

– 1.6

Change %
2015
10,128

2016

2,405

2,404

9,915

Volume

+ 5.8%

– 0.4%

+ 1.3%

– 1.3%

Price

– 0.4%

– 1.2%

+ 0.4%

+ 1.4%

Currency

+ 5.1%

+ 1.6%

+ 6.9%

– 2.3%

Portfolio

+ 0.7%

0.0%

+ 0.7%

+ 0.1%

Reported Fx & p adj.
– 2.1

+ 0.1

Reported

Fx adj.

Change in sales

Reported

Fx adj.

Sales by region
Europe / Middle East / Africa

470

431

– 8.3

– 7.0

3,368

3,290

– 2.3

+ 1.8

North America

438

527

+ 20.3

+ 18.5

2,570

2,616

+ 1.8

+ 3.9

Asia / Pacific

365

384

+ 5.2

+ 2.5

1,530

1,548

+ 1.2

+ 2.7

1,132

1,062

– 6.2

– 8.6

2,660

2,461

– 7.5

– 6.9

642

314

– 51.1

2,628

2,280

– 13.2

+ 1.2

2,406

2,421

23.8%

24.4%

2,094

1,755

Latin America
EBITDA 1
Special items

295

EBITDA before special items 1

347

EBITDA margin before special items 1

14.4%

(37)
351

222

14.6%
153

– 68.8

(141)
+ 0.6

EBIT

491

Special items

301

EBIT before special items 1

190

192

+ 1.1

1,872

1,898

+ 1.4

Net cash provided
by operating activities

175

622

.

749

2,071

+ 176.5

(39)

222

2015 figures restated; Fx & p adj. = currency- and portfolio-adjusted; Fx adj. = currency-adjusted
1
For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

– 16.2

(143)

144

A Combined Management Report

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Sales level year on year

Crop Science posted sales of €9,915 million (Fx & portfolio adj. +0.1%) in 2016. At Crop
Protection / Seeds, we matched the prior-year level despite a persisting weak market environment,
particularly in Latin America. Environmental Science posted gratifying sales growth.
Since the conclusion in May 2016 of an agreement to divest the consumer business of Environmental Science, these activities are reported retrospectively for 2015 and 2016 under discontinued operations. Environmental Science therefore now comprises only the business for professional users. The divestment was closed at the start of October 2016.
A 2.2.2/8

Sales by Business Unit
Change %
Q4 2015

Q4 2016

2,230

2,224

– 0.3

2,009

1,965

– 2.2

Herbicides

650

599

Fungicides

677

679

Insecticides

430

386

SeedGrowth

252

301

221

259

175

180

€ million

Crop Protection / Seeds
Crop Protection

Seeds
Environmental Science 1

Reported Fx & p adj.

Change %
2015

2016

Reported Fx & p adj.

– 1.8

9,548

9,317

– 2.4

– 0.2

– 3.1

8,271

7,961

– 3.7

– 1.5

– 7.8

– 8.5

2,830

2,693

– 4.8

– 2.2

+ 0.3

– 0.9

2,911

2,961

+ 1.7

+ 4.0

– 10.2

– 11.4

1,596

1,357

– 15.0

– 13.3

+ 19.4

+ 18.7

934

950

+ 1.7

+ 4.1

+ 17.2

+ 10.4

1,277

1,356

+ 6.2

+ 8.3

+ 2.9

+ 1.1

580

598

+ 3.1

+ 4.5

2015 figures restated; Fx & p adj. = currency- and portfolio-adjusted
1
Environmental Science now comprises only the business for professional users. The key data and prior-year figures are restated accordingly.

Sales by region
> Sales in the Europe / Middle East / Africa region improved by 1.8% (Fx adj.) to €3,290 million.

SeedGrowth registered gains, due particularly to higher demand for products to treat cereal
seed. We also slightly expanded business at Herbicides, while sales at Insecticides and
Fungicides came in at the prior-year level. Sales of vegetable seed developed positively, as did
sales at Environmental Science.
> In the North America region, we posted a 3.9% (Fx adj.) increase in sales to €2,616 million.
Sales at SeedGrowth developed very positively thanks to increased demand for products to
treat corn and cereal seed. Sales at Fungicides increased as well. We also achieved strong,
double-digit-percentage growth with soybean seeds. By contrast, we registered a substantial
decline in sales of Insecticides resulting from weak demand. Sales at Environmental Science
increased slightly.
> Sales in Asia / Pacific increased by 2.7% (Fx adj.) year on year to €1,548 million. Our Fungicides
business saw positive development particularly in Australia and India. Sales of vegetable seeds
increased by a double-digit percentage. Business at Herbicides receded slightly, as did sales of
Environmental Science.
> Sales in Latin America declined by 6.9% (Fx adj.) to €2,461 million. Business was held back by
the persisting weak market environment in Brazil, particularly at Insecticides, Herbicides and
SeedGrowth. Lower pest pressure had an additional negative impact on Insecticides. We
recorded gains in sales at Fungicides and Seeds. Business at Environmental Science expanded
by a double-digit percentage.
Earnings

In 2016, EBITDA before special items of Crop Science was level year on year at €2,421 million
(2015: €2,406 million; +0.6%). A positive currency effect of around €140 million and higher selling
prices compensated lower volumes, increased spending on research and development and higher
impairment losses recognized on inventories and receivables.

A Combined Management Report

145

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

EBIT decreased by 16.2% to €1,755 million, including special charges of €143 million (2015:
special gains of €222 million), primarily in connection with the agreed acquisition of Monsanto and
efficiency improvement measures.
A 2.2.2/9
1

Special Items Crop Science
EBIT
Q4 2015

€ million

Restructuring

EBIT
Q4 2016

–

Litigations

EBIT
2015

(5)

303

EBIT
2016

–

4

EBITDA
Q4 2015

(51)

285

EBITDA
Q4 2016

–

(1)

(3)

303

4

EBITDA
2015
–
285

EBITDA
2016
(49)
(1)

Acquisition costs

–

(34)

–

(86)

–

(34)

–

(86)

Divestments

–

(4)

(50)

(5)

(6)

(4)

(50)

(5)

Revaluation of
other receivables

(2)

Total
1

–

301

(13)

(39)

222

–

(2)

(143)

–

295

(37)

For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

Online Annex: A 2.2.2-3

The development of Crop Science in 2016 is shown in the following graphics (A 2.2.2-3/1,
A 2.2.2-3/2 and A 2.2.2-3/3).
A 2.2.2-3/1

Crop Science Quarterly Sales
€ million

Q1

2015
2016

3,006
2,936

Q2

2015
2016

2,636
2,518

Q3

2015
2016

2,081
2,057

Q4

2015
2016

2,405
2,404
0

500

1,000

1,500

2,000

2,500

3,000

3,500

2015 figures restated

A 2.2.2-3/2

Crop Science
Quarterly EBIT

A 2.2.2-3/3

Crop Science
Quarterly EBITDA before Special Items
€ million

€ million

Q1

2015
2016

885
955

Q1

2015
2016

1,021
1,089

Q2

2015
2016

561
512

Q2

2015
2016

722
663

Q3

2015
2016

187
135

Q3

2015
2016

316
318

Q4

2015
2016

491
153

Q4

2015
2016

347
351

0

200

2015 figures restated

400

600

800

1,000

0

200

400

600

800

1,000

(13)
222

–
(141)

146

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Animal Health
Ongoing market growth

In 2016, the Animal Health market continued to develop positively with growth of 5% (2015: 5%).
The dynamic performance in the first half of the year was driven especially by the market for companion animal parasiticides in the United States and Europe. In the second half of the year, the
market environment for the farm animal business clouded slightly.
A 2.2.2/10

Key Data – Animal Health
Change %
Q4 2015

€ million

Sales

319

Q4 2016
329

Reported Fx & p adj.
+ 3.1

+ 3.1

Change %
2015

2016

1,490

1,523

Reported Fx & p adj.
+ 2.2

+ 4.8

Reported

Fx adj.

Change in sales
Volume

+ 2.7%

– 1.0%

+ 4.0%

+ 2.6%

Price

+ 0.3%

+ 4.1%

+ 0.5%

+ 2.2%

Currency

+ 3.0%

0.0%

+ 8.6%

– 2.6%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

Portfolio

Reported

Fx adj.

Sales by region
Europe / Middle East / Africa

91

84

– 7.7

– 3.3

447

445

– 0.4

+ 3.8

122

129

+ 5.7

+ 4.1

587

621

+ 5.8

+ 6.0

Asia / Pacific

67

79

+ 17.9

+ 13.4

285

300

+ 5.3

+ 5.6

Latin America

39

37

– 5.1

– 2.6

171

157

– 8.2

+ 1.8

33

34

+ 3.0

317

343

+ 8.2

– 7.3

347

349

23.3%

22.9%

254

313

North America

EBITDA 1
Special items

(8)

EBITDA before special items 1

(4)

(30)

(6)

41

38

12.9%

11.6%

EBIT

14

25

Special items

(19)

(5)

EBIT before special items 1

33

30

– 9.1

318

320

+ 0.6

Net cash provided
by operating activities

43

85

+ 97.7

348

193

– 44.5

EBITDA margin before special items 1

+ 78.6

(64)

+ 0.6
+ 23.2

(7)

2015 figures restated; Fx & p adj. = currency- and portfolio-adjusted; Fx adj. = currency-adjusted
1
For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

+

%

growth in sales at Animal
Health (Fx & portfolio adj.)

Sales growth particularly in the United States

Sales of Animal Health in 2016 increased by 4.8% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €1,523 million. The North
America and Asia / Pacific regions developed especially positively due to higher demand. We also
registered currency-adjusted sales growth in Europe / Middle East / Africa and Latin America.
A 2.2.2/11

Best-Selling Animal Health Products
Change %

Change %

Q4 2015

Q4 2016

Reported

Fx adj.

2015

2016

Reported

105

102

– 2.9

+ 0.3

547

535

– 2.2

+ 0.1

Seresto™

15

28

+ 86.7

+ 75.3

113

174

+ 54.0

+ 55.4

Drontal™ product family

30

31

+ 3.3

+ 2.6

122

128

+ 4.9

+ 7.2

Baytril™

33

34

+ 3.0

– 0.9

120

113

– 5.8

– 5.0

183

195

+ 6.6

+ 6.8

902

950

+ 5.3

+ 7.3

57%

59%

61%

62%

€ million

Advantage™ product family

Total
Proportion of Animal Health sales
Fx adj. = currency-adjusted

Fx adj.

A Combined Management Report

147

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Sales by product
> Currency-adjusted sales of our Advantage™ family of flea, tick and worm control products were

level with the previous year. Positive development in Europe / Middle East / Africa and
Asia / Pacific stood against slight declines in North America.
> We achieved very strong sales growth with our Seresto™ flea and tick collar that resulted
chiefly from increased demand in the United States and Europe.
> Business with our Drontal™ line of wormers benefited particularly from higher volumes in the
United States and Asia / Pacific.
> Sales of our antibiotic Baytril™ fell in North America because of a difficult market environment
and generic competition. Gains in Asia / Pacific and Latin America were not sufficient to offset
this development.

+

%

growth in sales of
Seresto™ (Fx adj.)

Earnings

In 2016, EBITDA before special items was steady year on year, increasing 0.6% to €349 million.
Positive earnings contributions from volume and price increases stood against higher selling
expenses and an increased cost of production. A negative currency effect of around €10 million
additionally diminished earnings.
EBIT of Animal Health increased by a substantial 23.2% to €313 million, including special charges
of €7 million (2015: €64 million).
A 2.2.2/12
1

Special Items Animal Health
EBIT
Q4 2015

€ million

Restructuring
Total special items
1

EBIT
Q4 2016

EBIT
2015

EBIT
2016

EBITDA
Q4 2015

EBITDA
Q4 2016

(19)

(5)

(64)

(7)

(8)

(4)

(30)

(6)

(5)

(64)

(7)

(8)

(4)

(30)

(6)

Online Annex: A 2.2.2-4

The development of Animal Health in 2016 is shown in the following graphics (A 2.2.2-4/1,
A 2.2.2-4/2 and A 2.2.2-4/3).
A 2.2.2-4/1

Animal Health Quarterly Sales
€ million

Q1

2015
2016

0.386
0.408

Q2

2015
2016

0.428
0.426

Q3

2015
2016

0.357
0.360

Q4

2015
2016

0.319
0.329
0

50

100

150

EBITDA
2016

(19)

For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

2015 figures restated

EBITDA
2015

200

250

300

350

400

450

500

148
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

A 2.2.2-4/2

Animal Health
Quarterly EBIT

A 2.2.2-4/3

Animal Health
Quarterly EBITDA before Special Items
€ million

Q1

2015
2016

65
114

Q2

2015
2016

Q3
Q4

€ million

Q1

2015
2016

102
122

105
93

Q2

2015
2016

120
100

2015
2016

70
81

Q3

2015
2016

84
89

2015
2016

14
25

Q4

2015
2016

41
38

0

20

40

60

80

100

120

0

20

40

60

80

100

120

2015 figures restated

Covestro
Positive development in main customer industries

In 2016, Covestro’s main customer industries (automotive, construction, electrical and electronics,
and furniture) continued to develop positively.
A 2.2.2/13

Key Data – Covestro
Change %
€ million

Sales

Q4 2015

Q4 2016

2,774

2,997

Reported Fx & p adj.
+ 8.0

+ 8.6

Change %
2015

2016

11,982

11,826

Reported Fx & p adj.
– 1.3

0.0

Reported

Fx adj.
– 3.3

Change in sales
Volume
Price
Currency
Portfolio

+ 1.8%

+ 4.0%

+ 2.6%

+ 5.3%

– 12.4%

+ 4.6%

– 7.7%

– 5.3%

+ 4.7%

– 0.6%

+ 7.9%

– 1.3%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

Reported

Fx adj.

Sales by region
Europe / Middle East / Africa

1,132

1,104

– 2.5

– 2.6

4,928

4,761

– 3.4

North America

672

671

– 0.1

– 1.6

2,885

2,740

– 5.0

– 5.3

Asia / Pacific

798

1,038

+ 30.1

+ 32.2

3,377

3,619

+ 7.2

+ 9.8

+ 12.2

– 1.8

172

184

+ 7.0

792

706

– 10.9

EBITDA 1

Latin America

129

373

+ 189.1

1,368

1,984

+ 45.0

Special items

(128)

EBITDA before special items 1

257

373

+ 45.1

1,659

1,984

9.3%

12.4%

13.8%

16.8%

635

1,304

EBITDA margin before special items 1
EBIT
Special items
EBIT before special items 1
Net cash provided
by operating activities

–

(79)

203

(144)

–

(291)

.

(332)

–
+ 19.6
+ 105.4

–

65

203

.

967

1,304

+ 34.9

603

678

+ 12.4

1,452

1,824

+ 25.6

2015 figures restated; Fx & p adj. = currency- and portfolio-adjusted; Fx adj. = currency-adjusted
1
For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

A Combined Management Report

149

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Sales level year on year

Sales of Covestro were level year on year in 2016, at €11,826 million (Fx & portfolio adj. 0.0%).
Selling prices receded overall, due primarily to lower raw material prices. Volumes were above the
level of the prior year overall.
A 2.2.2/14

Sales by Business Unit
Change %
Q4 2015

Q4 2016

1,382

1,541

+ 11.5

759

832

+ 9.6

Coatings, Adhesives, Specialties

477

481

Other Covestro business

156

143

2,774

2,997

€ million

Polyurethanes
Polycarbonates

Total

Reported Fx & p adj.

Change %
2015

2016

Reported Fx & p adj.

+ 12.2

6,084

5,926

– 2.6

– 1.2

+ 10.7

3,169

3,297

+ 4.0

+ 5.8

+ 0.8

+ 0.8

2,092

2,039

– 2.5

– 1.8

– 8.3

– 9.0

637

564

– 11.5

– 11.5

+ 8.0

+ 8.6

11,982

11,826

– 1.3

0.0

Fx & p adj. = currency- and portfolio-adjusted

Sales by business unit
> At Polyurethanes, lower selling prices overall were not fully offset by higher volumes and led to

a 1.2% (Fx & portfolio adj.) decline in sales to €5,926 million.
> Polycarbonatesimproved sales by 5.8% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €3,297 million, with appreciable

volume growth more than compensating for lower selling prices.
> Sales of Coatings, Adhesives, Specialties fell by 1.8% (Fx & portfolio adj.) to €2,039 million,

primarily because of lower selling prices.
Earnings

In 2016, EBITDA before special items increased by a substantial 19.6% to €1,984 million. Positive
earnings contributions from reductions in raw material prices and higher volumes outweighed
lower selling prices and a negative currency effect of around €20 million.
Compared with the previous year, Covestro more than doubled EBIT to €1,304 million (+105.4%).
No special items were recorded (2015: special charges of €332 million).
A 2.2.2/15
1

Special Items Covestro
€ million

Restructuring
Revaluation of other receivables
Total special items
1

EBIT
Q4 2015

EBIT
Q4 2016

EBIT 2015

EBIT 2016

EBITDA
Q4 2015

EBITDA
Q4 2016

EBITDA
2015

EBITDA
2016

(143)

–

(329)

–

(127)

–

(288)

–

(1)

–

(3)

–

(1)

–

(3)

–

(144)

–

(332)

–

(128)

–

(291)

–

For definition see Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

150
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Online Annex: A 2.2.2-5

The development of Covestro in 2016 is shown in the following graphics (A 2.2.2-5/1,
A 2.2.2-5/2 and A 2.2.2-5/3).
A 2.2.2-5/1

Covestro Quarterly Sales
€ million

Q1

2015
2016

3,014
2,850

Q2

2015
2016

3,185
2,975

Q3

2015
2016

3,009
3,004

Q4

2015
2016

2,774
2,997
0

500

1,000

1,500

2,000

2,500

3,000

3,500

2015 figures restated

A 2.2.2-5/2

Covestro
Quarterly EBIT

A 2.2.2-5/3

Covestro
Quarterly EBITDA before Special Items
€ million

€ million

Q1

2015
2016

219
336

Q1

2015
2016

424
504

Q2

2015
2016

278
367

Q2

2015
2016

506
543

Q3

2015
2016

217
398

Q3

2015
2016

472
564

Q4

2015
2016

(79)
203

Q4

2015
2016

257
373

(100)

0

100

200

300

400

0

100

200

300

400

500

600

2015 figures restated

Business Development by Region
Online Annex: A 2.2.2-6
A.2.2.2-6/1

Business Development by Region
Europe / Middle East / Africa

North America

Change in %

Change in %

Q4 2015

Q4 2016

Reported

Fx adj.

Q4 2015

Q4 2016

Reported

Fx adj.

1,618

1,684

+ 4.1

+6.0

972

1,107

+ 13.9

+ 12.6

Consumer Health

490

499

+ 1.8

+2.7

630

649

+ 3.0

+ 1.6

Crop Science

470

431

– 8.3

– 7.0

438

527

+ 20.3

+ 18.5

Animal Health

91

84

– 7.7

– 3.3

122

129

+ 5.7

+ 4.1

€ million

Pharmaceuticals

Life Sciences
(incl.
reconciliation)

2,943

2,962

+ 0.6

+ 2.3

2,163

2,413

+ 11.6

+ 10.1

Covestro

1,132

1,104

– 2.5

– 2.6

672

671

– 0.1

– 1.6

Group (incl.
reconciliation)

4,075

4,066

– 0.2

+ 0.9

2,835

3,084

+ 8.8

+ 7.3

2015 figures restated

A Combined Management Report

151

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A.2.2.2-6/1 (continued)

Business Development by Region
Asia / Pacific

Latin America

Group

Change in %

Change in %

Change in %

Q4
2015

Q4
2016

Reported

Fx adj.

Q4
2015

Q4
2016

Reported

Fx adj.

Q4
2015

Q4
2016

Reported

Fx adj.

1,121

1,203

+ 7.3

+ 3.6

275

281

+ 2.2

+ 8.0

3,986

4,275

+ 7.3

+ 7.1

Consumer Health

188

194

+ 3.2

+ 3.2

198

197

– 0.5

+ 18.7

1,506

1,539

+ 2.2

+ 4.4

Crop Science

365

384

+ 5.2

+ 2.5

1,132

1,062

– 6.2

– 8.6

2,405

2,404

–

– 1.6

Animal Health

67

79

+ 17.9

+ 13.4

39

37

– 5.1

– 2.6

319

329

+ 3.1

+ 3.1

1,745

1,862

+ 6.7

+ 3.5

1,660

1,586

– 4.5

– 2.7

8,511

8,823

+ 3.7

+ 3.6

798

1,038

+ 30.1

+ 32.2

172

184

+ 7.0

+ 12.2

2,774

2,997

+ 8.0

+ 8.6

2,543

2,900

+ 14.0

+ 12.5

1,832

1,770

– 3.4

– 1.3

11,285

11,820

+ 4.7

+ 4.8

€ million

Pharmaceuticals

Life Sciences
(incl.
reconciliation)
Covestro
Group (incl.
reconciliation)
2015 figures restated

A.2.2.2-6/2

Business Development by Region
Europe / Middle East / Africa

North America

Change in %

Change in %

2015

2016

Reported

Fx adj.

2015

2016

Reported

Fx adj.

Pharmaceuticals

5,981

6,417

+ 7.3

+ 9.7

3,937

4,194

+ 6.5

+ 6.7

Consumer Health

1,955

1,918

– 1.9

+ 1.5

2,635

2,627

– 0.3

– 0.1

Crop Science

3,368

3,290

– 2.3

+ 1.8

2,570

2,616

+ 1.8

+ 3.9

Animal Health

447

445

– 0.4

+ 3.8

587

621

+ 5.8

+ 6.0

12,779

13,062

+ 2.2

+ 5.1

9,736

10,066

+ 3.4

+ 4.1

4,928

4,761

– 3.4

– 3.3

2,885

2,740

– 5.0

– 5.3

17,707

17,823

+ 0.7

+ 2.8

12,621

12,806

+ 1.5

+ 2.0

€ million

Life Sciences
(incl.
reconciliation)
Covestro
Group (incl.
reconciliation)
2015 figures restated

A.2.2.2-6/2 (continued)

Business Development by Region
Asia / Pacific

Latin America

Change in %
€ million

Pharmaceuticals
Consumer
Health

Group

Change in %

Change in %

2015

2016

Reported

Fx adj.

2015

2016

Reported

Fx adj.

2015

2016

Reported

4,319

4,775

+ 10.6

+ 8.6

1,071

1,034

– 3.5

+ 11.0

15,308

16,420

+ 7.3

+ 8.7

Fx adj.

738

781

+ 5.8

+ 8.1

748

711

– 4.9

+ 17.1

6,076

6,037

– 0.6

+ 3.5

Crop Science

1,530

1,548

+ 1.2

+ 2.7

2,660

2,461

– 7.5

– 6.9

10,128

9,915

– 2.1

+ 0.2

Animal Health

285

300

+ 5.3

+ 5.6

171

157

– 8.2

+ 1.8

1,490

1,523

+ 2.2

+ 4.8

Life Sciences
(incl.
reconciliation)

6,886

7,413

+ 7.7

+ 7.0

4,702

4,402

– 6.4

+ 1.2

34,103

34,943

+ 2.5

+ 4.7

Covestro

3,377

3,619

+ 7.2

+ 9.8

792

706

– 10.9

– 1.8

11,982

11,826

– 1.3

–

10,263

11,032

+ 7.5

+ 7.9

5,494

5,108

– 7.0

+ 0.8

46,085

46,769

+ 1.5

+ 3.5

Group (incl.
reconciliation)
2015 figures restated

152

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

2.2.3 Value-Based Performance
New value-based indicator: ROCE
Starting with fiscal 2016, Bayer decided to replace its previous value-based metrics – cash value
added (CVA) and cash flow return on investment (CFROI) – by the return on capital employed
(ROCE). The change was made in light of the much lower complexity and greater external popularity of the ROCE. Using this indicator therefore increases transparency and facilitates both communication and external comparability. The ROCE indicates the capital return over a specified
period, setting economic profit against the capital used to generate it (capital employed). The
ROCE is compared to the weighted average cost of capital (WACC), which corresponds to the
return expected by the providers of equity and debt. If the ROCE is in line with the WACC, the
expected return for the period has been achieved. If it exceeds the WACC, return expectations
have been exceeded, and therefore value has been created.

Calculation of ROCE
ROCE is the ratio of net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) to the average capital employed.
NOPAT is determined by deducting from EBIT the income taxes thereon, which are based on a
historical average tax rate of 24%. The capital employed is an indicator of the capital used in the
company’s operations. Based on carrying amounts, it is calculated by subtracting from operational
assets the liability items that are largely non-interest-bearing, such as trade accounts payable, or
would distort the operational capital base. To reflect the change in the capital employed during the
year, an average figure is determined from the amounts at the end of the previous year and the
end of the year under report. For the components of the capital employed, see also Chapter 2.4.

See also A 2.4

Calculating the cost of capital

%
Capital cost rate for the
Bayer Group in 2016

In 2016, the capital cost rate (WACC = weighted average cost of capital) for the Bayer Group was
applied uniformly for the Life Sciences for the first time. The WACC is based on an after-tax approach and was calculated at the beginning of the year as the weighted average of the equity and
debt cost rates. The cost of equity is the return expected by stockholders, computed from capital
market information. The debt capital cost rate we use to calculate the WACC is based on the
financing terms for ten-year Eurobonds issued by industrial companies with an “A–” credit rating.
The WACC for 2016 was 7.5% for the Bayer Group and for the Life Sciences. Covestro, however,
determined a WACC of 6.9% for its business. In the context of impairment testing, moreover,
individual capital cost factors are used for the reporting segments which explicitly take account of
segment-specific parameters (see Note [4]).

Value-based business development
ROCE in 2016 of

%

Bayer’s ROCE in 2016 amounted to 11.0%, exceeding the cost of capital by 3.5 percentage
points. It is thus an indicator for value creation. Also when measured in terms of the previous
value-based steering parameters, Bayer showed positive value creation with a CFROI of 11.8%,
which exceeded the cost of capital, and a positive CVA of €2,761 million.
All segments except Consumer Health exceeded the WACC in 2016 despite negative special
items in all of the Life Science segments (see also Chapter 2.2.2). In Consumer Health, the acquisition of the consumer care business of Merck & Co., Inc., United States, in 2014 led to a significant increase in the capital employed. This, together with the integration costs and special charges incurred in 2016, is currently diminishing ROCE as an indicator of periodic capital return.

A Combined Management Report

153

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A 2.2.3/1

Value-Based Performance by Segment
Pharmaceuticals
2015

2016

2015

2016

3,028

3,389

768

695

€ million

EBIT

Consumer
Health

Taxes 2

(727)

(813)

(184)

(167)

NOPAT

2,301

2,576

584

528

Crop Science

Animal Health

2015

2015

2016

254

313

2,094

2016
1,755

(503)
1,591

(421)
1,334

(61)

Life Sciences
2015
5,606

1

2016
5,738

(75) (1,346) (1,377)

193

Covestro
2015
635

2016
1,304

(313) (1,498) (1,690)

483

991

375 40,975 42,306

6,822

15,969 15,859 14,761 15,220
14.4%

16.2%

4.0%

3.5%

16.3%

12.9%

47.8%

63.5%

10.4%

10.3%

7.1%

15.3%

WACC

7.9%

7.5%

7.9%

7.5%

7.3%

7.5%

7.9%

7.5%

7.6%

7.5%

6.9%

6.9%

4,743

9.9% 11.0%
7.6%

2.2.4 Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group
Financial management of the Group
The financial management of the Bayer Group is conducted by Bayer AG. Capital is a global resource, generally procured centrally and distributed within the Group. The foremost objectives of
our financial management are to help bring about a sustained increase in corporate value and to
ensure the Group’s liquidity and creditworthiness. This involves optimizing the capital structure
and effectively managing risks. The management of currency, interest-rate, commodity price and
default risks helps to reduce the volatility of our earnings.

See also A 1.2.2

The contracted rating agencies assess Bayer as follows:
A 2.2.4/1

Rating
Short-term rating

S & P Global Ratings

A–

A–2

Moody’s

A3

P–2

These credit ratings reflect the company’s high solvency and ensure access to a broad investor
base for financing purposes. As a result of the agreed acquisition of Monsanto, both S&P Global
Ratings and Moody’s are reviewing the possibility of a downgrade. Bayer continues to aim for an
investment-grade credit rating after the successful closing of the Monsanto acquisition and is
aiming for the single “A” rating category in the long term.
As a matter of principle, we pursue a prudent debt management strategy to ensure flexibility,
drawing on a balanced financing portfolio. This is fundamentally based on bonds in various currencies, syndicated credit facilities, bilateral loan agreements and a global commercial paper
program.
We use financial derivatives to hedge against risks arising from business operations or financial
transactions, but do not employ contracts in the absence of an underlying transaction. It is our
policy to diminish default risks by selecting trading partners with a high credit standing. We closely
monitor the execution of all transactions, which are conducted in accordance with Group policies.

5,352

6,471 47,797 48,777

2015 figures restated
1
including Reconciliation
2
24% on EBIT; based on historical average of tax rates

Long-term rating

2016
7,042

(152)

4,260

ROCE

404

2015
6,241

4,361

238

Average capital
employed

9,749 10,316

Group

See also A 3.2.2

7.5%

154

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Liquidity and Capital Expenditures of the Bayer Group
A 2.2.4/2

Bayer Group Summary Statements of Cash Flows
€ million

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,
continuing operations
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, discontinued operations

2015

2016 Change %

6,836

8,259

+ 20.8

54

830

.
+ 31.9

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (total)

6,890

9,089

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (total)

(2,762)

(8,729)

.

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (total)

(3,974)

(350)

+ 91.2

Change in cash and cash equivalents due to business activities
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
Change due to exchange rate movements and to changes
in scope of consolidation
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

154

10

– 93.5

1,853

1,859

+ 0.3

(148)
1,859

30

.

1,899

+ 2.2

2015 figures restated

Net cash provided by operating activities
A 2.2.4/3

Cash Inflows from
Operating Activities (Total)
€ million

9,089
6,890

The net cash provided by operating activities (total) rose by 31.9% to €9,089 million due to a significant improvement in EBIT, a sharp decrease in additional cash tied up in working capital, and
the cash inflow from the sale of the Diabetes Care business. The net cash provided by operating
activities in continuing operations increased by 20.8% to €8,259 million.
Net cash used in investing activities

31.9%

2015

2016

See also A 1.4.2.2

The net cash outflow for investing activities in 2016 amounted to €8,729 million. Cash outflows
for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were 2.4% higher at €2,578 million (2015:
€2,517 million) and included €835 million (2015: €777 million) at Pharmaceuticals, €215 million
(2015: €148 million) at Consumer Health, €757 million (2015: €721 million) at Crop Science,
€37 million (2015: €41 million) at Animal Health and €415 million (2015: €508 million) at Covestro.
Cash outflows for noncurrent and current financial assets, especially for the short-term investment
of the cash inflows from the mandatory convertible notes, amounted to €6,335 million (2015:
€370 million). Inflows from interest and dividends totaled €89 million (2015: €106 million).
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

In 2016 there was a net cash outflow of €350 million for financing activities, including net loan
repayments of €730 million (2015: €2,929 million). Net interest payments were 21.8% higher at
€794 million (2015: €652 million). The cash outflow for dividends amounted to €2,126 million
(2015: €1,869 million). The net cash inflow from the issuance of the mandatory convertible notes
amounted to €3,952 million, reported as a €3,300 million capital contribution and a €652 million
borrowing. In 2015, the stock market flotation of Covestro resulted in a cash inflow of
€1,490 million.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

155

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Liquid assets and net financial debt
See also A 2.4
A 2.2.4/4

Net Financial Debt1
Dec. 31,
2015

€ million

Bonds and notes / promissory notes
of which hybrid bonds 2
Liabilities to banks
Liabilities under finance leases
Liabilities from derivatives

3

Other financial liabilities
Receivables from derivatives 3
Financial liabilities
Cash and cash equivalents
Current financial assets 4
Net financial debt

Dec. 31,
2016 Change %

15,547

15,991

+ 2.9

4,525

4,529

+ 0.1

2,779

1,837

– 33.9

474

436

– 8.0

753

587

– 22.0

369

730

+ 97.8

(313)

– 10.6

(350)
19,572

19,268

(1,859)

(1,899)

(264)

(5,591)

17,449

11,778

– 1.6
+ 2.2
.
– 32.5

1

Net financial debt is not defined in the International Financial Reporting Standards and is calculated as shown in this table.
Classified as debt according to IFRS
3
These include the market values of interest-rate and currency hedges of recorded transactions.
4
These include short-term loans and receivables with maturities between 3 and 12 months outstanding from banks and other
companies as well as available-for-sale financial assets that were recorded as current on initial recognition.
2

In 2016, net financial debt of the Bayer Group decreased by €5,671 million. Cash inflows from
operating activities and the issuance of the mandatory convertible notes were set against cash
outflows for dividends and negative currency effects.
Net financial debt includes three subordinated hybrid bonds with a total volume of €4,529 million,
50% of which is treated as equity by Moody’s and S & P Global Ratings. The hybrid bonds thus
have a more limited effect on the Group’s rating-specific debt indicators than senior debt.
On November 22, 2016, Bayer issued €4,000 million in mandatory convertible notes. After deducting transaction costs and recognition of deferred taxes, €3,491 million was allocated to capital reserves and €652 million to other financial liabilities.

156

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.2 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Asset and Capital Structure of the Bayer Group
A 2.2.4/5

Bayer Group Summary Statements of Financial Position
€ million

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016 Change %

Noncurrent assets

50,096

51,791

+ 3.4

Current assets

23,624

30,437

+ 28.8

Assets held for sale

197

10

– 94.9

Total current assets

23,821

30,447

+ 27.8

Total assets

73,917

82,238

+ 11.3

Equity

25,445

31,897

+ 25.4

Noncurrent liabilities

31,492

31,804

+ 1.0

Current liabilities

16,868

18,537

+ 9.9

112

–

– 100.0

Total current liabilities

16,980

18,537

+ 9.2

Liabilities

48,472

50,341

+ 3.9

Total equity and liabilities

73,917

82,238

+ 11.3

Provisions directly related to assets held for sale

Increases in total assets and equity
A 2.2.4/6

Total Assets
€ billion

82.2

73.9

11.3%

2015

2016

Total assets as of December 31, 2016, rose by €8.3 billion to €82.2 billion. The increase of
€1.7 billion in noncurrent assets to €51.8 billion mainly resulted from an increase in deferred taxes,
while other intangible assets declined. Total current assets rose by €6.6 billion to €30.4 billion,
primarily due to cash inflows from the issuance of the mandatory convertible notes. Equity advanced by €6.5 billion to €31.9 billion. Net income of €4.5 billion (2015: €4.1 billion) and an increase of €3.5 billion in the capital reserves resulting from the issuance of the mandatory convertible notes were set against a negative effect of €0.8 billion (2015: positive effect of €0.8 billion) –
recognized outside profit or loss – from changes in post-employment benefit obligations, and the
dividend payment of €2.1 billion (2015: €1.9 billion). The equity ratio (equity coverage of total
assets) as of December 31, 2016, was 38.8% (2015: 34.4%). Liabilities rose by €1.9 billion compared with December 31, 2015, to €50.3 billion. Trade accounts payable and other liabilities increased, while financial liabilities declined. The net defined benefit liability for pensions and other
post-employment benefits increased by €0.3 billion to €11.1 billion. Losses of €0.8 billion from the
reevaluation of the net obligations for defined benefit plans for pensions and other postemployment benefits stood against the contribution by Bayer AG of 4.9% of the outstanding
Covestro shares with a value of €0.3 billion to Bayer Pension Trust e.V. and the contribution by
Covestro of bonds with a value of €0.5 billion.

A Combined Management Report

157

2.3 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of Bayer AG

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Online Annex: A 2.2.4-1
A 2.2.4-1/1

Ratios

Cost of sales ratio (%)
R & D expense ratio (%)
Return on sales in (%)
EBIT margin (%)
EBITDA margin before special items (%)

Asset intensity (%)

Cost of goods sold
Sales
Research and development expenses
Sales
Income after income taxes
Sales
EBIT
Sales
EBITDA before special items
Sales
Property, plant and equipment
+ intangible assets

2015

2016

45.7

43.4

9.3

10.0

8.9

10.3

13.5

15.1

22.3

24.2

59.1

52.3

153.0

153.5

35.0

36.8

1.1

0.7

4,325

5,681

2.5

2.4

4.6

4.3

3.5

3.2

34.4

38.8

17.9

16.8

8.2

8.5

Total assets
Reinvestment ratio (%)
Liability structure (%)
Gearing

Free operating cash flow (€ million)

Inventory turnover
Receivables turnover
Payables turnover
Equity ratio (%)
Return on equity (%)
Return on assets (%)

Capital expenditures 1
Depreciation 1
Current liabilities
Liabilities
Net debt + pension provisions
Equity
Net operating cash flow less cash outflows
for property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets
Cost of goods sold
Inventories
Sales
Trade accounts receivable
Cost of goods sold
Trade accounts payable
Equity
Total assets
Income after income taxes
Average equity
Income before income taxes and interest expense
Average total assets

2015 figures restated
1
Property, plant and equipment

2.3 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of Bayer AG
As the parent company of the Bayer Group, Bayer AG – represented by its Board of Management
– performs the principal management functions for the entire Group. These include strategic planning, resource allocation, executive management and financial management. With the reorganization at the beginning of 2016, the three divisions at Bayer AG also assumed responsibility for
managing the operational business. The financial statements of Bayer AG are prepared in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) and Stock Corporation Act (AktG).

Bayer AG performs
important management
functions for the Group.

158
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.3 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of Bayer AG

2.3.1 Earnings Performance of Bayer AG
A 2.3.1/1

Bayer AG Summary Income Statements according to the German Commercial Code
€ million

2015

Net sales

86

2016
390

Cost of goods sold

(88)

(353)

Gross profit

(2)

37

Selling expenses

(3)

(39)

Research and development expenses
General administration expenses

–

(46)

(324)

(666)

Other operating income

13

48

Other operating expenses

(86)

(227)

Operating income
Income from investments in affiliated companies – net

(402)
2,444

(893)
4,647

Interest expense / income – net

(484)

54

Other financial income – net

409

163

2,369

4,864

Non-operating income
Income taxes
Income after taxes / net income
Withdrawal from other retained earnings / allocation to other retained earnings
Distributable profit

(606)

(371)

1,361

3,600

706

(1,367)

2,067

2,233

Significant improvement in net income

The former subsidiaries Bayer HealthCare AG and Bayer Technology Services GmbH were merged
into Bayer AG with effect from January 1, 2016. For this reason the operating result, in particular,
has only limited comparability with the prior year with respect to both its total amount and the
individual components. It came in well below the 2015 level, at minus €893 million. Taking into
account the 2015 operating results of the two merged companies totaling minus €199 million, the
reference figure for 2015 was minus €601 million. On this basis the operating result therefore
declined by €292 million in 2016. Of the latter amount, €198 million was attributable to the firsttime recognition by Bayer AG of provisions for impending losses from sales and licensing agreements transferred to Bayer AG effective January 1, 2017, with the businesses leased from Bayer
Pharma AG and Bayer CropScience AG. The provisions for the same purpose established by the
two subsidiaries were correspondingly reversed and recognized in profit or loss. Other components of the decline in earnings were expenses for various projects, also in connection with the
planned acquisition of Monsanto Company, which increased by €74 million.
Income from investments in affiliated companies increased by €2,203 million to €4,647 million.
Bayer Pharma AG made the largest contribution to the operating result with significantly improved
income of €3,011 million (2015: €1,793 million). The growth in earnings was due to substantial
sales increases for the high-margin products Xarelto™ and Adempas™ along with higher income
from investments in affiliated companies, lower net interest expense and an improvement in the
currency position. Income of Bayer CropScience AG came in slightly ahead of 2015 at
€1,017 million (2015: €964 million) despite the absence of the prior year’s one-time gains from a
patent litigation. Earnings growth was due to an improvement in the gross operating result and a
substantial net exchange gain. Significant effects of profit-and-loss transfer agreements were the
transfer of a €50 million (€2015: €118 million) loss from Bayer Business Services GmbH and income of €204 million (2015: €149 million) from Siebte Bayer VV GmbH, which receives regular
dividend income from a U.S. subsidiary that handles export business in the United States for
Bayer Health Care LLC. Apart from profit and loss transfers there was also income of €329 million
in 2016 from investments in affiliated companies, including €91 million from Covestro AG, and
gains of €130 million from retirements of such investments.

A Combined Management Report

159

2.3 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of Bayer AG

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Bayer AG had net interest income of €54 million in 2016, a significant improvement from the net
interest expense of €484 million in the previous year. This was almost entirely due to a gain from
the measurement of pension provisions and other noncurrent provisions for personnel commitments. Interest-related actuarial gains and fund asset growth overcompensated the expenses for
the unwinding of discount on these provisions by €303 million. The net expenses in 2015 amounted to €276 million. Of the remaining €249 million (2015: €208 million) balance of interest expenses
and income, €53 million (2015: minus €29 million) was attributable to Group companies and
€196 million (2015: €179 million) to third parties, with the creditors of the bonds and commercial
paper programs accounting for €189 million (2015: €228 million).
Other financial income and expenses yielded a positive balance of €163 million (2015:
€409 million). The decrease was mainly due to the absence of the one-time gain of €217 million
incurred in the prior year from the settlement by Covestro Deutschland AG of compensation
claims with respect to pension entitlements of former employees. Gains from charging on to other
subsidiaries the pension expenses for retirees who remained with Bayer AG following the hivedowns of operating businesses in 2002 and 2003 were substantially lower at only €4 million
(2015: €178 million). The decrease was due to the decline in pension expenses, the interest portion of which was reflected in interest expense while the remainder was reflected in other financial
income and expenses. Fees for granted credit facilities, which in 2016 pertained mainly to the
financing of the planned acquisition of Monsanto, amounted to €57 million (2015: €22 million). Set
against this was the result of the translation of foreign currency receivables and payables and the
measurement of the relevant derivatives. This amounted to €179 million (2015: €6 million).
Income before income taxes greatly exceeded the prior-year level at €3,971 million (2015:
€1,967 million). Tax expense nonetheless declined from €606 million to €371 million due to the
absence of the previous year’s tax effects resulting from the formation of the Covestro Group and
a higher proportion of tax-free income from investments in affiliated companies. After deduction of
taxes, net income was €3,600 million (2015: €1,361 million). An allocation of €1,367 million was
made to other retained earnings, giving a distributable profit of €2,233 million.
The Board of Management and Supervisory Board will propose to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on April 28, 2017, that the distributable profit be used to pay a dividend of €2.70 per share
(826,947,808 shares) on the capital stock of €2,117 million entitled to the dividend.

2.3.2 Asset and Financial Position of Bayer AG
A 2.3.2/1

Bayer AG Summary Statements of Financial Position according to the German Commercial Code
€ million

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

ASSETS
Noncurrent assets
Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment
Financial assets

31

58

43,737

49,112

43,768

49,170

Current assets
Receivables from subsidiaries

3,159

4,055

Remaining receivables, inventories, other assets

380

2,818

Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities

629

803

4,168

7,676

47,936

56,846

Total assets

Distributable profit of

€

million

160

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.3 Earnings; Asset and Financial Position of Bayer AG

Augmented Version

A 2.3.2/1 (continued)

Bayer AG Summary Statements of Financial Position according to the German Commercial Code
€ million

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

15,032

16,565

2,356

1,905

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Provisions
Other liabilities
Bonds and notes, liabilities to banks
Payables to subsidiaries
Remaining liabilities
Total equity and liabilities

7,203

6,673

22,752

31,146

593

557

30,548

38,376

47,936

56,846

Significant increase in total assets – higher financial debt
See also A 2.3.2/1

A 2.3.2/2

Total Assets
€ billion

56.8

47.9

18.6%

2015

The asset and liability structure of Bayer AG is dominated by its role in managing the subsidiaries
and financing corporate activities as the parent company of the Bayer Group. This is primarily
reflected in the high level of investments in affiliated companies and of the receivables from, and
payables to, Group companies.
Total assets of Bayer AG rose by €8.9 billion in 2016 to €56.8 billion. Of the increase, noncurrent
assets accounted for €5.4 billion and current assets for €3.5 billion. Property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets increased – mainly due to the mergers effected at the start of the year – by
€26 million to €58 million, but remained of secondary importance. Financial assets increased by
€5.4 billion to €49.1 billion, principally as a result of capital increases at subsidiaries. Investments
in affiliated companies continued to account for by far the largest item in total assets, amounting
to 84.8% (2015: 89.5%).

2016

Receivables from subsidiaries amounted to €4.1 billion (2015: €3.2 billion), while payables to subsidiaries totaled €31.2 billion (2015: €22.8 billion). These amounts accounted for 7.2% of total
assets and 54.9% of total equity and liabilities, respectively. The other receivables reflected in
current assets (including deferred charges) increased to €2.8 billion (2015: €0.4 billion), mainly
due to investments of €1.9 billion in commercial paper. Cash and cash equivalents also rose due
to higher bank deposits, increasing by €174 million to €803 million.
Bayer AG had equity of €16.6 billion (2015: €15.0 billion). The increase represents the excess of
the €3,600 million net income for 2016 over the €2,067 million dividend payment for 2015. The
equity ratio declined to 29.1% (2015: 31.4%) due to the disproportionate growth in total assets.
Provisions were lower by €0.5 billion at €1.9 billion. The main reason for the decrease was a
€665 million decline in pension provisions to €897 million. This was largely the result of higher
fund assets, but was also partly attributable to changes in actuarial assumptions regarding the
future development of employee compensation and pensions and to a higher discount rate. Provisions for taxes decreased by €123 million to €541 million, while miscellaneous provisions rose by
€337 million to €467 million. The main factors here were impending losses from the businesses
taken over from Bayer Pharma AG and Bayer CropScience AG by way of business leases as of
January 1, 2017, and higher personnel commitments resulting from the mergers with Bayer
HealthCare AG and Bayer Technology Services GmbH.
Other liabilities rose by €7.8 billion to €38.4 billion (net of deductible receivables). Financial debt,
in particular, increased by €6.2 billion, partly due to the financing for the planned acquisition of
Monsanto Company. Whereas external debt in the form of bonds and commercial paper was reduced by €0.6 billion and €0.3 billion, respectively, borrowings from Group companies increased
by €7.0 billion. Total financial debt at year end 2016 was €36.5 billion (2015: €30.3 billion). After
deduction of cash and cash equivalents of €0.8 billion (2015: €0.6 billion), net debt rose by €6.0
billion to €35.7 billion (2015: €29.7 billion).

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

161

2.4 Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

2.4 Alternative Performance Measures Used
by the Bayer Group
The Combined Management Report and the consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group
are prepared according to the applicable financial reporting standards. In addition to the disclosures and metrics required by these standards, Bayer publishes alternative performance measures
(APMs) that are not defined or specified in these standards and for which there are no generally
accepted reporting formats. Bayer determines APMs to enable the comparison of performance
indicators over time and against those of other companies in its industry sector. These APMs are
calculated by making certain adjustments to items in the statement of financial position or the
income statement prepared according to the applicable financial reporting standards. Such adjustments may result from differences in calculation or measurement methods, nonuniform business activities or special factors affecting the information value of these items. The APMs determined in this way apply to all periods and are used both internally for business management
purposes and externally by analysts, investors and rating agencies to assess the company’s performance. Bayer determines the following APMs:

See also “About this
Report” and Note 2
to B Consolidated
Financial Statements

> Change in sales (reported, currency-adjusted, currency- and portfolio-adjusted)
> EBIT
> EBITDA
> EBIT before special items
> EBITDA before special items
> EBITDA margin before special items
> Core earnings per share
> Net financial debt
> Return on capital employed (ROCE)
> Net operating profit after tax (NOPAT)
> Capital employed
> Total operating performance
> Value creation
> Cost of materials / other expenses
> Other balance sheet and financial indicators
Online Annex A 2.4-1

In addition to the alternative performance measures listed, it is possible to determine balance
sheet and financial indicators which help to analyze the Bayer Group’s sales, earnings and financial position. Some customary indicators and the associated calculation methods are
shown in Graphic 2.2.4-1/1.
The (reported) change in sales is a relative indicator. It shows the percentage by which sales varied from the previous year.
The currency-adjusted or currency- and portfolio-adjusted change in sales shows the percentage
change in sales excluding the impact of exchange rate effects and disregarding the acquisitions
and divestments material to each business entity. Exchange rate effects are generally calculated
on the basis of the functional currency valid in the respective country. Exceptions exist in Brazil
and Argentina, primarily at Crop Protection, where the respective functional currencies are restated in U.S. dollars for business reasons.

See also A 2.2.4

162
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.4 Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group

EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) serves to present a company’s operating result while
eliminating the effects of differences among local taxation systems and different financing activities. EBIT is calculated as follows:
A 2.4/1

Reconciliation to EBIT
Income before income taxes
+ / – Financial result (net income / loss from investments accounted for using the equity method,
financial income and expenses)
=

EBIT

EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. This performance indicator neutralizes the effects of the financial result along with distortions of operational
performance that result from divergent depreciation and amortization methods and the exercise of
measurement discretion. EBITDA is EBIT plus the amortization of intangible assets and the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, plus impairment losses and minus impairment loss reversals, recognized in profit or loss during the reporting period.
A 2.4/2

Reconciliation to EBITDA
EBIT
+ / – Depreciation and amortization / impairment losses / impairment loss reversals on property, plant,
equipment and intangible assets (as per Statements of Cash Flows)

=

EBITDA

EBIT before special items and EBITDA before special items show the development of the opera-

tional business irrespective of the effects of special items, i.e. special effects for the company with
regard to their nature and magnitude. These may include litigations, restructuring, integration
costs, impairment losses and impairment loss reversals. EBIT before special items and EBITDA
before special items are each determined by adding special charges and subtracting special
gains.
The EBITDA margin before special items is a relative indicator used by Bayer for internal and ex-

ternal comparisons of operational performance. It is the ratio of EBITDA before special items to
net sales.
Core earnings per share (core EPS) is an APM based on the earnings per share (EPS) for the
See also A 2.2.1

Group as defined in IAS 33. Core earnings per share are determined by neutralizing effects of the
purchase price allocations for acquisitions and other special factors to enable a comparison of
performance over time. In an intermediate step, further APMs – core EBIT and core net income –
are calculated. Core earnings per share are then calculated by dividing core net income per share
by the weighted average number of shares in circulation during the year.

A Combined Management Report

163

2.4 Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A 2.4/3

Reconciliation to Core Earnings per Share
EBIT (as per Income Statements)
+ / – Amortization / impairment losses / impairment loss reversals on intangible assets
+ / – Impairment losses / impairment loss reversals on property, plant and equipment
+ / – Special items (excluding depreciation and amortization / impairment losses / impairment loss reversals)
=

Core EBIT

+ / – Financial result (as per Income Statements)
+ / – Special items in the financial result
+ / – Income taxes (as per Income Statements)
+ / – Special items in income taxes
+ / – Tax effects relating to depreciation and amortization / impairment losses / impairment loss reversals
and special items
+ / – Income after income taxes attributable to noncontrolling interest (as per Income Statements)
+ / – Portion of the above-mentioned adjustments attributable to noncontrolling interest
=

Core earnings from continuing operations

/

Weighted average number of shares

=

Core earnings per share from continuing operations (core EPS)

As core earnings per share are calculated for each interim reporting period, core earnings per share
for the fiscal year or for each interim reporting period up to the respective closing date may deviate
from the cumulated core earnings per share for the individual interim reporting periods.

See also A 2.2.3

Core earnings per share from continuing or discontinued operations are similarly determined. Core
earnings per share form the basis of the Bayer Group’s dividend policy.
Net financial debt is an important financial management indicator for the Bayer Group and is used

both internally and externally in assessing its liquidity, capital structure and financial flexibility. This
metric is calculated as follows:
A 2.4/4

Reconciliation to Net Financial Debt
Bonds and notes / promissory notes
+ Liabilities to banks
+ Liabilities under finance leases
+ Liabilities from derivatives 1
+ Other financial liabilities
– Receivables from derivatives 1
= Financial liabilities
– Cash and cash equivalents
– Current financial assets 2
= Net financial debt
1
2

These include the market values of interest-rate and currency hedges of recorded transactions.
These include short-term loans and receivables with maturities between 3 and 12 months outstanding from banks and other
companies as well as available-for-sale financial assets that were recorded as current on initial recognition.

The return on capital employed (ROCE) is the ratio of net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) to the
average capital employed. NOPAT represents the operating result after taxes and is calculated by
subtracting income taxes from EBIT. Income taxes are calculated by multiplying EBIT by a uniform
tax rate of 24%, which is based on a historical average of tax rates. The capital employed by
Bayer is the total carrying amount of operational noncurrent and current assets, minus liabilities
that are largely non-interest-bearing in character or would distort the capital base. An average
value, calculated from the values at the end of the prior year and of the reporting year, is used to
depict the change in capital employed during the year. The components of the capital employed
are as follows:

See also A 2.2.4

164
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2.4 Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group

A 2.4/5

Components of capital employed
€ million

Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016

Goodwill

16,054

Other intangible assets

15,171

13,567

Property, plant and equipment

12,369

13,114

Other financial assets 1

16,312

67

58

8,493

8,408

Trade accounts receivable

9,888

10,969

Other receivables 1

2,042

1,701

Deferred tax assets 1

1,295

2,596

Inventories

Claims for income tax refunds
Gross capital employed

509

676

65,888

67,401

Other provisions 1

(6,713)

Trade accounts payable

(5,909)

(6,410)

Other liabilities 1

(2,272)

(2,695)

Financial liabilities 1
Deferred tax liabilities 1
Income tax liabilities
Capital employed

(13)
(804)
(1,320)
48,857

Average capital employed 2016

(7,039)

–
(1,252)
(1,307)
48,698
48,777

2015 figures restated
1
Selected items of the component: nonoperative or non-interest-bearing items eliminated within capital employed

The total operating performance is the sum of net sales, other operating income, financial income
and the net income / loss from investments accounted for using the equity method. It is divided
between depreciation, amortization, impairment losses and impairment loss reversals, the cost of
materials / other expenses and value added. Value added is defined as the sum of EBIT plus personnel expenses and tax expenses not related to income taxes, and the financial result plus
interest expense. The cost of materials / other expenses includes all expenses except depreciation, amortization, impairment losses and impairment loss reversals as well as those incorporated
in the value added.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

165

3.1 Future Perspectives

Augmented Version

3. Report on Future Perspectives and on
Opportunities and Risks
3.1 Future Perspectives
3.1.1 Economic Outlook
A 3.1.1/1

Economic Outlook
Growth 1
2016

Growthௗ
forecast 1
2017

World

+ 2.5%

+ 2.8%

European Union

+ 1.9%

+ 1.6%

+ 1.8%

+ 1.9%

United States

+ 1.6%

+ 2.3%

Emerging markets ²

+ 3.8%

+ 4.0%

of which Germany

Growth 2016 restated
1
Real growth of gross domestic product, source: IHS Global Insight
2
Including about 50 countries defined by IHS Global Insight as emerging markets in line with the World Bank
As of February 2017

Slight increase in the pace of global economic development
The global economy will probably grow somewhat more quickly overall in 2017 than in the previous year. In the United States, particularly, we expect better economic development than in 2016.
Private consumption will likely remain a key growth driver, as employment and disposable income
will probably continue to increase. Positive stimulus will presumably also come from corporate
investment. We expect a slight decline in growth in the European Union. Against the background
of important elections in a number of countries, uncertainty over the future political development
in Europe in particular is likely to hamper growth. In addition, there are unknowns associated with
the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union. On the other hand, we expect the expansionary monetary policy of the European Central Bank to have a continued positive impact. Economic output in the Emerging Markets will probably pick up overall compared with the previous
year. We expect strong growth in China but at a slightly slower pace. Supported by rising raw
material prices, Brazil and Russia will likely return to the growth zone after severe recession.

Moderate to declining industry forecasts
A 3.1.1/2

Economic Outlook for the Segments
Growth 1
2016

Growth
forecast 1
2017

Pharmaceuticals market

+ 6%

+ 4%

Consumer health market

+ 4%

+ 3-4%

Seeds and crop protection market

– 1%

+ 1%

Animal health market

+ 5%

+ 5%

1

Bayer’s estimate; except pharmaceuticals. Source for pharmaceuticals market: IMS Health. IMS Market Prognosis.
Copyright 2016. All rights reserved; currency-adjusted; 2017 data provisional
As of February 2017

166
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

3.1 Future Perspectives

We expect growth in the pharmaceuticals market to decline to 4% in 2017. This expectation is
based on the assumption of continued positive stimulus from the United States. We anticipate
low-single-digit percentage growth in Europe.
We also anticipate that growth of the consumer health market in 2017 will be roughly level with
the previous year, at 3 to 4%. We expect similar market conditions to 2016.
We predict that the environment for the world seed and crop protection market will remain volatile
in 2017 after a weak prior year. Growth stimuli are expected to come from Latin America, the
Asia / Pacific region and Eastern Europe. In North America and Western Europe, on the other
hand, the pace of growth will presumably lag behind global development. Overall we anticipate a
slight recovery in the market as a whole.
Based on the continued positive development of innovative products in the animal health market,
we expect the growth trend to continue in 2017. In the companion animals business, a positive
performance is expected particularly in the United States and Europe. In the farm animals business, we expect the pace of growth in the Emerging Markets to pick up again slightly.
For 2017, Covestro expects a continuation of the growth trend in its main customer industries
construction, electrical engineering & electronics, and furniture. However, growth in the automotive industry will likely be far weaker than in the previous year.

3.1.2 Corporate Outlook
The following forecast is based on the current business development, taking into account the
potential risks and opportunities. It is based on the exchange rates at the closing date on December 31, 2016, including rates of US$1.05 to the euro. A 1% appreciation (depreciation) of the euro
against all other currencies would decrease (increase) sales on an annual basis by some €300
million and EBITDA before special items by about €80 million.
Sales to rise to more
than €49 billion in 2017
after €46.8 billion in
2016

See also A 2.4

The Board of Management expects the positive development of the Bayer Group to continue in
fiscal 2017. Sales of the Bayer Group including Covestro are targeted to increase to more than
€49 billion. This corresponds to a low- to mid-single-digit percentage increase on a currency- and
portfolio-adjusted basis. EBITDA before special items is forecast to grow by a mid-single-digit
percentage. We aim to grow core earnings per share from continuing operations by a mid-singledigit percentage as well. It should be noted that only 64% of Covestro will be reflected for the full
year 2017. In addition, it should be noted that the weighted average number of shares has increased following the placement of the mandatory convertible notes in November 2016.

Sales and earnings forecast by segment
We plan sales of approximately €37 billion for the Life Science businesses. This corresponds to a
mid-single-digit percentage increase on a currency- and portfolio-adjusted basis. EBITDA before
special items is targeted to rise by a mid- to high-single-digit percentage.
At Pharmaceuticals, we expect sales of more than €17 billion. This corresponds to a mid-singledigit percentage increase on a currency- and portfolio-adjusted basis. We plan to raise sales of
our key growth products Xarelto™, Eylea™, Stivarga™, Xofigo™ and Adempas™ to more than
€6 billion. We expect a high-single-digit percentage increase in EBITDA before special items. We
aim to improve the EBITDA margin before special items.
In the Consumer Health segment, we expect sales to come in at more than €6 billion. In line with
anticipated market development, we plan to grow sales by a low- to mid-single-digit percentage
on a currency- and portfolio-adjusted basis. We expect EBITDA before special items to increase
by a low- to mid-single-digit percentage.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

167

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Augmented Version

For Crop Science we are assuming sales of more than €10 billion. This corresponds to a lowsingle-digit percentage increase on a currency- and portfolio-adjusted basis. We expect EBITDA
before special items to be at the prior-year level.
In the Animal Health segment, we expect a currency- and portfolio-adjusted increase in sales by a
low- to mid-single-digit percentage. We plan to raise EBITDA before special items by a highsingle-digit percentage.
For the Reconciliation, we expect sales of around €1 billion in 2017. We plan EBITDA before special items in the region of minus €0.2 billion.
For 2017, Covestro is budgeting a sales increase. EBITDA after adjustment for special items
should be on or above the prior-year level.

Development of further key data
In 2017, we expect to take special charges in EBITDA in the region of €0.5 billion for the Bayer
Group as a whole. Most of this amount is accounted for by costs in connection with the agreed
acquisition of Monsanto and with restructuring and efficiency improvement measures. We aim to
increase research and development spending to €4.8 billion. Capital expenditures will amount to
about €2.5 billion for property, plant and equipment and around €0.4 billion for intangible assets.
Depreciation and amortization are estimated at about €2.9 billion, including €1.4 billion in amortization of intangible assets. We also predict a financial result of around minus €1.4 billion. The
effective tax rate is likely to be about 23%. Excluding capital and portfolio measures, net financial
debt is targeted to be around €10 billion at the end of 2017.

Outlook for Bayer AG
On the basis of the business operating leases with Bayer Pharma AG and Bayer CropScience AG
that came into effect at the start of 2017, the operational business of these two entities has been
transferred to Bayer AG. As a result, the sales of these two entities now accrue to Bayer AG, for
which we are predicting sales of more than €14 billion. The budgeted positive earnings of the
Pharmaceuticals and Crop Science segments in 2017 will also accrue directly to Bayer AG as a
result of the business operating leases. In addition, the earnings of most major Bayer subsidiaries
in Germany are transferred directly to Bayer AG under profit and loss transfer agreements. Also,
specific intra-company dividend measures ensure the availability of sufficient distributable income.
Business development at Bayer AG is subject in principle to the same risks and opportunities as
that of the Bayer Group. On account of the interdependencies between Bayer AG and its subsidiaries, the outlook for the Bayer Group thus largely also reflects the expectations for Bayer AG.
Therefore, the forecast for the Bayer Group outlined above applies equally to Bayer AG. In the
coming year, based on these factors, we expect Bayer AG to report a distributable profit that will
again enable our stockholders to adequately participate in the Bayer Group’s earnings.

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report
3.2.1 Group-wide Opportunity and Risk Management System
As a global enterprise with a diversified portfolio, the Bayer Group is constantly exposed to a wide
range of internal or external developments and events that could significantly impact the achievement of our financial and nonfinancial objectives. Rooted in our strategy and planning processes,
opportunity and risk management is an integral part of corporate management at Bayer. We regard opportunities as positive deviations, and risks as negative deviations, from projected or target values for potential future developments. Opportunity and risk management at Covestro has a
similar structure to that of Bayer.

Net financial debt is
targeted to improve to
around €10 billion.

168
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Structure of opportunity and risk management
The opportunities and risks the Bayer Group encounters vary in terms of their nature, the organizational level concerned and the time horizon. Different processes, methods and IT systems are
therefore employed to identify, evaluate, manage and monitor risks and report on them. The principles underlying the various systems are documented in Group policies. While there are still
named owners and coordinators at the management level, overall responsibility for the effectiveness and appropriateness of the systems lies with the Chief Financial Officer.
A 3.2.1/1

Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
Business processes
Opportunity management

Risk management
Internal control and monitoring systems

Strategy
& planning
processes

Internal
control system

Compliance
management
system

(process risks)

(compliance risks)

Identification

•

Evaluation

•

Management

•

Monitoring

•

Risk early warning
system
(Risks that could
endanger the
company’s existence)

Reporting

Process-independent monitoring

From identification to monitoring
Bayer continuously identifies opportunities and risks by observing macroeconomic, industryspecific, regional and local developments and analyzing trends. The opportunities and risks identified are then evaluated. We attempt to avoid or mitigate risks by taking appropriate countermeasures, or to transfer them to third parties (such as insurers) to the extent possible and economically
acceptable. We consciously accept and bear manageable and controllable risks that stand in a
reasonable relation to the anticipated opportunities – as an aspect of general entrepreneurial risk.
We have established and documented specific processes to manage financial opportunities and
risks. One component is financial planning, which serves as the basis for determining the liquidity
risk and the future foreign currency and interest-rate risks and includes all Group companies that
are relevant from a cash flow perspective. Financial planning covers a twelve-month planning
horizon and is regularly updated.

Opportunity management
We identify opportunities as part of the annual strategic planning cycle, during which the segments analyze internal and external factors that may positively affect the development of our
business. These may be factors of a social, economic or environmental nature. The core phase
of our strategic planning process normally takes place in the first half of the year and starts with
a comprehensive analysis of the markets. The segments build on this by analyzing their respective market environments to identify their opportunities. They base these analyses on different
time periods to take into account the fact that trends may affect developments over the short,
medium or long term.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

169

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Augmented Version

Risk management
To enable the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board to monitor material business risks
as required by law, the Bayer Group has implemented an internal control system, a compliance
management system and a risk early warning system. Covestro’s risk management also comprises these three components. ICS-related matters are regularly reported to the Chief Financial
Officer of Covestro AG, who also chairs Covestro’s Compliance Committee and Corporate Risk
Committee. The three systems in place at Bayer are described on the next page.
Internal control system for (Group) accounting and financial reporting

(Report pursuant to Sections 289, Paragraph 5 and 315, Paragraph 2, No. 5 of the German
Commercial Code)
As part of the comprehensive risk management system, Bayer has an internal control system (ICS)
in place for the (Group) accounting and financial reporting process. This process comprises defined structures and workflows implemented throughout the organization. The purpose of our ICS
is to ensure proper and effective accounting and financial reporting in accordance with Section
289, Paragraph 5 and Section 315, Paragraph 2, No. 5 of the German Commercial Code. The ICS
is designed to guarantee timely, uniform and accurate accounting for all business processes and
transactions based on applicable statutory regulations, accounting and financial reporting standards and the internal Group policies that are binding upon all consolidated companies. Risks are
identified and evaluated, and steps are taken to counter them. Mandatory ICS standards such as
system-based and manual reconciliation processes and functional separation have been derived
from these frameworks and promulgated throughout the Group by the Risk Management function
on behalf of the Chief Financial Officer of Bayer AG. The management of each Group company
holds responsibility for implementing the ICS standards at the local level. Using Bayer’s shared
service centers, the Group companies prepare their financial statements locally and transmit them
with the aid of a standard Group data model that is based on the Group accounting policy. This
ensures the regulatory compliance of the consolidated financial statements. The Board of Management has confirmed the effective functioning of the internal control system for accounting and
financial reporting and the relevant criteria for the 2016 fiscal year. However, it should be noted
that an internal control system, irrespective of its design, cannot provide absolute assurance that
material misstatements in the financial reporting will be avoided or identified.
Compliance management system

Our compliance management system is aimed at ensuring lawful, responsible and sustainable
conduct by our employees. It is designed to identify potential violations in advance and systematically prevent their occurrence. The compliance management system thus contributes significantly
to the integration of compliance into our operating units and their processes. Bayer has implemented an integrated compliance management system for material risk areas worldwide to
strengthen the systematic and preventive identification and evaluation of risks. Risks are identified
both from the bottom up via the country organizations and from the top down via the global functions, taking global, local and business-specific aspects into account. Additionally, compliance
risks are identified by performing a trend analysis based on compliance cases reported from
around the world. The findings are discussed by the local business units, the local compliance
functions and representatives of the central functions at a round table and are entered into a
Group-wide compliance risk management database.
Risk early warning system

We have established a process known as BayRisk as an early warning system pursuant to Section
91, Paragraph 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act to identify at an early stage any developments that are material and / or could endanger the company’s continued existence. The process
owner is the risk management department, which reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer.
This establishes a consistent framework and uniform standards for the risk early warning system
throughout the Group. The segments, service companies and central functions are included in this
system so that corporate risks are captured as fully as possible. The early identification, evaluation, management and reporting of risks is the responsibility of named risk officers.

See also A 4.2

170
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

The BayRisk database maps the Group’s risks – together with the respective countermeasures –
that exceed defined, annually updated financial value thresholds as well as risks that are materially
relevant for the company but from a financial point of view may not be directly or reliably quantifiable, if at all. The risk portfolio is reviewed three times a year. Significant changes are documented
and reported to the Chief Financial Officer. A report on the risk portfolio is submitted to the Supervisory Board once a year.

Process-independent monitoring
The effectiveness of our management systems is audited and evaluated at regular intervals by
Internal Audit, which has an independent and objective audit function focused on compliance with
laws and internal policies. Risks in the areas of occupational health and safety, plant safety, environmental protection and product quality are assessed by dedicated HSEQ audits.
During the audit of the annual financial statements, the external auditor assesses the fundamental
suitability of the early warning system to identify at an early stage any risks that could endanger
the company’s continued existence. A report on the internal control and monitoring systems and
their effectiveness is presented annually to the Supervisory Board. Any weaknesses identified in
the internal control system must be reported to the Board of Management and the Supervisory
Board. The audit outcomes are used in the continuous improvement of our management and
business processes.

3.2.2 Opportunity and Risk Status
We classify the risks identified by the risk early warning system as high, medium or low – depending on the potential loss or damage and the probability of occurrence – according to the following
matrix.
A 3.2.2/1

Risk Rating Matrix According to Financial Criteria
Likelihood of occurrence
Low

Medium

High

Cumulative impact (€ million)

> 1,250

H

H

H

500 – 1,250

M

M

H

< 500

L

L

L

H = high risk, M = medium risk, L = low risk

Here we report the risks classified as “medium” or “high” along with the material opportunities
identified by our opportunity management. In addition, we report significant risks that from a financial point of view may not be directly or reliably quantifiable, if at all. Comparable risks existing
in different parts of the company are aggregated in some cases. The order in which the risks are
listed does not imply any order of importance. The opportunities and risks described may apply to
all segments unless otherwise indicated. The impact on the Bayer Group of risks attaching to
Covestro is affected by the size of Bayer’s shareholding. Comprehensive information on Covestro’s
opportunity and risk status is provided in the current opportunity and risk report forming part of
the management report of Covestro AG.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

171

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Augmented Version

Corporate environment
Ethical conduct is a matter of essential importance for society. The Bayer Group is dedicated to
sustainable development in all areas of its commercial activity. This voluntary commitment is reflected in our responsible corporate governance.
Opportunities arising from macrotrends

The increase in quality of life and life expectancy is leading to a heightened focus on the medical
care needs of elderly patients. Our concentration on certain partly age-related diseases such as
cancer or chronic cardiovascular disorders harbors opportunities for us. In response to the growing demand for innovative health care products to treat age-related diseases, Bayer’s Pharmaceuticals segment is concentrating its research and development activities on relevant therapeutic
areas such as oncology and cardiology.
The opportunities for our agricultural businesses arise from global population growth and the increasing demand for food. In addition, consumer behavior in some regions is shifting toward higher demand for food products of animal origin. Agricultural productivity therefore needs to increase
in view of declining per-capita acreages, the challenges presented by climate change, and increasing pesticide resistance. We expect the demand for high-value seed and crop protection
products to rise in light of the need to produce sufficient food and animal feed to meet the growing demand in spite of limited acreages. In response, Crop Science is developing processes to
more effectively protect plants against climatic and environmental stress and raise crop yields, for
example.
Economic environment

There is a risk that our growth could be impeded by increasing global cost pressure on health care
systems. The prices of pharmaceutical products are subject to regulatory monitoring and control
in many markets, and government reimbursement systems often favor less expensive generic
medicines over branded products. In addition, in some markets, major health care providers can
exert substantial pressure on prices. Price controls and pricing pressure reduce earnings from our
pharmaceutical products and may occasionally make the market launch of a new product unprofitable. As a result, it may be necessary to choose indirect marketing options in order to provide
access to pharmaceuticals. We expect the current extent of regulatory controls and pricing pressure to persist or increase. A further factor is that our Life Science businesses operate in highly
competitive markets. Corporate mergers, along with business practices such as aggressive pricing strategies – not only in the field of generic competition – may adversely affect our earnings.
However, the pressure on health care systems also presents us with opportunities in the area of
nonprescription medicines. Patients are sometimes directed toward non-reimbursable, nonprescription medicines, some of which are manufactured in Bayer’s Consumer Health segment.
Moreover, the consumption of health products is increasing due to the aging population.
Modern agricultural methods, the application of certain classes of crop protection products and
the use of genetic engineering are repeatedly the subject of intense public debate. This political
opinion-forming may yield legislative and regulatory decisions that significantly limit the use of our
products or even result in voluntary or mandated product withdrawals. In addition, decisions by
the European Union, for example, also affect agricultural imports from other parts of the world and
therefore our business in those regions. For these reasons we are engaged in a constant dialogue
with interest groups and regulators to promote a scientifically founded, rational and responsible
discussion and decision-making process.

See also A 1.2

172
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

In the Crop Science segment, risks may arise from seasonal fluctuations in the weather, market
volatility for agricultural products and our customers’ financial situations, for example. These may
adversely affect both our crop protection and our seeds businesses.
The current global consolidation process in the seeds and crop protection industry could greatly
alter our future competitive environment. We are responding to this trend with acquisitions, collaborations and the expansion of in-house research and development capacities.
Negative economic developments generally have an adverse effect on the sales markets for
Covestro’s products, usually leading to lower sales volumes and a drop in the company’s
operational earnings. The extent of these effects on volumes and the operating result also depend
on capacity utilization in the industry, which in turn varies according to the supply-demand ratio
for industry-specific products. A decline in demand leads to lower sales volumes and ultimately to
lower capacity utilization, which adversely impacts margins.

See also A 3.1

Further opportunities and risks may arise if the future economic development of our markets varies from our estimates. If macroeconomic development is out of line with forecasts, this may positively or negatively impact our sales and earnings expectations.
Continuous analysis of the economic and regulatory environment and of economic forecasts enables us to pursue the opportunities we identify and address risks. We also closely monitor political
developments in key markets.

Innovation
See also A 1.3

We believe that our innovation strength holds opportunities both for the continued development of
our brands and for the expansion of the research pipeline in all of our businesses. In the Pharmaceuticals segment, opportunities are inherent in the digitization taking place along the entire value
chain – from new, time-saving and efficiency-enhancing research and development methods to
new technologies that give us access to innovative business models. In Consumer Health, digital
platforms for products and services are opening up new potential for us alongside the conventional business with nonprescription medicines. In the Crop Science segment, the digitization of
agriculture presents a major opportunity for achieving greater efficiency and sustainability. We also
rely on networking, both within the company and with external partners, to boost our innovation
strength. This stimulates the development of new products in the long term. Despite all our efforts,
we cannot assure that all of the products we are currently developing or will develop in the future
will achieve planned approval / registration or commercial success. For example, a drug candidate
may fail to meet trial endpoints. The Bayer Group seeks to counter this risk by way of holistic
portfolio management in order to estimate the probability of success and prioritize its development
projects.
There is steady growth in public and regulatory expectations with regard to the safety and efficacy
of chemical, biological and pharmaceutical products so we continue to anticipate increasing regulatory requirements for clinical or (eco)toxicological studies, for example. This leads to higher
product development costs and longer timeframes. Projects are set up to coordinate the proper
implementation of new regulatory requirements.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

173

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Augmented Version

Acquisitions
Where it appears strategically advantageous, we supplement our organic growth by acquiring
companies or parts of companies. The integration of new businesses has contributed to our success in the past and will result in opportunities in the future as well. However, failure to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or unexpectedly high integration costs, for example, could
jeopardize the achievement of qualitative or quantitative targets and adversely impact earnings. In
the course of due diligence and throughout the subsequent integration process, we seek to identify and classify the potential risks of an acquisition target such as compliance with applicable environmental regulations and occupational health and safety standards at production sites.
In connection with the acquisition of Monsanto, the merger agreement provides for payment by
Bayer of a US$2 billion reverse break fee including, in particular, in the event that the necessary
antitrust approvals are not granted by June 14, 2018, and Bayer or Monsanto therefore terminates
the merger agreement. Further risks that may arise in connection with the agreed acquisition of
Monsanto are described in Chapter 3.2.3.

See also A 1.2

See also A 3.2.3

Collaborations
We have collaborations in place along the value chain of our products. Suboptimum performance
by collaboration partners may affect the development, manufacture or marketing of our products
and services and adversely impact our business. In some countries, for example, the marketing
rights for certain pharmaceutical products are held by third parties. Inadequate performance by
these marketing partners could adversely affect the development of our sales and costs. Therefore, we have established an Alliance Management unit to monitor the most important collaborations and provide relevant support to the operational functions.

Patent protection
Patents protect our intellectual property. The Bayer Group, now as in the past, has a portfolio that
largely consists of patent-protected products. When our products are successfully commercialized, some of the profits can be used to continue investing in research and development. Due to
the long period of time between the patent application and the market launch of a product, Bayer
generally only has a few years in which to earn an adequate return on its investment in research
and development. This makes effective and reliable patent protection all the more important. Generic manufacturers, in particular, attempt to contest patents prior to their expiration. Sometimes
a generic version of a product may even be launched “at risk” prior to the issuance of a final patent decision. We are currently involved in legal proceedings to enforce patent protection for our
products. When a patent defense is unsuccessful, or if one of our patents expires, our prices are
likely to come under pressure because of increased competition from generic products entering
the market. Legal action by third parties for alleged infringement of patent or proprietary rights by
Bayer may impede or even halt the development or manufacturing of certain products or require
us to pay monetary damages or royalties to third parties. Our patents department regularly reviews the patent situation in collaboration with the respective operating units and monitors for
potential patent infringements so that legal action can be taken if necessary.

See also Note 32 to
B Consolidated Financial
Statements

Products and product stewardship
Bayer evaluates the potential health and environmental risks of a product along the entire value
chain. Despite extensive studies prior to approval or registration, it is possible that products could
be partially or completely withdrawn from the market due to the occurrence of unexpected side
effects or other factors. Such a withdrawal may be voluntary or result from legal or regulatory
measures. Furthermore, the presence of traces of unwanted genetically modified organisms in
agricultural products and / or foodstuffs cannot be entirely excluded. Potential payments of damages in connection with the above risks may have a substantial negative impact on our earnings.
Our businesses counter these risks through their organizational and operational structure in the
areas of pharmaceutical and crop protection product safety and testing. In addition, Crop Science
has a comprehensive stewardship program in place. Stewardship refers to the responsible and
ethical management of products over their entire life cycles.

See also A 1.4.3.1

174
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Another risk we face is that of illegal trading in counterfeit medicines and crop protection products
by criminal third parties. In most cases, the composition and the quality of counterfeit products do
not correspond to those of the original products. In addition, the fact that no local regulatory authority is involved in assuring the quality of the manufacturing or distribution process precludes
any official product recall. Products originating from illegal third-party manufacturing not only endanger patients, users, animals and the environment, but also jeopardize the good reputation of
our company and products and undermine our competitive position. Bayer actively assists authorities’ efforts to combat product counterfeiting by adopting preventive measures and prosecuting offenders.

Procurement and production
See also A 1.4.2.1,
A 1.4.2.2

www.bayer.com/
en/supplier-code-ofconduct.aspx

Our Supplier Code of Conduct includes legal and ethical standards to which Bayer attaches the
utmost importance. Violations of the Code may also harm our company’s reputation. On the basis
of supplier assessments and audits, we verify whether our partners along the supply chain actually
comply with our Code of Conduct.
We attach great importance not only to product safety but also to protecting our employees and
the environment. Risks associated with the manufacturing, filling, storage or shipping of products
are mitigated by means of integrated HSEQ management. The materialization of such risks may
result in personal injury, property and environmental damage, loss of production, business interruptions and / or liability for compensation payments.
Despite all precautions, operations at our sites may be disrupted by natural disasters, fires or
explosions, sabotage or supply shortages for our principal raw materials or intermediates. This
also applies to external partners along the value chain. Disruption may also result from possible
regulatory or legislative changes in the respective countries. If we are unable to meet demand for
our products, sales may undergo a structural decline. We counter this risk by distributing production for certain products among multiple sites or by building up safety stocks. Furthermore, an
emergency response system based on the respective Corporate Policy has been implemented at
all our production sites as a mandatory component of our HSEQ management.

Employees
See also A 1.4.1

Skilled and dedicated employees are essential for the company’s success. There is keen competition among companies for highly qualified personnel, particularly in countries with full employment
and in the emerging economies of Asia and Latin America. If we are unable to recruit a sufficient
number of employees in these countries and retain them within Bayer, this could have significant
adverse consequences for the company’s future development. Based on our analysis of future
requirements, we design appropriate employee recruitment and development measures. In addition, our employee diversity policy enables us to tap the full potential of the employment market.
In times of considerable strategic and organizational change at Bayer, deliberate and transparent
change management forms an integral part of our human resources management, enabling us to
constantly motivate our employees.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

175

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Augmented Version

Information technology
Business and production processes and the internal and external communications of the Bayer
Group are increasingly dependent on global IT systems. A significant technical disruption or failure
of IT systems could severely impair our business and production processes. Technical precautions
such as data recovery and continuity plans are defined and continuously evolved in close cooperation with our internal IT organization. The confidentiality of internal and external data is of fundamental importance to Bayer. A loss of data confidentiality, integrity or authenticity could lead to
manipulation and / or the uncontrolled outflow of data and know-how. We have measures in place
to counter this risk, including an authorization system. Furthermore, a committee has been established to determine the fundamental strategy, architecture and safety measures for the Bayer
Group. Through these measures, we aim to provide optimum protection based on state-of-the-art
technology.

Law and compliance
The Bayer Group is exposed to risks from legal disputes or proceedings to which we are currently
a party or which could arise in the future, particularly in the areas of product liability, competition
and antitrust law, anticorruption law, patent law, tax law and environmental protection. Investigations of possible legal or regulatory violations, such as potential infringements of antitrust law or
certain marketing and / or distribution methods, may result in the imposition of civil or criminal
penalties – including substantial monetary fines – and / or other adverse financial consequences,
harm Bayer’s reputation and ultimately hamper our commercial success. Bayer has established a
global compliance management system to ensure the observance of laws and regulations.

See also A 3.2.1, A 4.2
and Note 32 to
B Consolidated Financial
Statements

Tax risks
Bayer AG and its subsidiaries operate worldwide and are thus subject to many different local tax
laws and regulations. Bayer Group companies are regularly audited by the tax authorities in various countries. Amendments to tax laws and regulations, legal judgments and their interpretation
by the tax authorities, and the findings of tax audits in these countries may result in higher tax
expense and payments, thus also influencing the level of tax receivables, tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities.

Financial opportunities and risks
The Bayer Group sees financial opportunities in the market prices it can command, and is exposed to financial risks in the form of liquidity, credit and market price risks, as well as risks resulting from pension obligations.
Liquidity risk

Liquidity risks result from the possible inability of the Bayer Group to meet current or future payment obligations due to a lack of cash or cash equivalents. The liquidity risk is determined and
managed by the Finance department as part of our same-day and medium-term liquidity planning.
The Bayer Group holds sufficient liquidity to ensure the fulfillment of all planned payment obligations at maturity. In addition, a reserve is maintained for unbudgeted shortfalls in cash receipts or
unexpected disbursements. The amount of this liquidity reserve is regularly reviewed and adjusted
as necessary according to circumstances. Liquidity is mainly ensured through overnight and
term deposits. Credit facilities also exist with banks. These include, in particular, an undrawn
€3.5 billion syndicated credit facility. Additionally, credit facilities totaling €1.5 billion are available
to the Covestro Group.

See also A 3.2.3
and Note 30.2 to
B Consolidated Financial
Statements

176
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Credit risks
See also Note 22 to
B Consolidated Financial
Statements

Credit risks arise from the possibility that the value of receivables or other financial assets of the
Bayer Group may be impaired because counterparties cannot meet their payment or other performance obligations. The maximum default risk is reduced by existing collateral, especially our
global credit insurance programs.
Positive and negative fair values of derivative financial instruments may be netted when certain
conditions are fulfilled. To manage credit risks from trade receivables, the respective invoicing
companies appoint credit managers who regularly analyze customers’ creditworthiness. Some of
these receivables are collateralized, and the collateral is used according to local conditions. It
includes credit insurance, advance payments, letters of credit and guarantees. We generally agree
reservation of title with our customers. Credit limits are set for all customers. All credit limits for
debtors where total exposure is €10 million or more are evaluated by local credit management and
submitted to the Group-wide risk committee of the Finance function. Credit risks from financial
transactions are managed centrally in the Finance department. To minimize risks, financial transactions are only conducted within predefined exposure limits and with banks and other partners
that preferably have investment-grade ratings. All risk limits are based on methodical models, and
adherence to them is continuously monitored.
Opportunities and risks resulting from market price changes

See also Note 30.3 to
B Consolidated Financial
Statements

Opportunities and risks resulting from fluctuating exchange and interest rates in the market are
managed by the Finance function. Risks are avoided or mitigated through the use of derivative
financial instruments. The type and level of currency and interest-rate risks are explained using
sensitivity analyses based on hypothetical changes in risk variables (such as interest curves) to
determine the potential effects of market price fluctuations on equity and earnings. The assumptions used in the sensitivity analyses reflect our view of the changes in currency exchange and
interest rates that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. These assumptions are regularly reviewed.
Foreign currencies

Foreign currency opportunities and risks for the Bayer Group result from changes in exchange
rates and the related changes in the value of financial instruments (including receivables and
payables) and of anticipated payment receipts and disbursements in the functional currency.
Receivables and payables in liquid currencies from operating activities and financial items are
generally fully exchange-hedged through forward exchange contracts and cross-currency interest-rate swaps. Anticipated exposure from planned payment receipts and disbursements in the
future is hedged according to the rules agreed between the Board of Management, the Finance
function and the operating units. Hedging takes place through forward exchange contracts and
currency options.
Sensitivities were determined on the basis of a hypothetical adverse scenario in which the euro
depreciates by 10% against all other currencies compared with the year-end exchange rates. In
this scenario, the estimated hypothetical loss of cash flows from derivative and nonderivative
financial instruments would have diminished earnings and equity (other comprehensive income)
as of December 31, 2016, by €380 million (December 31, 2015: €303 million). Of this amount,
€174 million is related to the U.S. dollar, €58 million to the Chinese renminbi, €57 million to the
Japanese yen and €33 million to the Canadian dollar. Currency effects on anticipated exposure
are not taken into account. Derivatives used to hedge anticipated currency exposure that are
designated for hedge accounting would have diminished other comprehensive income by
€365 million.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

177

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Augmented Version

Interest rates

Interest-rate opportunities and risks result for the Bayer Group through changes in capital market
interest rates, which in turn could lead to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate financial instruments and changes in interest payments in the case of floating-rate instruments. Interest-rate
opportunities and risks are managed over a target duration established by management for Bayer
Group debt. This target duration is subject to regular review. Interest-rate swaps are concluded to
achieve the target structure for Bayer Group debt. A sensitivity analysis based on our net floatingrate receivables and payables position at year end 2016, taking into account the interest rates
relevant for our receivables and payables in all principal currencies, produced the following result:
a hypothetical increase of one percentage point in these interest rates (assuming constant currency exchange rates) as of January 1, 2016, would have raised our interest expense for the year
ended December 31, 2016, by €31 million (December 31, 2015: €29 million).
Financial risks associated with pension obligations

The Bayer Group has obligations to current and former employees related to pensions and other
post-employment benefits. Changes in relevant measurement parameters such as interest rates,
mortality and salary increase rates may raise the present value of our pension obligations. This
may lead to increased costs for pension plans or diminish equity due to actuarial losses being
recognized as other comprehensive income in the statement of comprehensive income. A large
proportion of our pension and other post-employment benefit obligations is covered by plan assets including fixed-income securities, shares, real estate and other investments. Declining or
even negative returns on these investments may adversely affect the future fair value of plan assets. Both these effects may negatively impact the development of equity and / or earnings and / or
may necessitate additional payments by our company. We address the risk of market-related
fluctuations in the fair value of our plan assets through balanced strategic investment, and we
constantly monitor investment risks in regard to our global pension obligations.

See also Note 25 to
B Consolidated Financial
Statements

3.2.3 Planned Acquisition of Monsanto
On September 14, 2016, Bayer signed a definitive merger agreement with Monsanto Company,
St. Louis, Missouri, United States, under which Bayer will acquire all outstanding shares of Monsanto Company. On December 13, 2016, the shareholders of Monsanto Company approved the
transaction by the necessary majority. In order to prepare the future integration of the Monsanto
business, Bayer has initiated a project which will carefully plan the integration process in all business areas so that integration can be achieved after all regulatory approvals have been received.
This process will include risk management applying our existing methods. The integration process
will start after the transaction is closed, which we currently expect before the end of 2017. Bayer
is experienced in successfully integrating acquisitions from a business, geographical and cultural
perspective, and in so doing remains committed to its strong culture of innovation, sustainability
and social responsibility.

Opportunities
Following the successful integration of the Monsanto business, we see additional opportunities for
combining our complementary innovative expertise.
The range and depth of our research and development activities should make it possible to optimize the various technologies so that we can accelerate the time-to-market of enhanced innovations. This optimized product offering to customers in the agriculture sector should contribute to
improving their yields and productivity and contribute to greater sustainability in farming.

See also A 1.2.1 for
Crop Science strategy

178
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Risks
On account of the magnitude and importance of the acquisition, material risks related to the
transaction are listed below. These risks have not been selected on the basis of the BayRisk process described in Chapter 3.2.1 because Bayer and Monsanto remain separate, independent
companies. Instead they have been identified and estimated by the central risk management function based on the information available. The list of risks therefore makes no claim to completeness, nor does the order in which they are listed imply any order of importance.
Requirements for closing

At the present time the possibility cannot be excluded that the planned acquisition will be delayed
or not take place at all. The transaction is still subject to the customary requirements for closing,
including clearance by the relevant antitrust and other authorities. The necessary approvals may
be refused or could be tied to certain divestment actions or other commitments required by regulators of Bayer and / or Monsanto. Such measures could adversely affect our current or future
business, financial position, share price or dividend payments. Furthermore, Bayer may not be
able to effect commitments in a timely manner, or at all, or on economically viable terms.
The merger agreement also provides for payment by Bayer of a US$2 billion reverse break fee
including, in particular, in the event that the necessary antitrust approvals are not granted by June
14, 2018, and Bayer or Monsanto therefore terminates the merger agreement.
Strategic or operational objectives may not be met

Our strategic, synergistic and other operational objectives regarding the acquisition and integration of the Monsanto business are based on assumptions and estimates we have made that may
prove inaccurate, including Monsanto’s earning potential and cost structure, the synergy and
innovation potentials of both companies and future economic developments and market changes.
In addition, difficulties may arise in connection with the acquisition and integration of the Monsanto business that adversely impact our current business or may prevent the expected benefits of
the acquisition from being fully realized. These include the retention of key employees, important
customers, suppliers, partners, licensors or contacts to other stakeholders, unexpected challenges in developing and successfully executing a strategy for the combined business, and risks resulting from management being distracted from the operational business by the agreed transaction. Combining businesses, processes and workforces as intended while retaining multiple
corporate locations could be more complex than expected, partly in view of different corporate
cultures and divergent internal control and compliance systems. The achievement of expectations
in terms of the tax and accounting treatment of the transaction will be subject to a future detailed
review. In light of this, unexpectedly high transaction and integration costs along with further risks
and / or charges cannot be ruled out. It is also possible that we may be forced to recognize an
impairment loss on the intangible assets of Monsanto and the goodwill of Crop Science if unforeseen difficulties were to arise during the integration, if the Monsanto business were to fail to develop as expected or if other business developments affecting Crop Science were to occur that
have not been anticipated.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

179

3.2 Opportunity and Risk Report

Augmented Version

Changes in risk profile

We believe we may face increased or additional risks as a consequence of acquiring and integrating the Monsanto business. However, these risks cannot yet be definitively identified at the present time. Among the possible consequences of taking over the Monsanto business are potential
downgrades in sustainability ratings and increased exposure to public criticism.
Risks from the financing of the planned acquisition

We are also exposed to certain risks from the financing of the planned acquisition. These mainly
result from the need to refinance the original acquisition financing, the increase in debt and the
possible credit rating downgrade by the rating agencies. Risks also arise from the development of
the USD / EUR exchange rate and the interest rate level, as well as from potential difficulties in
refinancing the transaction with equity capital to the extent planned.

3.2.4 Overall Assessment of Opportunities and Risks
by the Board of Management
In the opinion of the Board of Management, based on the current evaluations, none of the risks
described above endanger the company’s continued existence. Nor could we identify any risk
interdependencies that could combine to endanger the company’s continued existence. We note
a tendency for risks to shift toward a higher evaluation level. This is partly due to the increased
sales and earnings expectations for our products. Based on our product portfolio, our know-how
and our innovation strength, we are convinced that we can take advantage of the opportunities
resulting from our entrepreneurial activity and successfully master the challenges resulting from
the risks stated above.

No risks that could
endanger the company’s
existence

180
Augmented Version

The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board have compiled
a complete Corporate
Governance Report,
which is available on the
Bayer AG website at
www.bayer.com/
en/CorporateGovernance.aspx

See also C
Governance Bodies

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.1 Declaration by Corporate Management pursuant to Section 289a and Section 315, Paragraph 5,
of the German Commercial Code

4. Corporate Governance Report
> Conformance with the recommendations of the German Corporate
Governance Code

> Comprehensive compliance system ensures ethical behavior
> New, simplified compensation structure for the Board of Management
in effect

Corporate governance comprises the entire system of managing and supervising an enterprise.
The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of Bayer AG are committed to a responsible and transparent style of management and supervision aimed at increasing the company’s
value over the long term. The Corporate Governance Report conforms with the recommendations
of the German Corporate Governance Code and includes all the information and explanations
required by Section 289, Paragraph 4; Section 289a; and Section 315, Paragraphs 4 and 5, of the
German Commercial Code.

4.1 Declaration by Corporate Management pursuant to
Section 289a and Section 315, Paragraph 5, of the
German Commercial Code
The declaration on corporate governance for Bayer AG and the Bayer Group pursuant to Section
289a of the German Commercial Code forms part of the Combined Management Report. The
information provided pursuant to Section 289a and Section 315, Paragraph 5, of the German
Commercial Code is unaudited pursuant to Section 317, Paragraph 2, Sentence 3, of the German
Commercial Code.

Declaration concerning the German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to
Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act
The declaration issued in
December 2016 concerning the German
Corporate Governance
Code is published on the
Bayer website along with
previous declarations:
www.bayer.com/
corp-gov

In 2016, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of Bayer AG again issued a declaration that they fully complied with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance
Code in the past and intend to maintain full compliance in the future.

Information on corporate governance practices
Objectives for the composition of the Supervisory Board

The Supervisory Board should be composed in such a way that its members together possess the
necessary expertise, skills and professional experience to properly perform their duties. In view
of Bayer AG’s global operations, the Supervisory Board has set itself the goal of always having
several members with international business experience or an international background. A further
objective concerning the composition of the Supervisory Board is that, absent special circumstances, a member should not hold office beyond the end of the next Annual Stockholders’ Meeting following his or her 72nd birthday. With a view to avoiding potential conflicts of interest, the
Supervisory Board has set itself the goal that more than half of the stockholder representatives be
independent. In addition, the Supervisory Board aims for at least three quarters of its total membership (stockholder and employee representatives) to be independent. The Supervisory Board
assesses the independence of its members according to the recommendation contained in Section 5.4.2 of the the German Corporate Governance Code. In assessing independence, the Supervisory Board also considers the criteria given in the recommendation of the European Commis-

A Combined Management Report

181

4.1 Declaration by Corporate Management pursuant to Section 289a and Section 315, Paragraph 5,
of the German Commercial Code

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

sion of February 15, 2005. 1 Finally, the Supervisory Board has set a standard limit on the duration
of any person’s membership of the Supervisory Board in line with the recommendation in Section
5.4.1, Paragraph 2 of the Code. Absent special circumstances, no person should remain a member of the Supervisory Board for more than three full terms of office. For members of the Supervisory Board serving at the time the standard limit was introduced (September 2015) who have
already exceeded this limit or will exceed it by the end of their current term of office, the limit will
be applied with effect from the conclusion of their current term of office.
The stated objectives refer to the Supervisory Board as a whole unless otherwise determined.
However, since the Supervisory Board can only nominate candidates for election as stockholder
representatives, it can only take the objectives into account in these nominations. The objective
for Supervisory Board elections held after January 1, 2016, is that neither women nor men account for less than 30% of the membership.
Implementation status of the objectives

The Supervisory Board has several members with international business experience or an international background. The objective that a member should step down from the Supervisory Board at
the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting following his or her 72nd birthday – absent special circumstances – is being met. Two members of the Supervisory Board were previously members of the
company’s Board of Management: Werner Wenning was Chairman of the Board of Management
until 2010, and Prof. Dr. Wolfgang Plischke was a member of the Board of Management until
2014. However, neither Werner Wenning nor Prof. Dr. Wolfgang Plischke has any personal or
business relationship with the company or a governance body of the company that in the opinion
of the Supervisory Board gives rise to a material conflict of interest of a more than temporary nature.
There are no indications of any possible lack of independence in the case of the other Supervisory
Board members. Thus the Supervisory Board considers all of its members to be independent. The
proportion of women is currently 25% on the Supervisory Board as a whole and 30% among the
stockholder representatives. The election of new employee representatives to the Supervisory
Board with effect from the end of the 2017 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and the election of
stockholder representatives by the 2017 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting will result in an increase in
the proportion of women on the Supervisory Board as a whole to at least 30%.
Objectives regarding the proportion of women on the Board of Management and
the first two management levels

The Supervisory Board aims to ensure that there is at least one woman serving on the company’s
Board of Management. This corresponded to a share of 12.5% for the eight-member Board that
existed at the beginning of the year, or about 14.3% for the seven-member Board now serving.
The Board of Management has set objectives of 20% women on the first management level and
28% women on the second management level. These objectives are to be attained by June 30,
2017.

In the future, there
should be at least one
woman on the Board of
Management.

Securities transactions by members of governance bodies

Members of the Board of Management or Supervisory Board and persons with whom they have
close relationships are legally obligated to report own-account transactions in shares or debt securities of Bayer AG, associated derivatives or other associated financial instruments to Bayer AG
and the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) as soon as the total volume of
their transactions within a calendar year has reached the €5,000 threshold. The transactions reported to Bayer AG in 2016 were duly published and can be viewed on the company’s website.

1

Annex 2 to the recommendation of the European Commission of February 15, 2005, on the role of nonexecutive or supervisory
directors of listed companies and on the committees of the (supervisory) board (2005/162/EC)

https://www.bayer.com/
en/disclosure-ofsecuritiestransactions.aspx

182
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.1 Declaration by Corporate Management pursuant to Section 289a and Section 315, Paragraph 5,
of the German Commercial Code

The Board of Management and Supervisory Board members’ total holdings in Bayer AG shares or
associated financial instruments, as reported to the company, on the closing date for the financial
statements were equivalent to less than 1% of the issued shares.

Description of the procedures of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board
and the composition and procedures of their committees
Online Annex: A 4.1-1

Duties and activities of the Board of Management
The Board of Management runs the Company on its own responsibility with the goal of sustainably increasing the company’s enterprise value and achieving defined corporate objectives. The
Board of Management performs its tasks according to the law, the Articles of Incorporation and
the Board’s rules of procedure, and works with the company’s other governance bodies in a
spirit of trust.
The Board of Management of Bayer AG defines the long-term goals and the strategies for the
company and the Group and sets forth the principles and directives for the resulting corporate
policies. It coordinates and monitors the most important activities, defines the portfolio, develops and deploys managerial staff, allocates resources and decides on the Group’s financial
steering and reporting.
The members of the Board of Management bear joint responsibility for running the business as
a whole. However, the individual members manage the areas assigned to them on their own responsibility within the framework of the decisions made by the full Board. The allocation of
functions among the members of the Board of Management is defined in a written schedule.
The full Board of Management makes decisions on all matters of fundamental importance and
in cases where a decision of the full Board is prescribed by law or otherwise mandatory. The
rules of procedure of the Board of Management contain a list of topics that must be dealt with
and resolved by the full Board.
Meetings of the Board of Management are held regularly. They are convened by the Chairman
of the Board of Management. Any member of the Board of Management may also demand that
a meeting be convened. The Board of Management makes decisions by a simple majority of
the votes cast, except where unanimity is required by law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman
has the casting vote.
According to the Board of Management’s rules of procedure and the functional responsibilities
assigned to its members, the Chairman bears particular responsibility for leading and coordinating the Board’s work. He represents the company and the Group in dealings with third parties and the workforce on matters relating to more than one part of the company or the Group.
He also bears special responsibility for certain functions.
Effective January 1, 2016, the Board of Management was enlarged by three members as part
of the Bayer Group’s sole focus on the Life Science business and the associated reorganization. In addition to the function of Board Chairman and the three functions newly created as of
January 1, 2016, each of which has special responsibility for one of the operating divisions,
there were initially four further functions: Strategy and Portfolio Management; Finance; Human
Resources, Technology and Sustainability (the incumbent also serving as Labor Director); and
Innovation. With the appointment of the new Chairman of the Board of Management effective
May 1, 2016, the Strategy and Portfolio Management function was allocated to the Chairman.
A Deal Committee was established within the Board of Management to make the final decisions
on corporate acquisitions, divestments or licensing transactions above a defined medium size.
There are no other committees within the Board of Management.

A Combined Management Report

183

4.1 Declaration by Corporate Management pursuant to Section 289a and Section 315, Paragraph 5,
of the German Commercial Code

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Supervisory Board: oversight and control functions
The role of the 20-member Supervisory Board is to oversee and advise the Board of Management. Under the German Codetermination Act, half the Supervisory Board’s members are
elected by the stockholders, and half by the company’s employees. The Supervisory Board is
directly involved in decisions on matters of fundamental importance to the company, regularly
conferring with the Board of Management on the company’s strategic alignment and the implementation status of the business strategy.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates its work and presides over the meetings.
Through regular discussions with the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board is kept
constantly informed of business policy, corporate planning and strategy. The Supervisory Board
approves the annual budget and financial framework. It also approves the financial statements
of Bayer AG and the consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group along with the combined management report, taking into account the reports by the auditor.

Committees of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board has the following committees:
Presidial Committee: This comprises the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory

Board along with a further stockholder representative and a further employee representative.
The Presidial Committee serves primarily as the mediation committee pursuant to the German
Codetermination Act. It has the task of submitting proposals to the Supervisory Board on the
appointment of members of the Board of Management if the necessary two-thirds majority is
not achieved in the first vote at a plenary meeting. Certain decision-making powers in connection with capital measures, including the power to amend the Articles of Incorporation accordingly, have also been delegated to this committee. In addition, the Supervisory Board may assign specific responsibilities to the Presidial Committee on a case-by-case basis. The Presidial
Committee may also make preparations for Supervisory Board meetings.
Audit Committee: The Audit Committee comprises three stockholder representatives and three

employee representatives. The Chairman of the Audit Committee in 2016, Dr. Klaus Sturany,
meets the statutory requirements concerning the expertise in the field of accounting or auditing
that a member of the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee is required to possess. The
Audit Committee meets regularly four times a year. Its principal tasks are to oversee the financial reporting process, the effectiveness and ongoing development of the internal control system, the risk management system, the internal audit system, the compliance system and the
audit of the financial statements. It prepares the decisions of the Supervisory Board pertaining
to the financial statements, the management report, the proposal for the use of the distributable profit, the consolidated financial statements, the Group management report and the agreements with the external auditor, including, in particular, the audit contract, the definition of audit
priorities and the fee agreement. The Audit Committee submits a proposal to the Supervisory
Board concerning the auditor’s appointment and takes appropriate steps to ascertain and
oversee the auditor’s independence. In particular, it verifies whether the financial statements
were prepared in accordance with the statutory requirements and give a true and fair view of
the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the company and the Group. At
each of its meetings, the Audit Committee discusses new developments in the area of compliance where necessary. The Chairman of the Board of Management and the Chief Financial Officer regularly attended the meetings. Representatives of the auditor also attended all of the
meetings, reporting in detail on the audit work and the audit reviews of the quarterly financial
reports.
Human Resources Committee: On this committee, too, there is parity of representation be-

tween stockholders and employees. It consists of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and
three other Supervisory Board members. The Human Resources Committee prepares the personnel decisions of the full Supervisory Board, which resolves on appointments or revocations
of appointments of members of the Board of Management. The Human Resources Committee

184
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.2 Compliance

resolves on behalf of the Supervisory Board on the service contracts of the members of the
Board of Management. However, it is the task of the full Supervisory Board to resolve on the total compensation of the individual members of the Board of Management and the respective
compensation components, as well as to regularly review the compensation system on the basis of recommendations submitted by the Human Resources Committee. The Human Resources Committee also discusses the long-term succession planning for the Board of Management.
Nominations Committee: This committee carries out preparatory work when an election of

stockholder representatives to the Supervisory Board is to be held. It suggests suitable candidates for the Supervisory Board to propose to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election.
The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the other
stockholder representative on the Presidial Committee.
Innovation Committee: The Innovation Committee is primarily concerned with the innovation
strategy and innovation management, the strategy for protection of intellectual property, and
Bayer’s major research and development projects. Within its area of responsibility, the committee advises and oversees the management and prepares any Supervisory Board decisions. The
committee comprises the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and five other members, with
parity of representation between stockholder and employee representatives. The Chairman of
the Board of Management and the member of the Board of Management responsible for innovation regularly attend the meetings of the Innovation Committee.

The Report of the Supervisory Board in this Annual Report provides details about the work of the
Supervisory Board and its committees.

4.2 Compliance
www.bayer.com/
compliance

www.covestro.com/en/
company/corporatecompliance

Bayer manages its businesses responsibly and in compliance with the statutory and regulatory
requirements of the countries in which it operates. We define compliance as legally and ethically
impeccable conduct by all employees in their daily work, because the way they carry out their
duties affects our company’s reputation. We do not tolerate any violation of laws, codes of conduct or internal regulations. Compliance is essential for our long-term economic success.
Covestro has established its own compliance organization and an internal audit department with
systems and processes similar to those at Bayer. This chapter does not include compliance information for Covestro.

Global Corporate Compliance Policy
The Board of Management is unreservedly committed to compliance, and Bayer will forgo any
business transaction that would violate the compliance principles in force throughout the Bayer
Group. These principles are enshrined in our Corporate Compliance Policy, which was revised in
2016. The new version is currently being rolled out to Bayer companies in all countries.
Online Annex: A 4.2-1

In our Corporate Compliance Policy we commit ourselves to the following principles:
> Antitrust: fair competition in our markets
> Anticorruption: integrity in our business dealings at all times
> Corporate responsibility: sustainability, safety and product stewardship
> Foreign trade law: observance of relevant trade controls
> Insider trading: safeguarding of equal opportunity in securities trading
> Accurate books and records: complete and detailed recording of our business activities and

financial transactions

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

185

4.2 Compliance

Augmented Version

> Fairness and respect at work: treating one another with fairness and respect
> Intellectual property: safeguarding our own intellectual property and respecting that of others
> Avoiding conflicts of interest: separation of business and personal interests
> Privacy: precautions to protect and secure personal data

Every employee is required to observe these rules and to immediately report any violation of the
Corporate Compliance Policy. This general reporting requirement does not apply in France due to
peculiarities of national law.
Bayer’s senior managers serve as role models and therefore have a vital part to play in implementing the Corporate Compliance Policy. They may lose their entitlement to variable compensation
components and be subject to further disciplinary measures if violations of applicable law or internal regulations have occurred in their sphere of responsibility. Compliant and lawful conduct also
factors into the performance evaluations of all managerial employees.
Adherence to the Corporate Compliance Policy is among the subjects covered in all audits conducted by Bayer’s Internal Audit. The planning of these audits follows a function- and risk-based
approach that also takes a corruption perceptions index into account. The largest companies,
which together account for about 80% of Group sales, are generally subjected to on-site audits at
three-year intervals. A total of 171 compliance audits were completed in 2016, of which 36 were
preventive or incident-related audits. The head of Internal Audit and the Group Compliance Officer
regularly attend the meetings of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board, presenting a
summary of conducted audits and their outcomes at least once a year.

Corruption Perceptions
Index: see Glossary

Established compliance organization
The Bayer Group’s compliance organization is headed by the Group Compliance Officer, who
regularly reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Management and to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. A central compliance department supports the Group Compliance
Officer in steering and implementing the Group-wide compliance activities. This department is
staffed with specialized compliance business partners whose responsibilities include establishing
business- and industry-specific standards in the divisions, Group functions and service companies. In addition, at least one compliance business partner is available at each site to answer
questions from all employees regarding lawful and ethical behavior in business-related situations.
The mission and goals of Bayer’s compliance organization are set forth in a Compliance Charter.
This relies on early prevention and forms the basis for proactive, risk-based collaboration within
the company. For compliance to continue developing as a permanent, active part of Bayer’s corporate culture, it needs to remain firmly anchored in all units and in all work processes. The
Group-wide compliance management system is based on partnerships with the operational business and features dialogue, transparency and continuous improvement. It also includes the systematic punishment of compliance violations.
Compliance violations can be reported – anonymously if desired – via a compliance hotline that
has been set up worldwide and which is also accessible to the general public. In 2016 the compliance organization received a total of 220 reports in this way (including 159 anonymous reports),
with 9 reports coming from Germany and 211 from other countries. Alternatively, suspected compliance violations may also be reported to the respective compliance functions in Germany or the
country organizations, or to Internal Audit. All cases are recorded according to uniform criteria
throughout the Group and dealt with under the rules set forth in Bayer’s Policy on the Management of Compliance Incidents.

See also A 3.2.1

186
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.2 Compliance

Online Annex: A 4.2-2

Where an investigation confirms that a compliance violation has occurred, the company has a
graduated set of measures at its disposal. These include a verbal warning or written reprimand,
transfer to a different unit, cancellation of a planned promotion, a reduction in the short-term
incentive payment, downgrading to a lower collectively agreed pay rate or managerial contract
level, and ordinary or extraordinary termination. Bayer also reserves the right to assert further
claims against the employee for cost reimbursement or damages and/or initiate criminal proceedings. The action taken in a particular case depends on the gravity of the compliance violation and on applicable law.

Comprehensive compliance training and communications
Group target: annual
compliance training for
close to 100% of Bayer
managers;
see also A 1.2.1

Group-wide training programs tailored to requirements and target groups, along with extensive
communications activities, help to further raise the employees’ awareness for compliance issues
and the risks involved. At the same time, this training familiarizes them both with the Corporate
Compliance Policy and with statutory regulations. We have set a Group target requiring all Bayer’s
managerial employees worldwide to complete at least one compliance training program each year.
In 2016, this was achieved by 33,659 employees or around 97% of Bayer managers.
Online Annex: A 4.2-3

The aim of these targeted training programs is to ensure that employees do not overstep
boundaries out of ignorance or uncertainty. Our compliance training programs reflect the main
compliance risk areas and are available in various formats to meet the training needs of different employee groups. Some take the form of web-based training (WBT) programs, while others
involve face-to-face training sessions or workshops.

See also A 1.4.2.3

In 2016, we implemented a new global web-based training program in 44 countries on the subject of “Fairness and respect at work.” This program, currently available in 9 languages, has already been completed by 32,141 employees.
New hires and employees switching to different areas of responsibility within Bayer regularly
undergo training according to their functions.
In view of the particularly strict compliance rules in health care, we offer special training programs for the employees working with stakeholders in this field.
In 2016, compliance was again the subject of wide-ranging internal communications activities,
one area of focus being the presentation and global distribution of the newly updated Corporate Compliance Policy. Employees were given additional information on various compliancerelated topics, with a focus on “fairness and respect in the workplace.”

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

187

4.3 Compensation Report

Augmented Version

4.3 Compensation Report
The Compensation Report describes the essential features of the compensation packages for the
members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of Bayer AG and explains the
compensation the individual members were granted or received for the 2016 fiscal year. The report complies with the requirements of the applicable financial reporting standards for publicly
traded companies (German Commercial Code [HGB], German Accounting Standards [DRS] and
the International Financial Reporting Standard [IFRS]) as well as with the recommendations contained in the current version of the German Corporate Governance Code.

4.3.1 Compensation of the Board of Management
Adjustment of the compensation system effective January 1, 2016
The compensation system for the Board of Management of Bayer AG is aligned to the corporate
strategy and geared toward performance-driven, sustainable corporate governance and an appropriate compensation structure and level. The compensation structure in the Bayer Group is, in
principle, the same for the Board of Management as for all other managerial employees. The nature and appropriateness of the compensation system for the members of the Board of Management are determined by the full Supervisory Board on the proposal of the Human Resources
Committee of the Supervisory Board, regularly reviewed and adjusted as necessary. All of the
assessment criteria recommended in Section 4.2.2 of the German Corporate Governance Code
are taken into account. An independent compensation consultant has confirmed that the compensation is appropriate and on a customary level.
Upon conducting a comprehensive review of the compensation system at the end of 2015, the
Supervisory Board identified a need for adjustments, mainly in light of the Group’s new divisional
structure, which came into effect on January 1, 2016, the enlargement of the Board of Management by three new members with operational responsibilities, and the target positioning in relation
to the other DAX companies. The adjusted compensation system for the members of the Board of
Management was approved by a large majority at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on April 29,
2016.

Compensation structure simplified to enhance transparency
Under the new compensation structure for the Board of Management of Bayer AG, the previous
ratio of the non-performance-related components (about 30%) to the performance-related
variable components (about 70%) is basically unchanged. The compensation components under
the new system are as follows, assuming 100% target attainment by a member of the Board of
Management:
A 4.3.1/1

Compensation Structure Based on 100% Target Attainment

Non-performance-related
compensation
~ 30% Fixed annual

1

compensation 1

Performance-related compensation
~ 40%

Long-term stock-based
cash compensation via Aspire 2.0

~ 30%

Short-term annual variable
cash compensation

Excluding fringe benefits and pension entitlements

The structure of the non-performance-related components is the same as before. The adjustments mainly concern the performance-related variable components. These now comprise a vari-

The compensation of the
Board of Management is
linked to the sustained
growth of corporate
value.

188
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.3 Compensation Report

able annual cash payment (STI = short-term incentive) based on target attainment, which is paid
out entirely in cash in the following year, and a long-term variable cash payment (LTI = long-term
incentive). The system for the new LTI program was also adjusted and is based on stockholder
return. The individual performance-related components are capped upon payment. There is also a
cap on the total cash compensation. This amounts to 1.8 times the respective target compensation and is determined annually when the fixed compensation is set.
The members of the Board of Management also receive pension entitlements for themselves and
their surviving dependents.
Non-performance-related components
Fixed annual compensation

The level of the non-performance-related, fixed annual compensation takes into account the functions and responsibilities assigned to the members of the Board of Management as well as market
conditions. The fixed annual compensation is regularly reviewed by the Supervisory Board in light
of the consumer price indexes and adjusted if necessary. It is paid out in twelve monthly installments.
Fringe benefits

This component mainly includes perquisites such as a company car with driver or the use of the
company carpool, payments toward the cost of security equipment, and the reimbursement of the
cost of annual health screening examinations. Fringe benefits are reported at cost or the amount
of the pecuniary advantage gained.
Performance-related components
Short-term variable cash compensation
The compensation
structure provides for
both non-performancerelated and performance-related components.

The short-term variable cash compensation (STI) depends on the company’s business success in
the respective year. The level of the STI is determined by the target attainment for three subcomponents – the Group component, the divisional component and the individual performance component – each of which is given a one-third weighting in the performance evaluation. The performance evaluation takes into account both positive and negative developments. As part of the
adjustment of the compensation system starting in 2016, the individual target parameters for the
STI were adjusted to the new organizational structure of the Group and the payment of the STI
was simplified. The entire amount of the STI is now paid out in cash in the second quarter of the
following year. The previous 50:50 split of the STI into a cash payment and a grant of virtual Bayer
shares blocked for three years has been abolished. The STI continues to be capped at a total of
200%.
The individual target parameters of the three subcomponents of the STI for 2016 are calculated as
follows:
> The Group component continues to be based on the core earnings per share of the Group and
remains capped at 200%.
> The divisional component is incentivized based on the average performance of the divisions
and remains capped at 300%. For the members of the Board of Management with functional
responsibility, this component is based on the average performance of the divisions, weighted
as follows: Pharmaceuticals 50%, Consumer Health 20%, Crop Science (including Animal
Health) 30%. For the Board members with divisional responsibility, however, this one-third of
the STI is incentivized entirely on the basis of the respective division’s earnings. Covestro is not
included in the divisional component as it has become legally and economically independent.
The assessment of divisional performance comprises a 70% component linked to the
attainment of financial targets in relation to the EBITDA margin before special items and
divisional sales growth, and a 30% component based on the attainment of qualitative goals in
areas such as innovative progress, safety, compliance and sustainability.
> The target attainment criteria for the individual performance component have been made more
precise. Now, 50% of this component relates to the duties and resulting personal targets of the
respective member of the Board of Management and 50% to his or her individual contribution

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

189

4.3 Compensation Report

Augmented Version

to the attainment of the Group targets. The individual targets for the members of the Board of
Management are determined annually by the Supervisory Board, which also assesses their
attainment.
A 4.3.1/2

Short-Term Variable Cash Compensation (STI) Components
STI

Group component

Divisional component

Individual component

1/3 of STI target value

1/3 of STI target value

1/3 of STI target value

Based on Group target
attainment (core earnings per
share)

Based on the attainment of
financial (70%) and qualitative
(30%) targets by the divisions

Based on individual performance
(50%) and individual contribution
to Group targets (50%)

Board members with functional responsibility
Average performance of the Pharmaceuticals
(50%), Consumer Health (20%) and Crop
Science (30%) divisions

Board members with divisional responsibility
Performance of the respective division (100%)

Long-term stock-based cash compensation (LTI)

Members of the Board of Management are eligible to participate in the annual tranches of the
long-term stock-based compensation program “Aspire” on condition that they purchase a certain
number of Bayer shares – determined for each individual according to specific guidelines – as a
personal investment and hold them for as long as they continue in the service of the Bayer Group.
A new version of Bayer’s “Aspire” program (Aspire 2.0) was introduced in fiscal 2016 as part of the
adjustment of the compensation system for the Board of Management. The target amounts for the
new Aspire 2.0 tranche issued in 2016 are based on a contractually agreed target percentage of
the fixed annual compensation. The starting value is also partly determined by the individual STI
payment factor for the Board member concerned for the year prior to the issuance of the respective tranche. The cash payment amounts are determined after four years based on the average
share price calculated over the last 30 trading days of the fiscal year, the performance of Bayer
stock relative to the EUROSTOXX 50 and the dividends paid in the meantime (total stockholder
return approach). The cap for Aspire 2.0 is 250%, compared to 300% under the predecessor
program. Thus the new compensation system maintains consistency between the Board of Management and other management levels, except that for the Board of Management an additional
performance measure has been included in the LTI program in the form of the comparison to the
EUROSTOXX 50 mentioned above.
The payments made under the tranches of the Aspire program issued in the years up to 2015
continue to be based until their expiration on the Aspire Target Opportunity, which is a contractually agreed percentage of fixed annual compensation. Depending on the performance of Bayer
stock, both in absolute terms and relative to the EURO STOXX 50 benchmark index, participants
are granted an award of between 0% and a maximum 300% of their individual Aspire Target Opportunity at the end of the respective performance periods.

The payout / performance matrix according
to the absolute and
relative development
of Bayer’s share price
is explained at
www.investor.bayer.com
/en/stock/stockprograms/aspire/

190

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.3 Compensation Report

Augmented Version

A 4.3.1/3

Tranches of the Aspire Program
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2012 – 2015
2013 – 2016

Aspire tranches issued
under the former
compensation system

2014 – 2017
2015 – 2018
2016 – 2019

Aspire 2.0 tranche

Performance periods

When a member of the Board of Management retires, current Aspire tranches may be shortened,
thus reducing their value, depending on the duration of the member’s active service on the Board
of Management during the first year of the tranche.
Share Ownership Guidelines

As a condition for receiving payments under the LTI program, members of the Board of Management must meet certain requirements regarding their personal investment in Bayer stock. Starting
in 2016, they are required to build a position in Bayer shares to the value of 75% of their fixed
annual compensation within four years and hold these shares until the end of their service on the
Board of Management. The Board of Management members must provide documentary evidence
of their compliance with this obligation, first at the end of the four-year position-building period
and then yearly thereafter. In the event of significant changes in fixed annual compensation, the
value to which shares must be held is adjusted accordingly.
Pension entitlements (retirement and surviving dependents’ pensions)

The annual pension entitlement for members of the Board of Management is based on contributions. Each year Bayer provides a hypothetical contribution amounting to 42% (33% up to 2015)
of the respective fixed annual compensation. This percentage is comprised of a basic contribution
of 6% and a matching contribution of 36% (27% up to 2015), which is four times (three times up
to 2015) the member’s personal contribution of 9%. The increase in the matching contribution
effective from 2016 was made to bring the contribution-based company pension plan into line
with market conditions. The total annual contribution is converted into a pension module according to the annuity table for the applicable tariff of the Rheinische Pensionskasse VVaG pension
fund. The annual pension entitlement upon retirement is the total amount of the accumulated
pension modules including an investment bonus. The investment bonus is determined annually
based on the net return on the assets of the Rheinische Pensionskasse VVaG minus the minimum
return on the contributions that is guaranteed under the tariff and approved by the German Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). Future pension payments are annually reviewed and adjusted to
take into account the development of consumer prices.
In addition, special individual arrangements exist for the following members of the Board of Management:
> Werner Baumann – has been granted a vested entitlement to an annual pension of €200

thousand starting on his 60th birthday. This is subject to a prorated reduction in the event that
his term of office ends prior to his 60th birthday under certain conditions.
> Dr. Marijn Dekkers – is entitled to receive either a lifelong monthly annuity or a capital sum after
leaving the Bayer Group, though not before the age of 60. He has opted for payment of a
lifelong monthly annuity.
> Kemal Malik – has been granted a vested entitlement to an annual pension of €80 thousand
starting on his 65th birthday. This is subject to a prorated reduction in the event that his term of
office ends prior to his 65th birthday under certain conditions.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

191

4.3 Compensation Report

Augmented Version

> Erica Mann – has the option to receive either a lifelong monthly annuity or a capital sum when

her pension benefits fall due.
Certain assets are administered by Bayer Pension Trust e.V. under a contractual trust arrangement
(CTA) to cover pension entitlements resulting from direct commitments in Germany. This provides
substantial additional security – beyond the benefits from the Pension Insurance Association – for
the respective pension entitlements of the members of the Board of Management in Germany.
Benefits upon termination of service on the Board of Management
Post-contractual noncompete agreements

Post-contractual noncompete agreements exist with the members of the Board of Management,
providing for compensatory payments to be made by the company for the two-year duration of
these agreements. The compensatory payment amounts to 100% of the average fixed compensation for the twelve months preceding their departure.
Change of control

Agreements exist with the members of the Board of Management providing for severance indemnity in certain circumstances in the event of a change in control. The amount of any possible severance indemnity in the case of early termination of service on the Board of Management as a
result of a change in control is limited to the value of three years’ compensation in line with the
recommendation in Section 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code. Such payments do
not exceed the compensation payable for the remaining term of the service contract.
Unfitness for work

In the event of temporary unfitness for work, members of the Board of Management continue to
receive the contractually agreed compensation. Bayer AG may early terminate the service contract
if the Board member has been continuously unfit for work for at least 18 months and is likely to be
permanently incapable of fully performing his or her duties (permanent incapacity to work). A disability pension is paid in the event of contract termination before the age of 60 due to permanent
incapacity to work. For the members appointed to the Board of Management prior to 2013, the
disability pension, like the retirement pension, amounts to at least 15% of the final fixed compensation and can increase with continuing service on the Board of Management up to a maximum of
60%. For members of the Board of Management appointed in 2013 or thereafter, the amount of
the disability pension under the service contract corresponds to the entitlement accrued on the
date of contract termination, taking into account a fictitious period of service between that date
and the member’s 55th birthday, where applicable.

Compensation of the Board of Management in 2016
The aggregate compensation for the members of the Board of Management in 2016 totaled
€28,445 thousand (2015: €17,918 thousand), comprising €7,049 thousand (2015:
€4,662 thousand) in non-performance-related components and €21,396 thousand (2015:
€13,256 thousand) in performance-related components. The pension service cost amounted to
€2,887 thousand (2015: €1,847 thousand).
Changes in the membership of the Board of Management in 2016 were as follows:
> Effective January 1, 2016, Dr. Hartmut Klusik succeeded Michael König as the member of the

Board of Management responsible for Human Resources, Technology and Sustainability.
> In addition to the existing functions, three further functions were created effective January 1,

2016, which bear special responsibility for the newly defined operating divisions of the Group.
The following new members were appointed to the Board of Management:
> Dieter Weinand, responsible for the Pharmaceuticals Division
> Erica Mann, responsible for the Consumer Health Division
> Liam Condon, responsible for the Crop Science Division
> The Board of Management service contract of Dr. Marijn Dekkers was early terminated by
mutual agreement effective April 30, 2016.

Compensation structure
adapted to new organizational structure

192
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.3 Compensation Report

> Werner Baumann was appointed Chairman of the Board of Management of Bayer AG in

succession to Dr. Dekkers effective May 1, 2016.
As of December 31, 2016, the Board of Management of Bayer AG consisted of seven members.
The following table shows the total compensation of the individual members of the Board of Management who served in 2015 and / or 2016 according to the German Commercial Code:
A 4.3.1/4

Board of Management Compensation (German Commercial Code)

Fixed annual
compensation

Fringe
benefits

Long-term variable
cash compensation
based on virtual
Bayer shares
(50% STI) 2

Short-term
variable cash
compensation1

Long-term
stock-based
cash
compensation
(Aspire) 3

Aggregate
compensation

2015

2016

2015

2016

No. of
€ thousand shares
2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2,329 10,377

Pension
service cost 4
€ thousand

2015

2016

2015

2016

Serving members
of the Board of
Management as of
December 31, 2016
Werner Baumann
(Chairman) 5

906

1,285

47

47

1,237

1,237

–

262

1,983

3,689

5,644

227

764

–

800

–

44

–

1,106

–

–

–

–

1,624

–

3,574

–

330

Johannes Dietsch

725

750

44

83

917

978

7,698

917

–

210

1,522

2,813

3,333

220

318

Dr. Hartmut Klusik

–

750

–

140

–

1,053

–

–

–

–

1,522

–

3,465

–

316

725

775

40

35

917

1,050

7,698

917

–

210

1,573

2,809

3,433

222

318

Erica Mann

–

750

–

182

–

798

–

–

–

–

1,522

–

3,252

–

219

Dieter Weinand

–

800

–

34

–

1,274

–

–

–

–

1,623

–

3,731

–

240

1,374

475

40

99

1,995

475 16,739

382

725

–

36

–

917

4,455

6,385

207

664

5,983

Liam Condon

Kemal Malik

Former members
Dr. Marijn Dekkers 6
Michael König
Total

1,995

–

398

964

5,802

2,013

967

7,698

917

–

210

–

2,805

–

211

–

9,063 50,210

5,983

–

1,290 12,333 17,918 28,445

1,847

2,887

–

1

In line with the change in the compensation system for the members of the Board of Management, the entire amount of the STI is paid out in cash, starting with the
STI for 2016. The 50:50 split of the STI into a cash payment and a grant of virtual Bayer shares blocked for three years was last made for 2015.
2
The long-term variable cash compensation based on virtual Bayer shares was discontinued as of 2016.
3
Fair value at grant date; the figure for 2016 includes the new Aspire 2.0 tranche. For Dr. Marijn Dekkers, 4/12 of the grant amount for Aspire 2.0 is shown.
4
Including company contribution to Bayer-Pensionskasse VVaG, Rheinische Pensionskasse VVaG and to a pension fund outside Germany
5
The increased variable compensation for Werner Baumann in 2015 resulted mainly from his temporary duties as head of Bayer HealthCare in addition to his primary
responsibilities as a member of the Board of Management.
6
Dr. Marijn Dekkers additionally received a severance payment of €4,341 thousand. This puts him in the same position as if he had held office until December 31,
2016, and had then retired.

Fixed annual compensation

The fixed annual compensation of the members of the Board of Management was adjusted in
2016. The total fixed annual compensation of all the members was €6,385 thousand (2015:
€4,455 thousand).
Short-term variable cash compensation

The total short-term variable cash compensation for all the members of the Board of Management
in 2016 totaled €9,063 thousand (2015: €5,983 thousand) after deduction of the solidarity contribution. Provisions of €8,588 thousand (2015: €5,983 thousand) were established for payment of
this compensation component to the members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, 2016. The solidarity contribution is made by all employees of the companies covered
by the respective agreements with the employee representatives to help safeguard jobs at the
German sites. For 2016 it amounted to 0.27% (2015: 0.20%) of each person’s STI award.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

193

4.3 Compensation Report

Augmented Version

Long-term variable cash compensation based on virtual Bayer shares

This compensation component was not present in 2016 following the adjustment of the compensation system for the Board of Management effective January 1, 2016.
The conversion of 50% of the STI into virtual Bayer shares took place for the last time in 2015 and
was based on an average price of €119.17. The aggregate compensation for 2015 according to
the German Commercial Code includes long-term variable cash compensation of €5,983 thousand based on virtual Bayer shares. The aggregate compensation for 2016 according to the IFRS
also includes a change of minus €1,275 thousand (2015: €556 thousand) in the value of existing
entitlements.

See also description of
the new compensation
system

Provisions of €7,777 thousand (2015: €18,663 thousand) existed as of December 31, 2016, for
the future cash disbursements to currently serving members of the Board of Management based
on the virtual Bayer shares granted in previous years. This amount also contains the dividends
attributable to the respective prior years.
Long-term stock-based cash compensation (Aspire)

The long-term stock-based cash compensation under the Aspire program is included in
the aggregate compensation according to the German Commercial Code at its fair value of
€12,333 thousand (2015: €1,290 thousand) at the respective grant date.
The aggregate compensation according to the IFRS includes the fair value of the partial entitlement earned in the respective year. Grants of stock-based compensation with a four-year performance period are therefore expensed at their respective fair values over four years starting with
the grant year. The stock-based compensation according to the IFRS also includes the change in
the value of existing entitlements under ongoing Aspire tranches granted in prior years.
A 4.3.1/5

Board of Management Compensation – Aspire Program (IFRS)
Serving members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016
Werner
Baumann
(Chairman)

€ thousand

Stock-based
compensation
entitlements
earned in the
respective year1

2016

715

Liam Johannes
Condon Dietsch 3
506

413

225

Dr.
Hartmut
Klusik

Kemal
Malik 3

414

431

–

263

Erica
Mann
848

369

Dr.
Marijn
Dekkers

Michael
König 3

Total

1,521

–

5,217

–

980

265

2,330

(69)

(284)

–

(923)

2015

597

–

Change in value
of existing
entitlements 2

2016

(120)

(83)

2015

71

–

21

–

48

–

–

108

24

272

Total

2016

595

423

356

367

333

683

300

1,237

–

4,294

2015

668

–

246

–

311

–

–

1,088

289

2,602

(57)

(47)

(98)

–

Dieter
Weinand

Former members

(165)

1

The newly earned entitlements are derived from the 2013 – 2016 (2015: 2012 – 2015) tranches of the Aspire program because this compensation was or is being
earned over a four-year period. They are stated at their prorated fair values in 2015 and 2016, respectively.
2
This line shows the change in the value of the entitlements already earned in 2013, 2014 and 2015 (2015: 2012, 2013 and 2014).
3
The Aspire entitlements earned in 2015 and 2016 and the value changes for Liam Condon, Johannes Dietsch, Dr. Hartmut Klusik, Kemal Malik, Erica Mann,
Dieter Weinand and Michael König relate in part to Aspire tranches granted to them before they joined the Board of Management but not yet fully earned.

Provisions of €7,288 thousand (2015: €7,110 thousand) were established for the Aspire entitlements of the members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, 2016. Of this
amount, €302 thousand relates to the tranches issued up to 2015 and €2,314 thousand to the
2016 tranche.

194

A Combined Management Report

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.3 Compensation Report

Pension entitlements

The pension service cost recognized for the members of the Board of Management in 2016
according to the German Commercial Code was €2,887 thousand (2015: €1,847 thousand), while
the current service cost for pension entitlements recognized according to the IFRS was
€3,902 thousand (2015: €2,891 thousand). The following table shows the service cost and the
settlement or present value of the pension obligations attributable to the individual members of the
Board of Management.
A 4.3.1/6

Pension Entitlements (German Commercial Code and IFRS)
German Commercial Code

IFRS

Settlement value of
pension obligation
as of December 31 2

Present value of defined
benefit pension
Current service cost for
obligation
pension entitlements
as of December 31

Pension service cost 1
2015

2016

2015

227

764

–

330

Johannes Dietsch

220

Dr. Hartmut Klusik

€ thousand

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

7,022

7,452

385

1,054

10,131

12,429

–

2,151

–

487

–

3,860

318

2,681

2,854

355

431

3,995

4,882

–

316

–

4,533

–

399

–

6,782

Serving members of the
Board of Management as of
December 31, 2016
Werner Baumann (Chairman)
Liam Condon

Kemal Malik

222

318

516

1,990

372

438

1,700

2,507

Erica Mann

–

219

–

7,199

–

288

–

7,232

Dieter Weinand

–

240

–

468

–

322

–

735

967

382

11,014

–

483

14,106

_

Former members
Dr. Marijn Dekkers 3
Michael König
Total

4

1,418

211

–

2,371

–

361

–

3,559

–

1,847

2,887

23,604

26,647

2,891

3,902

33,491

38,427

1

Including company contribution to Bayer-Pensionskasse VVaG, Rheinische Pensionskasse VVaG and a pension fund outside Germany
The pension obligations of foreign subsidiaries and Bayer pension funds are included at present value according to IFRS.
3
Dr. Marijn Dekkers stepped down from the Board of Management as of midnight on April 30, 2016.
4
Michael König stepped down from the Board of Management as of midnight on December 31, 2015.
2

The difference between the pension service cost according to the German Commercial Code and
the service cost for pension entitlements according to the IFRS arises from the difference in the
valuation principles used in calculating the settlement value according to the German Commercial
Code and the present value of the defined benefit pension obligation according to the IFRS.
Benefits upon termination of service on the Board of Management

It was agreed with Dr. Marijn Dekkers that he be granted benefits of €4,341 thousand according
to the German Commercial Code and €4,542 thousand according to the IFRS in light of the mutually agreed early termination effective April 30, 2016, of his service contract, which originally ran
until December 31, 2016. These comprise the fixed compensation, the short-term variable compensation components, Aspire and the pension service cost, each for the period May 1, 2016,
through December 31, 2016. Dr. Dekkers’ entitlements under the company pension plan and the
Aspire program were set at the levels they would have reached if he had been eligible to participate until December 31, 2016. The fixed compensation and the short-term variable compensation
component, together amounting to €1,900 thousand, were paid in May 2016. The payments from
the Aspire tranches will be made upon expiration of each tranche based on the respective Aspire
program parameters. The post-contractual noncompete agreement with Dr. Marijn Dekkers was
rescinded without compensation when his service contract was extended in June 2014 in line with
previous practice in a similar case.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

195

4.3 Compensation Report

Augmented Version

It was agreed with Michael König that he be granted benefits of €1,131 thousand in connection
with the mutually agreed early termination effective December 31, 2015, of his service contract,
which originally ran until March 31, 2016. These benefits comprise fixed compensation, short-term
variable compensation components, Aspire and the pension service cost – each for the period
January 1 through March 31, 2016 –, along with the fair value of the accelerated vested portions
of the existing Aspire tranches. The fixed compensation and the short-term variable compensation
component, together amounting to €375 thousand, were paid in the first half of 2016. The payments from the Aspire tranches will be made upon expiration of each tranche based on the respective Aspire program parameters. In addition, a two-year noncompete agreement ending on
December 31, 2017, exists with Michael König under his service contract. The resulting compensatory payment of €725 thousand per year is being made to him in monthly installments.
The aggregate Board of Management compensation according to the IFRS is shown in the following table:
A 4.3.1/7

Board of Management Compensation according to IFRS
€ thousand

Fixed annual compensation
Fringe benefits

2015

2016

4,455

6,385

207

664

Total short-term non-performance-related compensation

4,662

7,049

Short-term performance-related cash compensation

5,983

9,063

10,645

16,112

5,983

–

Total short-term compensation
Stock-based compensation earned (virtual Bayer shares)
Change in value of existing entitlements to stock-based compensation
(virtual Bayer shares)
Stock-based compensation (Aspire) earned in the respective year
Change in value of existing entitlements to stock-based compensation (Aspire)
Total stock-based compensation (long-term incentive)
Service cost for pension entitlements earned in the respective year
Total long-term compensation
Severance indemnity in connection with the termination of a service contract
Aggregate compensation (IFRS)

556

(1,275)

2,330

5,217

272

(923)

9,141

3,019

2,891

3,902

12,032

6,921

1,131

4,542

23,808

27,575

4.3.2 Disclosures Pursuant to the Recommendations of the German
Corporate Governance Code
In accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code, the following tables show the compensation – including fringe benefits – granted for 2016, indicating the
target values and the maximum and minimum achievable values for the variable compensation
components, along with the allocation of compensation.

196
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.3 Compensation Report

A 4.3.2/1

Compensation and Benefits Granted for 2016
Serving members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016
Werner Baumann
(Chairman)

Liam Condon
(Crop Science)

Johannes Dietsch
(Finance)

Joined Jan. 1, 2010

Joined Jan. 1, 2016

Joined Sept. 1, 2014

Target Target
value value
2015
2016

€ thousand

Fixed annual compensation

Min.
2016

Target Target
Max. 1 value value
2016
2015
2016

Min.
2016

Target Target
Max. 1 value value
2016
2015
2016

Min.
2016

Max. 1
2016
750

906

1,285

1,285

1,285

–

800

800

800

725

750

750

47

47

47

47

–

44

44

44

44

83

83

83

Total fixed annual compensation

953

1,332

1,332

1,332

–

844

844

844

769

833

833

833

Short-term variable cash
compensation2

849

1,475

0

2,950

–

800

0

1,600

679

750

0

1,500

849

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

679

–

–

–

Fringe benefits

Long-term variable cash
compensation
(virtual Bayer shares) 2
2015 (Jan. 1, 2016 – Dec. 31, 2018)ௗ
Long-term stock-based compensation
(Aspire) 3
2015 (Jan. 1, 2015 – Dec. 31, 2018)ௗ

362

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

290

–

–

–

1,983

0

4,957

–

1,624

0

4,059

–

1,522

0

3,805

3,013

4,790

1,332

9,239

–

3,268

844

6,503

2,417

3,105

833

6,138

227

764

764

764

–

330

330

330

220

318

318

318

3,240

5,554

2,096 10,003

–

3,598

1,174

6,833

2,637

3,423

1,151

6,456

2016 (Jan. 1, 2016 – Dec. 31, 2019)ௗ
Total
Service cost / benefit expense
Total compensation

A 4.3.2/1 (continued)

Compensation and Benefits Granted for 2016
Serving members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016
Dr. Harmut Klusik
(Human Resources,
Technology & Sustainability)

Kemal Malik
(Innovation)

Joined Jan. 1, 2016
Target
value
2015

Target
value
2016

Min.
2016

Fixed annual
compensation

–

750

Fringe benefits

–

140

Total fixed annual
compensation

–

Short-term variable
cash compensation 2

Joined Feb. 1, 2014

Max. 1
2016

Target
value
2015

Target
value
2016

Min.
2016

750

750

725

775

140

140

40

35

890

890

890

765

–

750

0

1,500

2015 (Jan. 1, 2016 –
Dec. 31, 2018)ௗ

–

–

–

–

2016 (Jan. 1, 2017 –
Dec. 31, 2019)ௗ

–

–

–

–

2015 (Jan. 1, 2015 –
Dec. 31, 2018)ௗ

–

–

–

–

2016 (Jan. 1, 2016 –
Dec. 31, 2019)ௗ

–

1,522

0

3,805

–

3,162

890

6,195

€ thousand

Erica Mann
(Consumer Health)
Joined Jan. 1, 2016

Max. 1
2016

Target
value
2015

Target
value
2016

Min.
2016

Max. 1
2016

775

775

–

750

750

750

35

35

–

182

182

182

810

810

810

–

932

932

932

679

775

0

1,550

–

750

0

1,500

679

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,573

0

3,932

–

1,522

0

3,806

3,158

810

6,292

–

3,204

932

6,238

Long-term variable
cash compensation
(virtual Bayer shares) 2

Long-term stock-based
compensation (Aspire) 3

Total

290

2,413

Service cost /
benefit expense

–

316

316

316

222

318

318

318

–

219

219

219

Total compensation

–

3,478

1,206

6,511

2,635

3,476

1,128

6,610

–

3,423

1,151

6,457

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

197

4.3 Compensation Report

Augmented Version

A 4.3.2/1 (continued)

Compensation and Benefits Granted for 2016
Serving members of the
Board of Management
as of December 31, 2016
Dr. Marijn Dekkers

Michael König

Joined Jan. 1, 2016

Stepped down April 30, 2016

Stepped down Dec. 31, 2015

Target Target
value value
2015
2016

€ thousand

Former members

Dieter Weinand
(Pharmaceuticals)

Target Target
Max. 1 value value
2016
2015
2016

Min.
2016

Min.
2016

Target Target
Max. 1 value value
2016
2015
2016

Min.
2016

Max. 1
2016

Fixed annual compensation

–

800

800

800

1,374

475

475

475

725

–

–

–

Fringe benefits

–

34

34

34

40

99

99

99

36

–

–

–

Total fixed annual compensation

–

834

834

834

1,414

574

574

574

761

–

–

–

Short-term variable cash compensation 2

–

800

0

1,600

1,477

475

0

950

679

–

–

–

2015 (Jan. 1, 2016 – Dec. 31, 2018)ௗ

–

–

–

–

1,477

–

–

–

679

2016 (Jan. 1, 2017 – Dec. 31, 2019)ௗ

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Long-term variable cash
compensation (virtual Bayer shares) 2
–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

_

_

_

2,409

_

–

_

Long-term stock-based compensation
(Aspire) 3
2015 (Jan. 1, 2015 – Dec. 31, 2018)ௗ

–

–

–

–

2016 (Jan. 1, 2016 – Dec. 31, 2019)ௗ

–

1,623

0

4,058

–

3,257

834

6,492

Total

550
4,918

–

–

–

964

0

2,410

2,013

574

3,934

290

Service cost/benefit expense

–

240

240

240

967

382

382

382

211

–

–

–

Total compensation

–

3,497

1,074

6,732

5,885

2,395

956

4,316

2,620

_

–

_

1

The maximum achievable variable compensation shown here does not yet take into account the caps applicable. Payments in a single year
are limited to 1.8 times the target compensation (see Chapter 4.3.1 “Compensation structure”).
2
Following the change in the compensation system for the Board of Management effective January 1, 2016, the entire amount of the STI for 2016 will be paid out in
cash in the second quarter of 2017. The 50:50 split of the STI into a cash payment and a grant of virtual Bayer shares was made for the last time for 2015.
3
The Aspire tranche for 2016 is subject to the new system for Bayer’s Aspire program (see Chapter 4.3.1). The cap for this new long-term compensation program
is 250%.

A 4.3.2/2

Allocation of Compensation for 2015 and 2016
Serving members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016

€ thousand

Fixed annual compensation
Fringe benefits
Total

Werner Baumann
(Chairman)

Liam Condon
(Crop Science)

Johannes Dietsch
(Finance)

Dr. Hartmut Klusik
(Human Resources,
Technology &
Sustainability)

Joined Jan. 1, 2010

Joined Jan. 1, 2016

Joined Sept. 1, 2014

Joined Jan. 1, 2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

906

1,285

–

800

725

750

–

2016
750

47

47

–

44

44

83

–

140

953

1,332

–

844

769

833

–

890

Short-term variable cash compensation
for 2015 1
for 2016

1,237

–

–

–

917

–

–

–

–

2,329

–

1,106

–

978

–

1,053

Long-term cash compensation
(virtual Bayer shares)
2011 (Jan. 1, 2012 – Dec. 31, 2014)

1,307

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2012 (Jan. 1, 2012 – Dec. 31, 2015)

–

1,747

–

–

–

–

–

–

769

–

–

–

297

–

–

–

–

789

–

–

–

301

–

–

4,266

6,197

–

1,950

1,983

2,112

–

1,943

227

764

–

330

220

318

–

316

4,493

6,961

–

2,280

2,203

2,430

–

2,259

Long-term stock-based
cash compensation (Aspire)
2011 (Jan. 1, 2011 – Dec. 31, 2014) 2
2012 (Jan. 1, 2012 – Dec. 31, 2015)
Total
Service cost / benefit expense 3
ௗ

ௗ

Total compensation

198
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.3 Compensation Report

A 4.3.2/2 (continued)

Allocation of Compensation for 2015 and 2016
Serving members of the Board of Management
as of December 31, 2016
Kemal Malik
Erica Mann
(Innovation) (Consumer Health)
Joined
Feb. 1, 2014

Joined
Jan. 1, 2016

Former members

Dieter Weinand
(Pharmaceuticals) Dr. Marijn Dekkers
Joined
Jan. 1, 2016

Stepped down
April 30, 2016

Michael König
Stepped down
Dec. 31, 2015

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

725

775

–

750

–

800

1,374

475

725

–

40

35

–

182

–

34

40

99

36

–

765

810

–

932

–

834

1,414

574

761

–

917

–

–

–

–

–

1,995

–

–

–

–

1,050

–

798

–

1,274

–

475

917

–

2011 (Jan. 1, 2012 – Dec. 31, 2014)

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,841

–

–

–

2012 (Jan. 1, 2012 – Dec. 31, 2015)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

3,039

–

–

384

–

–

–

–

–

1,459

–

191

–

–

364

–

–

–

–

–

1,495

–

–

2,066

2,224

–

1,730

–

2,108

7,709

5,583

1,869

–

222

318

–

219

–

240

967

382

211

–

2,288

2,542

–

1,949

–

2,348

8,676

5,965

2,080

–

€ thousand

Fixed annual compensation
Fringe benefits
Total
Short-term variable cash
compensation
for 2015 1
for 2016
Long-term cash compensation
(virtual Bayer shares)

Long-term stock-based cash
compensation (Aspire)
2011 (Jan. 1, 2011 – Dec. 31, 2014) 2
2012 (Jan. 1, 2012 – Dec. 31, 2015)
Total
Service cost / benefit expense 3
Total compensation
1

The increased variable compensation for Werner Baumann in 2015 resulted mainly from his temporary duties as head of Bayer HealthCare in addition to his primary
responsibilities as a member of the Board of Management.
2
The payments to Johannes Dietsch, Michael König and Kemal Malik from the 2011 Aspire tranche related to vesting periods that began before they joined the
Board of Management. The tranches were not yet fully vested at the dates on which they joined the Board of Management. The same applies to the payments in
2016 from the 2012 Aspire tranche for Johannes Dietsch and Kemal Malik.
3
The total service cost is the service cost in accordance with HGB plus contributions to pension funds.

4.3.3 Compensation of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board is compensated according to the relevant provisions of the Articles of
Incorporation.
The members of the Supervisory Board receive fixed annual compensation of €120,000 plus reimbursement of their expenses.
In accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code, additional
compensation is paid to the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board and for
chairing and membership of committees. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives fixed
annual compensation of €360,000, the Vice Chairman €240,000. These amounts also cover
membership and chairmanship of committees. The other members receive additional compensation for committee membership. The chairman of the Audit Committee receives an additional
€120,000, the other members of the Audit Committee €60,000 each. The chairmen of the remaining committees receive €60,000 each, the other members of those committees €30,000
each. No additional compensation is paid for membership of the Nominations Committee. A
Supervisory Board member who is a member of more than two committees receives compensation only for the two committees with the highest compensation. If changes are made to the
Supervisory Board and / or its committees during the year, members receive compensation on a
prorated basis. The members of the Supervisory Board also receive an attendance fee of €1,000
each time they personally attend a meeting of the Supervisory Board or a committee. The attendance fee is limited to €1,000 per day.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

199

4.3 Compensation Report

Augmented Version

The members of the Supervisory Board have given a voluntary pledge that they will each purchase
Bayer shares for 25% of their pretax fixed compensation, including any additional compensation
for committee membership, and hold these shares for as long as they remain members of the
Supervisory Board. This does not apply to members who are prevented from purchasing shares
due to a service or employment contract with a company or who transfer at least 85% of their
fixed compensation to the Hans Böckler Foundation in accordance with the rules of the German
Trade Union Confederation or whose service or employment contract with a company requires
them to transfer such compensation to that company. If less than 85% of the fixed compensation
is transferred, the voluntary pledge applies to the portion not transferred. By voluntarily pledging
to invest in and hold Bayer shares, the Supervisory Board members reinforce their interest in the
long-term, sustainable success of the company.

Compensation of the Supervisory Board in 2016
The following table shows the components of each Supervisory Board member’s compensation
for 2016.
A 4.3.3/1

Compensation of the Members of the Supervisory Board of Bayer AG in 2016
Fixed compensation

Attendance fee

Total

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

Dr. Paul Achleitner

180

180

5

5

185

185

Dr. Simone Bagel-Trah

120

120

4

5

124

125

Dr. Clemens Börsig

120

120

4

5

124

125

André van Broich

129

150

6

5

135

155

Thomas Ebeling

120

120

4

4

124

124

–

81

–

2

–

83

Dr. Thomas Fischer

180

180

9

9

189

189

Reiner Hoffmann

180

127

5

5

185

132

Yüksel Karaaslan

135

150

6

5

141

155

Petra Kronen

150

150

6

4

156

154

Frank Löllgen

19

173

1

8

20

181

–

162

–

5

–

167

Sue H. Rataj

120

120

5

5

125

125

Petra Reinbold-Knape

130

180

5

5

135

185

Michael Schmidt-Kiessling

120

120

5

4

125

124

Dr. Klaus Sturany

240

240

9

9

249

249

Werner Wenning (Chairman)

360

360

11

9

371

369

Heinz Georg Webers

60

120

3

5

63

125

Prof. Dr. Otmar D. Wiestler 2

49

150

3

4

52

154

195

240

9

9

204

249

Dr. Helmut Panke 3

180

59

8

4

188

63

Prof. Dr. Dr. Ernst-Ludwig
Winnacker 3

137

59

6

2

143

61

Peter Hausmann 4

125

–

5

–

130

–

Thomas de Win 5

119

–

4

–

123

–

3,168

3,361

123

118

3,291

3,479

€ thousand

Members of the Supervisory Board
serving as of December 31, 2016

Johanna W. (Hanneke) Faber 1

Prof. Dr. Wolfgang Plischke1

Oliver Zühlke (Vice Chairman)
Members who left the Supervisory
Board in 2015 and 2016

Total
1

Member of the Supervisory Board since April 30, 2016
Prof. Wiestler has received compensation for his membership of the Supervisory Board since September 1, 2015. Previously, his
office as Chairman of the Management Board of the German Cancer Research Center precluded his acceptance of this
compensation.
3
Member of the Supervisory Board until April 29, 2016
4
Member of the Supervisory Board until June 30, 2015
5
Vice Chairman and member of the Supervisory Board until June 30, 2015
2

The members of the
Supervisory Board have
pledged to purchase
Bayer shares.

200
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.4 Takeover-Relevant Information

In addition to their compensation as members of the Supervisory Board, those employee representatives who are employees of Bayer Group companies receive compensation unrelated to their
service on the Supervisory Board. The total amount of such compensation in 2016 was €939
thousand (2015: €741 thousand).
No compensation was paid or benefits granted to members of the Supervisory Board for personally performed services such as consultancy or agency services. The company has purchased
insurance for the members of the Supervisory Board to cover their personal liability arising from
their service on the Supervisory Board.

4.3.4 Further Information
Advances or loans to Members of the Board of Management or Supervisory Board
There were no advances or loans to members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory
Board outstanding as of December 31, 2016, nor at any time during 2016 or 2015.

Pension payments to former members of the Board of Management
or their surviving dependents
We currently pay retired members of the Board of Management a monthly pension equal to a
maximum of 80% of the fixed compensation received immediately prior to retirement. The pensions paid to former members of the Board of Management or their surviving dependents are
reassessed annually and adjusted, taking into account the development of consumer prices. The
pensions paid to former members of the Board of Management or their surviving dependents in
2016 totaled €12,800 thousand (2015: €13,416 thousand). These benefits are paid in addition to
any amounts they receive under previous employee pension arrangements. The present value of
the defined benefit pension obligation for former members of the Board of Management and their
surviving dependents according to the IFRS amounted to €188,850 thousand (2015: €172,767
thousand), while the settlement value of the pension obligation according to the German Commercial Code amounted to €149,948 thousand (2015: €148,632 thousand).

4.4 Takeover-Relevant Information
Explanatory report pursuant to Sections 289, Paragraph 4 and 315,
Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code (HGB)
See also
www.bayer.com/
ownership-structure

The capital stock of Bayer AG amounted as of December 31, 2016, to €2,117 million, divided into
826,947,808 no-par registered shares. The capital stock and the number of shares were thus
unchanged from the end of the previous year. Each share confers one voting right. A small number of shares may be subject to temporary trading restrictions, such as retention periods, in connection with employee stock participation programs. We received no notifications in 2016 of direct
or indirect holdings of shares in Bayer AG that exceed 10% of the capital stock. The company
thus is not in possession of any notifications of holdings that exceed 10% of the capital stock.
The appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of Management are subject to the provisions of Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act, Section 31 of the German
Codetermination Act and Section 6 of the company’s Articles of Incorporation. Pursuant to Section 84, Paragraph 1 of the German Stock Corporation Act, the members of the Board of Management are appointed and dismissed by the Supervisory Board. Since Bayer AG falls within the
scope of the German Codetermination Act, the appointment or dismissal of members of the Board
of Management requires a majority of two thirds of the votes of the members of the Supervisory
Board on the first ballot pursuant to Section 31, Paragraph 2 of that act. If no such majority is
achieved, the appointment is resolved pursuant to Section 31, Paragraph 3 of the Codetermination Act on a second ballot by a simple majority of the votes of the members of the Supervisory
Board. If the required majority still is not achieved, a third ballot is held. Here again, a simple ma-

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A Combined Management Report

201

4.4 Takeover-Relevant Information

Augmented Version

jority of the votes suffices, but in this ballot the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has two votes
pursuant to Section 31, Paragraph 4 of the Codetermination Act. Under Section 6, Paragraph 1 of
the Articles of Incorporation of Bayer AG, the number of members of the Board of Management is
determined by the Supervisory Board but must be at least two. The Supervisory Board may appoint one member of the Board of Management to be the Chairman of the Board of Management
pursuant to Section 84, Paragraph 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act and Section 6, Paragraph 1 of the Articles of Incorporation.
Any amendments to the Articles of Incorporation are made pursuant to Section 179 of the German
Stock Corporation Act and Sections 10 and 17 of the Articles of Incorporation. Under Section 179, Paragraph 1 of the German Stock Corporation Act, amendments to the Articles of Incorporation require a resolution of the Stockholders’ Meeting. Pursuant to Section 179, Paragraph 2
of the German Stock Corporation Act, this resolution must be passed by a majority of three quarters of the voting capital represented at the meeting, unless the Articles of Incorporation provide
for a different majority. However, where an amendment relates to a change in the object of the
company, the Articles of Incorporation may only specify a larger majority. Section 17, Paragraph 2
of the Articles of Incorporation of Bayer AG utilizes the scope for deviation pursuant to Section 179, Paragraph 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act and provides that resolutions may be
passed by a simple majority of the votes cast or, where a capital majority is required, by a simple
majority of the capital represented. Pursuant to Section 10, Paragraph 9 of the Articles of Incorporation, the Supervisory Board may resolve on amendments to the Articles of Incorporation that
relate solely to their wording.
Provisions of the Articles of Incorporation concerning Authorized Capital I and Authorized Capital II
are entered in the commercial register of Bayer AG. With the approval of the Supervisory Board
and until April 28, 2019, the Board of Management may use the Authorized Capital I to increase
the capital stock by up to a total of €530 million. New shares may be issued against cash contributions and / or contributions in kind, but capital increases against contributions in kind may not
exceed a total of €423 million. If the Authorized Capital I is used to issue shares in return for cash
contributions, stockholders must normally be granted subscription rights. The Board of Management may only exclude stockholders’ subscription rights to a volume of shares issued out of the
Authorized Capital I that did not represent more than 20% of the existing capital stock at the time
the respective resolution was adopted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on April 29, 2014.
Absent a further resolution on the exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights, the Board of
Management also may only exclude stockholders’ subscription rights to a volume of shares issued
under other authorizations regarding capital measures (Authorized Capital II, bonds with warrants
or convertible notes, purchase and disposal of own shares) that did not represent more than 20%
of the existing capital stock at the time the respective resolution was adopted by the Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting on April 29, 2014.
With the approval of the Supervisory Board and until April 28, 2019, the Board of Management is
authorized to increase the capital stock by up to €212 million in one or more installments by issuing shares out of the Authorized Capital II against cash contributions. The stockholders must normally be granted subscription rights. However, the Board of Management is authorized, with the
approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights for stockholders provided the
volume of shares issued out of the Authorized Capital II against cash contributions does not exceed 10% of the capital stock existing at the time this authorization is registered or at the time the
new shares are issued and the issue price of the new shares is not significantly below the market
price of the already listed shares.
Conditional capital of €212 million exists in connection with an authorization – valid through April
28, 2019 – to issue bonds with warrants or convertible notes, profit-sharing rights or profit participation bonds (collectively referred to as “bonds”) with a total face value of €6 billion, €4 billion of
which has already been used for mandatory convertible notes. The Board of Management may,
with the consent of the Supervisory Board and under certain conditions, exclude the bond subscription rights that would otherwise be granted to stockholders. One of the conditions is that the

202
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

4.4 Takeover-Relevant Information

total volume of shares required to service the bonds exceed neither 10% of the capital stock that
existed at the time the respective resolution was adopted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on
April 29, 2014 nor 10% of the capital stock existing at the time this authorization is exercised.
Any other shares issued without granting subscription rights to the stockholders in direct or analogous application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act
shall be credited against this 10% limit.
Further, by resolution of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on April 29, 2014, the Board of Management is authorized to purchase and dispose of own shares representing up to 10% of the
capital stock existing at the time the resolution was adopted. The authorization to purchase own
shares also includes the purchase of own shares using put or call options (derivatives) up to a
volume of 5% of the capital stock existing at the time the resolution was adopted or at the time
the authorization is exercised. This authorization also expires on April 28, 2019.
A material agreement that is subject to the condition precedent of a change of control pertains to
the undrawn €3.5 billion syndicated credit facility arranged by Bayer AG and its U.S. subsidiary
Bayer Corporation. This facility is available until December 2020. The participating banks are entitled to terminate the credit facility in the event of a change of control at Bayer and demand repayment of any loans that may have been granted under this facility up to that time. A similar clause is
contained in the agreement on a syndicated credit facility granted to Bayer subsidiary Bayer World
Investments B.V., Netherlands, in 2014 and guaranteed by Bayer AG. The facility still amounts to
US$900 million (as of December 31, 2016) and matures in May 2018. A similar clause is also contained in the agreement on a syndicated credit facility in the original amount of US$56.9 billion
granted to Bayer US Finance II LLC in September 2016, which is also guaranteed by Bayer AG.
This as yet undrawn facility serves to finance the planned acquisition of Monsanto. Pursuant to the
agreement, this credit facility was reduced in November 2016 by the US$4.2 billion net proceeds
from the issuance of mandatory convertible notes, to US$52.7 billion. The mandatory convertible
notes were issued by Bayer Capital Corporation B.V., guaranteed by Bayer AG and mature in November 2019. The terms on which holders may convert the notes into shares before the maturity
date are more favorable in the event of a change of control than they would be otherwise.
The terms of the nominal €3.4 billion (as of December 31, 2016) in notes issued by Bayer in the
years 2006 to 2014 under its existing Debt Issuance Programme also contain a change-of-control
clause. Holders of these notes have the right to demand the redemption of their notes by
Bayer AG in the event of a change of control if Bayer AG’s credit rating is downgraded within 120
days after such change of control becomes effective. The terms of the US$7 billion bond in 144A /
Reg S format issued in October 2014 also contain a clause to this effect. The outstanding amount
of this bond is US$6.5 billion.
Agreements exist for the members of the Board of Management in compliance with Section 4.2.3
of the German Corporate Governance Code to cover the eventuality of a takeover offer being
made for Bayer AG. Under these agreements, payments promised in the event of early termination
of the service contract of a Board of Management member due to a change of control are limited
to the value of three years’ compensation and may not compensate more than the remaining term
of the contract.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

203

Bayer Group Consolidated Income Statements

Augmented Version

Consolidated Financial
Statements
Full Consolidated Financial Statements

Bayer Group Consolidated
Income Statements
B1

€ million

Net sales

Note
[7]

Cost of goods sold
Gross profit

2015

2016

46,085

46,769

(21,040)

(20,295)

25,045

26,474

Selling expenses

[8]

(12,272)

(12,474)

Research and development expenses

[9]

(4,274)

(4,666)

(2,092)

(2,256)

General administration expenses
Other operating income

[10]

1,109

898

Other operating expenses

[11]

(1,275)

(934)

EBIT 1
Equity-method loss

6,241
[13.1]

Financial income

371

Financial expenses
Financial result

(1,367)

(1,280)
(1,155)

5,236

5,887

[14]

(1,223)

(1,329)

4,013

4,558

[6.3]

Income after income taxes
of which attributable to noncontrolling interest

(26)
151

(1,005)

Income from continuing operations after income taxes
Income from discontinued operations after income taxes

7,042

[13]

Income before income taxes
Income taxes

(9)

[15]

of which attributable to Bayer AG stockholders (net income)

85

268

4,098

4,826

(12)

295

4,110

4,531

Basic

4.87

5.12

Diluted

4.87

5.12

Basic

0.10

0.32

Diluted

0.10

0.32

Basic

4.97

5.44

Diluted

4.97

5.44

€
Earnings per share

[16]

From continuing operations

[16]

From discontinued operations

From continuing and discontinued operations

[16]

[16]

2015 figures restated
1
For definition see Combined Management Report, Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

204

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Bayer Group Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Bayer Group Consolidated Statements
of Comprehensive Income
B2

Note

€ million

Income after income taxes

2015
4,098

of which attributable to noncontrolling interest

[15]

of which attributable to Bayer AG stockholders
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability
for post-employment benefit plans

[25]

Income taxes

[14]

Other comprehensive income from remeasurements of the net defined
benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans
Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently
to profit or loss
Changes in fair values of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges

[30.3]

Reclassified to profit or loss

(12)

[14]

Other comprehensive income from cash flow hedges
Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial assets

[20]

Reclassified to profit or loss
Income taxes

[14]

Other comprehensive income from available-for-sale financial assets
Changes in exchange differences recognized on translation of operations
outside the eurozone
Reclassified to profit or loss

295

4,110

4,531

1,216

(1,036)

(430)

228

786

(808)

786

(808)

(266)
304

Income taxes

2016
4,826

58
3

(25)

(16)

13

45

(5)

65

1

–

(2)

(8)

(6)

57

748

703

–

(58)

Other comprehensive income from exchange differences

748

645

Other comprehensive income relating to associates accounted for using the
equity method

(20)

(14)

735

733

–

–

Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently
to profit or loss
Effects of changes in scope of consolidation
Total other comprehensive income

1

of which attributable to noncontrolling interest
of which attributable to Bayer AG stockholders
Total comprehensive income
of which attributable to noncontrolling interest
of which attributable to Bayer AG stockholders
2015 figures restated
1
Total changes recognized outside profit or loss

1,521

(75)

33

(10)

1,488

(65)

5,619

4,751

21

285

5,598

4,466

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

205

Bayer Group Consolidated Statements of Financial Position

Augmented Version

Bayer Group Consolidated Statements
of Financial Position
B3

Note

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

Goodwill

[17]

16,096

16,312

Other intangible assets

[17]

15,178

13,567

Property, plant and equipment

[18]

12,375

13,114

Investments accounted for using the equity method

[19]

246

584

Other financial assets

[20]

1,092

1,281

Other receivables

[23]

430

583

Deferred taxes

[14]

4,679

6,350

50,096

51,791

€ million

Noncurrent assets

Current assets
Inventories

[21]

8,550

8,408

Trade accounts receivable

[22]

9,933

10,969

Other financial assets

[20]

756

6,275

Other receivables

[23]

2,017

2,210

Claims for income tax refunds
Cash and cash equivalents
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations

[6.3]

509

676

1,859

1,899

197

10

23,821

30,447

73,917

82,238

Capital stock

2,117

2,117

Capital reserves

6,167

9,658

Other reserves

15,981

18,558

Equity attributable to Bayer AG stockholders

24,265

30,333

Total assets
Equity

[24]

Equity attributable to noncontrolling interest

1,180

1,564

25,445

31,897
11,134

Noncurrent liabilities
Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits

[25]

10,873

Other provisions

[26]

1,740

1,780

Financial liabilities

[27]

16,513

16,180

475

423

Other liabilities

[29]

1,065

957

Deferred taxes

[14]

826

1,330

31,492

31,804

Income tax liabilities

Current liabilities
Other provisions

[26]

5,045

5,421

Financial liabilities

[27]

3,421

3,401

Trade accounts payable

[28]

5,945

6,410

Income tax liabilities
Other liabilities
Liabilities directly related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Total equity and liabilities

[29]
[6.3]

923

884

1,534

2,421

112

–

16,980

18,537

73,917

82,238

206

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Bayer Group Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Bayer Group Consolidated Statements
of Changes in Equity
B4

€ million

Dec. 31, 2014

Capital stock

Capital
reserves

2,117

6,167

Retained
earnings
incl. net
income
12,974

Exchange
differences

Fair-value
measurement
of securities

(1,172)

30

Equity transactions with owners
Capital increase
Dividend payments

(1,861)

Other changes
Other comprehensive income
Income after income taxes
Dec. 31, 2015

582

(155)

776

705

(6)

4,110
2,117

6,167

16,581

(622)

24

Equity transactions with owners
Capital increase 1

3,491

Dividend payments

(2,067)

Other changes
Other comprehensive income
Income after income taxes
Dec. 31, 2016
1

129

53

(781)

614

57

45

81

4,531
2,117

9,658

18,393

The capital increase resulted from the issuance of mandatory convertible notes in the amount of €4,000 million on November 22, 2016.
After deduction of €48 million in transaction costs and recognition of €191 million in deferred taxes, €3,491 million was allocated to capital
reserves and €652 million to financial liabilities.

B 4 continued

€ million

Dec. 31, 2014

Cash flow
hedges
(36)

Equity
attributable
Revaluation
to Bayer AG
surplus stockholders
26

20,106

Equity
attributable
to noncontrolling
interest

Equity

112

20,218

Equity transactions with owners
Capital increase
Dividend payments

(1,861)

Other changes
Other comprehensive income

(5)
13

Income after income taxes
Dec. 31, 2015

21

(1,869)

1,055

1,477

1,488

33

1,521

4,110
(23)

(8)

422

24,265

(12)
1,180

4,098
25,445

Equity transactions with owners
Capital increase

3,491

Dividend payments

(2,067)

Other changes
Other comprehensive income

(4)
45

(65)

Income after income taxes
Dec. 31, 2016

22

178

17

3,491
(58)
157
(10)

(2,125)
335
(75)

4,531

295

4,826

30,333

1,564

31,897

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

207

Bayer Group Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Augmented Version

Bayer Group Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows
B5

€ million

Note

2015

2016

Income after income taxes

4,013

4,558

Income taxes

1,223

1,329

Financial result

1,005

1,155

Income taxes paid

(1,699)

(2,092)

Depreciation, amortization and impairments

3,332

3,743

Change in pension provisions

(221)

(285)

(Gains) losses on retirements of noncurrent assets

(105)

(44)

Decrease (increase) in inventories

(191)

(3)

(1,059)

(552)

Decrease (increase) in trade accounts receivable
(Decrease) increase in trade accounts payable

400

452

Changes in other working capital, other noncash items

138

(2)

6,836

8,259

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
from continuing operations
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
from discontinued operations
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

[33]

Cash outflows for additions to property, plant, equipment and intangible assets
Cash inflows from sales of property, plant, equipment and other assets

54

830

6,890

9,089

(2,517)

(2,578)

193

Cash inflows from divestments
Cash inflows from (outflows for) noncurrent financial assets

111

2

(18)

(26)

(690)

Cash outflows for acquisitions less acquired cash

(176)

2

Interest and dividends received

106

89

Cash inflows from (outflows for) current financial assets

(344)

(5,645)

(2,762)

(8,729)

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

[34]

Capital contributions

–

Proceeds from shares of Covestro AG

1,490

Dividend payments

(1,869)

3,300
–
(2,126)

Issuances of debt

16,620

15,190

Retirements of debt

(19,549)

(15,920)

Interest paid including interest-rate swaps

(812)

(853)

Interest received from interest-rate swaps

160

59

Cash outflows for the purchase of additional interests in subsidiaries
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
Change in cash and cash equivalents due to business activities
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Change in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in scope of consolidation
Change in cash and cash equivalents due to exchange rate movements
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
2015 figures restated

(14)
[35]

(3,974)

–
(350)

154

10

1,853

1,859

5
(153)
1,859

3
27
1,899

208

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Bayer Group
1. Key data by segment and region
B 1/1

Key Data by Segment
Pharmaceuticals
€ million

Net sales (external)
Change 1
Currency-adjusted change 1
Intersegment sales
Net sales (total)
Other operating income

2015

2016

Consumer Health
2015

2016

Crop Science
2015

2016

Animal Health
2015

2016

15,308

16,420

6,076

6,037

10,128

9,915

1,490

1,523

+ 13.3%

+ 7.3%

+ 43.1%

– 0.6%

+ 9.2%

– 2.1%

+ 13.1%

+ 2.2%

+ 8.7%

+ 8.7%

+ 40.4%

+ 3.5%

+ 2.4%

+ 0.2%

+ 4.5%

+ 4.8%

38

29

2

5

34

36

20

10

15,346

16,449

6,078

6,042

10,162

9,951

1,510

1,533

154

207

108

101

643

301

4

10

EBIT 1

3,028

3,389

768

695

2,094

1,755

254

313

EBIT before special items 1

3,327

3,947

1,005

987

1,872

1,898

318

320

EBITDA before special items 1

4,616

5,251

1,456

1,411

2,406

2,421

347

349

14.4%

16.2%

4.0%

3.5%

16.3%

12.9%

47.8%

63.5%

749

193

ROCE 1
Net cash provided by
operating activities

3,157

3,368

816

874

2,071

348

Equity-method income (loss)

1

–

–

2

(1)

(1)

–

–

Equity-method investments

3

3

11

11

4

15

–

–

Assets

22,389

22,173

16,560

16,558

14,230

14,868

791

838

Capital expenditures

764

851

182

220

735

773

43

39

Additions to noncurrent
assets from acquisitions

(145)

(3)

149

(1)

98

–

–

1,347

1,695

454

601

534

525

63

30

62

464

25

175

35

52

34

1

Depreciation, amortization
and impairments
of which impairment losses
of which impairment loss
reversals

(10)

(1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

(1)

Liabilities

8,385

8,941

1,596

1,614

5,344

5,897

678

699

Research and development
expenses

2,450

2,787

250

259

1,082

1,164

134

140

40,504

40,093

13,513

12,821

23,268

22,399

3,804

3,957

Number of employees
(as of Dec. 31) 2

2015 figures restated
1
For definition see Combined Management Report, Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”
2
Full-time equivalents

B Consolidated Financial Statements

209

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 1/1 continued

Key Data by Segment
Reconciliation
All Other Segments
€ million

Net sales (external)

2015

2016

Corporate Functions
and Consolidation
2015

2016

Life Sciences
2015

2016

Covestro
2015

2016

Group
2015

2016

1,097

1,042

4

6

34,103

34,943

11,982

11,826

46,085

46,769

Change 1

– 1.3%

– 5.0%

– 42.9%

+ 50.0%

+ 15.7%

+ 2.5%

+ 2.8%

– 1.3%

+ 12.1%

+ 1.5%

Currency-adjusted
change 1

– 42.9%

–

+ 3.5%

– 0.8%

– 4.2%

+ 10.7%

+ 4.7%

– 5.1%

0.0%

+ 6.2%

Intersegment sales

2,249

2,124

(2,407)

(2,279)

–

–

64

75

–

–

Net sales (total)

3,346

3,166

(2,403)

(2,273)

–

–

12,046

11,901

46,085

46,769

Other operating income

69

91

64

77

1,042

787

67

111

1,109

898

EBIT 1

(39)

(50)

(499)

(364)

5,606

5,738

635

1,304

6,241

7,042

EBIT before special items 1

43

18

(472)

(344)

6,093

6,826

967

1,304

7,060

8,130

238

224

(466)

(338)

8,597

9,318

1,659

1,984

10,256

11,302

–

–

–

–

10.4%

10.3%

7.1%

15.3%

9.9%

11.0%

287

(574)

5,384

6,435

1,452

1,824

6,836

8,259

EBITDA
before special items 1
ROCE 1
Net cash provided by
operating activities

27

503

Equity-method income
(loss)

–

–

–

(7)

–

(6)

Equity-method investments

–

–

1

325

19

354

227

230

246

584

2,324

2,632

8,263

15,986

64,557

73,055

9,360

9,183

73,917

82,238

311

307

5

18

2,040

2,208

514

419

2,554

2,627

–

–

–

–

102

27

–

129

(14)

195

206

6

6

2,599

3,063

733

680

3,332

3,743

4

7

–

–

160

699

69

13

229

712

Assets
Capital expenditures
Additions to noncurrent
assets from acquisitions
Depreciation, amortization
and impairments
of which impairment
losses
of which impairment
loss reversals
Liabilities
Research and development
expenses
Number of employees
(as of Dec. 31) 2

(1)

(14)

(9)

(20)

(9)

–

–

–

–

(1)

–

–

4,814

5,616

23,915

23,724

44,732

46,491

3,740

3,850

48,472

50,341

32

39

64

16

4,012

4,405

262

261

4,274

4,666

19,015

19,494

709

828

100,813

99,592

15,770

15,578

116,583

115,170

2015 figures restated
1
For definition see Combined Management Report, Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”
2
Full-time equivalents

(1)

(26)

(1)

210

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 1/2

Key Data by Region
Europe /
Middle East / Africa

North America

Asia / Pacific

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

17,707

17,823

12,621

12,806

10,263

11,032

Change1

+ 5.0%

+ 0.7%

+ 28.0%

+ 1.5%

+ 13.2%

+ 7.5%

Currency-adjusted change 1

+ 5.6%

+ 2.8%

+ 10.8%

+ 2.0%

+ 1.4%

+ 7.9%

18,528

18,808

12,332

12,375

10,022

10,786

+ 5.4%

+ 1.5%

+ 27.3%

+ 0.3%

+ 13.6%

+ 7.6%

€ million

Net sales (external) – by market

Net sales (external) – by point of origin
Change 1
Currency-adjusted change 1

+ 6.1%

+ 3.5%

+ 9.5%

+ 0.8%

+ 1.5%

+ 8.1%

10,340

10,745

3,994

4,280

828

912

580

331

109

223

107

126

EBIT 1

4,119

4,673

1,483

1,128

547

1,165

Assets

Interregional sales
Other operating income

34,145

39,146

20,522

21,088

9,492

9,831

Capital expenditures

1,442

1,549

587

628

402

299

Depreciation, amortization and impairments

1,874

1,997

834

1,181

496

479

29,116

30,506

13,461

13,478

3,583

3,428

2,944

3,285

1,051

1,081

214

229

58,839

59,483

15,961

15,788

28,818

27,407

Liabilities
Research and development expenses
Number of employees (as of Dec. 31)

2

2015 figures restated
1
For definition see Combined Management Report, Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”
2
Full-time equivalents

B 1/2 (continued)

Key Data by Region

Latin America
€ million

Net sales (external) – by market

2015

2016

Reconciliation
2015

2016

Total
2015

2016

5,494

5,108

–

–

46,085

46,769

Change 1

+ 3.2%

– 7.0%

–

–

+ 12.1%

+ 1.5%

Currency-adjusted change 1

+ 7.7%

+ 0.8%

–

–

+ 6.2%

+ 3.5%

5,203

4,800

–

–

46,085

46,769

Change 1

+ 3.4%

– 7.7%

–

–

12.1%

1.5%

Currency-adjusted change 1

+ 8.7%

+ 0.6%

–

–

6.2%

3.5%

Interregional sales

582

530

Other operating income

313

218

Net sales (external) – by point of origin

EBIT 1

(15,744)
–

–

–

1,109

898

591

440
5,823

Capital expenditures

123

151

–

–

2,554

2,627

Depreciation, amortization and impairments

122

80

6

6

3,332

3,743

1,486

1,599

826

1,330

48,472

50,341

65

71

–

–

4,274

4,666

12,965

12,492

–

–

116,583

115,170

Liabilities
Research and development expenses
Number of employees (as of Dec. 31) 2

4,679

(364)

–

5,079

Assets

(499)

(16,467)

6,350

6,241

7,042

73,917

82,238

2015 figures restated
1
For definition see Combined Management Report, Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”
2
Full-time equivalents

B Consolidated Financial Statements

211

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

2. General information
The consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group as of December 31, 2016, were prepared by
Bayer Aktiengesellschaft (Bayer AG) according to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), London, United Kingdom, and the interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC), both as endorsed by the European Union and
in effect at the end of the reporting period. The applicable further requirements of Section 315a of the
German Commercial Code were also taken into account.
Bayer AG is a global enterprise based in Germany. Its registered office is at Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee 1, 51368
Leverkusen. Its material business activities in the fields of health care, agriculture and high-tech polymer materials took place in the reporting period in the Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Health, Crop Science, Animal Health
and Covestro segments. The activities of each segment are outlined in Note [5].
The declarations required under Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act concerning the German
Corporate Governance Code have been issued and made available to stockholders.
The Board of Management of Bayer AG prepared the consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group
on February 14, 2017. They were discussed by the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board of Bayer AG
at its meeting on February 20, 2017, and approved by the Supervisory Board at its plenary meeting on
February 21, 2017.
In the income statement and statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position, statement of cash flows and statement of changes in equity, certain items are combined for the sake of clarity.
These are explained in the Notes. The income statement is prepared using the cost-of-sales method. Assets and liabilities are classified by maturity. They are regarded as current if they mature within one year or
within the normal business cycle of the company or the Group, or are held for sale. The normal business
cycle is defined for this purpose as beginning with the procurement of the resources necessary for the
production process and ending with the receipt of cash or cash equivalents as consideration for the sale of
the goods or services produced in that process. Inventories and trade accounts receivable and payable are
always presented as current items. Deferred tax assets and liabilities and pension provisions are always
presented as noncurrent items.
The consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group are drawn up in euros. Amounts are stated
in millions of euros (€ million) except where otherwise indicated.
The financial statements of the individual consolidated companies are prepared as of the closing date of
the Group financial statements.

3. Effects of new financial reporting standards
Financial reporting standards applied for the first time in 2016
The first-time application of the following amended financial reporting standards had no impact, or no
material impact, on the presentation of Bayer’s financial position or results of operations, or on earnings
per share.
In May 2014, the IASB published amendments to IAS 16 (Property, Plant and Equipment) and IAS 38
(Intangible Assets) entitled “Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation.” These
amendments clarify that revenue-based depreciation of property, plant and equipment or amortization of
intangible assets is inappropriate.
In May 2014, the IASB published amendments to IFRS 11 (Joint Arrangements) entitled “Accounting for
Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations.” The amendments clarify the accounting for the acquisition of
an interest in a joint operation in which the activity constitutes a business.

212

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

In December 2014, the IASB published its Disclosure Initiative containing amendments to IAS 1 (Presentation of Financial Statements), which are intended to clarify the disclosure requirements. They relate to materiality, line-item aggregation, subtotals, the structure of the Notes to the financial statements, the identification of significant accounting policies and the separate disclosure of the other comprehensive income of
associates and joint ventures.
In December 2014, the IASB published amendments to IFRS 10 (Consolidated Financial Statements),
IFRS 12 (Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities) and IAS 28 (Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures) entitled “Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception.” The amendments largely clarify
which subsidiaries an investment entity must consolidate and which must be recognized at fair value
through profit or loss.

Changes in accounting methods
The legal and economic independence of Covestro results in changes to the global annual impairment
tests for Covestro. In the future, from the perspective of the Bayer Group, the strategic business entities of
Covestro will be subjected to impairment testing as a group of cash-generating units because the goodwill
of Covestro will be monitored by Bayer Group management at this aggregated level from now on.

Published financial reporting standards that have not yet been applied
The IASB and the IFRS Interpretations Committee have issued the following standards, amendments to
standards, and interpretations whose application was not yet mandatory for the 2016 fiscal year and is
conditional upon their endorsement by the European Union.
In July 2014, the IASB published the most recent version of IFRS 9 (Financial Instruments). The new
standard contains revised rules for the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities,
impairments of financial assets, and hedge accounting. IFRS 9 defines three instead of four measurement
categories for capitalized financial instruments, with classification to be based partly on the company’s
business model and partly on the characteristics of the contractual cash flows from the respective financial
asset. In the case of equity instruments that are not held for trading, an entity may irrevocably opt at initial
recognition either to account for such instruments at fair value through profit or loss or to recognize future
changes in their fair value outside profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income and not subsequently reclassify these changes in fair value, even upon their derecognition.
The new impairment model is based on the principle of accounting for an expected loss from the date of
first-time recognition of a financial asset, before a loss event occurs. The aim of the revisions regarding
hedge accounting is to achieve a more objective presentation of risk management in the financial statements. This also involved the revision of IFRS 7, leading to a requirement for additional disclosures in the
Notes. IFRS 9 is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. It was endorsed
by the European Union in November 2016. The evaluation of this standard’s impact on the presentation of
Bayer’s financial position and results of operations has not yet been completed. No decision has yet been
made on whether to exercise the options the standard provides for facilitating the transition and for accounting for financial instruments recognized from January 1, 2018, onward. Based on current knowledge,
the effects of applying the final version of IFRS 9 on the allocation of financial instruments to measurement
categories and thus on the results of operations are estimated to be immaterial.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

213

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 (Revenue from Contracts with Customers). IFRS 15 is the new
standard for revenue recognition. It clarifies that the expected consideration for goods or services must
be recognized as revenue when the goods or intangible assets are transferred or the services are rendered to the customer. This principle is applied in five steps. In step 1, the contract with the customer is
identified. In step 2, the distinct performance obligations in the contract are identified. In step 3, the
transaction price is determined. In step 4, this transaction price is allocated to the distinct performance
obligations. Finally, in step 5, revenue is recognized when the identified distinct performance obligations
are satisfied, either over time or at a point in time. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 11 (Construction Contracts),
IAS 18 (Revenue), IFRIC 13 (Customer Loyalty Programmes), IFRIC 15 (Agreements for the Construction
of Real Estate), IFRIC 18 (Transfers of Assets from Customers) and SIC-31 (Revenue-Barter Transactions
Involving Advertising Services). The new standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after
January 1, 2018.
Bayer currently plans to implement IFRS 15 on the basis of the modified retrospective method, accounting
for the aggregate amount of any transition effects by way of an adjustment to retained earnings as of January 1, 2018, and presenting the comparative period in line with previous rules. All of the established business models for the Bayer Group’s Life Science divisions were examined in the course of the implementation project. The analysis did not yet cover all material consolidated companies. Based on current
knowledge, Bayer does not expect the new standard to materially affect the timing of revenue recognition
for the transactions concerned or their components. The evaluation of certain individual licensing agreements has not yet been completed.
IFRS 15 clarifies the allocation of individual topics to (new) line items in the statement of financial position
and to functional cost items in the income statement, and whether gross or net amounts are to be presented. Determination of the effects on the level of sales or selling expenses has not yet been completed.
Based on current knowledge, however, we do not anticipate any material effects on these items. Overall,
we do not currently expect any material effects on the presentation of Bayer’s financial position or results
of operations as a whole, or on earnings per share.
In September 2014, the IASB published amendments to IFRS 10 (Consolidated Financial Statements) and
IAS 28 (Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures) entitled “Sale or Contribution of Assets between an
Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture.” The amendments clarify that in a transaction involving an associate or joint venture the extent of gain or loss recognition depends on whether the assets sold or contributed constitute a business. An amendment issued in December 2015 indefinitely defers the effective
date of the September 2014 amendments, which were originally intended to be applied for annual periods
beginning on or after January 1, 2016. The IASB is to set a new effective date.
In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 (Leases), the new standard for lease accounting. IFRS 16 introduces a uniform lease accounting model for lessees, requiring recognition of assets and liabilities for all
leases with a term of more than 12 months unless such leases are immaterial. It will eliminate the current
requirement for lessees to classify lease contracts as either operating leases – without recognizing the
respective assets or liabilities – or as finance leases. The new standard is to be applied for annual periods
beginning on or after January 1, 2019. It has not yet been endorsed by the European Union. Bayer is currently evaluating the impact the standard will have on the presentation of its financial position and results of
operations.
In January 2016, the IASB published amendments to IAS 12 (Income Taxes) under the title “Recognition of
Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses.” These amendments clarify the accounting for deferred tax
assets related to debt instruments measured at fair value. The amendments are to be applied for annual
periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017. They have not yet been endorsed by the European Union.
Bayer is currently evaluating the impact the amendments will have on the presentation of its financial position and results of operations.

214

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

In January 2016, the IASB published amendments to IAS 7 (Statement of Cash Flows) under its Disclosure
Initiative. The following changes in liabilities arising from financing activities must be disclosed in the future:
a) changes from financing cash flows; b) changes arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or
other businesses; c) the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates; d) changes in fair values; e) other
changes. The amendments are to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
They have not yet been endorsed by the European Union.
In April 2016, the IASB issued Clarifications to IFRS 15 (Revenue from Contracts with Customers). These
amendments address three topics: identifying performance obligations, principal versus agent considerations, and licensing. They also provide some transition relief for modified contracts and completed contracts. The amendments are to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. They
have not yet been endorsed by the European Union. Bayer is currently evaluating the impact the amendments will have on the presentation of its financial position and results of operations.
In June 2016, the IASB published an amendment to IFRS 2 (Share-based Payment) under the title “Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions.” This amendment provides guidance on
certain accounting issues relating to cash-settled share-based payments. For example, the fair value of the
equity instruments is not to be adjusted for service conditions or non-market-based performance conditions. Instead, these are to be taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected
to vest. The amendment is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. It has
not yet been endorsed by the European Union. Bayer is currently evaluating the impact the amendment will
have on the presentation of its financial position and results of operations.
In December 2016, the IASB published an amendment to IAS 40 (Investment Property) under the title
“Transfers of Investment Property.” This specifies that a property may only be transferred to or from the
investment property classification when there has been an actual change in use and not when there is a
mere change of intent concerning the property. The amendment is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. It has not yet been endorsed by the European Union. Bayer is currently
evaluating the impact the amendment will have on the presentation of its financial position and results of
operations.
In December 2016, the IASB published “Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle” as
part of its annual improvements project. The amendments relate to IFRS 1 (First Time Adoption of IFRS),
IFRS 12 (Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities) and IAS 28 (Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures).
They mainly contain clarifications on the scope of application and other matters. The amendments to
IFRS 1 and IAS 28 are to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, those to
IFRS 12 for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017. They have not yet been endorsed by the
European Union. Bayer is currently evaluating the impact the amendments will have on the presentation of
its financial position and results of operations.
In December 2016, the IASB published the IFRIC Interpretation 22 (Foreign Currency Transactions and
Advance Consideration) relating to IAS 21 (The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates). The Interpretation clarifies that the assets, income and expenses accounted for following a foreign currency transaction are to be translated at the same exchange rate as any related receipts or payments of advance
consideration. IFRIC 22 is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. It has
not yet been endorsed by the European Union. Bayer is currently evaluating the impact the Interpretation
will have on the presentation of its financial position and results of operations.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

215

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

4. Basic principles, methods and critical accounting estimates
The financial statements of the consolidated companies are prepared according to uniform accounting
policies and measurement principles.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are based on the principle of the historical cost of
acquisition, construction or production, with the exception of the items reflected at fair value, such as
financial assets held for trading or available for sale, and derivatives.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the management has to make certain assumptions and
estimates that may substantially impact the presentation of the Group’s financial position and / or results of
operations.
Such estimates, assumptions or the exercise of discretion mainly relate to the useful life of noncurrent
assets, the discounted cash flows used for impairment testing and purchase price allocations, and the
recognition of provisions, including those for litigation-related expenses, pensions and other benefits, taxes, environmental compliance and remediation costs, sales allowances, product liability and guarantees.
Essential estimates and assumptions that may affect reporting in the various item categories of the financial statements are described in the following sections of this Note. Estimates are based on historical experience and other assumptions that are considered reasonable under given circumstances. They are
continually reviewed but may vary from the actual values.
Changes in accounting policies or measurement principles in light of new or revised standards are applied
retrospectively, except as otherwise provided in the respective standard. The income statement for the
previous year and the opening statement of financial position for that year are adjusted as if the new accounting policies and / or measurement principles had always been applied.

Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates.
Subsidiaries are companies over which Bayer AG is currently able to exercise power by virtue of existing

rights. Power means the ability to direct the activities that significantly influence a company’s profitability.
Control is therefore only deemed to exist if Bayer AG is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its
involvement with a company and has the ability to use its power over that company to affect the amount of
that company’s returns. The ability to control another company generally derives from Bayer AG’s direct or
indirect ownership of a majority of the voting rights. In the case of structured entities, however, control is
based on contractual agreements. Inclusion of an entity’s accounts in the consolidated financial statements begins when the Bayer Group is able to exercise control over the entity and ceases when it is no
longer able to do so.
Joint operations and joint ventures are based on joint arrangements. A joint arrangement is deemed to

exist if the Bayer Group through a contractual agreement jointly controls activities managed with a third
party. Joint control is only deemed to exist if decisions regarding the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.

216

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have
rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. The Bayer Group recognizes the share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in
accordance with its rights and obligations.
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have
rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Associates over which Bayer AG exerts significant influence, generally through an ownership interest be-

tween 20% and 50%, are also accounted for using the equity method.
The carrying amount of a company accounted for using the equity method is adjusted annually by any
change in its equity corresponding to Bayer’s percentage interest in the company. Differences arising upon
first-time inclusion using the equity method are accounted for according to full-consolidation principles.
Bayer’s share of changes in these companies’ equities recognized in profit or loss – including impairment
losses recognized on goodwill – are reflected in equity-method income / loss.
Companies that do not have a material impact on the Group’s financial position or results of operations,
either individually or in aggregate, are accounted for at cost of acquisition less any impairment losses.

Foreign currency translation
The financial statements of the individual companies for inclusion in the consolidated financial statements
are prepared in their respective functional currencies. A company’s functional currency is that of the economic environment in which it primarily generates and expends cash. The majority of consolidated companies carry out their activities autonomously from a financial, economic and organizational point of view, and
their functional currencies are therefore the respective local currencies.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of companies outside the eurozone at the
start and end of the year are translated into euros at closing rates. All changes occurring during the year
and all income and expense items and cash flows are translated into euros at average monthly rates. Equity components are translated at the historical exchange rates prevailing at the respective dates of their
first-time recognition in Group equity.
The exchange differences arising between the resulting amounts and those obtained by translating at closing rates are recognized outside profit or loss as “Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone” (in other comprehensive income) or “Exchange differences” (in the tables in the Notes).
When a company is deconsolidated or the net investment in a foreign operation is reduced, such exchange
differences are reclassified from equity to profit or loss.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

217

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The exchange rates for major currencies against the euro varied as follows:
B 4/1

Exchange Rates for Major Currencies
Closing rate

Average rate

2015

2016

2015

2016

Brazil

4.31

3.43

3.64

3.84

CAD

Canada

1.51

1.42

1.42

1.47

CHF

Switzerland

1.08

1.07

1.07

1.09

CNY

China

7.06

7.35

6.97

7.36

GBP

United Kingdom

0.73

0.86

0.73

0.82

JPY

Japan

131.07

123.36

134.28

120.06

MXN

Mexico

18.91

21.78

17.56

20.62

RUB

Russia

80.67

64.30

67.23

73.79

USD

United States

1.09

1.05

1.11

1.11

€1/

BRL

In 2016, as in prior years, the rules of IAS 29 (Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies) were
relevant for Bayer S.A., Venezuela. Gains and losses incurred upon adjusting the carrying amounts of
nonmonetary assets and liabilities and of items in the income statement for inflation are recognized in other
operating income and expenses.
Starting in January 2016, foreign currency translation and valuation were switched to the “hyperinflationadjusted” SIMADI exchange rate. This is determined internally because reliable exchange rates are not
available externally. It was initially based on the official SIMADI rate and has subsequently been adjusted in
line with published inflation rates. The exchange rate thus calculated was VEF 2,737 to the U.S. dollar at
the end of December 2016. The resulting U.S. dollar amounts were then translated at the dollar / euro
closing-date rate.

Foreign currency measurement
In the separate financial statements of the individual consolidated companies, monetary items, such as
receivables and liabilities, that are denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency
are measured at closing rates. Related exchange differences are recognized in profit or loss as exchange
gains or losses under other financial income or expenses.

Net sales and other operating income
All revenues derived from the selling of products or rendering of services or from licensing agreements are
recognized as sales. Other operational revenues are recognized as other operating income. Sales are recognized in profit or loss when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the customer, the company retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold, the amount of revenue and costs
incurred or to be incurred can be measured reliably, and it is sufficiently probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the company.
Sales are stated net of sales taxes, other taxes and sales deductions at the fair value of the consideration
received or to be received. Sales deductions are estimated amounts for rebates, cash discounts and
product returns. They are deducted at the time the sales are recognized, and appropriate provisions are
recorded. Sales deductions are estimated primarily on the basis of historical experience, specific contractual terms and future expectations of sales development. It is unlikely that factors other than these could
materially affect sales deductions in the Bayer Group. Adjustments to provisions made in prior periods for
rebates, cash discounts or product returns were of secondary importance for income before income taxes
in the years under report.

218

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Provisions for rebates in 2016 amounted to 4.2% of total net sales (2015: 3.8%). In addition to rebates,
Group companies offer cash discounts for prompt payment in some countries. Provisions for cash discounts as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were less than 0.1% of total net sales for the
respective year.
Sales are reduced by the amount of the provisions for expected returns of defective goods or of saleable
products that may be returned under contractual arrangements. The net sales are reduced on the date of
sale or on the date when the amount of future returns can be reasonably estimated. Provisions for product
returns in 2016 amounted to 0.4% of total net sales (2015: 0.4%). If future product returns cannot be reasonably estimated and are significant to a sales transaction, the revenues and the related cost of sales are
deferred until a reasonable estimate can be made or the right to return the goods has expired.
Some of the Bayer Group’s revenues are generated on the basis of licensing agreements under which third
parties have been granted rights to products and technologies. Payments received, or expected to be
received, that relate to the sale or out-licensing of technologies or technological expertise are recognized
in profit or loss as of the effective date of the respective agreement if all rights relating to the technologies
and all obligations resulting from them have been relinquished under the contract terms. However, if rights
to the technologies continue to exist or obligations resulting from them have yet to be fulfilled, the payments received are deferred accordingly. Upfront payments and similar nonrefundable payments received
under these agreements are recorded as other liabilities and recognized in profit or loss according to the
degree of performance over the estimated performance period stipulated in the agreement.
License agreements and research and development collaboration agreements may be multiple-deliverable
arrangements with varying consideration terms, such as upfront payments and milestone or similar payments. Such agreements therefore have to be assessed to determine whether the revenues allocated to
individual deliverables must be recognized at different points in time and therefore form separate units of
account.
To qualify as a separate unit of account for revenue recognition purposes, a deliverable must have value to
the licensee on a standalone basis. If this is not the case, the agreement as a whole or a combination of
individual deliverables that has value on a standalone basis forms a unit of account.
If necessary goods have yet to be delivered or necessary services provided for a unit of account and such
delivery or provision is probable, nonrefundable (royalty) payments already received are recognized through
profit or loss over the periods in which these goods are delivered or these services are provided.
Income may also arise from the exchange of intangible assets. The amount recognized is generally based
on the fair value of the assets given up, calculated using the discounted cash flow method. If the assets
given up are internally generated, the gain from the exchange generally equals their fair value.

Research and development expenses
For accounting purposes, research expenses are defined as costs incurred for current or planned investigations undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding.
Development expenses are defined as costs incurred for the application of research findings or specialist
knowledge to plans or designs for the production, provision or development of new or substantially improved products, services or processes, respectively, prior to the commencement of commercial production or use.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

219

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Research and development expenses are incurred in the Bayer Group for in-house research and development activities as well as numerous research and development collaborations and alliances with third parties.
Research and development expenses mainly comprise the costs for active ingredient discovery, clinical
studies, research and development activities in the areas of application technology and engineering, field
trials, regulatory approvals and approval extensions.
Research costs cannot be capitalized. The conditions for capitalization of development costs are closely
defined: an intangible asset must be recognized if, and only if, there is reasonable certainty of receiving
future cash flows that will cover an asset’s carrying amount. Since our own development projects are often
subject to regulatory approval procedures and other uncertainties, the conditions for the capitalization of
costs incurred before receipt of approvals are not normally satisfied.
In the case of research and development collaborations, a distinction is generally made between payments
on contract signature, upfront payments, milestone payments and cost reimbursements for work performed. If an intangible asset (such as the right to the use of an active ingredient) is acquired in connection
with any of these payment obligations, the respective payment is capitalized even if it is uncertain whether
further development work will ultimately lead to the production of a saleable product. Reimbursements of
the cost of research or development work are recognized in profit or loss, except where they are required
to be capitalized.

Income taxes
Income taxes comprise the taxes levied on taxable income in the individual countries along with changes in
deferred tax assets and liabilities that are recognized in profit or loss. The income taxes recognized are
reflected at the amounts likely to be payable under the statutory regulations in force, or already enacted in
relation to future periods, at the end of the reporting period.
Complex tax regulations may give rise to uncertainties with respect to their interpretation and the amounts
and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the
long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual
results and the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate adjustments
to tax income and expense in future periods. The Group establishes provisions for taxes, based on reasonable estimates, for liabilities to the tax authorities of the respective countries that are uncertain as to
their amount and the probability of their occurrence. The amount of such provisions is based on various
factors, such as experience with previous tax audits and differing legal interpretations by the taxable entity
and the responsible tax authority.
In compliance with IAS 12 (Income Taxes), deferred taxes are recognized for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position prepared according to IFRS and their tax bases. Deferred taxes are also recognized for consolidation measures and for loss
carryforwards, interest carryforwards and tax credits that are likely to be usable.
Deferred tax assets relating to deductible temporary differences, tax credits, loss carryforwards and interest carryforwards are recognized where it is sufficiently probable that taxable income will be available in the
future to enable them to be used. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized on temporary differences taxable in
the future. Deferred taxes are calculated at the rates which – on the basis of the statutory regulations in
force, or already enacted in relation to future periods, as of the closing date – are expected to apply in the
individual countries at the time of realization. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and Bayer has a legal right to settle on a
net basis. Material effects of changes in tax rates or tax law on deferred tax assets and liabilities are generally accounted for in the period in which the changes are enacted. Such effects are recognized in profit
or loss except where they relate to deferred taxes that were recognized outside profit or loss, in which
case they are recognized in other comprehensive income.

220

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Deferred and current taxes are recognized in profit or loss unless they relate to items recognized outside
profit or loss in other comprehensive income, in which case they, too, are recognized in other comprehensive income.
The probability that deferred tax assets resulting from temporary differences, loss carryforwards or interest
carryforwards can be used in the future is the subject of forecasts by the individual consolidated companies regarding their future earnings situation and other parameters.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized on planned dividend payments by subsidiaries. Where no dividend
payment is planned for the foreseeable future, no deferred tax liability is recognized on the difference between the proportionate net assets according to IFRS and the tax base of the investment in the subsidiary.

Goodwill
In a business combination, goodwill is capitalized at the acquisition date. It is measured at its cost of acquisition, which is the excess of the acquisition price for shares in a company over the acquired net assets.
The net assets are the balance of the fair values of the acquired identifiable assets and the assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Goodwill is not amortized, but tested annually for impairment. Details of the annual impairment tests are
given under “Procedure used in global impairment testing and its impact.” Once an impairment loss has
been recognized on goodwill, it is not reversed in subsequent periods.

Other intangible assets
An “other intangible asset” is an identifiable nonmonetary asset without physical substance, other than
goodwill (such as a patent, a trademark or a marketing right). It is capitalized if the future economic benefits attributable to the asset will probably flow to the company and the cost of acquisition or generation of
the asset can be reliably measured.
Other intangible assets are recognized at the cost of acquisition or generation. Those with a determinable
useful life are amortized accordingly on a straight-line basis over a period of up to 30 years, except where
their actual depletion demands a different amortization pattern. Determination of the expected useful lives
of such assets and the amortization patterns is based on estimates of the period for which they will generate cash flows. An impairment test is performed if there is an indication of possible impairment.
Other intangible assets with an indefinite life (such as the Bayer Cross trademark) and intangible assets not
yet available for use (such as research and development projects) are not amortized, but tested annually
for impairment.

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated by the straight-line method over an asset’s useful life, except
where depreciation based on actual depletion is more appropriate.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

221

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The following depreciation periods are applied throughout the Group:
B 4/2

Useful Life of Property, Plant and Equipment
Buildings

20 to 50 years

Outdoor infrastructure

10 to 20 years

Storage tanks and pipelines

10 to 20 years

Plant installations

6 to 20 years

Machinery and equipment

6 to 12 years

Furniture and fixtures

4 to 10 years

Vehicles

5 to 8 years

Computer equipment

3 to 5 years

Laboratory and research facilities

3 to 5 years

When assets are sold, closed down or scrapped, the difference between the net proceeds and the net
carrying amount of the assets is recognized as a gain or loss in other operating income or expenses, respectively.
Investment property comprises land and buildings not being used for operational or administrative purposes. It is measured using the cost model. The fair value of the investment property reported in the Notes is
determined using the discounted cash flow method, comparisons with the current market values of similar
properties, or reports from external experts.

Financial assets
Financial assets comprise loans and receivables, acquired equity and debt instruments, cash and cash
equivalents, and derivatives with positive fair values.
Regular-way purchases and sales of financial assets are generally posted on the settlement date. Financial
assets are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs. The transaction costs incurred for the
purchase of financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss are expensed immediately.
If there are substantial and objective indications of a decline in the value of loans and receivables, heldto-maturity financial assets or available-for-sale financial assets, an impairment test is performed. Indications of possible impairment include a high probability of insolvency, a significant deterioration in credit
standing, a material breach of contract, operating losses reported by a company over several years, a
reduction in market value, the financial restructuring of the debtor, or the disappearance of an active
market for the asset.
Financial assets are derecognized when contractual rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets
expire or the financial assets are transferred together with all material risks and benefits.

Inventories
In accordance with IAS 2 (Inventories), inventories encompass assets consumed in production or in the
rendering of services (raw materials and supplies), assets in the production process for sale (work in
process), goods held for sale in the ordinary course of business (finished goods and goods purchased for
resale), and advance payments on inventories. Inventories are recognized at their cost of acquisition or
production – calculated by the weighted-average method – or at their net realizable value, whichever
is lower. The net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated cost to complete and selling expenses.

222

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, checks received and balances with banks and companies.
Cash equivalents are highly liquid short-term financial investments that are subject to an insignificant risk of
changes in value, are easily convertible into a known amount of cash and have a maturity of three months
or less from the date of acquisition or investment.

Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits
Within the Bayer Group, post-employment benefits are provided under defined contribution and / or defined
benefit plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, the company pays contributions to publicly or
privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. Once the contributions have been paid, the company has no further payment obligations. The regular contributions constitute expenses for the year in which they are due and as such are included in the functional cost items, and
thus in EBIT. All other post-employment benefit systems are defined benefit plans, which may be either
unfunded, i.e. financed by provisions, or funded, i.e. financed through pension funds.
The present value of provisions for defined benefit plans and the resulting expense are calculated in accordance with IAS 19 (Employee Benefits) by the projected unit credit method. The future benefit obligations are valued by actuarial methods and spread over the entire employment period on the basis of specific assumptions regarding beneficiary structure and the economic environment. These relate mainly to the
discount rate, future salary and pension increases, variations in health care costs, and mortality rates.
The discount rates used are calculated from the yields of high-quality corporate bond portfolios in specific
currencies with cash flows approximately equivalent to the expected disbursements from the pension
plans. The uniform discount rate derived from this interest-rate structure is thus based on the yields, at the
closing date, of a portfolio of AA-rated corporate bonds whose weighted residual maturities approximately
correspond to the duration necessary to cover the entire benefit obligation.
The fair value of plan assets is deducted from the present value of the defined benefit obligation for pensions and other post-employment benefits to determine the net defined benefit liability. The obligations and
plan assets are valued at regular intervals of not more than three years. Comprehensive actuarial valuations
for all major plans are performed annually as of December 31. Plan assets in excess of the benefit obligation are reflected in other receivables, subject to the asset ceiling specified in IAS 19 (Employee Benefits).
The balance of all income and expenses relating to defined benefit plans, except the net interest on the net
liability, is recognized in EBIT. The net interest is reflected in the financial result under other financial income
and expenses.
The effects of remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are reflected in the statement of comprehensive income as other comprehensive income. They consist of actuarial gains and losses, the return on
plan assets and changes in the effects of the asset ceiling, less the respective amounts included in net
interest. Deferred taxes relating to the effects of remeasurements are also recognized in other comprehensive income.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

223

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Other provisions
Other provisions are recognized for present legal and constructive obligations arising from past events that
will probably give rise to a future outflow of resources, provided that a reliable estimate can be made of the
amount of the obligations.
If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change in the estimate, the provision is reversed by the
corresponding amount and the resulting income recognized in the operating expense item(s) in which the
original charge was recognized.
To enhance the information content of the estimates, certain provisions that could have a material effect on
the financial position or results of operations of the Group are tested for their sensitivity to changes in the
underlying parameters. To reflect uncertainty about the likelihood of the assumed events actually occurring,
the impact of a five-percentage-point change in the probability of occurrence is examined in each case.
This analysis has not shown other provisions to be materially sensitive.
Provisions for environmental protection are recorded if future cash outflows are likely to be necessary to

ensure compliance with environmental regulations or to carry out remediation work, such costs can be
reliably estimated and no future benefits are expected from such measures. Provisions for environmental
protection mainly relate to the rehabilitation of contaminated land, recultivation of landfills, and redevelopment and water protection measures.
Estimating the future costs of environmental protection and remediation involves many uncertainties, particularly with regard to the status of laws, regulations and the information available about conditions in the
various countries and at the individual sites. Significant factors in estimating the costs include previous
experiences in similar cases, the conclusions in expert opinions obtained regarding the Group’s environmental programs, current costs and new developments affecting costs, management’s interpretation of
current environmental laws and regulations, the number and financial position of third parties that may
become obligated to participate in any remediation costs on the basis of joint liability, and the remediation
methods likely to be deployed. Changes in these assumptions could impact future reported results of the
Group.
Taking into consideration experience gained to date regarding environmental matters of a similar nature,
provisions are believed to be adequate based upon currently available information. Given the difficulties
inherent in estimating liabilities in the businesses in which the Group operates, especially those for which
the risk of environmental damage is greater in relative terms (Crop Science and Covestro), it remains possible that material additional costs will be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. It may transpire during
remediation work that additional expenditures are necessary over an extended period and that these exceed existing provisions and cannot be reasonably estimated.
Provisions for restructuring only cover expenses that arise directly from restructuring measures, are necessary for restructuring and are not related to future business operations. Such expenses include severance payments to employees and compensation payments in respect of rented property that can no longer be used.

Restructuring measures may include the sale or termination of business units, site closures, relocations of
business activities or fundamental reorganizations of business units.
Trade-related provisions are recorded mainly for the granting of rebates or discounts, product returns,

obligations in respect of services already received but not yet invoiced, and impending losses or onerous
contracts.

224

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

As a global enterprise with a diverse business portfolio, the Bayer Group is exposed to numerous legal risks
for which provisions for litigations must be established under certain conditions – particularly in the areas of
product liability, competition and antitrust law, patent disputes, tax law and environmental protection.
Litigations and other judicial proceedings often raise complex issues and are subject to many uncertainties
and complexities including, but not limited to, the facts and circumstances of each particular case, the
jurisdiction in which each suit is brought and differences in applicable law. The outcomes of currently
pending and future proceedings generally cannot be predicted. It is particularly difficult to assess the likely
outcomes of class actions for damages or mass compensation claims in the United States, which may give
rise to significant financial risks for the Bayer Group. As a result of a judgment in court proceedings, regulatory decisions or the conclusion of a settlement, the Bayer Group may incur charges for which no accounting measures have yet been taken for lack of reasonable estimability or which exceed presently established provisions and the insurance coverage.
The Bayer Group considers the need for accounting measures in respect of pending or future litigations,
and the extent of any such measures, on the basis of the information available to its legal department and
in close consultation with legal counsel acting for the Bayer Group.
Where it is more likely than not that such a litigation will result in an outflow of resources that is already
reasonably estimable, a provision for litigation is recorded in the amount of the present value of the expected cash outflows. Such provisions cover the estimated payments to the plaintiffs, court and procedural costs, attorney costs and the cost of potential settlements.
It is frequently impossible to reliably determine the existence of a present obligation or reasonably estimate
the probability that a potential outflow of resources will result from a pending or future litigation. The status
of the material “legal risks” is described in Note [32]. Due to the special nature of these litigations, provisions generally are not established until initial settlements allow an estimate of potential amounts or judgments have been issued. Provisions for legal defense costs are established if it is probable that material
costs will have to be incurred for external legal counsel to defend the company’s legal position.
Internal and external legal counsel evaluates the current status of the Bayer Group’s material legal risks at
the end of each reporting period. The need to establish or adjust a provision and the amount of the provision or adjustment are determined on this basis. Adjusting events are reflected up to the date of preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The measurement of provisions in the case of class actions
or mass compensation claims is mainly based on any settlements reached during the past year and on
pending or anticipated future claims.
Provisions for personnel commitments mainly include those for variable one-time payments under shortterm incentive programs and for stock-based compensation. Also reflected here are commitments for
service awards, early retirements and pre-retirement part-time working arrangements. Provisions for severance payments resulting from restructuring are reflected in provisions for restructuring.

Miscellaneous provisions include those for other liabilities, contingent liabilities from business combinations,
and asset retirement obligations (other than those included in provisions for environmental protection).

Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities comprise primary financial liabilities and negative fair values of derivatives.
Liabilities for contingent consideration arising from business combinations are measured at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognized through profit or loss as of the respective closing date.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

225

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Financial liabilities are derecognized when the contractual obligation is discharged or canceled, or has
expired.
An assessment of the mandatory convertible notes issued in 2016 was performed to determine whether
these should be accounted for entirely as debt or split into an equity component and a debt component.
The assessment identified Bayer’s right to early conversion of the notes as an important criterion in this
regard, and the economic substance of this right was examined. The early conversion right has economic
substance with respect to maintaining the current credit rating if early conversion can prevent a rating
downgrade. In this event, future savings of credit interest would more than offset the cost of early conversion by Bayer.
On the basis of this assessment, the mandatory convertible notes are accounted for as a hybrid financial
instrument. The directly attributable costs along with the debt component, which corresponds to the present value of the future interest payments, are deducted from the proceeds of the issue. The debt component is included in financial liabilities. The remaining amount is the equity component, which is reflected in
capital reserves.

Other receivables and liabilities
Accrued items and other nonfinancial assets and liabilities are carried at amortized cost. They are amortized to income by the straight-line method or according to performance of the underlying transaction.
Grants and subsidies from third parties that serve to promote investment are reflected in the statement of
financial position under other liabilities and amortized to income over the useful lives of the respective investments or in line with the terms of the grant or subsidy.

Derivatives
The Bayer Group uses derivatives to mitigate the risk of changes in exchange rates, interest rates or prices
and to hedge stock-based compensation programs. The instruments used include forward exchange contracts, interest-rate swaps and stock options. Derivatives are recognized at the trade date.
Contracts concluded in order to receive or deliver nonfinancial items for the company’s own purposes are
not accounted for as derivatives but treated as pending transactions. Where embedded derivatives are
identified that are required to be separated from the pending transactions, they are accounted for separately. To take advantage of market opportunities or cover possible peak demand, a nonmaterial volume of
transactions may be entered into for which the possibility of immediate resale cannot be excluded. Such
transactions are allocated to separate portfolios upon acquisition and accounted for as derivatives according to IAS 39.
Derivatives are carried at fair value. Positive fair values at the end of the reporting period are reflected in
financial assets, negative fair values in financial liabilities. Changes in the fair values of these derivatives are
recognized directly in profit or loss except where hedge accounting is used.
Changes in the fair values of the effective portion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are initially
recognized outside profit or loss in accumulated other comprehensive income. They are reclassified to
profit or loss when the underlying transaction is realized. If such a derivative is sold or ceases to qualify for
hedge accounting, the change in its value continues to be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction is realized. If the forecasted transaction is no longer expected
to occur, the amount previously recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income has to be reclassified to profit or loss. The ineffective portion of gains or losses on derivatives designated as cash flow
hedges is recognized either in other operating income or expenses or in the financial result, depending on
the type of underlying transaction.

226

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Changes in the fair values of derivatives designated as fair-value hedges and the adjustments in the carrying amounts of the underlying transactions are recognized in profit or loss.
Changes in the fair values of forward exchange contracts and currency options serving as hedges of items
in the statement of financial position are reflected in other financial income and expenses as exchange
gains or losses, while changes in the values of interest-rate swaps and interest-rate options are recognized
in interest income or expense. Changes in the fair values of commodity futures and options, and of forward
exchange contracts used to hedge forecasted sales transactions in foreign currencies, are recognized in
other operating income or expenses. Changes in the fair values of stock options or forward stock transactions used to hedge stock-based employee compensation are initially recognized outside profit or loss and
subsequently reclassified to profit or loss in the functional costs over the periods of the Aspire programs.
The income and expense reflected in the financial result pertaining to the derivatives and the underlying
transactions are shown separately. Income and expense are not offset.

Acquisition accounting
Acquired businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their respective fair values on the date Bayer obtains control.
Ancillary acquisition costs are recognized as expenses in the periods in which they occur.
The application of the acquisition method requires certain estimates and assumptions to be made, especially concerning the fair values of the acquired intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and the
liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, and the useful lives of the acquired intangible assets, property,
plant and equipment.
Measurement is based to a large extent on anticipated cash flows. If actual cash flows vary from those
used in calculating fair values, this may materially affect the Group’s future results of operations. In particular, the estimation of discounted cash flows from intangible assets under development, patented and nonpatented technologies and brands is based on assumptions concerning, for example:
> The outcomes of research and development activities regarding the efficacy of a crop protection or seed

product, compound, results of clinical trials, etc.
> The probability of obtaining regulatory approvals in individual countries
> Long-term sales projections
> Possible selling price erosion due to offerings of unpatented products following patent expirations
> The behavior of competitors (launch of competing products, marketing initiatives, etc.)

For significant acquisitions, the purchase price allocation is carried out with assistance from independent
third-party valuation specialists. The valuations are based on the information available at the acquisition
date.
In step acquisitions, the fair values of the acquired entity’s assets and liabilities are measured in accordance with IFRS 3 (Business Combinations) at the date on which control is obtained. Any resulting adjustments to the fair value of the existing interest are recognized in profit or loss. The carrying amount of the
assets and liabilities already recognized in the statement of financial position is then adjusted accordingly.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

227

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Divestment accounting
Divestments of shares in subsidiaries that result in a loss of control are generally accounted for in profit
or loss.
When shares in a subsidiary are gradually divested in several tranches, a reduction in the majority shareholding without the loss of control is reflected outside profit or loss and results in an increase in the equity
attributable to noncontrolling stockholders. If Bayer AG loses control of an entity but retains significant
influence, the entity is accounted for as an associate using the equity method. If Bayer can no longer exert
significant influence following a loss of control, the remaining interest is immediately classified as an available-for-sale financial asset and recognized at fair value outside profit or loss.

Procedure used in global impairment testing and its impact
Impairment tests are performed not only on individual items of intangible assets, property, plant and
equipment, but also at the level of cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units. A cashgenerating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. The Bayer Group regards its strategic
business entities or groups of strategic business entities, as well as certain product families, as cashgenerating units and subjects them to global impairment testing. The strategic business entities constitute
the second financial reporting level below the segments.
Cash-generating units and unit groups are globally tested if there is an indication of possible impairment.
Those to which goodwill is allocated are tested at least annually.
Impairment testing involves comparing the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit, unit group or
item of intangible assets, property, plant or equipment to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of its
fair value less costs of disposal or value in use. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, an
impairment loss must be recognized for the difference. In this case an impairment loss is first recognized
on any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit or unit group. Any remaining part of the impairment
loss is then allocated among the other noncurrent nonfinancial assets of the cash-generating unit or unit
group in proportion to their carrying amounts. The resulting expense is reflected in the functional item of
the income statement in which the depreciation or amortization of the respective assets is recognized. The
same applies to income from impairment loss reversals.
The recoverable amount is generally determined on the basis of the fair value less costs of disposal, taking
into account the present value of the future net cash flows as market prices for the individual units are not
normally available. These are forecasted on the basis of the Bayer Group’s current planning, the planning
horizon normally being three to five years. Forecasting involves making assumptions, especially regarding
future selling prices, sales volumes, costs, market growth rates, economic cycles and exchange rates.
These assumptions are based on internal estimates along with external market studies. Where the recoverable amount is the fair value less costs of disposal, the cash-generating unit or unit group is measured
from the viewpoint of an independent market participant. Where the recoverable amount is the value in
use, the cash-generating unit, unit group or individual asset is measured as currently used. In either case,
net cash flows beyond the planning period are determined on the basis of long-term business expectations
using the respective individual growth rates derived from market information. The fair value less costs of
disposal is determined on the basis of unobservable inputs (Level 3).

228

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The net cash inflows are discounted at a rate equivalent to the weighted average cost of equity and debt
capital. To allow for the different risk and return profiles of the Bayer Group’s principal businesses, the
after-tax cost of capital is calculated separately for each reporting segment, and a segment-specific capital
structure is defined by benchmarking against comparable companies in the same industry sector. The cost
of equity corresponds to the return expected by stockholders, while the cost of debt is based on the conditions on which comparable companies can obtain long-term financing. Both components are derived
from capital market information.
The growth rates applied for impairment testing in 2016 and 2015 and the capital cost factors used to
discount the expected cash flows are shown in the following table:
B 4/3

Impairment Testing Parameters
Growth rate

After-tax cost of capital

2015

2016

2015

2016

Pharmaceuticals

0.0

0.0

6.2

5.5

Radiology

0.0

0.0

6.2

5.5

Consumer Health

0.0

0.0

6.2

5.2

Crop Protection

2.3

2.1

6.3

5.3

Seeds

1.9

1.7

6.3

5.3

Environmental Science

1.8

2.4

6.3

5.3

Animal Health

0.0

0.0

6.2

5.3

Covestro

1.8

1.8

6.1

5.4

%

In light of the legal and economic independence of Covestro, its strategic business entities were impairment-tested as a group of cash-generating units from the point of view of the Bayer Group.
No impairment losses were recognized on goodwill on the basis of the global annual impairment testing of
the cash-generating units and unit groups in 2016 or 2015. Impairment losses on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment – net of €1 million (2015: €1 million) in impairment loss reversals – totaled €711
million (2015: €229 million). Details are provided in Notes [17] and [18].
Although the estimates of the useful lives of certain assets, assumptions concerning the macroeconomic
environment and developments in the industries in which the Bayer Group operates, and estimates of the
discounted future cash flows are believed to be appropriate, changes in assumptions or circumstances
could require changes in the analysis. This could lead to the recognition of additional impairment losses in
the future or – except in the case of goodwill – to reversals of previously recognized impairment losses if
developments are contrary to expectations.
The sensitivity analysis for cash-generating units and unit groups to which goodwill is allocated was based
on a 10% reduction in future cash flows, a 10% increase in the weighted average cost of capital or a onepercentage-point reduction in the long-term growth rate. Bayer concluded that no impairment loss would
need to be recognized on goodwill in any cash-generating unit or unit group under these conditions.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

229

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

5. Segment reporting
At Bayer, the Board of Management – as the chief operating decision-maker – allocates resources to the
operating segments and assesses their performance. The reportable segments and regions are identified,
and the disclosures selected, in line with the internal financial reporting system (management approach)
and based on the Group accounting policies outlined in Note [4].
In 2015, the Bayer Group comprised three subgroups, with operations subdivided into strategic business
entities known as divisions (HealthCare), business groups (CropScience) and business units (Covestro;
formerly MaterialScience). On December 31, 2015, there were four reportable segments. In September
2015, it was decided to introduce a new organizational structure effective January 1, 2016, in line with
Bayer’s focus on the Life Science businesses. The former Bayer HealthCare subgroup was dissolved, and
the Radiology business is now assigned to the Pharmaceuticals segment. The Consumer Health segment
consists entirely of the consumer care business. Animal Health is a reportable segment. The Bayer CropScience subgroup became the Crop Science segment. Covestro remains a reportable segment.
In the Crop Science segment, the Crop Protection / Seeds and Environmental Science operating segments
were combined, mainly in light of the comparable nature of their products for the agricultural industry, such
as in the area of crop protection and the related comparable production processes and comparable distribution methods, including via wholesalers in particular.
The segments’ activities are as follows:
B 5/1

Activities of the Segments
Segment

Activities

Pharmaceuticals

Development, production and marketing of prescription products, especially for cardiology and women’s
health care; specialty therapeutics in the areas of oncology, hematology and ophthalmology; diagnostic
imaging equipment and the necessary contrast agents

Consumer Health

Development, production and marketing of mainly nonprescription (OTC = over-the-counter) products in
the dermatology, dietary supplement, analgesic, gastrointestinal, cold, allergy, sinus and flu, foot care and
sun protection categories

Crop Science 1

Development, production and marketing of a broad portfolio of products in seeds and plant traits, crop
protection and nonagricultural pest control

Animal Health

Development, production and marketing of prescription and nonprescription veterinary products

Covestro

Development, production and marketing of raw materials for polyurethanes; polycarbonate granules and
sheets; raw materials for coatings, adhesives and sealants; and by-products of polyether production and
of chlorine production and use

1

Following the signing of a sales agreement with SBM Développement SAS, Lyon, France, the Consumer business of the Environmental Science
unit was no longer reported under continuing operations in 2016.

Business activities that cannot be allocated to any other segment are reported under “All other segments.”
These primarily include the services provided by the service areas: Business Services, Technology Services
and Currenta.
The items in “Corporate Functions and Consolidation” mainly comprise the Bayer holding companies and
the Bayer Lifescience Center, which focuses on the development of crucial, cross-species innovations.
They also include the increase or decrease in expenses for Group-wide long-term stock-based compensation arising from fluctuations in the performance of Bayer stock, and the consolidation of intersegment
sales (2016: €2.3 billion; 2015: €2.4 billion).

230

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

In Table B 1/2 “Key Data by Region” as of December 31, 2016, the Europe region is combined with the
Middle East and Africa. Latin America is a separate region. The regional breakdown is in line with the internal regional responsibilities of the individual members of the Bayer AG Board of Management. The prioryear figures are restated accordingly. The reconciliation in the table “Key Data by Region” eliminates interregional items and transactions and reflects income, expenses, assets and liabilities not allocable to geographical areas.
The segment data are calculated as follows:
> Tables B 1/1 “Key Data by Segment” and B 1/2 “Key Data by Region” and the present chapter contain

>
>
>
>

>
>

>

supplementary performance indicators that are not subject to requirements of the financial reporting
standards governing the preparation of the Combined Management Report and the consolidated
financial statements. The most important of these indicators are EBIT, EBITDA, EBIT before special
items, EBITDA before special items, and the return on capital employed. These supplementary
indicators are defined, and their calculation explained, in Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance
Measures Used by the Bayer Group” of the Combined Management Report in the Bayer Annual Report
2016.
The intersegment sales reflect intra-Group transactions effected at transfer prices fixed on an arm’slength basis.
The net cash provided by operating activities is the cash flow from operating activities as defined in
IAS 7 (Statement of Cash Flows).
The segment assets comprise all assets serving the respective segment, stated as of December 31,
including material participating interests of direct relevance to business operations.
Starting in 2016, the cash flow return on investment (CFROI) was replaced by the return on capital
employed (ROCE) as a value-based indicator. Both CFROI and ROCE constitute alternative performance
measures.
The equity items reflect the earnings and carrying amounts of investments accounted for using the
equity method.
Since the financial management of Group companies is carried out centrally by Bayer AG, financial
liabilities are not directly allocated among the segments. Consequently, the liabilities shown for the
individual segments do not include financial liabilities. These are included in the reconciliation.
The number of employees on either permanent or temporary contracts is stated in full-time equivalents
(FTE), with part-time employees included on a pro-rated basis in line with their contractual working
hours. The figures do not include apprentices.

Reconciliations
The reconciliations of EBITDA before special items, EBIT before special items and EBIT to Group income
before income taxes and of the assets and liabilities of the segments to the assets and liabilities, respectively, of the Group are given in the following tables.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

231

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 5/2

Reconciliation of Segments’ EBITDA Before Special Items to Group Income Before Income Taxes
€ million

EBITDA before special items of segments
EBITDA before special items of Corporate Functions and Consolidation
EBITDA before special items1
Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses / loss reversals before special items of segments

2015
10,722
(466)
10,256
(3,190)

Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses / loss reversals before special items
of Corporate Functions and Consolidation
Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses / loss reversals before special items
EBIT before special items of segments
EBIT before special items of Corporate Functions and Consolidation
EBIT before special items1
Special items of segments
Special items of Corporate Functions and Consolidation
Special items 1
EBIT of segments
EBIT of Corporate Functions and Consolidation

2016
11,640
(338)
11,302
(3,166)

(6)

(6)

(3,196)

(3,172)

7,532

8,474

(472)
7,060
(792)

(344)
8,130
(1,068)

(27)

(20)

(819)

(1,088)

6,740
(499)

7,406
(364)

EBIT 1

6,241

7,042

Financial result

(1,005)

(1,155)

Income before income taxes

5,236

5,887

2015 figures restated
1
For definition see Combined Management Report, Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

B 5/3

Reconciliation of Segments’ Assets to Group Assets
€ million

Assets of the operating segments
Corporate Functions and Consolidation assets
Nonallocated assets
Assets of discontinued operations
Group assets

2015

2016

65,654

66,252

181

507

7,899

15,479

183

–

73,917

82,238

B 5/4

Reconciliation of Segments’ Liabilities to Group Liabilities
€ million
Liabilities of the operating segments
Corporate Functions and Consolidation liabilities
Nonallocated liabilities
Liabilities directly related to discontinued operations
Group liabilities

2015

2016

24,557

26,617

2,645

1,996

21,158

21,728

112

–

48,472

50,341

The reconciliation of segment sales to Group sales is apparent from the table of key data by segment in
Note [1].

232

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Information on geographical areas
The following table provides a regional breakdown of external sales by market and of intangible assets,
property, plant and equipment:
B 5/5

Information on Geographical Areas
Net sales (external)
– by market

Intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment

2015

2016

2015

2016

4,925

4,809

12,385

12,468

11,168

11,310

14,420

14,297

4,212

4,603

3,260

2,938

691

662

5,298

5,047

Other

25,089

25,385

8,286

8,243

Total

46,085

46,769

43,649

42,993

€ million

Germany
United States
China
Switzerland

2015 figures restated

Information on major customers
Revenues from transactions with a single customer in no case exceeded 10% of Bayer Group sales in
2016 or 2015.

GRI G4-17

6. Scope of consolidation; subsidiaries and affiliates
6.1 Changes in the scope of consolidation
Changes in the scope of consolidation in 2016 were as follows:
B 6.1/1

Change in Number of Consolidated Companies
Bayer AG and consolidated companies
December 31, 2015

Germany

Other
countries

Total

68

239

307

Changes in scope of consolidation

–

1

1

Additions

–

2

2

Retirements

(4)

(5)

(9)

December 31, 2016

64

237

301

The decrease in the total number of consolidated companies in 2016 was primarily due to mergers among
Group companies.
Bayer Pearl Polyurethane Systems LLC, United Arab Emirates, is fully consolidated because the Bayer
Group holds a majority of the voting rights.
Pure Salt Baytown LLC, United States, is fully consolidated as a structured entity. The Bayer Group guarantees the liabilities of Pure Salt Baytown LLC to banks. These liabilities, which are reflected in full in the
consolidated statement of financial position, amounted to €12 million as of December 31, 2016 (2015: €17
million).
The above table includes one joint operation, LyondellBasell Covestro Manufacturing Maasvlakte V.O.F.,
Netherlands, as of December 31, 2016 (2015: one). Pursuant to IFRS 11, Bayer’s share of this company’s
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Bayer’s rights and obligations. The main purpose of LyondellBasell Covestro Manufacturing
Maasvlakte V.O.F., Netherlands, is the joint production of propylene oxide (PO) for Covestro and its partner
Lyondell.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

233

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

In conjunction with the acquisition of the consumer care business of Merck & Co., Inc., United States,
Bayer entered into a strategic collaboration with that company. This collaboration is included in the consolidated financial statements as a joint operation. Bayer and Merck & Co., Inc., have mutually agreed to
collaborate on the development, production, life-cycle management and marketing of active ingredients
and products in the field of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) modulation.
Five (2015: four) associates and six (2015: three) joint ventures were accounted for in the consolidated
financial statements using the equity method. Details of these companies are given in Note [19].
Flagship Ventures V Agricultural Fund, L.P., United States, was included in the consolidated financial
statements for the first time in 2015 and classified as an associate. Bayer has no control over this associate despite owning 99.9% of the capital, but is able to significantly influence its financial and operating
policy decisions.
Bayer Trendlines AG Innovation Fund, Limited Partnership, Israel, was included in the consolidated financial statements for the first time in 2016 and classified as an associate. Bayer is a limited partner and has
no control over this entity due to contractual restrictions, despite owning 100% of the capital.
Nanjing Baijingyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., China, was classified as an associate in view of Bayer’s representation on its executive committee and supervisory board. This enables Bayer to significantly influence
its financial and operating policy decisions despite owning only 15% of its voting rights and capital.
A total of 72 (2015: 71) subsidiaries, including one (2015: one) structured entity and 12 (2015: 12) associates or joint ventures that in aggregate are immaterial to the Bayer Group’s financial position and results of
operations are neither consolidated nor accounted for using the equity method, but are recognized at cost.
The immaterial subsidiaries accounted for less than 0.2% of Group sales, less than 0.2% of equity and less than
0.2% of total assets.
Details of subsidiary and affiliated companies pursuant to Section 313 of the German Commercial Code
can be accessed at www.bayer.com/owner16.
The following domestic subsidiaries availed themselves in 2016 of certain exemptions granted under
Section 264, Paragraph 3, and Section 264b of the German Commercial Code regarding the publication of
legal-entity financial statements:
B 6.1/2

German Exempt Subsidiaries
Company name
Adverio Pharma GmbH
AgrEvo Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

Place of business

Bayer’s interest (%)

Schönefeld

100.0

Frankfurt am Main

100.0

Alcafleu Management GmbH & Co. KG

Schönefeld

99.9

Bayer 04 Immobilien GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer 04 Leverkusen Fußball GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Altersversorgung GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Animal Health GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Beteiligungsverwaltung Goslar GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Business Services GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Chemicals Aktiengesellschaft

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Consumer Care Deutschland GmbH
Bayer CropScience Aktiengesellschaft
Bayer CropScience Biologics GmbH

Berlin

100.0

Monheim am Rhein

100.0

Wismar

100.0

GRI G4-17

234

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 6.1/2 (continued)

German Exempt Subsidiaries
Company name

Place of business

Bayer’s interest (%)

Bayer CropScience Deutschland GmbH

Langenfeld

100.0

Bayer Direct Services GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Gastronomie GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Gesellschaft für Beteiligungen mbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Innovation GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH
Bayer Real Estate GmbH
Bayer Schering Pharma AG
Bayer Vital GmbH
Bayer Weimar GmbH und Co. KG
Bayer-Handelsgesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung

Monheim am Rhein

100.0

Leverkusen

100.0

Berlin

100.0

Leverkusen

100.0

Weimar

100.0

Leverkusen

100.0

BGI Deutschland GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Chemion Logistik GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Dritte Bayer Real Estate VV GmbH & Co. KG

Schönefeld

100.0

Erste Bayer Real Estate VV GmbH & Co. KG

Schönefeld

100.0

Erste K-W-A Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Fünfte Bayer Real Estate VV GmbH & Co. KG

Schönefeld

100.0

GP Grenzach Produktions GmbH
Hild Samen GmbH
Intendis GmbH
Intraserv GmbH & Co. KG
Jenapharm GmbH & Co. KG
KOSINUS Grundstücks-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Gamma OHG
KVP Pharma+Veterinär Produkte GmbH
MENADIER Heilmittel GmbH
Schering-Kahlbaum Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung

Grenzach-Wyhlen

100.0

Marbach am Neckar

100.0

Berlin

100.0

Schönefeld

100.0

Jena

100.0

Schönefeld

100.0

Kiel

100.0

Berlin

100.0

Berlin

100.0

Sechste Bayer Real Estate VV GmbH & Co. KG

Schönefeld

100.0

Siebte Bayer VV GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Steigerwald Arzneimittelwerk GmbH

Darmstadt

100.0

TECTRION GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

TravelBoard GmbH

Leverkusen

100.0

Vierte Bayer Real Estate VV GmbH & Co. KG

Schönefeld

100.0

Zweite Bayer Real Estate VV GmbH & Co. KG

Schönefeld

100.0

Zweite K-W-A Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH

Leverkusen

100.0

6.2 Business combinations and other acquisitions
Business combinations and other acquisitions in 2016
Adjustments to purchase prices and purchase price allocations effected in 2016 relating to previous years’
transactions totaled minus €5 million. Adjustments to purchase price allocations and other adjustments
increased the total carrying amount of goodwill by €9 million.
The changes in goodwill mainly resulted from the following purchase price allocation adjustment: On July
1, 2015, Crop Science completed the acquisition of all the shares of SeedWorks India Pvt. Ltd., based in
Hyderabad, India. The company is specialized in the breeding, production and marketing of hybrid seeds
of tomato, hot pepper, okra and gourds. It has research and seed processing locations in Bangalore and
Hyderabad, respectively. The purchase of SeedWorks India is intended to further strengthen Crop Science’s vegetable seed business in India. A purchase price of €80 million was agreed, pertaining mainly to
patents, research and development projects and goodwill.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

235

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Improved information obtained about the acquired assets in the first quarter of 2016 in the course of the
global purchase price allocation led to decreases of €23 million in intangible assets and €8 million in deferred tax liabilities and a corresponding increase of €13 million in goodwill in the opening statement of
financial position. In addition, the purchase price declined by €2 million to €78 million following completion
of the final purchase price negotiations.
On February 12, 2016, Bayer and CRISPR Therapeutics AG, Basel, Switzerland, established the joint venture Casebia Therapeutics LLP, Ascot, United Kingdom. Its purpose is the development and commercialization of new methods to treat blood disorders, blindness and heart diseases. Capital contribution liabilities of US$255 million to Casebia Therapeutics LLP were recognized in the statement of financial position
as of December 31, 2016. These liabilities mature on December 31, 2020, at the latest. US$45 million was
already paid in 2016, and a further US$60 million was paid on January 3, 2017.
On December 9, 2016, Bayer and Versant Ventures, San Francisco, United States, established the joint
venture BlueRock Therapeutics LP, San Francisco, United States. The company will be active in the field of
next-generation regenerative medicine. Its goal is to develop induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) therapies
to cure a range of diseases. As of December 31, 2016, Bayer had capital contribution obligations of
US$150 million pertaining to the establishment of the joint venture. This amount should be paid by December 31, 2020, at the latest.

Acquisitions after the end of the reporting period
On January 3, 2017, Bayer acquired the Cydectin™ portfolio in the United States from Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Inc., St. Joseph, United States. The acquisition comprises the CYDECTIN Pour-On, CYDECTIN Injectable and CYDECTIN Oral Drench endectocides for cattle and sheep. The acquisition is intended to strengthen the antiparasitics portfolio in the United States through the addition of endectocides.
An initial purchase price of approximately €150 million was agreed, which is subject to the usual price
adjustment mechanisms. The purchase price was provisionally allocated mainly to trademarks and goodwill. The purchase price allocation currently remains incomplete pending compilation and review of the
relevant financial information.

Planned acquisitions
On September 14, 2016, Bayer signed a definitive merger agreement with Monsanto Company, St. Louis,
Missouri, United States, which provides for Bayer’s acquisition of all outstanding shares in Monsanto
Company against a cash payment of US$128 per share. At the time this corresponded to an expected
transaction volume of approximately US$66 billion, comprising an equity value (purchase price) of approximately US$56 billion and net debt to be assumed in an amount of US$10 billion, which includes pension
obligations as of May 31, 2016, as well as liabilities for payments under stock-based compensation programs. Bayer thus has a contingent financial commitment in the amount of approximately US$56 billion to
acquire Monsanto’s entire outstanding capital stock. The agreed transaction has been partially hedged
against the euro / U.S. dollar currency risk using derivatives contracts.
The transaction brings together two different, but highly complementary businesses. Monsanto is a leading
global provider of agricultural products, including seeds and seed technologies, herbicides, and digital
platforms to give farmers agronomic recommendations. The combined business will offer a comprehensive
set of solutions to meet growers’ current and future needs, including enhanced solutions in high-quality
seeds and traits, digital farming, and crop protection. The combination also brings together both companies’ leading innovation capabilities and R&D technology platforms.
Syndicated bank financing of US$56.9 billion was committed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Credit
Suisse, Goldman Sachs, HSBC and JP Morgan upon the signing of the merger agreement. The bank financing was subsequently syndicated to more than 20 other partner banks of Bayer.

236

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Bayer intends to finance the transaction with a combination of debt and equity. The planned equity component amounts to approximately US$19 billion in total. As the first part of the equity component, Bayer
placed €4 billion in mandatory convertible notes on November 22, 2016, excluding subscription rights for
existing stockholders of the company. The remainder of the equity component is expected to be raised by
way of a rights issue. The net proceeds from the issuance of the mandatory convertible notes were used
for the early replacement of a portion of the undrawn syndicated bank credit facility. Details of the mandatory convertible notes issue are provided in Note [24].
The stockholders of Monsanto Company approved the merger with the requisite majority on December 13,
2016. The transaction remains subject to customary closing conditions, including relevant antitrust and
other regulatory approvals. Closing of the transaction is currently expected by the end of 2017.
The merger agreement provides for payment by Bayer of a US$2 billion reverse break fee including, in
particular, in the event that the necessary antitrust approvals are not granted by June 14, 2018, and Bayer
or Monsanto therefore terminates the merger agreement.

Acquisitions in 2015
In 2015, the following acquisitions were accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3:
On March 2, 2015, Covestro successfully completed the acquisition of all the shares of Thermoplast Composite GmbH, Germany, a technology leader specializing in the production of thermoplastic fiber composites. The aim of the acquisition is to expand the range of polycarbonate materials for major industries to
include composites made from continuous fiber-reinforced thermoplastics. A purchase price of €18 million
was agreed, including a variable component of €4 million. The purchase price mainly pertained to patents
and goodwill.
In connection with the acquisition of the consumer care business of Merck & Co., Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, United States, in 2014, the production facilities at the Pointe-Claire site in Canada were
acquired on July 1, 2015. Of the agreed €67 million purchase price, €61 million pertains to property, plant
and equipment.
The global purchase price allocation for the consumer care business acquired from Merck & Co., Inc. in
2014 was completed in September 2015. This resulted in an €821 million increase in deferred tax assets
due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of intangible assets in the IFRS financial
statements and those reported for tax purposes, along with a corresponding decline in goodwill in the
statement of financial position. These adjustments were effected retroactively as of the date of acquisition
pursuant to IFRS 3.45 ff. In addition, the purchase price was reduced by €8 million in 2015 on the basis of
agreed purchase price adjustment mechanisms.
Settlements were reached in August 2015 in the court proceedings initiated by former minority stockholders of Bayer Pharma AG (formerly Bayer Schering Pharma AG). The additional payment made as a result
represents a subsequent purchase price adjustment according to the March 31, 2004, version of IFRS 3 in
effect at the acquisition date. The goodwill was increased by €261 million in 2013 based on the status of
the proceedings at that time. Following the settlements in August 2015, it was possible to finally determine
the goodwill arising from the acquisition. It was therefore necessary to reduce the goodwill amount by
€115 million in 2015 as a result of the proceedings. Both the increase and the reduction were recognized
outside profit or loss against the liability resulting from the minority stockholders’ compensation claim.
The global purchase price allocation for Dihon Pharmaceutical Group Co. Ltd., Kunming, Yunnan, China,
acquired in 2014, was completed in October 2015. The main outcomes were increases in the amounts
recognized for trademarks (€18 million), other provisions (€19 million) and other liabilities (€27 million). The
purchase price was reduced by €43 million in 2015 due to adjustment mechanisms.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

237

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

6.3 Divestments, material sale transactions and discontinued operations
Divestments and discontinued operations in 2016
The effects of divestments and discontinued operations in 2016 and those from previous years on the
consolidated financial statements were as follows:
The sale of the Diabetes Care business to Panasonic Healthcare Holdings Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, for
around €1 billion was completed on January 4, 2016. The sale includes the leading Contour™ portfolio of
blood glucose monitoring meters and strips, as well as other products such as Breeze™2, Elite™ and
Microlet™ lancing devices.
The sale of the Diabetes Care business also comprises further significant obligations by Bayer that will be
fulfilled over a period of up to two years subsequent to the date of divestment. The sale proceeds will be
recognized accordingly over this period and reported as income from discontinued operations. Deferred
income has been recognized in the statement of financial position and will be dissolved as the obligations
are fulfilled. Of this, an amount of €497 million was recognized in sales in 2016. The €71 million outflow of
net assets is reflected accordingly in the cost of goods sold.
The obligations to be fulfilled over a period of up to two years after the divestment of the Diabetes Care
business are also reported as discontinued operations in the income statement and the statement of cash
flows. These resulted in sales of €76 million in 2016. This information is provided from the standpoint of
the Bayer Group and does not present these activities as a separate entity. It is therefore not possible to
compare these sales against the proceeds from operational product sales achieved in 2015.
The items in the statement of financial position pertaining to the Diabetes Care business are shown in the
segment reporting under “All Other Segments.” In addition to the aforementioned deferred income (€469
million), the statement of financial position includes other receivables (net: €66 million), deferred tax assets
(net: €73 million), income tax liabilities (€65 million) and miscellaneous provisions (€9 million).
The sale of the Consumer business (CS Consumer) of Bayer’s Environmental Science unit to SBM Développement SAS, Lyon, France, was completed on October 4, 2016. The Consumer business encompasses the Bayer Garden and Bayer Advanced businesses in Europe and North America. These activities
are reported as discontinued operations in the income statement and the statement of cash flows.
The effects of these and other, smaller divestments made in 2016 were as follows:
B 6.3/1

Divested Assets and Liabilities
2015

2016

Goodwill

–

36

Patents and technologies

–

4

Other intangible assets

–

16

Inventories

–

184

Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits

–

(28)

Other provisions

–

(97)

Divested net assets

–

115

€ million

238

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The income statements for the discontinued operations are given below:
B 6.3/2

Income Statements for Discontinued Operations
Diabetes Care
€ million

2015

2016

CS Consumer
2015

Total

2016

2015

2016

Net sales

947

573

239

195

1,186

Cost of goods sold

(380)

(146)

(118)

(121)

(498)

(267)

Gross profit

567

427

121

74

688

501

Selling expenses

(386)

(9)

(95)

(83)

(481)

(92)

Research and development expenses

(48)

(1)

(7)

(11)

(55)

(12)

General administration expenses

(36)

(12)

(6)

(9)

(42)

(21)

Other operating income / expenses

(20)

(4)

(4)

(55)

(24)

EBIT 1

77

401

9

(84)

86

Financial result
Income before income taxes

–

–

–

77

401

9

3

(76)

(4)

27

(1)

80

325

5

(57)

85

Income taxes
Income after income taxes
1

–
(84)

768

(59)
317

–

–

86

317
(49)
268

For definition see Combined Management Report, Chapter 2.4 “Alternative Performance Measures Used by the Bayer Group.”

The discontinued operations affected the Bayer Group statements of cash flows as follows:
B 6.3/3

Statements of Cash Flows for Discontinued Operations
Diabetes Care
€ million

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

CS Consumer

Total

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016
830

43

788

11

42

54

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

(4)

–

(2)

–

(6)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

(39)

Change in cash and cash equivalents

–

(788)
–

(9)
–

(42)
–

(48)

–
(830)

–

–

As no cash is assigned to discontinued operations, the balance of the cash provided is deducted again in
financing activities.

Divestments and material sale transactions in 2015
On March 2, 2015, Animal Health completed the sale of two equine products, Legend / Hyonate and Marquis, to Merial, Inc., Duluth, Georgia, United States. A purchase price of €120 million was agreed. The
one-time payment was accounted for as deferred income. The purchase prices for Legend / Hyonate and
Marquis are being reflected in sales and earnings over a four-year and a three-year period, respectively, as
Bayer has entered into further significant obligations.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

239

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Notes to the Income Statements
7. Net sales
Net sales are derived primarily from product deliveries. Total reported net sales for 2016 amounted
to €46,769 million, rising by €684 million, or 1.5%, compared to 2015. The increase resulted from the
following factors:
B 7/1

Factors in Sales Development
2016
€ million

Volume

1,936

%

+ 4.2

Price

(348)

– 0.7

Currency

(913)

– 2.0

Portfolio
Total

9

–

684

+ 1.5

Breakdowns of net sales by segment and region are given in the table in Note [1].

8. Selling expenses
Selling expenses comprise all expenses incurred in the reporting period for the sale, storage and transportation of saleable products, advertising, the provision of advice to customers, and market research. Selling
expenses were comprised as follows:
B 8/1

Selling Expenses
2015

2016

Internal and external sales force

4,761

4,828

Advertising and customer advice

2,986

2,970

Physical distribution and warehousing of finished products

1,255

1,421

Commission and licensing expenses

1,396

1,514

Other selling expenses

1,874

1,741

12,272

12,474

€ million

Total
2015 figures restated

9. Research and development expenses
Research and development expenses and their accounting treatment are defined in Note [4]. Breakdowns
of research and development expenses by segment and region are given in Note [1].

240

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

10. Other operating income
Other operating income was comprised as follows:
B 10/1

Other Operating Income
€ million

Gains on retirements of noncurrent assets

2015

2016

137

66

Reversals of impairment losses on receivables

32

20

Reversals of unutilized provisions

25

131

Gains from derivatives

272

259

Miscellaneous operating income

643

422

1,109

898

336

115

Total
of which special items
2015 figures restated

Income from reversals of unutilized provisions include an amount of €104 million from the reversal of provisions for the Yasmin TM / YAZTM litigation.
Miscellaneous operating income included a €32 million gain incurred by Bayer 04 Leverkusen Fußball
GmbH from the sale of transfer rights and a payment of €32 million received from insurers (Covestro segment). A reimbursement payment relating to the termination of a contract accounted for income of
€27 million (Covestro segment). In the Crop Science segment, milestone payments led to income of
€21 million. In the Pharmaceuticals segment, a €14 million compensation payment was received in connection with the closure of the production site in Putuo, China. Income of €19 million resulted from the
reimbursement of indirect taxes paid in previous years (Covestro segment). A €10 million gain was incurred
on the sale of the BAYQUIK™ technology to Chemetics, Inc., Canada (Other segments).
In 2015, gains from retirements of noncurrent assets included an amount of €53 million from the sale
of trademark rights for the Biovital™, Benerva™, Bactine™ and ProPlus™ brands (Consumer Health
segment).
Miscellaneous operating income in 2015 included €314 million in claims against Dow AgroSciences LLC,
United States, for damages and royalty payments resulting from the infringement of Bayer’s rights to the
Liberty Link™ weed control system (Crop Science segment).

11. Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses were comprised as follows:
B 11/1

Other Operating Expenses
€ million

Losses on retirements of noncurrent assets

2015

2016

(32)

(22)

Impairment losses on receivables

(183)

(171)

Expenses related to significant legal risks

(151)

(262)

Losses from derivatives

(626)

(181)

Miscellaneous operating expenses

(283)

(298)

(1,275)

(934)

(247)

(205)

Total
of which special items
2015 figures restated

Of the impairment losses on receivables, €115 million pertained to past-due receivables in Brazil. In 2015,
impairment losses of €91 million were recognized on receivables from the Venezuelan exchange control

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

241

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

authority because the authority did not allocate U.S. dollars at the subsidized exchange rate with respect
to the full amounts of older receivables.
The €262 million in expenses for significant legal risks mainly included accounting measures taken in connection with legal proceedings relating to the products Xarelto™, Essure ™ and Cipro ™/Avelox ™. In 2015,
the €151 million in expenses for significant legal risks mainly included accounting measures taken in connection with legal proceedings relating to the products Luna™, LL Rice™ and Xarelto™.
Miscellaneous operating expenses included €48 million (2015: €51 million) in donations to charitable causes (all segments). Expenses of €34 million pertained to provisions established for environmental protection
measures in the United States (Crop Science segment).
As in the previous year, the remaining amount of miscellaneous operating expenses comprised a large
number of individually immaterial items at the subsidiaries.

12. Personnel expenses and employee numbers
Personnel expenses for continuing operations rose in 2016 by €181 million to €11,357 million (2015:
€11,176 million). The change was mainly due to compensation adjustments and increases in employee
bonuses, which together offset opposing currency effects.
B 12/1

Personnel Expenses
€ million

2015

2016

Salaries

8,991

9,171

Social expenses and expenses for pensions and other benefits

2,185

2,186

of which for defined contribution pension plans

557

581

of which for defined benefit and other pension plans

503

483

11,176

11,357

Total
2015 figures restated

The personnel expenses shown here do not contain the interest portion of the allocation to personnelrelated provisions – mainly for pensions and other post-employment benefits – which is included in the
financial result under other financial expenses (Note [13.3]).

242

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The average numbers of employees, classified by corporate function, were as shown in the table below:
B 12/2

Employees
2015

2016

Production

51,280

50,326

Marketing and distribution

42,212

40,756

Research and development

14,462

15,016

General administration
Total
Apprentices

9,376

9,590

117,330

115,688

2,332

2,393

2015 figures restated

The number of employees on either permanent or temporary contracts is stated in full-time equivalents
(FTE), with part-time employees included on a pro-rated basis in line with their contractual working hours.
The figures do not include apprentices.

13. Financial result
The financial result for 2016 was minus €1,155 million (2015: minus €1,005 million), comprising an equitymethod loss of €26 million (2015: €9 million), financial expenses of €1,280 million (2015: €1,367 million)
and financial income of €151 million (2015: €371 million). Details of the components of the financial result
are provided below.

13.1 Income (loss) from investments in affiliated companies
The net income (loss) from investments in affiliated companies was comprised as follows:
B 13.1/1

Income (Loss) from Investments in Affiliated Companies
€ million

Net loss from investments accounted for using the equity method (equity-method loss)

2015

2016

(9)

(26)

(1)

(2)

–

–

Expenses
Impairment losses on investments in affiliated companies
Income
Impairment loss reversals on investments in affiliated companies
Income / losses from investments in affiliated companies and from profit
and loss transfer agreements (net)

3

–

Gains from the sale of investments in affiliated companies

31

6

Total

24

(22)

The main components of the loss (2015: income) from investments in affiliated companies were the €24
million (2015: €23 million) equity-method loss from the associate PO JV, LP, United States, and the minus
€2 million (2015: €14 million) aggregate of the equity-method income and losses of the remaining joint
ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method.
Further details of the companies accounted for using the equity method are given in Note [19].

B Consolidated Financial Statements

243

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

13.2 Net interest expense
The net interest expense was comprised as follows:
B 13.2/1

Net Interest Expense
€ million

2015

2016

(752)

(684)

(25)

(3)

Expenses
Interest and similar expenses
Interest expenses for derivatives (held for trading)
Income
Interest and similar income
Interest income from derivatives (held for trading)
Total

297

137

25
(455)

2
(548)

Interest and similar expenses included interest expense of €42 million (2015: €49 million) relating to nonfinancial liabilities. Interest and similar income included interest income of €10 million (2015: €133 million)
from nonfinancial assets.

13.3 Other financial income and expenses
Other financial income and expenses were comprised as follows:
B 13.3/1

Other Financial Income and Expenses
2015

2016

Interest portion of interest-bearing provisions

(287)

(294)

Exchange loss

(254)

(193)

(48)

(104)

€ million

Expenses

Miscellaneous financial expenses
Income
Miscellaneous financial income
Total

15
(574)

6
(585)

The interest portion of noncurrent provisions comprised €276 million (2015: €276 million) in interest expense for pension and other post-employment benefit provisions plus €18 million (2015: €11 million) in
effects of interest expense and interest-rate fluctuations for other provisions and corresponding overfunding. The interest expense for pension and other post-employment benefit provisions included €736 million
(2015: €712 million) for the unwinding of discount on the present value of the defined benefit obligation
and €460 million (2015: €436 million) in interest income from plan assets.
The miscellaneous financial expenses included €51 million in commitment fees and other fees related to
the syndicated bank financing for the planned acquisition of Monsanto.

244

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

14. Taxes
The breakdown of tax expense by origin was as follows:
B 14/1

Tax Expense by Origin

€ million

2015

2016

Of which
income taxes

Of which
income taxes

Taxes paid or accrued
Current income taxes
Germany

(1,140)

(934)

Other countries

(1,114)

(991)

Other taxes
Germany
Other countries

(44)

(86)

(221)

(204)

(2,519)

(2,254)

(2,215)

(1,925)

Deferred taxes
from temporary differences
from tax loss carryforwards and tax credits
Total

1,056

577

(25)

19

1,031

1,031

(1,488)

(1,223)

596
(1,619)

596
(1,329)

2015 figures restated

The other taxes mainly include land, vehicle and other indirect taxes. They are reflected in the respective
functional cost items.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities were allocable to the following items in the statements of financial
position:
B 14/2

Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities

€ million

Intangible assets

Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

Deferred
Deferred
tax assets tax liabilities

Deferred
Deferred
tax assets tax liabilities

1,411

1,910

1,478

1,766

253

678

264

692

18

183

240

224

Inventories

943

63

1,267

32

Receivables

98

580

71

547

Property, plant and equipment
Financial assets

Other assets

28

14

39

13

Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits

3,601

1,213

3,637

983

Other provisions

1,025

90

1,083

112

Liabilities

714

91

793

133

Tax loss and interest carryforwards

393

–

473

–

Tax credits

191

–

177

–

8,675

4,822

9,522

4,502

7,398

4,750

7,868

3,662

Set-off

of which noncurrent

(3,996)

(3,996)

(3,172)

(3,172)

Total

4,679

6,350

1,330

826

B Consolidated Financial Statements

245

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Deferred taxes on remeasurements, recognized outside profit or loss, of the net liability for defined benefit
pension and other post-employment benefits increased equity by €228 million (2015: diminished equity by
€430 million). Deferred taxes on changes, recognized outside profit or loss, in fair values of available-forsale financial assets and derivatives designated as cash flow hedges diminished equity by €24 million
(2015: diminished equity by €27 million). These effects on equity are reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
The use of tax loss carryforwards reduced current income taxes in 2016 by €152 million (2015: €136 million). The use of tax credits reduced current income taxes by €18 million (2015: €21 million).
Of the total tax loss and interest carryforwards of €5,447 million, including interest carryforwards of €118
million (2015: €5,497 million, including interest carryforwards of €72 million), an amount of €2,269 million,
including interest carryforwards of €0 million (2015: €1,812 million, including interest carryforwards of €0
million) is expected to be usable within a reasonable period. The decrease in tax loss and interest carryforwards was mainly due to the favorable overall business development. Deferred tax assets of €473
million (2015: €393 million) were recognized for the amount of tax loss and interest carryforwards expected
to be usable.
The use of €3,178 million of tax loss and interest carryforwards, including interest carryforwards of €118
million (2015: €3,685 million, including interest carryforwards of €72 million) was subject to legal or economic restrictions. Consequently, no deferred tax assets were recognized for this amount. If these tax loss and
interest carryforwards had been fully usable, deferred tax assets of €294 million (2015: €322 million) would
have been recognized.
Tax credits of €177 million were recognized in 2016 (2015: €191 million) as deferred tax assets. The use of
€38 million (2015: €41 million) of tax credits was subject to legal or economic restrictions. Consequently,
no deferred tax assets were recognized for this amount.
Unusable tax credits, tax loss carryforwards and interest carryforwards will expire as follows:
B 14/3

Expiration of Unusable Tax Credits, Tax Loss Carryforwards and Interest Carryforwards
Tax credits

Tax loss and interest
carryforwards

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

Within one year

4

4

17

4

Within two years

–

–

70

1

Within three years

4

4

25

31

Within four years

–

–

32

132

Within five years

26

29

234

31

6

–

3,307

2,979

40

37

3,685

3,178

€ million

Thereafter
Total

In 2016, subsidiaries that reported losses for 2016 or 2015 recognized net deferred tax assets totaling
€2,575 million (2015: €2,455 million) from temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. These assets
were considered to be unimpaired because the companies concerned were expected to generate taxable
income in the future.
Deferred tax liabilities of €41 million were recognized in 2016 (2015: €35 million) for planned dividend payments by subsidiaries. Deferred tax liabilities were not recognized for temporary differences on €20,069
million (2015: €12,087 million) of retained earnings of subsidiaries because these earnings are to be reinvested for an indefinite period.

246

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The reported tax expense of €1,329 million for 2016 (2015: €1,223 million) differed by €128 million (2015:
€119 million) from the expected tax expense of €1,457 million (2015: €1,342 million) that would have resulted from applying an expected weighted average tax rate to the pre-tax income of the Group. This average rate, derived from the expected tax rates of the individual Group companies, was 24.7% in 2016
(2015: 25.6%). The effective tax rate was 22.6% (2015: 23.4%).
The reconciliation of expected to reported income tax expense and of the expected to the effective tax rate
for the Group was as follows:
B 14/4

Reconciliation of Expected to Actual Income Tax Expense
2015

2016

€ million

%

€ million

%

1,342

25.6

1,457

24.7

(155)

(3.0)

(161)

(2.7)

(10)

(0.2)

(2)

First-time recognition of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets on
tax loss and interest carryforwards

(30)

(0.6)

(27)

(0.5)

Use of tax loss and interest carryforwards on which deferred tax assets
were not previously recognized

(6)

(0.1)

(19)

(0.3)

Expected income tax expense and expected tax rate
Reduction in taxes due to tax-free income
Income related to the operating business
Income from affiliated companies and divestment proceeds

–

Increase in taxes due to non-tax-deductible expenses
Expenses related to the operating business

148

2.8

153

2.6

Impairment losses on investments in affiliated companies

7

0.1

2

–

New tax loss and interest carryforwards unlikely to be usable

81

1.5

45

0.8

Existing tax loss and interest carryforwards on which deferred tax assets
were previously recognized but which are unlikely to be usable

16

0.3

6

0.1

Tax income (-) and expenses (+) relating to other periods

(95)

(1.8)

(80)

(1.4)

Tax effects of changes in tax rates

(25)

(0.5)

(4)

(0.1)

Other tax effects

(50)

(0.7)

(41)

(0.6)

Actual income tax expense and effective tax rate

1,223

23.4

1,329

22.6

2015 figures restated

15. Income / losses attributable to noncontrolling interest
Income attributable to noncontrolling interest amounted to €468 million (2015: €115 million). Losses attributable to noncontrolling interest amounted to €173 million (2015: €127 million).

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

247

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

16. Earnings per share
Earnings per share from continuing operations are determined according to IAS 33 (Earnings per Share) by
dividing net income (income after income taxes attributable to Bayer AG stockholders) minus income from
discontinued operations after income taxes (attributable to Bayer AG stockholders) by the weighted average number of shares. Earnings per share for continuing and discontinued operations are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares.
In November 2016, Bayer placed €4.0 billion in mandatory convertible notes without granting subscription
rights to existing stockholders of the company. According to IAS 33.23, the weighted average number of
shares increases as soon as the notes contract is signed, and this increase must be taken into account in
calculating undiluted and diluted earnings per share. The new weighted average number of shares is based
on the minimum conversion price of €90, which determines the maximum conversion ratio. Undiluted and
diluted earnings per share are not adjusted for financing expenses incurred in connection with the mandatory convertible notes because the interest component was recognized outside profit or loss when the
notes were placed. Further details of the mandatory convertible notes are provided in Note [24].
Because the undiluted and diluted earnings per share were determined for each interim reporting period,
earnings per share for the full year or year to date may differ from the sum of the earnings per share for the
respective interim reporting periods.
B 16/1

Earnings per Share
€ million

Income from continuing operations after income taxes
Income from discontinued operations after income taxes
Income after income taxes
of which attributable to noncontrolling interest
of which attributable to Bayer AG stockholders (net income)

2015

2016

4,013

4,558

85

268

4,098

4,826

(12)
4,110

295
4,531

Shares

Shares

826,947,808

832,502,808

Basic

4.87

5.12

Diluted

4.87

5.12

Basic

0.10

0.32

Diluted

0.10

0.32

Basic

4.97

5.44

Diluted

4.97

5.44

Weighted average number of shares
Earnings per share (€)
From continuing operations

From discontinued operations

From continuing and discontinued operations

2015 figures restated

248

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Notes to the Statements
of Financial Position
17. Goodwill and other intangible assets
Changes in intangible assets in 2016 were as follows:
B 17/1

Changes in Intangible Assets

€ million

Cost of acquisition
or generation,
December 31, 2015

Acquired
goodwill

Patents
and
technologies

16,096

13,069

Marketing
and
Trade- distribution Production
marks
rights
rights

10,952

Changes in scope
of consolidation

–

–

Acquisitions

9

1

Capital expenditures

–

55

Retirements

–

Transfers

–

5

–

Transfers (IFRS 5)

–

(5)

(8)

Inflation adjustment (IAS 29)
Exchange differences
December 31, 2016

(6)

–
–

1,944
–
–

2,172
–
–

R&D
projects

Other
rights and
advance
payments

Total

946

2,600

47,779

–
(23)

–
–

3

47

5

96

(47)

(14)

(25)

(108)

(80)

50

3

(43)

(15)

(15)

(16)

–

(11)

3

–

–

–

204

43

145

32

–
(1)

157

–
(13)
363
(280)
–
(55)

–

–

3

19

15

457

16,312

13,162

11,045

2,044

2,138

887

2,666

48,254

Accumulated amortization
and impairment losses,
December 31, 2015

–

8,277

3,083

1,134

2,021

225

1,765

16,505

Changes in scope
of consolidation

–

–

–

–

–

(1)

(1)

Retirements

–

(2)

(38)

(14)

(25)

(106)

(66)

(251)

Amortization and
impairment losses in 2016

–

–

1,007

604

144

48

109

160

2,072

Amortization

–

708

393

137

28

–

129

1,395

Impairment losses

–

299

211

7

20

109

31

677

Impairment loss reversals

–

–

(1)

–

–

–

–

(1)

Transfers

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Transfers (IFRS 5)

–

(5)

(8)

(15)

(16)

–

(11)

(1)

–
(55)

Exchange differences

–

35

33

19

7

13

106

December 31, 2016

–

9,312

3,673

1,268

2,027

235

1,860

18,375

Carrying amounts,
December 31, 2016

16,312

3,850

7,372

776

111

652

806

29,879

Carrying amounts,
December 31, 2015

16,096

4,792

7,869

810

151

721

835

31,274

The capitalized patents and technologies include an amount pertaining to the active ingredient
alemtuzumab (product name: Lemtrada™) for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Bayer gave back the
worldwide distribution rights for alemtuzumab to Genzyme Corp., United States, in 2009 and in return
received global co-promotion rights and an entitlement to royalties and revenue-based milestone payments. Genzyme Corp. received marketing approval for alemtuzumab in Europe in 2013 and in the United
States in 2014. Bayer has decided not to exercise its co-promotion rights.
Impairment losses of €676 million were recognized on intangible assets, net of €1 million in impairment
loss reversals. In the Pharmaceuticals reporting segment, the current assessment of the market environment and lower revenue expectations led to impairment losses of €391 million on intangible assets in con-

B Consolidated Financial Statements

249

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

nection with the product Essure™. In addition, impairment losses of €56 million were recognized on research and development projects, mainly in the oncology area. In the Consumer Health reporting segment,
impairment losses of €132 million on a dermatology product trademark in Russia and €28 million on a
nutritional supplement trademark in the United States were recognized due to a weaker market environment. In the Crop Science reporting segment, recent research findings necessitated impairment losses of
€20 million on production rights in the Environmental Science unit, and a €20 million impairment loss was
also recognized on a research and development project in Crop Protection due to a delayed market introduction.
The remaining impairment losses pertained to intangible assets in the Crop Science (€11 million), Pharmaceuticals (€9 million), Covestro (€9 million) and Consumer Health (€1 million) segments. A €1 million impairment loss in the Animal Health segment was reversed.
Details of acquisitions and divestments are provided in Notes [6.2] and [6.3]. The impairment testing procedure for goodwill and other intangible assets is explained in Note [4].
Changes in intangible assets in 2015 were as follows:
B 17/2

Changes in Intangible Assets (Previous Year)

€ million

Cost of acquisition
or generation,
December 31, 2014

Acquired
goodwill

Patents
and
technologies

15,347

12,827

Changes in scope
of consolidation

–

Acquisitions

(5)

Marketing
and
Trade- distribution Production
marks
rights
rights

R&D
projects

10,242

1,808

2,168

882

4

–

–

–

–

39

53

–

–

26
107

Capital expenditures

–

77

–

52

–

Retirements

–

(33)

(35)

(55)

–

(7)

–

40

–

75

(2)

(113)

(14)

(33)

–

Transfers
Transfers (IFRS 5)
Inflation adjustment (IAS 29)
Exchange differences
December 31, 2015

(34)

(2)

–

Other
rights and
advance
payments

Total

3,189

46,463

1

5

(20)

93

152
(966)
–
(20)

388
(1,096)
–
(103)

7

–

–

–

–

–

–

7

781

117

706

97

6

51

264

2,022

16,096

13,069

10,952

1,944

2,172

946

2,600

47,779

250

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 17/2 (continued)

Changes in Intangible Assets (Previous Year)

€ million

Acquired
goodwill

Patents
and
technologies

Marketing
and
Trade- distribution Production
marks
rights
rights

Accumulated
amortization
and impairment
losses,
December 31, 2014

–

Changes in scope
of consolidation

–

4

Retirements

–

(17)

Amortization and
impairment losses
in 2015

–

801

447

148

106

Amortization

–

801

422

147

106

Impairment losses

–

–

25

1

Impairment
loss reversals

–

–

–

Transfers

–

–

1

Transfers (IFRS 5)

–

(1)

–

(25)

7,428

2,588

R&D
projects

Other
rights and
advance
payments

Total

153

2,344

15,463

1,039

1,911

–

–

–

–

(31)

(55)

–

(7)

–

4

(949)

(1,059)

66

183

1,751

–

161

1,637

–

66

22

114

–

–

–

–

–

1

(2)

–

–

–

–

(19)

–
(45)

Exchange
differences

–

62

78

26

6

13

206

391

December 31, 2015

–

8,277

3,083

1,134

2,021

225

1,765

16,505

Carrying amounts,
December 31, 2015

16,096

4,792

7,869

810

151

721

835

31,274

Carrying amounts,
December 31, 2014

15,347

5,399

7,654

769

257

729

845

31,000

Changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill for the reporting segments in 2016 and 2015 were as follows:
B 17/3

Goodwill by Reporting Segment
€ million

Carrying amounts, January 1,
2015
Change in scope of
consolidation
Acquisitions

Pharmaceuticals
7,215
–
(133)

Consumer
Health Crop Science
5,698

Animal
Health

Covestro Bayer Group

2,137

54

243

15,347

–

–

–

–

–

71

50

–

7

(5)

Retirements

–

–

–

–

–

–

Impairment losses in 2015

–

–

–

–

–

–

Transfers

–

–

–

–

–

Transfers (IFRS 5)

–

(34)

–

–

–

Inflation adjustment (IAS 29)
Exchange differences

–
(34)

1

6

–

–

–

7

234

446

90

–

11

781

B Consolidated Financial Statements

251

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 17/3 (continued)

Goodwill by Reporting Segment
€ million

Pharmaceuticals

Consumer
Health

Crop
Science

Animal
Health

Covestro

Bayer
Group
16,096

Carrying amounts, December 31, 2015

7,317

6,187

2,277

54

261

Change in scope of consolidation

–

–

–

–

–

–

Acquisitions

(3)

(1)

13

–

–

9

Retirements

–

–

–

–

–

–

Impairment losses in 2016

–

–

–

–

–

–

Transfers

–

–

–

–

–

–

Transfers (IFRS 5)

–

–

–

–

–

–

Inflation adjustment (IAS 29)

–

3

–

–

–

3

Exchange differences
Carrying amounts, December 31, 2016

84

84

31

2

3

204

7,398

6,273

2,321

56

264

16,312

2015 figures restated

Goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life that are of material significance for the
Bayer Group are allocated to the following cash-generating units or unit groups as of the end of the reporting period:
B 17/4

Intangible Assets with an Indefinite Useful Life

Reporting segment

Cash-generating unit /
unit group

Material intangible
Goodwill assets with indefinite
(€ million) useful life (€ million)

Pharmaceuticals

Pharmaceuticals

6,114

454

Consumer Health

Consumer Care

6,273

22

Crop Science

Crop Protection

1,291

63

Crop Science

Seeds

540

129

In the case of research and development projects, the point in time from which a capitalized asset can be
expected to generate an economic benefit for the company cannot be determined. Such assets are therefore classified as having an indefinite useful life. Development projects were capitalized at a total amount of
€652 million as of the end of 2016 (2015: €721 million).
Another intangible asset classified as having an indefinite useful life is the Bayer Cross, which was reacquired for the North America region in 1994, having been awarded to the United States and Canada under
the reparations agreements at the end of the First World War. The period for which the Bayer Group will
derive an economic benefit from this name cannot be determined as Bayer intends to make continuous
use of it. The Bayer Cross is capitalized at €108 million.

252

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

18. Property, plant and equipment
Changes in property, plant and equipment in 2016 were as follows:
B 18/1

Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment

€ million

Cost of acquisition or construction,
December 31, 2015

Land and
buildings

Plant
installations
and
machinery

Furniture, Construction
fixtures and
in progress
other and advance
equipment
payments

Total

9,685

19,418

2,142

2,295

33,540

Changes in scope of consolidation

–

–

–

–

–

Acquisitions

–

–

–

–

–

248

369

206

1,441

2,264

(69)

(262)

(158)

698

82

Capital expenditures
Retirements
Transfers
Transfers (IFRS 5)
Inflation adjustment (IAS 29)
Exchange differences
December 31, 2016
Accumulated depreciation
and impairment losses,
December 31, 2015
Changes in scope of consolidation
Retirements
Depreciation and impairment losses in 2016
Depreciation
Impairment losses

407

(9)

(498)

(1,187)

–

(14)

(4)

(1)

(1)

(20)

3

1

–

–

4

86

115

26

12

239

10,346

20,335

2,297

2,551

35,529

5,255

14,303

1,578

29

21,165

–

–

–

–

(49)

(245)

(139)

(6)

–
(439)

334

936

235

5

1,510

314

927

234

–

1,475

20

9

1

5

35

Impairment loss reversals

–

–

–

–

–

Transfers

5

(4)

–

(1)

–

Transfers (IFRS 5)

(2)

(1)

(1)

–

(4)

Exchange differences

49

122

12

–

183

December 31, 2016

5,592

15,111

1,685

27

22,415

Carrying amounts, December 31, 2016

4,754

5,224

612

2,524

13,114

Carrying amounts, December 31, 2015

4,430

5,115

564

2,266

12,375

Impairment losses totaling €35 million were recognized on property, plant and equipment in the reporting
segments Consumer Health (€14 million), Pharmaceuticals (€8 million), Covestro (€4 million), Crop Science
(€1 million), Animal Health (€1 million) and All Other Segments (€7 million).
In 2016, borrowing costs of €31 million (2015: €33 million) were capitalized as components of the cost of
acquisition or construction of qualifying assets, applying an average interest rate of 2.5% (2015: 2.5%).
Capitalized property, plant and equipment included assets with a total net value of €471 million (2015:
€533 million) held under finance leases. The cost of acquisition or construction of these assets as of the
closing date totaled €867 million (2015: €915 million). They comprised plant installations and machinery
with a carrying amount of €191 million (2015: €220 million), buildings with a carrying amount of €146 million
(2015: €168 million) and other property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of €134 million (2015:
€145 million). For information on the liabilities arising from finance leases, see Note [27].

B Consolidated Financial Statements

253

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

In 2016, rental payments of €429 million (2015: €263 million) were made for assets leased under operating
leases as defined in IAS 17 (Leases).
Lease payments of €3 million are expected to be received in 2017 from operating leases – as defined in
IAS 17 (Leases) – pertaining to property, plant and equipment, excluding the investment property stated
below. Lease payments totaling €4 million are expected to be received between 2018 and 2021 and lease
payments totaling €0 million after 2021.

Investment property
The fair values of investment property are mainly determined using the income approach based on internal
valuations for buildings and developed sites, and using the market comparison approach for undeveloped
sites.
The total carrying amount of investment property as of December 31, 2016, was €136 million (December 31, 2015: €164 million). The fair value of this property was €507 million (2015: €484 million). The rental
income from investment property was €18 million (2015: €13 million), and the operating expenses directly
allocable to this property amounted to €11 million (2015: €8 million). A further amount of €3 million (2015:
€1 million) in operating expenses was directly allocable to investment property from which no rental income
was derived.
Changes in property, plant and equipment in 2015 were as follows:
B 18/2

Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment (Previous Year)

€ million

Cost of acquisition or construction,
December 31, 2014
Changes in scope of consolidation
Acquisitions

Land and
buildings

Plant
installations
and
machinery

Furniture, Construction
fixtures and
in progress
other and advance
equipment
payments

Total

9,088

18,144

2,009

2,078

31,319

–

3

1

–

4

33

2

1

–

36

Capital expenditures

230

390

239

1,309

2,168

Retirements

(167)

(429)

(185)

(58)

(839)

Transfers

273

797

56

Transfers (IFRS 5)
Inflation adjustment (IAS 29)

1

(64)

(4)

(1,126)
–

–
(67)

7

2

1

–

10

220

573

24

92

909

December 31, 2015

9,685

19,418

2,142

2,295

33,540

Accumulated depreciation
and impairment losses,
December 31, 2014

4,940

13,426

1,482

43

19,891

–

1

1

–

Exchange differences

Changes in scope of consolidation
Retirements
Depreciation and impairment losses in 2015
Depreciation
Impairment losses

(101)

(397)

(156)

(72)

2
(726)

317

945

232

38

1,532

294

892

230

–

1,416

23

53

2

38

116

Impairment loss reversals

–

(1)

–

–

(1)

Transfers

–

(1)

1

–

Transfers (IFRS 5)

1

(57)

(3)

–

Exchange differences

–
(59)

98

387

21

20

526

December 31, 2015

5,255

14,303

1,578

29

21,165

Carrying amounts, December 31, 2015

4,430

5,115

564

2,266

12,375

Carrying amounts, December 31, 2014

4,148

4,718

527

2,035

11,428

254

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

19. Investments accounted for using the equity method
Five (2015: four) associates and six (2015: three) joint ventures were accounted for in the consolidated
financial statements using the equity method.
B 19/1

Associates and Joint Ventures Accounted for Using the Equity Method
Company name

Place of business

Bayer’s interest (%)

Associates
Bayer Trendlines AG Innovation Fund, L.P. 1

Misgav, Israel

Flagship Ventures V Agricultural Fund, L.P. 1

Cambridge, U.S.A.

100
99.9

Nanjing Baijingyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

Nanjing, China

15

Paltough Industries (1998) Ltd.

Kibbutz Ramat Yochanan, Israel

25

PO JV, LP

Wilmington, U.S.A.

39.4

Joint ventures
Bayer Zydus Pharma Private Limited

Mumbai, India

50

BlueRock Therapeutics GP LLC

San Francisco, U.S.A.

50

BlueRock Therapeutics LP

San Francisco, U.S.A.

50

Casebia Therapeutics LLC

Cambridge, U.S.A.

50

DCSO Deutsche Cyber-Sicherheitsorganisation GmbH

Berlin, Germany

25

DIC Covestro Polymer Ltd.

Tokyo, Japan

50

1

For information concerning the interest in this company see Note [6.1]

In 2000, Bayer acquired the polyols business and parts of the propylene oxide (PO) production operations
of Lyondell Chemicals with the objective of ensuring access to patented technologies and safeguarding the
long-term supply of PO, a starting product for polyurethane. As part of this strategy, a company was established to produce PO (PO JV, LP, United States, in which Covestro holds a 39.4% interest). Covestro
benefits from fixed long-term supply quotas / volumes of PO from this company’s production. The two
following tables contain summarized data from the income statements and statements of financial position
of the associated company PO JV, LP, United States, which is accounted for using the equity method, and
show the respective amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

255

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 19/2

Income Statement Data PO JV, LP, Wilmington, U.S.A.
€ million

Net sales

2015
1,695

2016
1,659

Net loss after taxes

(56)

Share of net loss after taxes

(23)

(53)
(24)

Share of total comprehensive income after taxes

(23)

(24)

B 19/3

Data from the Statements of Financial Position of PO JV, LP, Wilmington, U.S.A.
€ million

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

Noncurrent assets

475

469

Equity

475

469

Share of equity

201

202

Other
Carrying amount

(3)
198

(4)
198

The item “Other” mainly comprises differences arising from adjustments of data to Bayer’s uniform accounting policies, along with purchase price allocations and their amortization in profit or loss.
In December 2015, Bayer and CRISPR Therapeutics AG, Switzerland, agreed to establish a company to
develop and commercialize new, breakthrough therapeutics for blood disorders, blindness and congenital
heart diseases. The joint venture Casebia Therapeutics, established at the beginning of 2016, has access
to gene-editing technology from CRISPR Therapeutics in specific disease areas, as well as access to protein engineering expertise and relevant disease know-how through Bayer. The two following tables contain
summarized data from the income statements and statements of financial position of the joint venture
Casebia Therapeutics LLC, United States, which is accounted for using the equity method, and show the
respective amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements of the Bayer Group.
B 19/4

Income Statement Data of Casebia Therapeutics LLC, Cambridge, U.S.A.
€ million

2015

2016

Net sales

–

–

Net loss after taxes

–

(8)

Share of net loss after taxes

–

(4)

Share of total comprehensive income after taxes

–

(4)

256

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 19/5

Data from the Statements of Financial Position of Casebia Therapeutics LLC, Cambridge, U.S.A.
Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

Noncurrent assets

-

68

Current assets

-

4

Noncurrent liabilities

-

-

Current liabilities

-

3

Equity

-

69

Share of equity

-

38

Other

-

242

Carrying amount

-

280

€ million

The item “Other” comprises Bayer’s outstanding capital contribution obligation.
The following table contains a summary of the aggregated income statement data and aggregated carrying
amounts of the individually nonmaterial associates accounted for using the equity method.
B 19/6

Income Statement Data and Carrying Amount of Associates Accounted for Using the Equity Method
2015

2016

12

11

Share of income after taxes

1

3

Share of total comprehensive income after taxes

1

3

37

49

€ million

Income after taxes

Carrying amount

The following table contains a summary of the aggregated income statement data and aggregated carrying
amounts of the individually nonmaterial joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method.
B 19/7

Income Statement Data and Carrying Amount of Joint Ventures Accounted for Using the Equity Method
€ million

2015

2016

Income after taxes

6

–

Share of income after taxes

3

(1)

Share of total comprehensive income after taxes
Carrying amount

3

(1)

11

57

B Consolidated Financial Statements

257

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

20. Other financial assets
The other financial assets were comprised as follows:
B 20/1

Other Financial Assets
Dec. 31, 2015
€ million

Loans and receivables
Available-for-sale financial assets
of which debt instruments
of which equity instruments
Held-to-maturity financial investments
Receivables from derivatives
Receivables under lease agreements
Total

Total

Dec. 31, 2016

Of which
current

Total

Of which
current

65

21

2,140

2,087

1,177

266

4,629

3,517

1,092

262

4,371

3,514

85

4

258

3

73

6

65

8

526

463

714

663

7

–

8

–

1,848

756

7,556

6,275

Loans and receivables included €1,770 million in bank deposits and €305 million in commercial paper.
The debt instruments categorized as available-for-sale financial assets included capital of €612 million
(2015: €610 million) provided to Bayer-Pensionskasse VVaG (Bayer-Pensionskasse) for its effective initial
fund, and jouissance right capital (Genussrechtskapital) of €154 million (2015: €153 million), also provided
to Bayer-Pensionskasse. Also reported in this category were investments of €3,513 million (2015: €119
million) in money market funds.
The equity instruments categorized as available-for-sale financial assets included the €98 million interest
held in CRISPR Therapeutics AG, Switzerland, along with €32 million (2015: €40 million) in instruments
whose fair value could not be determined from a stock exchange or other market price or by discounting
reliably determinable future cash flows. These equity instruments were recognized at cost.
Further information on the accounting for receivables from derivatives is given in Note [30].
Receivables under lease agreements relate to finance leases where Bayer is the lessor and the economic
owner of the leased assets is the lessee. These receivables comprised expected lease payments of €39
million (2015: €38 million), including €31 million (2015: €31 million) in interest. Of the expected lease payments, €1 million (2015: €1 million) is due within one year, €2 million (2015: €2 million) within the following
four years and €36 million (2015: €35 million) in subsequent years.

258

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

21. Inventories
Inventories were comprised as follows:
B 21/1

Inventories
Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

Raw materials and supplies

2,296

2,396

Work in process, finished goods and goods purchased for resale

6,241

5,991

€ million

Advance payments
Total

13

21

8,550

8,408

Impairment losses recognized on inventories were reflected in the cost of goods sold. They were
comprised as follows:
B 21/2

Impairments of Inventories
€ million

2015

2016

Accumulated impairment losses, January 1

(477)

(427)

Changes in scope of consolidation

(5)

–

Impairment losses in the reporting period

(216)

(321)

Impairment loss reversals or utilization

246

346

21

(18)

Exchange differences
Transfers (IFRS 5)
Accumulated impairment losses, December 31

4
(427)

4
(416)

22. Trade accounts receivable
Trade accounts receivable less impairment losses amounted to €10,969 million (2015: €9,933 million) on
the closing date and were comprised as follows:
B 22/1

Trade Accounts Receivable
€ million

Trade accounts receivable (before impairments)
Accumulated impairment losses
Carrying amount, December 31
of which noncurrent

2015
10,181
(248)

2016
11,377
(408)

9,933

10,969

46

144

Changes in impairment losses on trade accounts receivable were as follows:
B 22/2

Impairments of Trade Accounts Receivable
€ million

2015

2016

Accumulated impairment losses, January 1

(233)

(248)

Impairment losses in the reporting period

(84)

(165)

Impairment loss reversals or utilization

46

35

Exchange differences

23

(30)

Accumulated impairment losses, December 31

(248)

(408)

B Consolidated Financial Statements

259

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Trade accounts receivable amounting to €10,954 million (2015: €9,858 million) were not individually impaired.
Of this amount, €1,161 million (2015: €1,251 million) was past due or due immediately on the closing date.
The amounts of impaired and past-due trade accounts receivable are summarized in the following table:
B 22/3

Impaired and Past-Due Trade Accounts Receivable
Of which
neither
impaired
nor past
due at the
closing date
Carrying amount
€ million

Of which
unimpaired but
past due at the
closing date
up to
3 months

3–6
months

6 – 12
months

Of which
impaired
at the
closing
date

more than
12 months

December 31, 2016

10,969

9,793

780

162

125

94

15

December 31, 2015

9,933

8,607

823

202

109

117

75

The gross carrying amount of individually impaired trade accounts receivable was €192 million (2015: €245
million). The impairment losses recognized on these assets totaled €177 million (2015: €170 million), resulting in a net carrying amount of €15 million (2015: €75 million).
The unimpaired receivables were deemed to be collectible on the basis of established credit management
processes and individual assessments of customer risks. Recognized impairment losses included an appropriate allowance for the default risk as of the end of the reporting period.
Receivables from government health service institutions, especially in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain, are
under special observation in view of the government debt crisis. Although there were no material defaults
on such receivables in 2016 or 2015, it is possible that future developments in these countries could result
in payment delays and / or defaults. This could necessitate the recognition of impairment losses due to new
occurrences. Trade accounts receivable from government health service institutions in the above countries
at the end of 2016 totaled €134 million (2015: €168 million).
An excess-of-loss policy exists for the Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Health and Animal Health segments as
part of a global credit insurance program. More than 80% of the receivables of these segments are insured
up to a maximum total annual compensation payment of €150 million (2015: €100 million). A global excess-of-loss policy has also existed for the Crop Science segment since January 2016. In this global credit
insurance program, more than 80% of this segment’s receivables are insured up to a maximum total annual
compensation payment of €300 million.
A further €743 million (2015: €559 million) of receivables was secured by advance payments, letters of
credit or guarantees or by liens on land, buildings or harvest yields.

260

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

23. Other receivables
Other receivables were comprised as follows:
B 23/1

Other Receivables
Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

Total

Of which
current

Total

Of which
current

Other tax receivables

746

658

764

746

Deferred charges

384

348

549

358

Reimbursement claims

97

81

120

104

Net defined benefit asset

30

–

26

–

Receivables from employees

39

36

50

49

€ million

Miscellaneous receivables

1,151

894

1,284

953

Total

2,447

2,017

2,793

2,210

The reimbursement claims of €120 million (2015: €97 million) mainly consisted of receivables from insurance companies in connection with product liability claims.
Miscellaneous receivables included a €441 million (2015: €423 million) receivable from Dow AgroSciences
LLC, United States, for damages and royalty payments resulting from the infringement of Bayer’s rights to
the Liberty Link™ weed control system.
Of the €690 million (2015: €565 million) in financial receivables included in other receivables, €612 million
(2015: €460 million) was neither impaired nor past due. Receivables of €50 million (2015: €65 million) were
due immediately or up to three months past due. Receivables of €27 million (2015: €39 million) were more
than three months past due.
Other receivables are stated net of impairment losses totaling €56 million (2015: €55 million), of which €52
million (2015: €52 million) related to a receivable from the Venezuelan exchange control authority reflecting
the right to receive U.S. dollars at a preferential rate.

24. Equity
The foremost objectives of our financial management are to help bring about a sustained increase in
Bayer’s value for the benefit of all stakeholders, and to ensure the Group’s creditworthiness and liquidity.
The pursuit of these goals means reducing our cost of capital, optimizing our capital structure, improving
our financing cash flow and effectively managing risk.
The rating agencies commissioned by Bayer assess Bayer’s creditworthiness as follows:
B 24/1

Rating
Long-term rating

Short-term rating

S & P Global Ratings

A–

A–2

Moody’s

A3

P–2

B Consolidated Financial Statements

261

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

These ratings reflect the company’s good creditworthiness and ensure access to a broad investor base for
financing. Both S & P Global Ratings and Moody’s are currently considering a rating downgrade in view of
the agreed acquisition of Monsanto Company. Bayer will continue to target an investment-grade rating
after the successful closing of the Monsanto acquisition. We remain committed to the single “A” credit
rating category over the long term.
Apart from utilizing cash inflows from our operating business to reduce net financial debt, we are implementing our financial strategy by way of vehicles such as the subordinated hybrid bonds issued in July
2014 and April 2015, the mandatory convertible notes issued in November 2016, the authorized and conditional capital created by resolutions of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, and a potential share buyback
program. Bayer’s Articles of Incorporation do not stipulate capital ratios.
The changes in the various components of equity during 2015 and 2016 are shown in the consolidated
statements of changes in equity.

Capital stock
The capital stock of Bayer AG on December 31, 2016 amounted to €2,117 million (2015: €2,117 million),
divided into 826,947,808 (2015: 826,947,808) registered no-par shares, and was fully paid in. Each no-par
share confers one voting right.

Authorized and conditional capital
The authorized and conditional capital was comprised as follows:
B 24/2

Authorized and Conditional Capital
Capital

Resolution

Amount / shares

Expires

Purpose

Authorized
capital I

April 29, 2014

€530 million

April 28, 2019

Increase the capital stock by issuing
new no-par shares against cash
contributions and / or contributions in
kind, the latter not to exceed €423
million

Authorized
capital II

April 29, 2014

€212 million

April 28, 2019

Increase the capital stock by issuing
new no-par shares against cash
contributions

Conditional
capital

April 29, 2014

€212 million /
up to
82,694,750 shares

April 28, 2019

Increase the capital stock by granting
no-par shares to the holders of bonds
with warrants or convertible notes,
profit participation certificates or income
bonds; the authorizations to issue such
instruments are limited to a total
nominal amount of €6 billion.

Capital increases are effected by issuing new registered no-par shares. Stockholders must normally be
granted subscription rights. However, subscription rights may be excluded under certain conditions stated
in the authorization resolutions. Absent a further resolution of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on the
exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights, the Board of Management will only use the existing authorizations to increase the capital stock out of the authorized or conditional capital – while excluding stockholders' subscription rights – up to a total amount of 20% of the capital stock that existed when the respective resolutions were adopted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on April 29, 2014. All issuances or
sales of no-par shares or of bonds with warrants or conversion rights or obligations that are effected while
excluding stockholders’ subscription rights also count toward this 20% limit. Details of the authorized and
conditional capital are provided in the Notice of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of April 29, 2014, and
on the Bayer website.

262

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

On November 22, 2016, Bayer placed mandatory convertible notes in the amount of €4,000 million without
granting subscription rights to existing stockholders of the company. The notes, denominated in units of
€100,000, were issued by Bayer Capital Corporation B.V. under the subordinated guarantee of Bayer AG.
At maturity, the outstanding amount of the notes will be mandatorily converted into registered no-par
shares of Bayer AG. After deduction of €48 million in transaction costs and recognition of €191 million in
deferred taxes, €3,491 million were allocated to capital reserves and €652 million to financial liabilities. The
deferred taxes result from temporary differences in accounting for the liability component and were recognized outside profit or loss in equity. The issuance of the mandatory convertible notes constitutes a utilization of conditional capital.
The authorized capital has not been utilized so far.

Accumulated comprehensive income
Accumulated comprehensive income comprises retained earnings and accumulated other comprehensive
income. The retained earnings include prior years’ undistributed income of consolidated companies and all
remeasurements of the net liability for defined benefit pension and other post-employment benefit plans
that are recognized outside profit or loss. The accumulated other comprehensive income comprises exchange differences, the changes in fair values of cash flow hedges and available-for-sale financial assets,
and the revaluation surplus. In 2016, an amount of €4 million (2015: €5 million) corresponding to the annual amortization / depreciation of the respective assets was transferred from the revaluation surplus to retained earnings. The reserves for exchange differences included an amount of minus €51 million (2015:
minus €45 million) attributable to associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method.

Dividend
Under the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), the dividend payment is determined by the distributable
profit reported in the annual financial statements of Bayer AG, which are prepared according to the German Commercial Code. Retained earnings were diminished by payment of the dividend of €2.50 per share
for 2015. The proposed dividend for the 2016 fiscal year is €2.70 per share, which would result in a total
dividend payment of €2,233 million. Payment of the proposed dividend is contingent upon approval by the
stockholders at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and therefore is not recognized as a liability in the consolidated financial statements.

Noncontrolling interest
In April 2016, Bayer AG contributed 10 million shares it held in Covestro AG – equivalent to 4.9% of the
outstanding shares – to Bayer Pension Trust e.V. Bayer therefore currently holds 64.2% of the shares in the
capital stock of Covestro AG.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

263

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The changes in noncontrolling interest in equity during 2015 and 2016 are shown in the following table:
B 24/3

Components of Noncontrolling Interest in Equity
2015

€ million

January 1

2016

112

1,180

10

(27)

Changes in equity not recognized in profit or loss
Remeasurements of the net pension liability
Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges

–

Changes in fair value of securities

–

–

23

17

1,055

157

Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone
Other changes in equity
Dividend payments

(8)

Income after income taxes

(12)

December 31

1,180

–

(58)
295
1,564

The reserves for exchange differences included an amount of minus €28 million (2015: minus €20 million)
attributable to associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method.
Noncontrolling interest mainly pertained to the following companies:
B 24/4

Material Noncontrolling Interests
Covestro AG *

Bayer CropScience
Limited, India

2015

2016

2015

2016

%

30.9

35.8

31.4

31.4

Equity attributable to noncontrolling interest

€ million

1,092

1,472

73

85

Dividends paid to noncontrolling interest

€ million

0

52

3

3

Current assets

€ million

4,237

4,268

52

55

Interest held

Noncurrent assets

€ million

6,294

5,966

304

352

Current liabilities

€ million

4,564

2,474

11

11

Noncurrent liabilities

€ million

2,355

3,544

92

97

Sales

€ million

12,082

11,904

465

484

Income after income taxes

€ million

352

806

6

44

Total comprehensive income

€ million

558

747

15

47

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

€ million

1,473

1,786

44

–

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

€ million

(380)

(1,042)

53

(4)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

€ million

(645)

(1,122)

(79)

(9)

* Including direct and indirect subsidiaries

264

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

25. Provisions for pensions and other
post-employment benefits
Provisions were established for defined benefit obligations pertaining to pensions and other postemployment benefits. The net liability was accounted for as follows:
B 25/1

Net Defined Benefit Liability Reflected in the Statement of Financial Position
Pensions
€ million

Provisions for pensions and other postemployment benefits (net liability)

Other post-employment
benefits

Total

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2016

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2016

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2016

10,454

10,736

419

398

10,873

11,134

of which Germany

8,972

9,176

–

–

8,972

9,176

of which other countries

1,482

1,560

419

398

1,901

1,958

Net defined benefit asset

29

25

1

1

30

26

23

23

–

–

23

23

6

2

1

1

7

3

of which Germany
of which other countries
Net defined benefit liability

10,425

10,711

418

397

10,843

11,108

of which Germany

8,949

9,153

–

–

8,949

9,153

of which other countries

1,476

1,558

418

397

1,894

1,955

The expenses for defined benefit plans for pensions and other post-employment benefits comprised the
following components:
B 25/2

Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans
Pension plans
Germany
€ million

Current service cost
Past service cost
of which plan
curtailments
Plan settlements
Plan administration
cost paid out of plan
assets

Other countries

Total

Other post-employment
benefit plans
Other countries

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

362

350

99

102

461

452

17

16

27

26

(3)

(5)

24

21

–

(1)

–

–

(2)

1

(2)

1

–

–

–

–

–

(9)

–

(9)

–

–

–

3

1

1

1

4

–

–

Net interest

204

204

52

52

256

256

20

20

Total

593

583

149

141

742

724

37

35

In addition, a total of minus €1,036 million in effects of remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability
was recognized in 2016 outside profit or loss (2015: €1,216 million). Of this amount, minus €1,063 million
(2015: €1,185 million) related to pension obligations, €34 million (2015: €53 million) to other postemployment benefit obligations, and minus €7 million (2015: minus €22 million) to the effects of the asset
ceiling.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

265

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

The net defined benefit liability developed as follows:
B 25/3

Changes in Net Defined Benefit Liability

€ million

Defined
benefit
obligation

Fair value of Effects of the
plan assets asset ceiling

Net defined
benefit
liability

Germany
January 1, 2016

19,148

10,199

–

Acquisitions

–

–

–

–

Divestments / changes in the scope of consolidation

(4)

(2)

–

2

Current service cost
Past service cost
(Gains) / losses from plan settlements
Net interest
Net actuarial (gain) loss
of which due to changes in financial assumptions
of which due to changes in demographic assumptions
of which due to experience adjustments

350

(350)

26

(26)

–
452

–
248

(1,610)
(1,563)

1

(1)

46

(46)
669

–

878

878

39

39

–

–

–

–

Benefits paid out of plan assets

(219)

Benefits paid by the company

(440)

Plan administration cost paid from plan assets
December 31, 2016

669
–

Employer contributions

Reclassification to current assets / liabilities held for sale

(204)

1,563

Remeasurement of asset ceiling

Payments due to plan settlements

–

1,610

Return on plan assets excluding amounts recognized as interest income

Employee contributions

(8,949)

(219)

–
440

(3)
–

–

20,962

11,809

7,660

5,799

(3)
–
–

–
(9,153)

Other countries
January 1, 2016

(32)

Acquisitions

–

1

–

Divestments / changes in the scope of consolidation

(4)

(3)

–

Current service cost

118

Past service cost

(6)

(Gains) / losses from plan settlements

(9)

(1,893)
1
1
(118)
6
9

Net interest

284

Net actuarial (gain) loss

515

(515)

650

(650)

of which due to changes in financial assumptions
of which due to changes in demographic assumptions

(89)

of which due to experience adjustments

(46)

Return on plan assets excluding amounts recognized as interest income

215

(3)

89
46
427

Remeasurement of asset ceiling

427
(7)

Employer contributions

(72)

152

(7)
152

Employee contributions

12

12

–

Payments due to plan settlements

(83)

(84)

(1)

(295)

(295)

Benefits paid out of plan assets
Benefits paid by the company

–

(87)

–

Plan administration costs paid out of plan assets

–

(1)

Reclassification to current assets / liabilities held for sale

–

–

–

(72)

(96)

(7)

(31)
(1,955)

Exchange differences
December 31, 2016
of which other post-employment benefits
Total, December 31, 2016

87
(1)
–

8,033

6,127

(49)

867

471

–

(396)

28,995

17,936

(49)

(11,108)

266

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 25/4

Changes in Net Defined Benefit Liability (Previous Year)

€ million

Defined
benefit
obligation

Fair value of Effects of the
plan assets asset ceiling

Net defined
benefit
liability

Germany
January 1, 2015
Acquisitions
Divestments / changes in the scope of consolidation
Current service cost
Past service cost
(Gains) / losses from plan settlements
Net interest
Net actuarial (gain) loss
of which due to changes in financial assumptions
of which due to changes in demographic assumptions
of which due to experience adjustments

20,339

10,025

–

–

–

–

–

21

17

–

(4)

362

(362)

27

(27)

–
425

–
221

1,393
1,371

–

–

(22)

22
(262)

–

387

387

37

37

–

–

–

Benefits paid out of plan assets

(215)

Benefits paid by the company

(433)

Plan administration cost paid from plan assets
December 31, 2015

(262)
–

Employer contributions

Reclassification to current assets / liabilities held for sale

(204)

(1,371)

Remeasurement of asset ceiling

Payments due to plan settlements

–

(1,393)

Return on plan assets excluding amounts recognized as interest income

Employee contributions

(10,314)

–

(215)

–
433

–
(22)

–

11

–

11

19,148

10,199

–

(8,949)

(9)

(1,881)

Other countries
January 1, 2015

7,432

5,560

Acquisitions

4

–

–

Divestments / changes in the scope of consolidation

–

–

–

Current service cost

116

Past service cost

(3)

(Gains) / losses from plan settlements

–

(4)
–
(116)
3
–

Net interest

287

Net actuarial (gain) loss

(318)

318

(310)

310

of which due to changes in financial assumptions

215

–

(72)

of which due to changes in demographic assumptions

(79)

79

of which due to experience adjustments

71

(71)

Return on plan assets excluding amounts recognized as interest income

(211)

Remeasurement of asset ceiling
Employer contributions
Employee contributions
Payments due to plan settlements
Benefits paid out of plan assets
Benefits paid by the company
Plan administration costs paid out of plan assets
Reclassification to current assets / liabilities held for sale
Exchange differences
December 31, 2015
of which other post-employment benefits
Total, December 31, 2015

(211)
(22)

(22)

148

148

11

11

–

–

–

–

(289)

(289)

(60)

–

–

(1)

(20)

(8)

–
60
(1)
–

12

501

374

(1)

(128)

7,661

5,799

(32)

(1,894)

836

418

–

(418)

26,809

15,998

(32)

(10,843)

B Consolidated Financial Statements

267

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The benefit obligations pertained mainly to Germany (72%; 2015: 71%), the United States (14%;
2015: 15%) and the United Kingdom (7%; 2015: 7%). In Germany, current employees accounted for about
46% (2015: 44%), retirees or their surviving dependents for about 47% (2015: 49%) and former employees
with vested pension rights for about 7% (2015: 7%) of entitlements under defined benefit plans. In the
United States, current employees accounted for about 25% (2015: 26%), retirees or their surviving dependents for about 53% (2015: 61%) and former employees with vested pension rights for about 22%
(2015: 13%) of entitlements under defined benefit plans.
The actual return on the assets of defined benefit plans for pensions or other post-employment benefits
amounted to €1,519 million (2015: minus €34 million) and €40 million (2015: minus €3 million), respectively.
The following table shows the defined benefit obligations for pensions and other post-employment benefits
along with the funded status of the funded obligations.
B 25/5

Defined Benefit Obligation and Funded Status

Pension obligation
€ million

Defined benefit obligation
of which unfunded
of which funded

Other postemployment
benefit obligation

Total

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

25,973

28,128

836

867

26,809

28,995

1,126

1,231

101

125

1,227

1,356

24,847

26,897

735

742

25,582

27,639

Funded status of funded obligations
Overfunding
Underfunding

61

74

1

1

62

75

9,328

9,506

318

272

9,646

9,778

Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations
Group companies provide retirement benefits for most of their employees, either directly or by contributing
to privately or publicly administered funds. The way these benefits are provided varies according to the
legal, fiscal and economic conditions of each country, the benefits generally being based on employee
compensation and years of service. The obligations relate both to existing retirees’ pensions and to pension entitlements of future retirees.
Bayer has set up funded pension plans for its employees in various countries. The most appropriate investment strategy is determined for each defined benefit pension plan based on the risk structure of the
obligations (especially demographics, the current funded status, the structure of the expected future cash
flows, interest sensitivity, biometric risks etc.), the regulatory environment and the existing level of risk
tolerance or risk capacity. A strategic target investment portfolio is then developed in line with the plan’s
risk structure, taking capital market factors into consideration. Further determinants are risk diversification,
portfolio efficiency and the need for both a country-specific and a global risk / return profile centered on
ensuring the payment of all future benefits. As the capital investment strategy for each pension plan is
developed individually in light of the plan-specific conditions listed above, the investment strategies for
different pension plans may vary considerably. For example, the proportion of plan assets invested in equities is greater with the non-German pension plans than with the plans domiciled in Germany. The investment strategies are generally aligned less toward maximizing absolute returns and more toward the maximum probability of being able to finance pension commitments over the long term. For plan assets, stress
scenarios are simulated and other risk analyses (such as value at risk) undertaken with the aid of risk management systems.

268

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Bayer-Pensionskasse VVaG (Bayer-Pensionskasse), Leverkusen, Germany, is by far the most significant of the
pension plans. It has been closed to new members since 2005. This legally independent fund is regarded
as a life insurance company and therefore is subject to the German Insurance Supervision Act. The benefit
obligations covered by Bayer-Pensionskasse comprise retirement, surviving dependents’ and disability
pensions. It constitutes a multi-employer plan, to which the active members and their employers contribute. The company contribution is a certain percentage of the employee contribution. This percentage is the
same for all participating employers, including those outside the Bayer Group, and is set by agreement
between the plan’s executive committee and its supervisory board, acting on a proposal from the responsible actuary. It takes into account the differences between the actuarial estimates and the actual values
for the factors used to determine liabilities and contributions. Bayer may also adjust the company contribution in agreement with the plan’s executive committee and its supervisory board, acting on a proposal from
the responsible actuary. The plan’s liability is governed by Section 1, Paragraph 1, Sentence 3 of the German Law on the Improvement of Occupational Pensions. This means that if the pension plan exercises its
right under the articles of association to reduce benefits, each participating employer has to make up the
resulting difference. Bayer is not liable for the obligations of participating employers outside the Bayer
Group, even if they cease to participate in the plan.
Pension entitlements for people who joined Bayer in Germany in 2005 or later are granted via Rheinische
Pensionskasse VVaG, Leverkusen. Future pension payments from this plan are based on contributions and
the return on plan assets; a guaranteed interest rate applies.
Another important pension provision vehicle is Bayer Pension Trust e.V. (BPT). This covers further retirement provision arrangements of the Bayer Group, such as deferred compensation, pension obligations
previously administered by Schering Altersversorgung Treuhand e.V., and components of other direct
commitments.
The defined benefit pension plans in the United States have been frozen for some years, and no significant
new entitlements can be earned under these plans. The assets of all the U.S. pension plans are held by a master trust for reasons of efficiency. The applicable regulatory framework is based on the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (ERISA), which includes a statutory 80% minimum funding requirement to avoid benefit restrictions. The actuarial risks, such as investment risk, interest-rate risk and longevity risk, remain with the
company.
The defined benefit pension plans in the United Kingdom have been closed to new members for some
years. Plan assets in the U.K. are administered by independent trustees, who are legally obligated to act
solely in the interests of the beneficiaries. A technical assessment is performed every three years in line
with U.K. regulations. This serves as the basis for developing a plan to cover any potential financing requirements. Here, too, the actuarial risks remain with the company.
The other post-employment benefit obligations outside Germany mainly comprised health care benefit
payments for retirees in the United States.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

269

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The fair value of the plan assets to cover pension and other post-employment benefit obligations was
as follows:
B 25/6

Fair Value of Plan Assets as of December 31
Pension obligations
Germany
€ million

2015

2016

Other countries
2015

2016

Other post-employment
benefit obligations
Other countries
2015

2016

Plan assets based on quoted prices
in active markets
Real estate and special real estate funds
Equities and equity funds
Callable debt instruments
Noncallable debt instruments
Bond funds
Derivatives
Cash and cash equivalents
Other

–

–

199

215

19

22

2,105

2,919

1,855

1,861

130

149

–

–

182

263

–

–

112

556

752

736

121

128

3,543

3,754

1,744

1,823

90

104

18

11

(3)

–

–

158

243

114

8

17

(5)
84

–

–

4

6

–

–

5,936

7,483

4,815

5,015

368

420

Plan assets for which quoted prices
in active markets are not available
Real estate and special real estate funds

517

563

83

124

–

–

Equities and equity funds

90

115

59

72

–

–

Callable debt instruments

1,555

1,525

2

–

–

–

Noncallable debt instruments

1,832

1,870

–

–

–

–

Bond funds

–

–

60

72

–

–

Derivatives

(2)

1

–

–

–

–

252

362

373

50

51

Other
Total plan assets

271
4,263

4,326

566

641

50

51

10,199

11,809

5,381

5,656

418

471

The fair value of plan assets in Germany included real estate leased by Group companies, recognized at a
fair value of €82 million (2015: €61 million), and Bayer AG shares and bonds held through investment
funds, recognized at their fair value of €41 million (2015: €48 million) and €3 million (2015: €3 million),
respectively. In April 2016, Bayer AG contributed 10 million shares it held in Covestro AG – equivalent to
4.9% of the outstanding shares – to BPT. This equity position had a market value of €652 million as of
December 31, 2016. In 2016, Covestro placed short-term securities with a volume of €450 million into
Metzler Trust e.V. In 2015, Bayer placed short-term securities with a volume of €300 million into BPT. The
other plan assets comprised mortgage loans granted, other receivables and qualified insurance policies.

Risks
The risks from defined benefit plans arise partly from the defined benefit obligations and partly from the
investment in plan assets. The risks lie in the possibility that higher direct pension payments will have to be
made to the beneficiaries and / or that additional contributions will have to be made to plan assets in order
to meet current and future pension obligations.

270

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Demographic / biometric risks
Since a large proportion of the defined benefit obligations comprises lifelong pension payments to retirees
or surviving dependents’ pensions, longer claim periods or earlier claims may result in higher benefit obligations, higher benefit expense and / or higher pension payments than previously anticipated.

Investment risks
If the actual return on plan assets were below the return anticipated on the basis of the discount rate, the
net defined benefit liability would increase, assuming there were no changes in other parameters. This
could happen as a result of a drop in share prices, increases in market rates of interest, default of individual debtors or the purchase of low-risk but low-interest bonds, for example.

Interest-rate risk
A decline in capital market interest rates, especially for high-quality corporate bonds, would increase the
defined benefit obligation. This effect would be at least partially offset by the ensuing increase in the market values of the debt instruments held.

Measurement parameters and their sensitivities
The following weighted parameters were used to measure the obligations for pensions and other postemployment benefits as of December 31 of the respective year:
B 25/7

Parameters for Benefit Obligations
Germany
%

Other countries

Total

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2.40

1.80

Pension obligations
Discount rate

3.85

3.25

2.75

2.15

of which U.S.A.

4.00

3.70

4.00

3.70

of which U.K.

3.80

2.65

3.80

2.65

Projected future salary increases

3.00

2.75

3.35

3.50

3.10

2.95

Projected future benefit increases

1.75

1.50

3.20

3.35

2.15

1.95

–

–

4.45

4.35

4.45

4.35

Other post-employment benefit obligations
Discount rate

In Germany the Heubeck 2005 G mortality tables were used, in the United States the RP-2014 Mortality
Tables, and in the United Kingdom 95% of S1NXA.
The following weighted parameters were used to measure the expense for pension and other postemployment benefits in the respective year:
B 25/8

Parameters for Benefit Expense
Germany

Other countries

Total

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

Discount rate

2.20

2.40

3.70

3.85

2.55

2.75

Projected future salary increases

3.00

3.00

3.65

3.35

3.15

3.10

Projected future benefit increases

1.75

1.75

3.30

3.20

2.10

2.15

–

–

3.95

4.45

3.95

4.45

%

Pension obligations

Other post-employment benefit obligations
Discount rate

B Consolidated Financial Statements

271

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The parameter sensitivities were computed by expert actuaries based on a detailed evaluation similar to
that performed to obtain the data presented in Table B 25/4. Altering individual parameters by 5 percentage points (mortality by 10% per beneficiary) while leaving the other parameters unchanged would have
impacted pension and other post-employment benefit obligations as of year end 2016 as follows:
B 25/9

Sensitivity of Benefit Obligations
Germany
€ million

Increase

Decrease

Other countries
Increase

Decrease

Total
Increase

Decrease

(2,230)

2,553

Pension obligations
0.5%-pt. change in discount rate

(1,752)

2,014

0.5%-pt. change in projected future
salary increases

135

(125)

0.5%-pt. change in projected future
benefit increases

1,107

(1,009)

10% change in mortality

(670)

(478)
50
139

539
(47)

185

(172)

(94)

1,246

(1,103)

752

(195)

209

(865)

961

Other post-employment benefit obligations
0.5%-pt. change in discount rate

–

–

(48)

53

(48)

53

10% change in mortality

–

–

(24)

27

(24)

27

B 25/10

Sensitivity of Benefit Obligations (prior year)
Germany
€ million

Other countries

Increase

Decrease

Increase

(1,544)

1,767

(450)
47

Decrease

Total
Increase

Decrease

(1,994)

2,271

Pension obligations
0.5%-pt. change in discount rate

504

0.5%-pt. change in projected future
salary increases

121

(113)

0.5%-pt. change in projected future
benefit increases

1,006

(919)

127

669

(173)

185

(770)

854

10% change in mortality

(597)

(44)

168

(157)

(96)

1,133

(1,015)

Other post-employment benefit obligations
0.5%-pt. change in discount rate

–

–

(46)

51

(46)

51

10% change in mortality

–

–

(21)

24

(21)

24

272

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Provisions are also set up for the obligations, mainly of U.S. subsidiaries, to provide post-employment
benefits in the form of health care cost payments for retirees. The valuation of health care costs was based
on the assumption that they will increase at a rate of 6.8%, which should gradually decline to 5.0% by
2023 (assumption in 2015: 7.0%, which should gradually decline to 5.0% by 2023). The following table
shows the impact on other post-employment benefit obligations and total benefit expense of a onepercentage-point change in the assumed cost increase rates:
B 25/11

Sensitivity to Health Care Cost Increases
Increase of one
percentage point
€ million

Impact on other post-employment benefit obligations
Impact on benefit expense

Decrease of one
percentage point

2015

2016

2015

2016

79

77

(68)

(66)

5

4

(4)

(3)

Payments made and expected future payments
The following payments or asset contributions correspond to the employer contributions made or expected
to be made to funded benefit plans:
B 25/12

Employer Contributions Paid or Expected
Germany
€ million

Pension obligations
Other post-employment benefit obligations
Total

Other countries

2015

2016

2017
expected

2015

2016

2017
expected

387

878

74

148

151

123

–

–

–

–

1

1

387

878

74

148

152

124

Bayer has currently committed to make deficit contributions for its U.K. pension plans of approximately
GBP 16 million annually through 2019. For its U.S. pension plans, Bayer made payments of US$50 million
in 2016 and expects to make payments of US$50 million in 2017, the latter amount being subject to
change depending on future circumstances.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits payable in the future from funded and unfunded plans are
estimated as follows:
B 25/13

Future Benefit Payments
Payments out of plan assets

Payments by the company

Other postemployment
benefits
Pensions

Other postemployment
benefits
Pensions

Germany

Other
countries

Other
countries

Total

Germany

Other
countries

Other
countries

Total

2017

223

297

9

529

452

76

35

563

2018

226

305

9

540

457

77

38

572

2019

230

312

9

551

464

78

42

584

2020

236

321

9

566

471

83

43

597

2021

242

331

9

582

477

91

45

613

1,310

1,715

46

3,071

2,454

477

252

3,183

€ million

2022-2026

The weighted average term of the pension obligations is 18 years (2015: 17.3 years) in Germany and
13.3 years (2015: 13.4 years) in other countries. The weighted average term of the obligations for other
post-employment benefits in other countries is 11.5 years (2015: 11.5 years).

B Consolidated Financial Statements

273

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

26. Other provisions
Changes in the various provision categories in 2016 were as follows:
B 26/1

Changes in Other Provisions

€ million

December 31, 2015

Other
Taxes
65

Environmental
protection
272

Restructuring
306

Traderelated
commitments Litigations
2,113

663

Personnel
commitments
3,099

Miscellaneous

Total

267

6,785

Additions

18

67

113

4,679

240

3,109

382

8,608

Utilization

(32)

(23)

(121)

(4,019)

(280)

(2,503)

(230)

(7,208)

Reversal

(12)

(5)

(29)

(477)

(123)

(457)

(48)

(1,151)

Reclassification to
current liabilities

–

–

–

(12)

–

(1)

–

(13)

Interest cost

–

4

–

–

–

18

–

22

Exchange
differences
December 31, 2016

2

6

7

91

12

25

15

158

41

321

276

2,375

512

3,290

386

7,201

The provisions recognized in the statement of financial position as of December 31, 2016, were expected
to be utilized as follows:
B 26/2

Expected Utilization of Other Provisions

Other
Taxes

Environmental
protection

Restructuring

2017

17

69

93

2,241

2018

–

31

79

2019

–

21

71

2020

–

11

2021

1

2022 or later
Total

€ million

Traderelated
commitments Litigations

Personnel
commitments

Miscellaneous

Total

280

2,451

270

5,421

66

152

147

6

481

28

3

90

1

214

11

5

1

186

1

215

4

6

6

4

57

24

102

23

185

16

29

72

359

84

768

41

321

276

2,375

512

3,290

386

7,201

The provisions were partly offset by claims for refunds in the amount of €110 million (2015: €97 million),
which were recognized as receivables. These claims mainly related to product liability.

Restructuring
Provisions for restructuring included €179 million (2015: €180 million) for severance payments and
€97 million (2015: €126 million) for other restructuring expenses, which mainly comprised other costs related to the closure of production facilities.

274

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

In the Pharmaceuticals segment, restructuring took place mainly in the areas of marketing and supply network optimization as part of the Continuous Efficiency Program. Provisions were established for this restructuring primarily in
Japan, France and the United States. Provisions for the above and other restructuring measures in Pharmaceuticals as of December 31, 2016, totaled €66 million. Of this amount, severance payments accounted
for €62 million and other restructuring expenses for €4 million.
In the Consumer Health segment, the restructuring initiated in prior years to integrate the acquired businesses continued. Provisions for restructuring in this segment totaled €8 million as of December 31, 2016.
Of this amount, severance payments accounted for €7 million and other restructuring expenses for
€1 million.
In the Crop Science segment, restructuring took place mainly in connection with the “Advancing our leadership strategy” program, which aims to increase customer focus, promote innovation and improve efficiency. The restructuring initiated in the United States in prior years, involving the closure of several carbamate production facilities and a formulation plant, continued in addition. Provisions for the above and
other restructuring measures in Crop Science as of December 31, 2016, totaled €104 million. Of this
amount, severance payments accounted for €53 million and other restructuring expenses for €51 million.
Provisions for restructuring in the Animal Health segment as of December 31, 2016, totaled €8 million. Of
this amount, severance payments accounted for €5 million and other restructuring expenses for €3 million.
Provisions for restructuring at Covestro mainly existed for the closure of an MDI production facility at the
site in Tarragona, Spain. The restructuring provisions at Covestro as of December 31, 2016, totaled
€66 million. Of this amount, severance payments accounted for €31 million and other restructuring expenses for €35 million.
Restructuring continued in the central functions, particularly in France, to enhance their efficiency. Also
included here are provisions for the residual costs for the closure of a Covestro production facility at the
Belford Roxo site in Brazil. The restructuring provisions in the central functions as of December 31, 2016,
totaled €24 million. Of this amount, severance payments accounted for €21 million and other restructuring
expenses for €3 million.

Litigations
The legal risks currently considered to be material, and their development, are described in Note [32].

Personnel commitments
Stock-based compensation programs
Bayer offers stock-based compensation programs collectively to different groups of employees. As required by IFRS 2 (Share-based Payment) for compensation systems involving cash settlement, awards to
be made under the stock-based programs are covered by provisions in the amount of the fair value of the
obligations existing as of the date of the financial statements vis-à-vis the respective employee group. All
resulting valuation adjustments are recognized in profit or loss.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

275

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The following table shows the changes in provisions for the various programs:
B 26/3

Changes in Provisions for Stock-Based Compensation Programs
€ million

December 31, 2015

Aspire I

Aspire II

Aspire 2.0

Aspire I
Covestro

Aspire II
Covestro

Covestro
Prisma

Total

125

339

–

22

59

–

545

61

204

90

5

13

15

388

Additions
Utilization

(54)

(149)

–

(8)

(23)

–

(234)

Reversal

(71)

(194)

(7)

(2)

(2)

–

(276)

Exchange differences
December 31, 2016

–

3

2

–

1

–

6

61

203

85

17

48

15

429

The value of the Aspire tranches that were fully earned at the end of 2016, resulting in payments at the
beginning of 2017, was €241 million (2015: €230 million).
The net expense for all stock-based compensation programs in 2016 was €118 million (2015: €248 million), including €5 million (2015: €6 million) for the BayShare program, €2 million (2015: €0 million) for
Covestro’s stock participation program and €1 million income from (2015: €8 million expense for) grants of
virtual Bayer shares.
The fair value of the obligations under the Aspire I, Aspire II and Aspire 2.0 programs (excluding Aspire programs
for Covestro) was calculated using the Monte Carlo simulation method based on the following key parameters:
B 26/4

Parameters for Monte Carlo Simulation
Dividend yield
Risk-free interest rate

2015

2016

1.96%

2.90%

(0.159)%

(0.670)%

Volatility of Bayer stock

25.61%

22.78%

Volatility of EURO STOXX 50

19.08%

11.66%

0.83

0.67

Correlation between Bayer stock price and the EURO STOXX 50

Long-term incentive program for members of the Board of Management and other senior
executives (Aspire I)
From 2005 through 2015, members of the Board of Management and other senior executives were entitled
to participate in Aspire I on the condition that they purchased a certain number of Bayer shares – determined for each individual according to specific guidelines – and retained them for the full term of the program. A percentage of the executive’s annual base salary – according to his or her position – was defined
as a target for variable payments (Aspire target opportunity). Depending on the performance of Bayer
stock, both in absolute terms and relative to the EURO STOXX 50 index over a four-year performance
period, participants receive a payment of up to 300% of their individual Aspire target opportunity at the
end of the period. The prices used to determine the amount of the payment are the averages of the official
closing prices of Bayer shares over the last 30 stock-exchange trading days of the respective year. The
tranche issued in 2012 expired at the end of 2015, and the maximum payment of 300% was made at the
beginning of 2016. The tranche issued in 2013 expired at the end of 2016, and a payment of 270% was
made at the beginning of 2017.

Long-term incentive program for middle management (Aspire II)
From 2005 through 2015, other senior managers were offered Aspire II, which is similar to Aspire I but did
not require a personal investment in Bayer shares. The amount of the payment is based entirely on the
absolute performance of Bayer stock over a four-year period. The maximum payment is 250% of each
manager’s Aspire target opportunity. The prices used to determine the amount of the payment are the averages of the official closing prices of Bayer shares over the last 30 stock-exchange trading days of the respec-

276

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

tive year. The tranche issued in 2012 expired at the end of 2015, and the maximum payment of 250% was
made at the beginning of 2016. The tranche issued in 2013 expired at the end of 2016, and a payment of
220% was made at the beginning of 2017.

Long-term incentive program Aspire 2.0
Since 2016, Aspire has been offered to all eligible employees in a new, standardized format named Aspire
2.0. For the Board of Management, there is an additional hurdle in the form of a comparison between the
performance of Bayer stock and that of the EURO STOXX 50. Aspire 2.0 is also based on a target value,
which is a percentage of each employee’s annual base salary, the percentage varying according to his or
her position. This target value is multiplied by the employee’s STI payment factor for the previous year to
give the Aspire grant value. The STI payment factor reflects the employee’s individual performance and the
business performance under the global short-term incentive program (STI). The Aspire grant value is converted into virtual Bayer shares by dividing it by the share price at the start of the program. The program’s
performance is based on these virtual shares. The fair value of the obligations is determined from the price
of Bayer stock at year end and the dividends paid up to that time. The payment made at the end of each
tranche is determined by multiplying the number of virtual shares by the Bayer share price at that time and
adding an amount equivalent to the dividends paid during the period of the tranche. The maximum payment for Aspire 2.0 is 250% of the Aspire grant value.

Special arrangement for Covestro employees concerning the Aspire programs
The compensation programs described above were modified for Covestro employees in December 2015 in
light of the legal carve-out of the Covestro companies and the subsequent stock exchange listing of
Covestro AG.
The arrangement for the 2012 tranches of both Aspire programs was the same as for Bayer employees.
Based on the development of Bayer’s share price, the maximum payment amounts were reached for both
programs (Aspire I and Aspire II). Payments of 300% and 250%, respectively, were therefore made at the
beginning of 2016.
Valuation for the other three Aspire tranches issued in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively, was based on
the average price of Bayer shares on the last 30 trading days of 2015 (€119.17). This price was fixed in
advance as the end price. Thus the amounts of the payments from the three remaining tranches – where
these were fully vested – were already finally determined at the end of 2015. A payment of at least 100% is
guaranteed. The tranches issued in 2013 expired at the end of 2016, and payments of 300% (Aspire I) and
250% (Aspire II) were made at the beginning of 2017.

Long-term incentive program for members of the Board of Management and other senior
executives of Covestro (Prisma)
Effective January 1, 2016, Covestro established a new long-term compensation program named Prisma for
the 2016-2019 performance period. Senior executives and other managers are eligible to participate. A
percentage of the executive’s annual base salary – according to his or her position – is defined as a target
for variable payments (Prisma target opportunity). Depending on the performance of Covestro stock including dividends paid (total shareholder return) – both in absolute terms and relative to the STOXX Europe 600
Chemicals index – over a four-year performance period, participants are granted a payment of up to 200%
of their individual Prisma target opportunity at the end of the period. Payment for the performance period
ending December 31, 2019, will be made in January 2020 according to the performance of Covestro stock
over the period. This will be determined by comparing the average stock price on the last 30 trading days
of 2019 to the price at the start of the performance period. The fair value of the obligations was calculated
using the Monte Carlo simulation method based on parameters applicable at the closing date.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

277

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

BayShare 2016
All management levels and nonmanagerial employees are offered an annual stock participation program
known as BayShare, under which Bayer subsidizes their personal investments in the company’s stock. The
discount under this program in 2016 was 20% (2015: 20%) of the subscription amount. Employees stated
a fixed amount that they wished to invest in shares. The maximum subscription amount in Germany was
set at €2,500 (2015: €2,500) or €5,000 (2015: €5,000), depending on the employee’s position. The shares
thus acquired must be retained until December 31, 2017.
In 2016, employees purchased a total of about 259,000 shares (2015: 208,000 shares) under the
BayShare program.

Stock participation program at Covestro in 2016
The stock participation program at Covestro named Covestment allowed employees of Covestro AG and
participating Group companies in Germany to invest a fixed amount of their compensation – plus a subsidy
from the company – in Covestro shares. The subsidy, which will be reassessed annually, was 30% in 2016.
The total amount for which shares could be purchased was capped at €1,200 or €3,600, depending on
the employee’s position. The shares were purchased at the volume-weighted average price of Covestro
shares on four trading days in November 2016. Employees purchased a total of about 126,000 shares
under the Covestment program. These shares must be retained until December 31, 2017.

27. Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities were comprised as follows:
B 27/1

Financial Liabilities
Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

Total

Of which
current

Total

Of which
current

15,547

1,235

15,991

2,010

2,779

1,174

1,837

820

Liabilities under finance leases

474

59

436

59

Liabilities from derivatives

765

598

587

309

€ million

Bonds and notes / promissory notes
Liabilities to banks

Other financial liabilities
Total

369

355

730

203

19,934

3,421

19,581

3,401

A breakdown of financial liabilities by contractual maturity is given below:
B 27/2

Maturities of Financial Liabilities
€ million

Dec. 31, 2015

€ million

Dec. 31, 2016

2016

3,421

2017

3,401

2017

2,245

2018

3,241

2018

2,828

2019

2,456

2019

2,066

2020

44

2020

45

2021

2,714

2021 or later
Total

9,329
19,934

2022 or later
Total

7,725
19,581

278

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

In addition to promissory notes in the amount of €45 million (2015: €120 million), the Bayer Group has
issued the following bonds and notes:
B 27/3

Bonds and Notes
Effective
interest rate

Stated rate

Nominal volume

Dec. 31, 2015
€ million

Dec. 31, 2016
€ million

Bayer AG, Germany
Floating

1

1

Floating DIP bond 2014 / 2016

EUR 500 million

500

–

1.253%

1.125% DIP bond 2014 / 2018

EUR 750 million

748

749

5.774%

5.625% DIP bond 2006 / 2018

GBP 250 million

339

292

5.541%

5.625% DIP bond 2006 / 2018 (increase)

GBP 100 million

137

117

2.086%

1.875% DIP bond 2014 / 2021

EUR 750 million

753

755

3.811%

3.750% Hybrid bond 2014 / 2024 7 / 2074

EUR 1,500 million

1,493

1,494

2.517%

2.375% Hybrid bond 2015 / 2022 7 / 2075

EUR 1,300 million

1,289

1,290

3.093%

3.000% Hybrid bond 2014 / 2020 7 / 2075

EUR 1,750 million

1,743

1,745

Bayer Capital Corporation B.V., Netherlands
1.333%

1.250% DIP bond 2014 / 2023

6.061%

5.625% Mandatory Convertible Notes 8 2016 / 2019

EUR 500 million

497

497

EUR 4,000 million

–

–

US$350 million

342

351
243

Bayer Corporation, U.S.A.
6.670%

6.650% Notes 1998 / 2028
Bayer Holding Ltd., Japan

0.858%

0.816% DIP bond 2012 / 2017

JPY 30 billion

229

1.493%

1.459% DIP bond 2010 / 2017

JPY 10 billion

76

81

3.654%

3.575% DIP bond 2008 / 2018

JPY 15 billion

115

122

0.629%

0.594% DIP bond 2013 / 2019

JPY 10 billion

76

81

Bayer Nordic SE, Finland
Floating 2

Floating 2 DIP bond 2013 / 2016

EUR 200 million

200

–

Floating 3

Floating 3 DIP bond 2014 / 2017

EUR 500 million

500

500

Floating 4

Floating 4 Notes 2014 / 2016

US$500 million

459

–

Floating 5

Floating 5 Notes 2014 / 2017

US$400 million

367

379

1.615%

1.500% Notes 2014 / 2017

US$850 million

779

806

2.564%

2.375% Notes 2014 / 2019

US$2,000 million

1,826

1,889

3.096%

3.000% Notes 2014 / 2021

US$1,500 million

1,372

1,419

3.579%

3.375% Notes 2014 / 2024

US$1,750 million

1,587

1,642

Bayer U.S. Finance LLC, U.S.A.

Covestro AG, Germany
Floating 6

Floating 6 DIP bond 2016 / 2018

EUR 500 million

–

500

1.076 %

1.000% DIP bond 2016 / 2021

EUR 500 million

–

497

1.782 %

1.750% DIP bond 2016 / 2024

EUR 500 million

–

497

15,427

15,946

Total
1

Floating-rate coupon comprising three-month EURIBOR plus 22 basis points
Floating-rate coupon comprising three-month EURIBOR plus 35 basis points
3
Floating-rate coupon comprising three-month EURIBOR plus 22 basis points
4
Floating-rate coupon comprising three-month USD-LIBOR plus 25 basis points
5
Floating-rate coupon comprising three-month USD-LIBOR plus 28 basis points
6
Floating-rate coupon comprising three-month EURIBOR plus 60 basis points
7
Date of first option to early redeem the bond at par
8
The mandatory convertible notes were allocated to capital reserves and to other financial liabilities.
2

Debt Issuance Programme
An important means of external financing are the bonds issued under the Debt Issuance Programme (DIP), previously known as the multi-currency European Medium Term Notes (EMTN) program. The Debt Issuance Programme allows bonds in different currencies and with different maturities to be placed flexibly with investors.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

279

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Hybrid bonds
The hybrid bonds issued by Bayer AG are subordinated, and 50% of their amount is treated by Moody’s
and S & P Global Ratings as equity. They therefore have a more limited effect on the Group’s ratingrelevant debt indicators than senior borrowings.

Mandatory convertible notes
On November 22, 2016, Bayer Capital Corporation B.V. placed subordinated mandatory convertible notes
in the amount of €4,000 million, which will be converted into no-par shares of Bayer AG at maturity. The
notes represented the first part of the equity component of the financing for the planned acquisition of
Monsanto Company. After deducting transaction costs of €48 million and recognition of deferred taxes of
€191 million, €3,491 million were allocated to capital reserves and €652 million to other financial liabilities.
Bayer AG guarantees all the notes and bonds issued by subsidiaries (except Covestro companies).

Lease liabilities
Lease payments totaling €609 million (2015: €646 million), including €173 million (2015: €172 million) in
interest, are to be made under finance leases to the respective lessors in future years.
The liabilities under finance leases mature as follows:
B 27/4

Lease Liabilities
€ million

Dec. 31, 2015

€ million

Dec. 31, 2016

Lease
payments

Interest
component

Liabilities
under
finance
leases

2016

86

27

59

2017

88

29

59

2017

76

23

53

2018

76

24

52

2018

68

20

48

2019

68

21

47

2019

60

18

42

2020

59

17

42

2020

60

15

45

2021

57

15

42

2021 or later

296

69

227

2022 or later

261

67

194

Total

646

172

474

Total

609

173

436

Maturity

Maturity

Lease
Interest
payments component

Liabilities
under
finance
leases

Other information
As of December 31, 2016, the Group had undrawn credit facilities at its disposal totaling €55 billion (2015:
€6.2 billion), including €50 billion in bridge financing for the planned acquisition of Monsanto Company and
€1.5 billion in facilities available to Covestro.
Further information on the accounting for liabilities from derivatives is given in Note [30].

280

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

28. Trade accounts payable
Trade accounts payable comprised €6,403 million (2015: €5,937 million) due within one year and €7 million
(2015: €8 million) due after one year.

29. Other liabilities
Other liabilities comprised:
B 29/1

Other Liabilities
Dec. 31, 2015
€ million

Other tax liabilities

Total

Of which
current

Dec. 31, 2016
Total

Of which
current

435

428

544

527

1,148

204

1,463

651

Liabilities to employees

217

210

229

219

Liabilities for social expenses

174

165

168

157

Accrued interest on liabilities

189

180

186

181

Miscellaneous liabilities

436

347

788

686

2,599

1,534

3,378

2,421

Deferred income

Total

Deferred income included an upfront payment, originally amounting to US$1 billion, in connection with the
strategic pharmaceutical collaboration agreed between Bayer and Merck & Co., Inc., United States, in the
field of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) modulation. This deferred income is being amortized over a period of
13.5 years as the obligations are satisfied. The remaining amount deferred at the end of 2016 was
€660 million (2015: €719 million). The amount amortized in 2016 was €59 million (2015: €59 million).
Deferred income also included the proceeds from the sale of the Diabetes Care business at the beginning of
2016. The original sale proceeds of around €1 billion are being realized over a period of up to 24 months as
the obligations are satisfied. €469 million remained deferred at the end of 2016.
The deferred income included €62 million (2015: €62 million) in grants and subsidies received from governments, of which €15 million (2015: €7 million) was reversed and recognized in profit or loss.
The miscellaneous liabilities included €271 million (2015: €125 million) from derivatives.

30. Financial instruments
The system used by the Bayer Group to manage credit risks, liquidity risks and the different types of market price risk (interest-rate and currency risks), together with its objectives, methods and procedures, is
outlined in the Opportunity and Risk Report, which forms part of the Combined Management Report.

30.1 Financial instruments by category
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities for each
financial instrument category and a reconciliation to the corresponding line item in the statements of financial position. Since the line items “Other receivables,” “Trade accounts payable” and “Other liabilities” contain both financial instruments and nonfinancial assets or liabilities (such as other tax receivables or advance payments for services to be received in the future), the reconciliation is shown in the column headed
“Nonfinancial assets / liabilities.”

B Consolidated Financial Statements

281

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 30.1/1

Carrying Amounts and Fair Values of Financial Instruments
Dec. 31, 2016
Carried at
amortized
cost

Carried at fair value
[Fair value for information 1 ]

Nonfinancial
assets /
liabilities

Based on
quoted
Based on
prices in observable
Based on
active
market unobservmarkets
data able inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)

€ million

Carrying
amount

Carrying
amount

Carrying
amount

Carrying
amount

Carrying
amount

Carrying
amount in
the statement of
financial
position

Trade accounts receivable

10,969

10,969

Loans and receivables

10,969

10,969

Other financial assets
Loans and receivables

2,245

523

2,148

Available-for-sale financial assets

32

Held-to-maturity financial assets

65

520

7,556

[16]

2,148

3,283

794

4,629
65

269

Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Loans and receivables

803

[68]

Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting
Other receivables

3,985
[2,145]

3

433

633

269
9
57

633

[633]

Available-for-sale financial assets
1,899

Loans and receivables

1,899

of which loans and receivables
of which available-for-sale financial assets
Financial liabilities
Carried at amortized cost

15,746

523

3,985

860

32

520

3,283

[16,040]

[3,362]

18,994

851

275

19,581
18,994
312
275

6,035

375

6,035
840

2

840

252

25

8

165
2

87

165
17

106
2,259

25,869

2

839

25

25,869

of which derivatives that do not qualify
for hedge accounting
The exemption provisions under IFRS 7.29(a) were applied for information on specific fair values.

2,259
26,735
25,869

of which derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting

1

3,378
840

Nonfinancial liabilities
of which carried at amortized cost

375

2,259

8

Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting

Total financial liabilities

375
[840]

Carried at fair value (nonderivative)
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

6,410
6,035

Nonfinancial liabilities
Carried at amortized cost

4,686

587
312

Other liabilities

21,114
15,649

Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Carried at amortized cost

1,899

15,649

18,994

2,103
1,899

[1,899]

Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting
Trade accounts payable

57
2,103

Cash and cash equivalents

2,793
633

57

Nonfinancial assets

Total financial assets

445
2,103

477
2

362

477
17

381

282

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 30.1/2

Carrying Amounts and Fair Values of Financial Instruments
Dec. 31, 2015
Carried at
amortized
cost

Carried at fair value
[Fair value for information 1 ]

Nonfinancial
assets /
liabilities

Based on
quoted
Based on
prices in observable
Based on
active
market unobservmarkets
data able inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)

€ million

Carrying
amount

Trade accounts receivable

9,933

Loans and receivables

9,933

Other financial assets

Carrying
amount

72

Available-for-sale financial assets

40

Held-to-maturity financial assets

73

509

791

[64]

[18]

72

774

1,177

363

Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Loans and receivables

[74]

73
125

384
506

17
59

506

1,859
1,859

Financial liabilities
Carried at amortized cost

12,483

363

509

363

19,169

833

19,934

[4,121]
295

19,169
470
295

5,680

265

5,680
606

117

606

[606]

Carried at fair value (nonderivative)

45

2,599
37
32

Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

24

8

93

882

45

Nonfinancial liabilities

1

265

1,831

606

93

of which carried at amortized cost

265

37

Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting

Total financial liabilities

1,831
25,455
25,455

1,831
26,382
25,455

of which derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting

563

of which derivatives that do not qualify
for hedge accounting

319

The exemption provisions under IFRS 7.29(a) were applied for information on specific fair values.

5,945
5,680

Nonfinancial liabilities
Carried at amortized cost

1,236

765
[15,440]

470

Other liabilities

14,205
12,370

40

Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Carried at amortized cost

1,859
850

12,370

19,169

1,882
1,859

[1,859]

Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting
Trade accounts payable

59
1,882

Loans and receivables

2,447
506

59

Cash and cash equivalents

of which available-for-sale financial assets

401
1,882

[506]

Nonfinancial assets

of which loans and receivables

1,848

125

Available-for-sale financial assets

Total financial assets

Carrying
amount

9,933
363

Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting
Other receivables

Carrying
amount

9,933

185

Loans and receivables

Carrying
amount

Carrying
amount in
the statement of
financial
position

563
8

327

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

283

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

The loans and receivables reflected in other financial assets and the liabilities measured at amortized cost
also include receivables and liabilities under finance leases in which Bayer is the lessor or lessee and which
are therefore measured in accordance with IAS 17.
Because of the short maturities of most trade accounts receivable and payable, other receivables and
liabilities, and cash and cash equivalents, their carrying amounts at the closing date do not significantly
differ from the fair values.
The fair values of loans and receivables, held-to-maturity financial investments and of financial liabilities
carried at amortized cost that are given for information are the present values of the respective future cash
flows. The present values are determined by discounting the cash flows at a closing-date interest rate,
taking into account the term of the assets or liabilities and the creditworthiness of the counterparty. Where
a market price is available, however, this is deemed to be the fair value.
The fair values of available-for-sale financial assets correspond to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1),
are determined using valuation techniques based on observable market data as of the end of the reporting
period (Level 2) or are the present values of the respective future cash flows, determined on the basis of
unobservable inputs (Level 3).
The fair values of derivatives for which no publicly quoted prices exist in active markets (Level 1) are determined using valuation techniques based on observable market data as of the end of the reporting period
(Level 2). In applying valuation techniques, credit value adjustments are determined to allow for the contracting party’s credit risk.
Currency and commodity forward contracts are measured individually at their forward rates or forward
prices on the closing date. These depend on spot rates or prices, including time spreads. The fair values of
interest-rate hedging instruments and cross-currency interest-rate swaps are determined by discounting
future cash flows over the remaining terms of the instruments at market rates of interest, taking into account any foreign currency translation as of the closing date.
Fair values estimated using unobservable inputs are categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
This applies to certain available-for-sale debt or equity instruments, in some cases to the fair values of
embedded derivatives, and to obligations for contingent consideration in business combinations. Credit
risk is frequently the principal unobservable input used to determine the fair values of debt instruments
classified as available-for-sale financial assets by the discounted cash flow method. Here the credit
spreads of comparable issuers are applied. A significant increase in credit risk could result in a lower fair
value, whereas a significant decrease could result in a higher fair value. However, a relative change of 10%
in the credit spread does not materially affect the fair value.

284

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Embedded derivatives are separated from their respective host contracts. Such host contracts are generally sale or purchase agreements relating to the operational business. The embedded derivatives cause the
cash flows from the contracts to vary with exchange-rate or price fluctuations. The internal measurement
of embedded derivatives is mainly performed using the discounted cash flow method, which is based on
unobservable inputs. These include planned sales and purchase volumes, and prices derived from market
data. Regular monitoring is carried out based on these fair values as part of quarterly reporting.
The changes in the amount of financial assets and liabilities recognized at fair value based on unobservable inputs (Level 3) for each financial instrument category were as follows:
B 30.1/3

Development of Financial Assets and Liabilities (Level 3)
2015
Liabilites
Availablemeasured
for-sale
at fair
financial Derivatives value (nonassets
(net) derivative)

€ million

Carrying amounts of net assets /
(net liabilities), Jan. 1
Gains (losses) recognized
in profit or loss
of which related to assets / liabilities
recognized in the statements
of financial position

Total

2016
Liabilites
Availablecarried at
for-sale
fair value
financial Derivatives
(nonassets
(net) derivative)

Total

803

6

(31)

778

833

9

(37)

805

22

(12)

(3)

7

18

(17)

23

24

(3)

2

18

(17)

–

1

22

(17)

Gains (losses) recognized outside
profit or loss

19

–

–

19

9

–

–

9

Additions of assets / (liabilities)

11

–

(4)

7

46

–

–

46

Settlements of (assets) / liabilities

(17)

(22)

9

1

(12)

(23)

–

6

Transfers (IFRS 5)

–

6

–

6

–

–

–

Transfers to a different fair-value
hierarchy

–

–

–

–

(32)

–

–

(32)

833

9

(8)

(8)

835

Net carrying amounts of assets /
(liabilities), Dec. 31

(37)

805

851

The changes recognized in profit or loss were included in other operating income / expenses, interest
income or exchange gains / losses.

–

B Consolidated Financial Statements

285

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Income, expense, gains and losses on financial instruments can be assigned to the following categories:
B 30.1/4

Income, Expense, Gains and Losses on Financial Instruments
2016

€ million

Interest income

Loans and
receivables

Held-tomaturity
financial
investments

Availablefor-sale
financial
assets

Held for
trading

Liabilities
carried at
amortized
cost

Total

44

–

21

Interest expense

–

–

–

Income / expenses from
affiliated companies

–

–

–

–

–

Changes in fair value

–

–

–

(77)

–

(77)

(171)

–

(2)

–

–

(173)

26

–

–

–

–

355

–

–

–

–

6

(1)

–

–

–

25

Impairment losses
Impairment loss reversals
Exchange gains / losses
Gains / losses from retirements
Other financial income /
expenses
Net result

253

2

62

129

(3)

(642)

(645)

(103)
–
–
(181)

(374)
–

–

26
(122)
6

(34)

(35)

(988)

(891)

B 30.1/5

Income, Expense, Gains and Losses on Financial Instruments (Previous Year)
2015

€ million

Interest income

Loans and
receivables

Held-tomaturity
financial
investments

Availablefor-sale
financial
assets

Held for
trading

Liabilities
carried at
amortized
cost

Total

55

1

22

Interest expense

–

–

–

Income / expenses from
affiliated companies

–

–

3

–

–

3

Changes in fair value

–

–

–

147

–

147

(93)

–

(1)

–

–

(94)

Impairment losses
Impairment loss reversals
Exchange gains / losses
Gains / losses from retirements
Other financial income /
expenses
Net result

32

–

–

450

–

–

–

–

31

–

13

1

68

(1)
443

25

86

189

(25)

(703)

(728)

–
(235)
–
–
(88)

–
(679)
–
(12)
(1,308)

32
(464)
31
–
(884)

The interest expense of €642 million (2015: €703 million) from nonderivative financial liabilities also included the income and expense from interest-rate swaps that qualified for hedge accounting. Interest income
from financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss amounted to €65 million (2015:
€73 million). Interest income from interest-rate derivatives that qualified for hedge accounting was
€62 million (2015: €86 million). The changes in fair values of financial assets held for trading related mainly
to forward commodity contracts and embedded derivatives.

286

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Derivatives that form part of a master netting arrangement, constitute a financial asset or liability and can
only be netted in the event of breach of contract by, or insolvency of, one of the contracting parties do not
satisfy, or only partially satisfy, the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position according to
IAS 32. The volume of such derivatives with positive fair values was €630 million (2015: €415 million), and
the volume with negative fair values was €762 million (2015: €761 million). Included here is an amount of
€362 million (2015: €256 million) in positive and negative fair values of derivatives concluded with the same
contracting party.

30.2 Maturity analysis
The liquidity risks to which the Bayer Group was exposed from its financial instruments at the end of the
reporting period comprised obligations for future interest and repayment installments on financial liabilities
and the liquidity risk arising from derivatives, as shown in the table in Note [30.3].
In addition, loan commitments existed for an as yet unpaid €1,213 million (2015: €1,213 million) portion of
the effective initial fund of Bayer-Pensionskasse VVaG, which may result in further payments by Bayer AG
(€1,005 million) and / or Covestro AG (€208 million) in subsequent years.
B 30.2/1

Maturity Analysis of Financial Instruments
Dec. 31,
2016
€ million

2017

2018

2019

2020

Carrying
amount

2021

after 2021

Interest and repayment

Financial liabilities
Bonds and notes /
promissory notes

15,991

2,261

2,160

2,367

295

2,916

Liabilities to banks

1,837

884

998

39

–

–

9

Remaining liabilities

1,166

293

303

382

61

58

268

Trade accounts payable

6,035

6,028

4

2

1

–

–

Accrued interest on liabilities

186

181

1

1

1

–

2

Remaining liabilities

662

626

3

5

2

1

25

Derivatives that qualify for
hedge accounting

477

178

231

157

2

–

–

Derivatives that do not qualify
for hedge accounting

381

374

3

4

2

1

1

Derivatives that qualify for
hedge accounting

269

210

23

4

3

2

–

Derivatives that do not qualify
for hedge accounting

1

8,093

Other liabilities

Liabilities from derivatives

Receivables from derivatives

445

467

2

2

1

1

Loan commitments

–

1,213

–

–

–

–

–

Financial guarantees

–

14

–

–

–

–

3

B Consolidated Financial Statements

287

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B 30.2/2

Maturity Analysis of Financial Instruments
Dec. 31,
2015
€ million

2016

2017

2018

2019

Carrying
amount

2020

after 2020

Interest and repayment

Financial liabilities
Bonds and notes /
promissory notes

15,547

1,475

2,334

1,704

2,282

277

Liabilities to banks

2,779

1,221

298

1,387

38

–

10

843

440

79

69

60

61

307

5,680

5,673

3

3

2

–

–

Accrued interest on liabilities

189

180

1

2

1

1

4

Remaining liabilities

454

420

5

2

1

1

25

Derivatives that qualify for
hedge accounting

563

397

11

122

50

–

–

Derivatives that do not qualify
for hedge accounting

327

312

8

1

3

1

2

Derivatives that qualify for
hedge accounting

125

66

26

13

2

2

1

Derivatives that do not qualify
for hedge accounting

4

Remaining liabilities
Trade accounts payable

9,845

Other liabilities

Liabilities from derivatives

Receivables from derivatives

401

379

2

3

2

2

Loan commitments

–

1,213

–

–

–

–

–

Financial guarantees

–

14

–

–

–

–

2

30.3 Information on derivatives
Asset and liability fair values and future cash flows are exposed to currency, interest-rate and commodity
price risks. Derivatives are used to reduce this risk. In some cases they are designated as hedging instruments in a hedge accounting relationship.

Currency risks
Foreign currency receivables and liabilities are hedged using foreign exchange derivatives without the existence of a hedge accounting relationship. A bond of Bayer AG denominated in British pounds was
swapped on the issuance date into a fixed-rate euro bond by means of a cross-currency interest-rate
swap, which was designated as a cash flow hedge. Cross-currency interest-rate swaps used to hedge
intra-Group loans were also designated as cash flow hedges.
Fluctuations in future cash flows resulting from forecasted foreign currency transactions and procurement
activities are avoided partly through derivatives contracts, most of which are designated as cash flow
hedges.
Foreign currency risks related to the planned acquisition of Monsanto Company were partially hedged with
currency derivatives, which were designated as cash flow hedges.

288

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Interest-rate risk
The interest-rate risks from fixed-interest borrowings are managed in part using interest-rate swaps. Two
interest-rate swaps in the total amount of €200 million were designated as fair value hedges for the €750
million DIP bond issued in 2014 and maturing in 2021.
Losses of €1 million were recorded on fair-value hedging instruments in 2016 (2015: €26 million). Gains of
€1 million were recorded on the underlying hedged items (2015: €25 million).

Commodity price risks
Hedging contracts are also used to partly reduce exposure to fluctuations in future cash outflows and
inflows resulting from price changes on procurement and selling markets.

Hedging of obligations under stock-based employee compensation programs
A portion of the obligations to make variable payments to employees under stock-based compensation
programs (Aspire) is hedged against share price fluctuations using derivatives contracts that are settled in
cash at maturity. These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.

Further information on cash flow hedges
Accumulated other comprehensive income from cash flow hedges increased in 2016 by €44 million (2015:
decreased by €203 million) due to changes in the fair values of derivatives net of tax. Total changes of €3
million in the fair values of derivatives were expensed in 2016 (2015: €304 million). The respective prorated deferred tax income of €2 million (2015: €88 million) was likewise recognized through profit or loss.
No material ineffective portions of hedges required recognition through profit or loss in 2016 or 2015.
The income and expense from cash flow hedges recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income
mainly comprised gains of €204 million (2015: €91 million) and losses of €143 million (2015: €90 million)
from the hedging of forecasted transactions in foreign currencies and the planned acquisition of Monsanto
Company. Of these gains and losses, a net amount of minus €91million (2015: minus €5 million) will be
reclassifiable to profit or loss within one year, and a net amount of €2 million (2015: €6 million) in subsequent years.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

289

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The fair values of existing contracts in the major categories at the end of the reporting period are indicated
in the following table together with the included volumes of cash flow hedges.
B 30.3/1

Fair Values of Derivatives
Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

Notional
amount 1

Positive
fair value

Negative
fair value

Notional
amount 1

Positive
fair value

Negative
fair value

Currency hedging of recorded transactions

22,275

337

(753)

22,645

299

(587)

Forward exchange contracts

19,896

336

(283)

20,454

296

(273)

of which cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

2,379

1

(470)

2,191

3

(314)

2,362

–

(470)

2,146

3

(312)

Currency hedging of forecasted transactions

4,082

99

(100)

17,799

317

(206)

Forward exchange contracts

3,627

86

(99)

3,805

48

(145)

of which cash flow hedges

3,255

78

(90)

3,672

43

(138)

455

13

(1)

13,994

269

(61)

368

13

(1)

13,698

161

(5)

Interest-rate hedging of recorded
transactions

200

13

–

200

14

–

Interest-rate swaps

200

13

–

200

14

–

200

13

–

200

14

–

Commodity price hedging

91

14

(12)

168

5

(4)

Forward commodity contracts

86

12

(10)

167

4

(4)

5

2

(2)

1

1

–

Hedging of stock-based employee
compensation programs

80

21

(2)

532

48

Share price options

30

21

–

152

48

30

21

–

152

48

50

–

(2)

380

–

(22)

50

–

(2)

380

–

(22)

Total

26,728

484

(867)

41,344

683

(819)

of which current derivatives

25,022

435

(692)

38,349

635

(514)

24,931

420

(680)

38,111

597

(510)

–

1

–

–

3

–

91

14

(12)

168

5

(4)

–

–

–

70

30

–

€ million

Cross-currency interest-rate swaps
of which cash flow hedges

Currency options
of which cash flow hedges

of which fair value hedges

Commodity option contracts

of which cash flow hedges
Share price forwards
of which cash flow hedges

for currency hedging
for interest-rate hedging 2
for commodity price hedging
for hedging of stock-based employee
compensation programs
1

–

The notional amount is reported as gross volume, which also contains economically closed hedges.
2
The portion of the fair value of long-term interest-rate swaps that relates to current interest payments is classified as current.

–

(22)
–
–

290

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

31. Contingent liabilities and other financial commitments
Contingent liabilities
The following warranty contracts, guarantees and other contingent liabilities existed at the end of the
reporting period:
B 31/1

Contingent Liabilities
Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

Warranties

99

100

Guarantees

123

264

Other contingent liabilities

562

444

Total

784

808

€ million

The guarantees mainly comprise a declaration issued by Bayer AG to the trustees of the U.K. pension
plans guaranteeing the pension obligations of Bayer Public Limited Company and Bayer CropScience
Limited. Under the declaration, Bayer AG – in addition to the two companies – undertakes to make further
payments into the plans upon receipt of a payment request from the trustees. The net liability with respect
to these defined benefit plans as of December 31, 2016, rose to €264 million (2015: €123 million) due to
the sharp drop in interest rates.

Other financial commitments
The other financial commitments were as follows:
B 31/2

Other Financial Commitments
Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

Operating leases

891

1,101

Orders already placed under purchase agreements

690

722

Capital contribution commitments

391

182

€ million

Definitive merger agreement with Monsanto Company, St. Louis, Missouri, U.S.A.

1

–

53,000

Unpaid portion of the effective initial fund

1,213

1,213

Potential payment obligations under R&D collaboration agreements

2,887

2,444

Revenue-based milestone payment commitments

2,241

1,839

Total

8,313

60,501

1

The contingent financial commitment of around US$56 billion was translated at the closing rate.

On September 14, 2016, Bayer signed a definitive merger agreement with Monsanto Company, St. Louis,
Missouri, United States, which provides for Bayer’s acquisition of all outstanding shares in Monsanto
Company against a cash payment of US$128 per share. Bayer thus has a contingent financial commitment
in the amount of approximately US$56 billion to acquire Monsanto’s entire outstanding capital stock. Further details of this planned acquisition are given in Note [6.2].

B Consolidated Financial Statements

291

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

The nondiscounted future minimum lease payments relating to operating leases totaled €1,101 million
(2015: €891 million). The maturities of the respective payment obligations were as follows:
B 31/3

Operating Leases
Maturing in

Dec. 31, 2015

Maturing in

€ million

Dec. 31, 2016
€ million

2016

195

2017

237

2017

155

2018

192

2018

110

2019

161

2019

94

2020

138

2020

79

2021

102

2021 or later

258

2022 or later

Total

891

Total

271
1,101

Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed under purchase agreements related to planned
or ongoing capital expenditure projects totaled €722 million (2015: €690 million).
The Bayer Group has entered into cooperation agreements with third parties under which it has agreed to
fund various research and development projects or has assumed other payment obligations based on the
achievement of certain milestones or other specific conditions. If all of these payments have to be made,
their maturity distribution as of December 31, 2016, was expected to be as set forth in the following table.
The amounts shown represent the maximum payments to be made, and it is unlikely that they will all fall
due. Since the achievement of the conditions for payment is highly uncertain, both the amounts and the
dates of the actual payments may vary considerably from those stated in the table.
B 31/4

Potential Payment Obligations Under R&D Collaboration Agreements
Maturing in

Dec. 31, 2015

Maturing in

€ million

Dec. 31, 2016
€ million

2016

262

2017

233

2017

229

2018

151

2018

96

2019

333

2019

240

2020

66

2020

78

2021

28

2021 or later

1,982

2022 or later

1,633

Total

2,887

Total

2,444

In addition to the above commitments, there were also revenue-based milestone payment commitments
totaling €1,839 million (2015: €2,241 million), of which €1,834 million (2015: €2,237 million) was not expected to fall due until 2022 (2015: 2021) or later. These commitments are also highly uncertain.

32. Legal risks
As a global company with a diverse business portfolio, the Bayer Group is exposed to numerous legal
risks, particularly in the areas of product liability, competition and antitrust law, anticorruption, patent disputes, tax assessments and environmental matters. The outcome of any current or future proceedings
cannot normally be predicted. It is therefore possible that legal or regulatory judgments or future settlements could give rise to expenses that are not covered, or not fully covered, by insurers’ compensation
payments and could significantly affect our revenues and earnings.
Legal proceedings currently considered to involve material risks are outlined below. The legal proceedings
referred to do not represent an exhaustive list.

292

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Product-related litigation
Yasmin™ / YAZ™: Most of the lawsuits and claims concerning Bayer’s drospirenone-containing oral contra-

ceptives in the United States have been resolved. Claimants allege that users have suffered personal injuries, some of them fatal, from the use of Yasmin™ and / or YAZ™ or their generic versions, and seek compensatory and punitive damages, claiming, in particular, that Bayer had not adequately warned of the
alleged risks.
As of January 23, 2017, lawsuits and claims of approximately 100 claimants remain pending against Bayer
in the United States. Without admission of liability, Bayer is considering about a dozen of the lawsuits and
claims for possible settlement after a case-specific analysis of medical records.
A few U.S. State Attorney Generals are investigating alleged violations of consumer protection statutes,
including off-label promotion and failure to warn. One Attorney General has filed an action against Bayer.
As of January 23, 2017, 13 lawsuits seeking class action certification had been served upon Bayer in
Canada. In two of these lawsuits a class has been certified. Two motions for certification of a class action
are pending in Israel.
Bayer believes that it has meritorious defenses and will continue to defend itself vigorously against all
claims that are not considered for settlement.
Mirena™: As of January 23, 2017, lawsuits from approximately 2,600 users of Mirena™, a levonorgestrel-

releasing intrauterine system providing long-term contraception, had been served upon Bayer in the United
States (excluding lawsuits no longer pending). Plaintiffs allege personal injuries resulting from the use of
Mirena™, including perforation of the uterus, ectopic pregnancy or idiopathic intracranial hypertension, and
seek compensatory and punitive damages. Plaintiffs claim, inter alia, that Mirena™ is defective and that
Bayer knew or should have known of the risks associated with it and failed to adequately warn its users.
Additional lawsuits are anticipated. Most of the cases pending in U.S. federal courts have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation proceeding for common pre-trial management. In July 2016, the multidistrict
litigation court granted summary judgment dismissing approximately 1,230 cases pending before that
court. Plaintiffs have appealed the decision. As of January 23, 2017, five Canadian lawsuits relating to
Mirena™ seeking class action certification had been served upon Bayer. Bayer believes it has meritorious
defenses and intends to defend itself vigorously.
Xarelto™: As of January 23, 2017, U.S. lawsuits from approximately 16,400 recipients of Xarelto™, an oral

anticoagulant for the treatment and prevention of blood clots, had been served upon Bayer. Plaintiffs allege
personal injuries from the use of Xarelto™, including cerebral, gastrointestinal or other bleeding and death,
and seek compensatory and punitive damages. They claim, amongst other things, that Xarelto™ is defective and that Bayer knew or should have known of these risks associated with the use of Xarelto™ and
failed to adequately warn its users. Additional lawsuits are anticipated. Cases pending in U.S. federal
courts have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation for common pre-trial management. As of January
23, 2017, ten Canadian lawsuits relating to Xarelto™ seeking class action certification had been served
upon Bayer. Bayer believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to defend itself vigorously.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

293

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Essure™: As of January 23, 2017, U.S. lawsuits from approximately 3,700 users of Essure™, a medical

device offering permanent birth control with a nonsurgical procedure, had been served upon Bayer. Plaintiffs allege personal injuries from the use of Essure™, including hysterectomy, perforation, pain, bleeding,
weight gain, nickel sensitivity, depression and unwanted pregnancy. Additional lawsuits are anticipated. As
of January 23, 2017, two Canadian lawsuits relating to Essure™ seeking class action certification had
been served upon Bayer. Bayer believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to defend itself vigorously.
In connection with the above-mentioned proceedings, Bayer is insured against statutory product liability
claims against Bayer to the extent customary in the respective industries and has, based on the information currently available, taken appropriate accounting measures for anticipated defense costs. However,
the accounting measures relating to Yasmin™ / YAZ™ and Essure™ claims exceed the available insurance
coverage. Concerning Yasmin™ / YAZ™, the accounting measures include costs for agreed and anticipated future settlements based on the information currently available and based on the number of pending
and estimated future claims alleging venous clot injuries.

Patent disputes
Beyaz™ / Safyral™: Beyaz™ and Safyral™ are Bayer’s oral contraceptives containing folate. In 2015, a

U.S. federal court ruled in favor of Bayer regarding both the validity of its patent and the infringement
thereof by Watson Laboratories, Inc. (“Watson”). Watson had filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications with
a Paragraph IV certification (“ANDA IV”) seeking approval of generic versions of both Beyaz™ and
Safyral™ in the United States. In May 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit invalidated
the patent claims asserted by Bayer and reversed the judgment by the U.S. federal court. Bayer petitioned
the U.S. Supreme Court to review the decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In
January 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court denied Bayer’s petition. The decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit against Bayer is now final. In 2015, Bayer filed two lawsuits against Lupin Ltd. and
Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (together “Lupin”) in a U.S. federal court for infringement of the same patent.
Prior to this in 2015, Bayer had received two notices of an ANDA IV application by Lupin seeking approval
to market generic versions of Safyral™ and Beyaz™ in the United States. In view of the May 2016 decision
by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the U.S. federal court ruled in favor of Lupin in November 2016. This decision is now also final.
Betaferon™ / Betaseron™: In 2010, Bayer filed a complaint against Biogen Idec MA Inc. in a U.S. federal

court seeking a declaration by the court that a patent issued to Biogen in 2009 is invalid and not infringed
by Bayer’s production and distribution of Betaseron™, Bayer’s drug product for the treatment of multiple
sclerosis. Biogen is alleging patent infringement by Bayer through Bayer’s production and distribution of
Betaseron™ and Extavia™ and has sued Bayer accordingly. Bayer manufactures Betaseron™ and distributes the product in the United States. Extavia™ is also a drug product for the treatment of multiple sclerosis; it is manufactured by Bayer, but distributed in the United States by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, another defendant in the lawsuit. In March 2016, the U.S. federal court decided a disputed issue
regarding the scope of the patent in Biogen’s favor. Bayer disagrees with the decision, which may be appealed at the conclusion of the proceedings in the U.S. federal court.
Damoctocog alfa pegol (BAY 94-9027, long-acting rFVIII): In 2013, Bayer filed a lawsuit against Nektar

Therapeutics in the district court of Munich, Germany. In this proceeding, Bayer claims rights to certain
European patent applications based on a past collaboration between Bayer and Nektar in the field of hemophilia. The European patent applications with the title “Polymer-factor VIII moiety conjugates” are part of
a patent family registered in the name of Nektar comprising further patent applications and patents in other
countries including the United States. However, Bayer believes that the patent family does not include any
valid patent claim relevant for Bayer’s drug candidate BAY 94-9027 for the treatment of hemophilia A.

294

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Nexavar™: In 2015, Bayer filed patent infringement lawsuits in a U.S. federal court against Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan Inc. (together “Mylan”). In 2014 and 2015, Bayer had received notices of an ANDA
IV application pursuant to which Mylan seeks approval of a generic version of Bayer’s cancer drug
Nexavar™ in the United States. In November 2016, Bayer received another notice of such an ANDA IV
application by Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. In December 2016, Bayer filed a patent infringement lawsuit
against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries LTD in the same U.S. federal
court.
Stivarga™: In December 2016, Bayer filed patent infringement lawsuits in a U.S. federal court against Apotex, Inc. and Apotex Corp. (together “Apotex”) and against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries LTD (together “Teva”). In November 2016, Bayer had received notices of an
ANDA IV application pursuant to which Apotex and Teva each seek approval of a generic version of Bayer’s
cancer drug Stivarga™ in the United States.
Xarelto™: In 2015, Bayer and Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. filed a patent infringement lawsuit in a U.S.

federal court against Aurobindo Pharma Limited, Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc. (together “Aurobindo”),
Breckenridge Pharmaceutical Inc. (“Breckenridge”), Micro Labs Ltd., Micro Labs USA Inc. (together
“Micro Labs”), Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mylan Inc. (together “Mylan”), Prinston Pharmaceutical Inc.
(“Prinston”), Sigmapharm Laboratories, LLC (“Sigmapharm”), Torrent Pharmaceuticals, Limited and Torrent
Pharma Inc. (together “Torrent”). Earlier in 2015, Bayer had received notices of an ANDA IV application by
Aurobindo, Breckenridge, Micro Labs, Mylan, Prinston, Sigmapharm and Torrent, each seeking approval to
market a generic version of Xarelto™, an oral anticoagulant for the treatment and prevention of blood
clots, in the United States. In January 2016, Bayer received another notice of such an ANDA IV application
by InvaGen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“InvaGen”). In February 2016, Bayer and Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
filed a patent infringement lawsuit against InvaGen in the same U.S. federal court.
Bayer believes it has meritorious defenses in the above ongoing patent disputes and intends to defend
itself vigorously.

Further legal proceedings
Trasylol™ / Avelox™: A qui tam complaint relating to marketing practices for Trasylol™ (aprotinin) and
Avelox™ (moxifloxacin) filed by a former Bayer employee is pending in the United States District Court in
New Jersey. The U.S. government has declined to intervene at the present time.
Newark Bay Environmental Matters: In the United States, Bayer is one of numerous parties involved in a
series of claims brought by federal and state environmental protection agencies. The claims arise from
operations by entities which historically were conducted near Newark Bay or surrounding bodies of water,
or which allegedly discharged hazardous waste into these waterways or onto nearby land. Bayer and the
other potentially responsible parties are being asked to remediate and contribute to the payment of past
and future remediation or restoration costs and damages. In August 2016, Bayer learned that two major
potentially responsible parties had filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
While Bayer remains unable to determine the extent of its liability for these matters, this development is
likely to adversely affect the share of costs potentially allocated to Bayer.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

295

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

In the Lower Passaic River matter, a group of more than sixty companies including Bayer is investigating
contaminated sediments in the riverbed under the supervision of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other governmental authorities. Future remediation will involve some form of dredging, the nature and scope of which are not yet defined, and potentially other tasks. The cost of the investigation and the remediation work may be substantial if the final remedy involves extensive dredging and
disposal of impacted sediments. In the Newark Bay matter, an unaffiliated party is currently conducting an
investigation of sediments in Newark Bay under EPA supervision. The investigation is in a preliminary
stage. Bayer has contributed to certain investigation costs in the past and may incur costs for future investigation and remediation activities in Newark Bay.
Bayer has also been notified by governmental authorities acting as natural resource trustees that it may
have liability for natural resource damages arising from the contamination of the Lower Passaic River,
Newark Bay and surrounding water bodies. Bayer is currently unable to determine the extent of its liability.
Asbestos: A further risk may arise from asbestos litigation in the United States. In many cases, the plaintiffs

allege that Bayer and co-defendants employed third parties on their sites in past decades without providing them with sufficient warnings or protection against the known dangers of asbestos. Additionally, a
Bayer affiliate in the United States is the legal successor to companies that sold asbestos products until
1976. Union Carbide has agreed to indemnify Bayer for this liability. Bayer believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to defend itself vigorously.
Covestro U.S. Lawsuit: In September 2016, Covestro LLC – along with three other defendants – was
served with a lawsuit filed by a law firm in a California federal court. The parties recently agreed to change
the venue to a federal court in the District of Columbia. The aim of the lawsuit is to recover financial damages in the form of statutory fines allegedly owed by the defendants to the United States Environmental
Protection Agency for the companies’ failure to disclose health risk information associated with the manufacture and handling of TDI, MDI and PMDI. Under the pertinent statutes, the U.S. government was afforded an opportunity to intervene and prosecute the claims, but it has declined to do so. Accordingly, the law
firm is prosecuting the claims on the government’s behalf. Violations of the Toxic Substances Control Act
(“TSCA”) and False Claims Act (“FCA”) are asserted. Covestro will defend itself vigorously and regards the
claims asserted against the company as meritless.

Tax proceedings:
Stamp taxes in Greece: In 2014, 2016 and 2017, a Greek administrative court of first instance dismissed
Bayer’s lawsuits against the assessment of stamp taxes and contingent penalties in the total amounts of
approximately €130 million on certain intra-Group loans to a Greek subsidiary. Bayer is convinced that the
decisions are wrong and has appealed or will do so in due course. Bayer believes it has meritorious arguments to support its legal position and intends to defend itself vigorously.

296

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Notes to the Statements of Cash Flows
The statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and outflows during the fiscal year affected the cash
and cash equivalents of the Bayer Group. Cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing
activities in accordance with IAS 7 (Statement of Cash Flows). Effects of changes in the scope of consolidation are stated separately.
Of the cash and cash equivalents, an amount of €15 million (2015: €17 million) had limited availability due
to foreign exchange restrictions. Past experience has shown such restrictions to be of short duration. The
above amount included €1 million (2015: €3 million) of exchange-restricted cash in Venezuela. The conversion of cash from Venezuelan bolivars (VEF) into U.S. dollars is subject to a government approval process.
The cash flows reported by consolidated companies outside the eurozone are translated at average
monthly exchange rates, with the exception of cash and cash equivalents, which are translated at closing
rates. The “Change in cash and cash equivalents due to exchange rate movements” is reported in a separate line item.

33. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
Following the switch to a different value management concept, the gross cash flow is no longer used as an
indicator. The previous disclosure of “income taxes paid or accrued” is replaced by “income taxes paid.”
This has also resulted in amendments to “Changes in other working capital, other noncash items.”
The transfers of bonds with a total value of €450 million (2015: €300 million) to pension funds and of
Covestro shares with a value of €337 million to Bayer Pension Trust e.V. were noncash transactions and
therefore did not result in operating cash outflows.

34. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
The net cash outflow for investing activities in 2016 amounted to €8,729 million (2015: €2,762 million).
Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in 2016 resulted in a cash outflow of
€2,578 million (2015: €2,517 million). Cash inflows from sales of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets amounted to €111 million (2015: €193 million).
The net cash outflow for noncurrent and current financial assets amounted to €6,335 million (2015:
€370 million).
The transfers of bonds in the total amount of €450 million (2015: €300 million) to pension funds were noncash transactions and therefore did not result in investing cash inflows.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

297

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

35. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
In 2016 there was a net cash outflow of €350 million (2015: €3,974 million) for financing activities. Net loan
repayments amounted to €730 million (2015: €2,929 million).
Cash outflows for dividend payments amounted to €2,126 million (2015: €1,869 million). Net interest payments – including payments for and receipts from interest-rate swaps – rose to €794 million (2015: €652
million). The net inflow of €3,952 million from the mandatory convertible notes is reflected as a capital contribution of €3,300 million and a borrowing of €652 million. In 2015, the proceeds from the stock market
flotation of Covestro AG accounted for a €1,490 million cash inflow.
The transfer of Covestro shares with a value of €337 million to Bayer Pension Trust e.V. was a noncash
transaction and therefore did not result in a financing cash inflow.

298

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Other Information
36. Audit fees
The following fees for the services of the worldwide network of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), including
PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC AG WPG), were recognized as expenses:
B 36/1

Audit Fees
PwC
€ million

Financial statements auditing

of which PwC AG WPG

2015

2016

2015

2016

17

16

7

7

Audit-related services and other audit work

9

2

9

1

Tax consultancy

3

3

–

–

Other services

7

7

5

5

36

28

21

13

Total

The fees for the auditing of financial statements mainly comprised those for the audits of the consolidated
financial statements of the Bayer Group and the financial statements of Bayer AG and its subsidiaries. The
decrease in fees for audit-related services and other audit work mainly resulted from the absence of fees
related to the carve-out and stock market flotation of Covestro, which took place in 2015.
The Independent Auditor’s Report on the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2016 was signed by
Dr. Peter Bartels and Eckhard Sprinkmeier. Eckhard Sprinkmeier is the responsible audit partner. Dr. Peter
Bartels signed the Independent Auditor’s Report for the first time for the year ended December 31, 2012,
and Eckhard Sprinkmeier for the year ended December 31, 2014. PwC has served as the auditor of Bayer’s
consolidated financial statements since the merger of Price Waterhouse Deutschland and Coopers & Lybrand
Deutsche Revision in 1998. The predecessor firm of Coopers & Lybrand Deutsche Revision had already audited Bayer’s consolidated financial statements for some years prior to that date.

37. Related parties
Related parties as defined in IAS 24 (Related Party Disclosures) are those legal entities and natural persons
that are able to exert influence on Bayer AG and its subsidiaries or over which Bayer AG or its subsidiaries
exercise control or joint control or have a significant influence. They include, in particular, nonconsolidated
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates included in the consolidated financial statements at cost of
acquisition or using the equity method, and post-employment benefit plans, as well as the corporate officers of Bayer AG whose compensation is reported in Note [38] and in the Compensation Report, which
forms part of the Combined Management Report.

B Consolidated Financial Statements

299

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Transactions with nonconsolidated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates included in the consolidated
financial statements at cost of acquisition or using the equity method, and post-employment benefit plans
are carried out on an arm’s-length basis.
The following table shows the volume of transactions with related parties included in the consolidated
financial statements of the Bayer Group at amortized cost or using the equity method, and with postemployment benefit plans:
B 37/1

Related Parties
2015

€ million

Purchases
Sales of
of goods
goods and
and
services
services

Receivables

2016

Purchases
Sales of
of goods
goods and
and
Liabilities
services
services

Receivables

Liabilities

Nonconsolidated
subsidiaries

21

4

11

22

4

5

9

19

Joint ventures

25

–

4

1

24

–

4

243

Associates

36

645

–

4

34

557

3

6

–

–

822

68

–

–

823

63

Post-employment
benefit plans

Goods and services in the amount of €524 million (2015: €609 million) were purchased from the associate
PO JV, LP, Wilmington, United States, mainly in the course of day-to-day business operations.
Liabilities rose mainly with respect to Casebia Therapeutics Limited Liability Partnership, Ascot, United
Kingdom, the newly established joint venture with CRISPR Therapeutics AG, Basel, Switzerland.
Intercompany profits and losses for companies accounted for in the consolidated financial statements
using the equity method were immaterial in 2016 and 2015.
Bayer AG has undertaken to provide jouissance right capital (Genussrechtskapital) in the form of an interest-bearing loan with a nominal volume of €150 million (2015: €150 million) for Bayer-Pensionskasse
VVaG. The entire amount remained drawn as of December 31, 2016. The carrying amount as of December
31, 2016, was €154 million (2015: €153 million). Loan capital was first provided to Bayer-Pensionskasse
VVaG in 2008 for its effective initial fund. This capital had a nominal volume of €595 million as of December
31, 2016 (2015: €595 million). The carrying amount as of December 31, 2016, was €612 million (2015:
€610 million). The outstanding receivables, comprised of different tranches, are each subject to a five-year
interest-rate adjustment mechanism. Interest income of €18 million was recognized for 2016 (2015:
€22 million).

300

B Consolidated Financial Statements

Augmented Version

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Bayer Annual Report 2016

38. Total compensation of the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board, advances and loans
The compensation of the Board of Management comprises short-term payments, stock-based payments
and post-employment benefits.
The following table shows the individual components of the Board of Management’s compensation according to IFRS:
B 38/1

Board of Management Compensation according to IFRS
€ thousand

Fixed annual compensation
Fringe benefits

2015

2016

4,455

6,385

207

664

Total short-term non-performance-related compensation

4,662

7,049

Short-term performance-related cash compensation

5,983

9,063

10,645

16,112

Total short-term compensation
Stock-based compensation (virtual Bayer shares) earned in the respective year
Change in value of existing entitlements to stock-based compensation (virtual Bayer shares)
Stock-based compensation (Aspire) earned in the respective year
Change in value of existing entitlements to stock-based compensation (Aspire)
Total stock-based compensation (long-term incentive)
Service cost for pension entitlements earned in the respective year
Total long-term compensation
Severance indemnity in connection with the termination of a service contract
Aggregate compensation (IFRS)

5,983

–

556

(1,275)

2,330

5,217

272

(923)

9,141

3,019

2,891

3,902

12,032

6,921

1,131

4,542

23,808

27,575

In addition to the above compensation, actuarial losses of €3,196 thousand (2015: gains of €2,309 thousand) incurred in connection with pension obligations to the currently serving members of the Board of
Management were recognized outside profit or loss. These changes mainly resulted from the decline
(2015: slight increase) in the level of interest rates.
Further details are provided in the Compensation Report, which forms part of the Combined Management
Report.
In addition to the provisions of €6,575 thousand (2015: €5,983 thousand) for the short-term variable cash
compensation, an amount of €7,777 thousand (2015: €18,663 thousand) was recognized in the statement
of financial position for future payments of stock-based compensation based on virtual shares to the
members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, 2016.
An amount of €7,288 thousand (2015: €7,110 thousand) was recognized in the statement of financial position for future payments of stock-based compensation based on the Aspire program to the members of
the Board of Management serving as of December 31, 2016.
The present value of the defined benefit pension obligation for the members of the Board of Management
serving as of December 31, 2016, was €38,427 thousand (2015: €33,491 thousand).
Pension payments to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependents in
2016 amounted to €12,800 thousand (2015: €13,416 thousand). The defined benefit obligation for former
members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependents amounted to €188,850 thousand
(2015: €172,767 thousand).

Bayer Annual Report 2016

B Consolidated Financial Statements

301

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bayer Group

Augmented Version

The compensation of the Supervisory Board amounted to €3,479 thousand (2015: €3,291 thousand).
In addition to their compensation as members of the Supervisory Board, those employee representatives
who are employees of Bayer Group companies receive compensation unrelated to their service on the
Supervisory Board. The total amount of such compensation in 2016 was €939 thousand (2015:
€741 thousand).
Pension obligations for employee representatives on the Supervisory Board amounted to €4,399 thousand
(2015: €3,756 thousand).
There were no advances or loans to members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board outstanding as of December 31, 2016, or at any time during 2016 or 2015.

39. Events After the End of the Reporting Period
Acquisition of Cydectin™
On January 3, 2017, Bayer acquired the Cydectin™ portfolio in the United States from Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Inc., St. Joseph, United States. A payment of €158 million was made on January 3, 2017,
in connection with the acquisition.

Leverkusen, February 14, 2017
Bayer Aktiengesellschaft

The Board of Management

302
Augmented Version

A Combined Management Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Responsibility Statement

Responsibility Statement
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles for
financial reporting, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Bayer Group, and the combined management
report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position
of the Bayer Group and Bayer AG, together with a description of the principal opportunities and
risks associated with the expected development of the Bayer Group and Bayer AG.
Leverkusen, February 14, 2017
Bayer Aktiengesellschaft
The Board of Management

Werner Baumann
Chairman

Liam Condon

Johannes Dietsch

Dr. Hartmut Klusik

Kemal Malik

Erica Mann

Dieter Weinand

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Independent Auditor’s Report

303
Augmented Version

Independent Auditor’s Report
To Bayer AG, Leverkusen

Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Audit Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Bayer AG, Leverkusen, and its subsidiaries (the
Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2016, and the
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated
statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the financial year from January 1, to December 31, 2016, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies.
According to § (Article) 322 Abs. (paragraph) 3 Satz (sentence) 1 zweiter Halbsatz (second half sentence)
HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code), we state that, in our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with
IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to §
315a Abs. 1 HGB, and give a true and fair view of the net assets and financial position of the Group as at
December 31, 2016, as well as the results of operations for the financial year from January 1 to December
31, 2016, in accordance with these requirements.
According to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz 1 erster Halbsatz HGB, we state that our audit has not led to any
reservations with respect to the propriety of the consolidated financial statements.
Basis for Audit Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements

We conducted our audit in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the
audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors
in Germany) (IDW), and additionally considered the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards, as well as supplementary standards, are further described
in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our
report. We are independent of the Group entities in accordance with the provisions under German commercial law and professional requirements, and we have fulfilled our other German ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our
audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2016.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a
whole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate audit opinion on these
matters.
In our view, the key audit matters were as follows:
1
2
3
4

Change in segment reporting
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives
Financial instruments – Issuance of mandatory convertible notes
Financial instruments – Accounting treatment of hedging transactions

304

Independent Auditor’s Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

5
6
7

Accounting treatment of the discontinued operation “Diabetes Care”
Accounting treatment of legal risks stemming from product-related disputes
Adjusting EBITDA and earnings per share for non-recurring items

Our presentation of these key audit matters has been structured as follows:

3

Matter and issue
Audit approach and findings
Reference to further information

1

Change in segment reporting

1
2

1

As part of the organizational and strategic restructuring of the Bayer Group following the spin-off of the
former MaterialScience subgroup, which has been listed under the name Covestro AG since the 2015
financial year, the Bayer Group’s internal reporting structure was reorganized. Since the internal reporting
structure is used as a basis for determining the reportable segments under IFRS 8, the revised reporting
structure consequently resulted in a change in the Bayer Group’s segment reporting. From our point of
view, this matter was of particular importance because, in the context of capital market communications,
segment reporting has a special significance and the change in the segment structure also affects other
accounting-related areas.
2
During our audit we, among other procedures, considered the internal reporting and its subcategorization of the individual reporting units and the changes in presentation, and reconciled this structure to the presentation used in the segment reporting. Moreover, we examined the method applied for the
reallocation of goodwill and questioned the decision-makers on the Board of Management about the allocation of resources. We were able to satisfy ourselves that the changes in segment reporting applied by
management were consistent with the reorganization of the internal reporting structure.
3
The Company’s disclosures about the change of the internal reporting structure in connection with the
organizational and strategic restructuring of the Bayer Group are contained in section 5 of the notes to the
consolidated financial statements.
2
1

Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives

An amount of EUR 16,312 million (20% of consolidated total assets) is reported under the line item
"Goodwill" in the consolidated financial statements. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives amounting to EUR 760 million (1% of consolidated total assets) are reported under “Other intangible assets.” The
Company allocates goodwill to strategic business units or groups of strategic business units within the
Bayer Group. As part of the regular impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives the carrying amounts of the Company’s strategic business units or intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives are compared against their respective recoverable amount. In general, the recoverable amount is calculated on the basis of the fair value less costs to sell. This is based on the present
value of future cash flows since, as a rule, market values are not available for the individual business
units. The present value is calculated using discounted cash flow models on the basis of the Bayer
Group’s three-year operating plan prepared by management and approved by the Supervisory Board and
extrapolated on the basis of assumptions about long-term growth rates. The discount rate used is the
weighted average cost of capital for the relevant reporting segment. The result of this measurement depends to a large extent on management’s assessment of future cash inflows of the respective strategic
business unit and the discount rate used, and is therefore subject to considerable uncertainty. Against
this background and due to the underlying complexity of the measurement models, this matter was of
particular importance during our audit.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Independent Auditor’s Report

305
Augmented Version

2
As part of our audit, we, among other things, reviewed the method used for performing impairment
tests and assessed the calculation of the weighted average cost of capital. We satisfied ourselves as to
the appropriateness of the future cash inflows used in the measurement by, inter alia, comparing this data
with the current budgets in the three-year plan prepared by management and approved by the Supervisory Board, and reconciling them against general and sector-specific market expectations. We also satisfied
ourselves that the costs of the corporate functions reported in the “Corporate Functions and Consolidation” segment in the segment reporting were properly taken into consideration when testing the respective strategic business units for impairment. With the knowledge that even relatively small changes in the
discount rate applied can have material effects on the recoverable amount calculated in this way, we also
focused our testing in particular on the parameters used to determine the discount rate applied, and
evaluated the measurement model. Furthermore, due to the materiality of goodwill, we also performed
our own sensitivity analyses for the strategic business units (comparison of carrying and recoverable
amounts) and determined that the respective goodwill was sufficiently covered by the discounted future
cash flows. Overall, we consider the measurement inputs and assumptions used by management to be in
line with our expectations.
3
The Company’s disclosures pertaining to goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are
contained in sections 4 and 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
3
1

Financial instruments – Issuance of mandatory convertible notes

On November 22, 2016, the Bayer Group placed mandatory convertible notes amounting to EUR 4.0
billion, excluding the pre-emptive subscription rights of the Company’s existing shareholders. The mandatory convertible notes are issued in denominations of EUR 100,000 by Bayer Capital Corporation B.V.
under the subordinate guarantee of Bayer AG. The notes carry a fixed coupon of 5.625% p.a. until maturity. The coupon is payable annually in arrears on the respective coupon payment date. At maturity in 2019,
the notes will automatically convert into ordinary shares of Bayer AG (these shares will either already exist
or will stem from a conditional capital increase). The conversion ratio will be calculated on the basis of the
share price on the conversion date. Both the “Minimum Conversion Price” and the “Maximum Conversion
Price” were fixed upon conclusion of the agreement. In addition to the mandatory conversion upon maturity, the issuer may exercise its right to early conversion at any time during the “Conversion Period.” In the
case of an early conversion, the issuer must deliver shares at the “Maximum Conversion Ratio.” Upon initial
recognition, the present value of the coupon payments (taking into account the expected coupon payment
dates) was recognized as a financial liability, and the difference to the fair value of the instrument as a
whole was recognized as equity. Of the mandatory convertible notes, EUR 3.3 billion was recognized as
capital reserves and EUR 0.7 billion as financial liabilities. Since the classification of mandatory convertible
notes as debt or partially as equity and partially as debt impacts the Bayer Group’s capital structure (and
thus the credit quality as well as the cost of capital for new loans), this matter was of particular importance
during our audit.

306

Independent Auditor’s Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

2
As part of our audit, we critically assessed the terms and conditions for the issuance of the mandatory
convertible notes and evaluated whether the mandatory convertible bond constitutes a contract within the
meaning of IAS 32.13 that must be recognized in Bayer AG’s consolidated financial statements as a financial liability and as an equity instrument in accordance with IAS 32.28. For the equity component, we, inter
alia, assessed to what extent the requirements under IAS 32.16 were met and whether the substance of
the contractual terms and conditions of the mandatory convertible notes suffice to classify the notes as
equity (IAS 32.16 in conjunction with IFRIC Update, January 2014). We evaluated the obligation to make
ongoing coupon payments in accordance with IAS 32.16 in conjunction with IAS 32.19 in order to determine to what extent Bayer AG does not have a right to avoid delivering cash to settle a contractual obligation, thus giving rise to a financial liability. Ultimately, the mandatory convertible notes represent a compound financial instrument that must be broken down into an equity component and a liability component
upon initial recognition. Therefore, the obligation to make ongoing coupon payments must be classified as
a financial liability whereas the obligation to redeem, i.e. convert, the notes must be classified as an equity
component.
3
The Company’s disclosures pertaining to the accounting treatment of the mandatory convertible notes
are contained in sections 24 and 27 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
4

Financial instruments – Accounting treatment of hedging transactions

1

The companies of the Bayer Group use a number of different derivative financial instruments to hedge
against currency, commodity price and interest rate risks associated with ordinary business activities.
Management’s hedging policy is documented in corresponding internal guidelines and serves as the basis
for these transactions. Currency risks arise primarily from revenue, sales and procurement transactions (in
particular commodities) and financing denominated in foreign currencies. Interest rate hedges are entered
into for the purpose of achieving a sensible ratio of variable and fixed interest rate exposures. Derivative
financial instruments are recognized at fair value as of the balance sheet date. The positive fair value of the
derivative financial instruments used as hedges amounts to EUR 683 million as of the balance sheet date
and the negative fair value amounts to EUR 819 million. If the financial instruments used by the Bayer
Group are effective hedges of future cash flows in the context of hedging relationships in accordance with
the requirements of IAS 39, the effective portion of the changes in fair value are recognized over the duration of the hedging relationships directly in equity until the maturity of the hedged cash flows. As of the
balance sheet date, a cumulative EUR 61 million were recognized outside profit or loss as expenses and
income before taxes on income. We believed that these matters were of particular importance due to the
high complexity and number of transactions as well as the extensive accounting and reporting requirements under IAS 39.
2

As a part of our audit and together with the help of our internal specialists from Corporate Treasury
Solutions, we, among other things, assessed the contractual and financial parameters and reviewed the
accounting treatment, including the effects on equity and profit or loss, of the various hedging transactions. Together with these specialists, we also assessed the Company’s internal control system with regard
to derivative financial instruments, including the internal activities to monitor compliance with the hedging
policy. Furthermore, we also used market data to review the measurement method applied to measure the
fair value of the financial instruments. In addition, we also obtained bank confirmations in order to assess
the completeness of and to examine the fair values of the recorded transactions. With regard to the expected cash flows and the assessment of the effectiveness of hedges, we essentially retrospectively assessed past hedge levels. We verified that hedges were accounted for and measured in accordance with
the provisions of IAS 39.
3
The Company’s disclosures pertaining to the accounting treatment of hedging transactions are contained in sections 4 and 30 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Independent Auditor’s Report

307
Augmented Version

5

Accounting treatment of the discontinued operation “Diabetes Care”

1

During the financial year, as part of optimizing its portfolio and on the basis of a share and asset purchase agreement dated June 10, 2015 with Panasonic Healthcare Holdings Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, the
Company disposed of its global Diabetes Care business for approximately EUR 1 billion on January 4,
2016. The business will continue to operate as an independent enterprise under the name Ascensia Diabetes Care (“ADC”). Until such a time that ADC has established its own, appropriate and functioning infrastructure, Bayer Group companies – for a transition period of up to two years – will act, among other
things, as a distributor for ADC in various countries and provide ADC with accounting services. The Diabetes Care business generated revenue of EUR 573 million in financial year 2016. The business activities of
the Diabetes Care business were presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial
statements of Bayer AG in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 5. The assets, liabilities, expenses and
income from this discontinued operation are calculated and allocated in accordance with the share and
asset purchase agreement. In our view, this matter was of particular importance during our audit due to
the complexity of the underlying agreement and the inherent risk that not all of the assets and liabilities
transferring to ADC as part of the sale would be identified.
2
As part of our audit, we, among other things, conducted an in-depth review of the provisions of the
underlying share and asset purchase agreement. We assessed the Bayer Group’s plan for identifying and
recognizing the assets and liabilities that will transfer to ADC in accordance with the share and asset purchase agreement, and reconciled this with the underlying agreement. In identifying those assets and liabilities that are assigned to the Diabetes Care business and that will transfer to ADC in 2016 in accordance
with the share and asset purchase agreement, we reviewed whether management’s actions were in line
with the underlying plan and whether all of the relevant assets and liabilities had been identified. We also
assessed and reviewed the determination of the income and expenses that are to be assigned to the discontinued operation “Diabetes Care” and that must be recognized separately in the income statement and
in the notes to the financial statements in accordance with IFRS 5. We found that the assets, liabilities,
income and expenses of the discontinued operation “Diabetes Care” were appropriately recognized in the
consolidated financial statements in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 5.
3
The Company’s disclosures pertaining to the discontinued operation “Diabetes Care” are contained in
section 6.3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
6

Accounting treatment of legal risks stemming from product-related disputes

1

Bayer Group entities are involved in court and out-of-court proceedings with authorities, peers and
other parties. This gives rise to legal risks, in particular in the area of product liability, competition and antitrust law, patent law, tax law and environmental protection.
As of January 23, 2017, 100 claims had been asserted against Bayer Group in the United States of America both in and out-of-court, with regard to Yasmin™/YAZ™ products. Several attorneys general in U.S.
states are reviewing allegations that consumer protection provisions had been violated and one attorney
general has brought legal action against Bayer Group. Furthermore, class action lawsuits are pending in
Canada and Israel and claims are known to have been asserted in other countries. Against the background
of the pending and expected product liability lawsuits in connection with Mirena™, as of January 23, 2017,
approximately 2,600 (previous year: 3,500) users of Mirena™ had brought action against the Bayer Group
in the United States of America. Furthermore, as of January 23, 2017, approximately 16,400 (previous
year: 4,300) users of Xarelto™ had asserted claims for compensatory and punitive damages against the
Bayer Group in the United States of America. As of January 23, 2017, in Canada 10 lawsuits had also
been brought against the Bayer Group in connection with Xarelto™; in each of those lawsuits, the plaintiffs
were applying for class action status. As of January 23, 2017, approximately 3,700 users of Essure™ had
brought action against the Bayer Group in the United States of America, and two lawsuits had been filed in
Canada; in each of those lawsuits, the plaintiffs were applying for class action status.

308

Independent Auditor’s Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

The evaluation whether or not a provision should be recognized to cover the risks stemming from a pending legal dispute, and if so, in what amount, is shaped to a high degree by estimates and assumptions
made by management. In the light of this background and due to the high monetary amount of the asserted claims, we considered the aforementioned product-related disputes of the Bayer Group to be of particular importance.
2
As part of our audit, we, among other things, assessed the process established by the Company to
ensure that a legal dispute is recorded, its outcome is assessed, and the dispute is accounted for. Furthermore, we also hold regular meetings with the Company's legal department in order to receive updates
on current developments and the reasons for the corresponding assessments. The development of material legal disputes, including management’s assessments as to their potential outcome, is provided to us by
the company in writing. As of the balance sheet date, we also obtained external legal confirmations that
support management’s risk assessments with regard to the product-related disputes discussed under 1
above. In connection with these product-related disputes, we reviewed management’s assessments on the
basis of the grounds of the claims asserted against the Bayer Group, and we agree with the assessments
taken by management.
3
The Company’s disclosures relating to the aforementioned legal disputes are contained in section 32 of
the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
7

Adjusting EBITDA and earnings per share for non-recurring items

1

For the Bayer Group’s management and analysis purposes, EBITDA (earnings before interests, taxes,
depreciation and amortization) is used and adjusted for special items (by their nature and amount of specific effects). Adjustments to EBITDA in the amount of EUR 517 million have been reported in the consolidated financial statements of the Bayer AG. The adjusted EBITDA is used for capital market communication as a core financial performance indicator. Furthermore, the adjusted EBITDA is used as a target
achievement measure for the annual performance-related remuneration of the Bayer Group’s employees.
The adjustments to EBITDA were of particular importance during our audit, because the applied adjustments are based on the Bayer Group’s internal accounting guidelines and there is a risk of bias in management’s judgment.
2
We reviewed the calculation of underlying EBITDA and critically assessed the special items identified
by the management. Based on the knowledge obtained during the audit and the information provided to us
by management, we examined at the same time whether the adjustments had been applied in accordance
with the definition and approach presented in the segment reporting disclosures. We were able to satisfy
ourselves that the adjustments applied to EBITDA by management were in line with the segment reporting
disclosures and had been applied consistently.
3

The Company’s disclosures about the adjustments to and determination of EBITDA are presented
under section 5 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Independent Auditor’s Report

309
Augmented Version

Other Information

Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises
> the Corporate Governance Report according to section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance

Code,
> the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to § 289a HGB and § 315 Abs. 5 HGB, as well as
> other parts of the annual report of Bayer AG, Leverkusen, for the financial year ended on December 31,

2016, which were not subject of our audit.
Our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information, and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance
for the Consolidated Financial Statements

Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which comply with
IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and the additional German legal requirements applicable under § 315a Abs. 1
HGB, and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the
Group in accordance with these requirements. Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal
control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements

Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report
that includes our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Reasonable assurance is a high
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with § 317 HGB and
German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der
Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW), under additional consideration of the ISA,
will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit
of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in
Germany) (IDW), under additional consideration of the ISA, we exercise professional judgment and maintain
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:

310

Independent Auditor’s Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

> Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether

>

>
>

>

>

due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a
material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by management.
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to
the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or the group management report or, if
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our audit opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may
cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements,
including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view
of the net assets and financial position as well as the results of operations of the Group in accordance
with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and the additional German legal requirements applicable under
§ 315a Abs. 1 HGB.
Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an audit opinion on the consolidated financial
statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with those charged with governance, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that
were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our report on the audit of the consolidated
financial statements unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Independent Auditor’s Report

311
Augmented Version

Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Report on the Audit of the Group Management Report
Audit Opinion on the Group Management Report

We have audited the group management report of Bayer AG, Leverkusen, which is combined with the
Company’s management report, for the financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2016.
In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the accompanying group management report as a whole
provides a suitable view of the Group’s position. In all material respects, the group management report is
consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with legal requirements and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
Our audit has not led to any reservations with respect to the propriety of the group management report.
Basis for Audit Opinion on the Group Management Report

We conducted our audit of the group management report in accordance with § 317 Abs. 2 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of management reports promulgated by the Institut der
Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW). We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Group Management Report

Management is responsible for the preparation of the group management report, which as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements,
complies with legal requirements, and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
Furthermore, management is responsible for such policies and procedures (systems) as management determines are necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report in accordance with the
German legal requirements applicable under § 315 Abs. 1 HGB and to provide sufficient and appropriate
evidence for the assertions in the group management report.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the group management report.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Group Management Report
Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the group management report as a whole
provides a suitable view of the Group’s position as well as, in all material respects, is consistent with the
consolidated financial statements as well as the findings of our audit, complies with legal requirements,
and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development, and to issue an auditor’s report
that includes our audit opinion on the group management report.
As part of an audit, we examine the group management report in accordance with § 317 Abs. 2 HGB and
German generally accepted standards for the audit of management reports promulgated by the IDW. In
this connection, we draw attention to the following:
> The audit of the group management report is integrated into the audit of the consolidated financial

statements.
> We obtain an understanding of the policies and procedures (systems) relevant to the audit of the group

management report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of these policies and procedures
(systems).

312

Independent Auditor’s Report

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

> We perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by management in the group

management report. Based on appropriate and sufficient audit evidence, we hereby, in particular,
evaluate the material assumptions used by management as a basis for the prospective information
and assess the reasonableness of these assumptions as well as the appropriate derivation of the
prospective information from these assumptions. We are not issuing a separate audit opinion on the
prospective information or the underlying assumptions. There is a significant, unavoidable risk that
future events will deviate significantly from the prospective information.
> We are also not issuing a separate audit opinion on individual disclosures in the group management
report; our audit opinion covers the group management report as a whole.

Responsible Auditor
The auditor responsible for the audit is Eckhard Sprinkmeier.
Essen, February 15, 2017
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Dr. Peter Bartels
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

Eckhard Sprinkmeier
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on the Sustainability Information

313
Augmented Version

Independent Practitioner’s Limited
Assurance Report on the Sustainability
Information
To Bayer AG, Leverkusen
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has performed a moderate assurance engagement on the German version of the augmented online version of the Annual Report of Bayer AG and
issued an independent assurance report, authoritative in German language, which has been translated as
follows:
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the sustainability information
marked with “limited assurance” in the online annexes of the augmented online version of the Annual Report of Bayer AG, Leverkusen, (hereafter: the “Company”) for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December
2016 (“Annual Report 2016 – Augmented Version”; hereafter: “Online Version”).

Management’s Responsibility
The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Online Version in
accordance with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter the “GRI Criteria”) and for the selection of the information to be assessed.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Online
Version as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are
reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and
maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, which is free
of material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors.

Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control
We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements.
The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für
Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer”: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer
(“Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW”): Requirements to quality control for audit firms (“Entwurf
eines IdW Qualitätssicherungsstandards 1 “Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der
Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis” (IdW EQS 1)”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality
control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements,
professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability information marked with “limited assurance”
in the Online Version based on our work performed.
Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on external sources of information or
expert opinions, referred to in the Online Version.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE)
3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”
published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain
limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the sustainability information marked with “Ĝ” in the Online Version has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Criteria.

314

Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on the Sustainability Information

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Augmented Version

In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable
assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. This includes
the assessment of the risks of material misstatements of the sustainability information marked with “limited
assurance” in the Online Version with regard to the GRI Criteria.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures:
> Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability organization and of the stakeholder

engagement
> Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Online Version regarding the preparation

process, the underlying internal control system and selected sustainability information
> Site visits as part of the inspection of processes and analysis of selected data at the following Bayer

sites: Pharmaceuticals, Bergkamen, Germany; Consumer Health, Myerstown, USA; Crop Science,
Frankfurt, Germany; Crop Science, Kansas City, USA; as well as the Covestro site Baytown, USA; and
the Currenta sites Leverkusen, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany;
> Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information of the Online Version
> Comparison of selected sustainability information with corresponding data in the consolidated financial
statements and in the group management report
> Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability information in the Online Version regarding the
sustainability performance

Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe
that the sustainability information marked with “limited assurance” in the Online Version of the Company for
the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Criteria.

Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the Company’s sustainability management and sustainability reporting:
> Further alignment of the sustainability reporting in consideration of the changing focus topics of a life

science company;
> Further development and formalization of internal controls and systems for non-financial indicators

particularly at decentralized level, as well as increasing implementation of automated system interfaces
and controls

Restriction on Use and Distribution
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. The review has been performed for purposes of the Company and is solely intended to inform the Company about the results of the
review. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not
assume any responsibility towards third parties.
Essen, February 21, 2017
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Hendrik Fink
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

315

Governance Bodies

Augmented Version

Further
Information

Governance Bodies
Supervisory Board
Members of the Supervisory Board held offices as members of the supervisory board or a comparable supervising
body of the corporations listed (as at December 31, 2016, or the date on which they ceased to be members of
the Supervisory Board of Bayer AG) and as shown attended the meetings of the Supervisory Board and committees
to which he or she belonged:

Werner Wenning
Leverkusen, Germany
(born October 21, 1946)
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
effective October 2012
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
of Bayer AG
Memberships on other
supervisory boards:
• E.ON SE (Chairman)
(until June 2016)
• Henkel Management AG
• Siemens AG (Vice Chairman)
Memberships in comparable
supervising bodies of German or
foreign corporations:
• Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
(Member of the Shareholders’
Committee)
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 19 of 19

Oliver Zühlke
Solingen, Germany
(born December 11, 1968)
Vice Chairman of the Supervisory
Board effective July 2015
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2007
Chairman of the Bayer Central
Works Council

Memberships on other supervisory
boards:
• Bayer Pharma AG
(until January 2017)
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 10 of 12

Dr. Paul Achleitner
Munich, Germany
(born September 28, 1956)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2002
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
of Deutsche Bank AG
Memberships on other supervisory
boards:

Dr. rer. nat. Simone Bagel-Trah
Düsseldorf, Germany
(born January 10, 1969)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2014

• Daimler AG
• Linde AG

Memberships on other
supervisory boards:

• Emerson Electric Co.

• Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
(Chairwoman)
• Henkel Management AG
• Heraeus Holding GmbH

• Deutsche Bank AG (Chairman)
Memberships in comparable
supervising bodies of German or
foreign corporations:

• Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
(Chairwoman of the
Shareholders’ Committee)

• Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
(Member of the Shareholders’
Committee)

Attendance at Supervisory Board
meetings: 5 of 5

Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 13 of 13

Memberships on other supervisory
boards:

Chairwoman of the Supervisory
Board of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
and Henkel Management AG
and of the Shareholders’ Committee of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

Memberships in comparable
supervising bodies of German or
foreign corporations:

• Daimler AG

Member of various supervisory
boards

Dr. Clemens Börsig
Frankfurt am Main, Germany
(born July 27, 1948)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2007

Memberships in comparable
supervising bodies of German or
foreign corporations:
• Istituto per le Opere di
Religione (Member of the
Board of Superintendence)
(until May 2016)
Attendance at Supervisory Board
meetings: 5 of 5

André van Broich
Dormagen, Germany
(born June 19, 1970)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2012
Chairman of the Works Council
of the Dormagen site
Memberships on other supervisory
boards:
• Bayer CropScience AG
(until January 2017)
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 7 of 7

316

C Further Information

Augmented Version

Governance Bodies

Thomas Ebeling
Muri bei Bern, Switzerland
(born February 9, 1959)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2012

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Chairman of the Works Council
of the Berlin site

Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2016

Memberships on other supervisory
boards:

Independent consultant

Chief Executive Officer of
ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE

• Bayer Pharma AG
(Vice Chairman)
(until January 2017)

Memberships in comparable
supervising bodies of German or
foreign corporations:

Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 8 of 8

Memberships in comparable
supervising bodies of German or
foreign corporations:
• Evotec AG (Chairman)
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 6 of 6

Johanna W. (Hanneke) Faber
Amstelveen, Netherlands
(born April 19, 1969)

Petra Kronen
Krefeld, Germany
(born August 22, 1964)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective July 2000
Chairwoman of the Central Works
Council of Covestro

Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2016

Chairwoman of the Works Council
of Covestro of the Uerdingen site

Chief E-Commerce and Innovation
Officer and Member of the
Executive Committee of Koninklijke
Ahold Delhaize N.V.

Memberships on other supervisory
boards:

Attendance at Supervisory Board
meetings: 3 of 3

Dr.-Ing. Thomas Fischer
Krefeld, Germany
(born August 27, 1955)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective October 2005
Chairman of the Managerial
Employees Committee of Covestro
Deutschland AG
Memberships on other supervisory
boards:
• Covestro AG
• Covestro Deutschland AG
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 9 of 9

• Covestro AG (Vice Chairwoman)
• Covestro Deutschland AG
(Vice Chairwoman)
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 7 of 8

Frank Löllgen
Cologne, Germany
(born June 14, 1961)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective November 2015
North Rhine District Secretary of
the German Mining, Chemical and
Energy Industrial Union
Memberships on other supervisory
boards:
• IRR-Innovationsregion
Rheinisches Revier GmbH
• Evonik Industries AG
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 8 of 8

Reiner Hoffmann
Wuppertal, Germany
(born May 30, 1955)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective October 2006
Chairman of the German Trade
Union Confederation
Attendance at Supervisory Board
meetings: 5 of 5

Yüksel Karaaslan
Hohen Neuendorf, Germany
(born March 1, 1968)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2012
Chairman of the Bayer Group
Works Council
Vice Chairman of the Bayer Central
Works Council

Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2007
Member of various supervisory
boards
Memberships on other supervisory
boards:
• Hannover Rück SE
(Vice Chairman)

• Lonza Group AG
Attendance at Supervisory Board
meetings: 5 of 5

Dr. Klaus Sturany*
Ascona, Switzerland
(born October 23, 1946)

Dr. rer. nat. Helmut Panke
Munich, Germany
(born August 31, 1946)
Member of the Supervisory Board
until April 2016
Member of various supervisory
boards
Memberships in comparable
supervising bodies of German or
foreign corporations:

Sue H. Rataj
Sebastopol, U.S.A.
(born January 8, 1957)

Memberships in comparable
supervising bodies of German or
foreign corporations:

Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2012

• Sulzer AG (until April 2016)

Member of the Board of Directors
of Cabot Corporation, Boston,
U.S.A.
Member of the Board of Directors
of Agilent Technologies Inc., Santa
Clara, U.S.A.

Heinz Georg Webers
Bergkamen, Germany
(born December 27, 1959)

Attendance at Supervisory Board
meetings: 5 of 5

Member of the Supervisory Board
effective July 2015
Chairman of the Bayer European
Forum

Petra Reinbold-Knape
Gladbeck, Germany
(born April 16, 1959)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2012
Member of the Executive
Committee of the German Mining,
Chemical and Energy Industrial
Union
Memberships on other supervisory
boards:
• Lausitz Energie Bergbau AG
(formerly Vattenfall Europe
Mining AG)
(Vice Chairwoman)
• Lausitz Energie Kraftwerk AG
(formerly Vattenfall Europe
Generation AG )
Memberships in comparable
supervising bodies of German or
foreign corporations:
• MDSE Mitteldeutsche
Sanierungs- und Entsorgungsgesellschaft mbH (until August
2016)
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 8 of 8

• Singapore Airlines Limited
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 4 of 4

Member of the Supervisory Board
effective April 2012
Chairman of the Works Council
of the Elberfeld site

Prof. Dr. Wolfgang Plischke
Aschau im Chiemgau, Germany
(born September 15, 1951)

Chairman of the Works Council of
the Bergkamen site
Memberships on other supervisory
boards:
• Bayer Pharma AG
(until January 2017)
Attendance at Supervisory Board
meetings: 5 of 5

Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Otmar D.
Wiestler
Berlin, Germany
(born November 6, 1956)
Member of the Supervisory Board
effective October 2014
President of the Helmholtz
Association of German Research
Centres
Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 7 of 7

Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. mult.
Ernst-Ludwig Winnacker
Munich, Germany
(born July 26, 1941)
Member of the Supervisory Board
until April 2016

Michael Schmidt-Kießling
Schwelm, Germany
(born March 24, 1959)

• Microsoft Corporation

Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 9 of 9

Attendance at Supervisory Board
meetings: 4 of 5

Professor-Emeritus of LudwigMaximilians University Munich
Memberships on other supervisory
boards:
•

Medigene AG (until August
2016)

•

Wacker Chemie AG

Attendance at Supervisory Board
and committee meetings: 3 of 3

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

317

Governance Bodies

Augmented Version

Board of Management
Standing committees of the
Supervisory Board of Bayer AG
(as at December 31, 2016)

Presidial Committee /
Mediation Committee
Wenning (Chairman),
Achleitner, Reinbold-Knape,
Zühlke

Audit Committee
Sturany* (Chairman),
Fischer, Löllgen, Plischke,
Wenning, Zühlke

Human Resources Committee
Wenning (Chairman),
Achleitner, Karaaslan, Kronen

Nominations Committee
Wenning (Chairman),
Achleitner

Innovation Committee
Plischke (Chairman), van Broich,
Reinbold-Knape, Wenning, Wiestler,
Zühlke

Members of the Board of Management held offices as members of the
supervisory board or a comparable supervising body of the corporations
listed (as at December 31, 2016):

Werner Baumann
(born October 6, 1962)

Dr. Hartmut Klusik
(born July 30, 1956)

Chairman
(effective May 2016)

Member of the Board of
Management effective
January 1, 2016, appointed
until December 31, 2018

Member of the Board of
Management effective
January 1, 2010, appointed
until April 30, 2021

Labor Director

• Bayer CropScience AG
(Chairman) (until April 2016)

• Bayer HealthCare AG
(Chairman)
(until July 2016)

• Bayer Pharma AG
(until April 2016)

• Bayer Pharma AG (Chairman)
(until February 2017)
• Bayer Technology Services GmbH
(Chairman) (until July 2016)

Liam Condon
(born February 27, 1968)
Member of the Board of
Management effective
January 1, 2016, appointed
until December 31, 2018

Johannes Dietsch
(born January 2, 1962)
Member of the Board of
Management effective
September 1, 2014, appointed
until August 31, 2017
• Bayer Business Services GmbH
(Chairman)
• Bayer CropScience AG
(Chairman)
(May 2016 until February 2017)

• Currenta GeschäftsführungsGmbH (Chairman)

Kemal Malik
(born September 29, 1962)
Member of the Board of
Management effective
February 1, 2014, appointed
until January 31, 2022

Erica Mann
(born October 11, 1958)
Member of the Board of
Management effective
January 1, 2016, appointed
until December 31, 2018

• Covestro AG
• Covestro Deutschland AG

Dieter Weinand
(born August 16, 1960)
Member of the Board of
Management effective
January 1, 2016, appointed
until December 31, 2018
• Board of Directors of
HealthPrize Technologies LLC

Chairman of the Board of
Management until April 2016
Dr. Marijn Dekkers
(born September 22, 1957)
* Expert member pursuant to Section
100, Paragraph 5 of the German
Stock Corporation Act (AktG)

• Board of Directors of
General Electric Company
• Chairman of Unilever N.V.

318

C Further Information

Augmented Version

Organization Chart

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Organization Chart


C1

Werner Baumann
Chairman

Johannes Dietsch
Finance

Hartmut Klusik *
Human Resources, Technology
& Sustainability

Kemal Malik
Innovation

M. Arnold
Corporate Office

M. Baum
Risk Management

A. Günther
Human Resources
& Organization

A. Bouchon
Bayer Lifescience Center

T.-P. Hausner
Strategy

B.-P. Bier
Accounting & Taxes

O. Maier 1
Investor Relations

V. Hahn
Regional Coordination

M. Preuss
Communications and
Public Affairs

G. Harnier
Law, Patents & Compliance

F. Rittgen
Mergers, Licencing & Acquisitions

R. Schwarz
Internal Audit

M. Vehreschild
Country & Functional ­Excellence

D. Hartert
Business Services

P. Müller
Finance

G. Schildmeyer
Corporate Controlling

T. Udesen
Procurement

* Labor Director
1
From March 1, 2017
2
E urope / Middle East / Africa
3
Asia / Pacific
4
Until March 31, 2017; J. Koelink from April 1, 2017

P.-G. Heiden
Corporate Quality

R. Heumann
Corporate Supply Chain

G. Hilken
Currenta

A. Knors
Engineering & Technology

K. van Laak
Corporate Health, Safety
& Sustainability

C. Pörtner
Corporate Technology
& Manufacturing

M. Lessl
Corporate Innova­tion and
Research & Development

Bayer Annual Report 2016



C 1 continued

Dieter Weinand
Pharmaceuticals

Erica Mann
Consumer Health

Liam Condon
Crop Science

C. Brunn
Commercial Operations
Americas

N. Bartner
Commercial Operations
North America

J. Applegate
Environmental Science

A. Busch
Drug Discovery

S. Davies
Division Operations

W. Carius
Product Supply

O. Mauroy-Bressier
Finance

M. Devoy
Chief Medical Officer

J. Ohle
Commercial Operations
International

R. Franzen
Commercial Operations EMEA 2
S. Guth
Strategic Marketing

W. Jiang
Commercial Operations
China & APAC 3

R. LaCaze
Oncology

J. Möller
Development

H. Prinz
Commercial Operations
Japan

J. O’Mullane
Innovation & Development

D. Backhaus
Product Supply

M. Dawkins
Post Merger Integration

M. Kremer
Crop Strategies & Portfolio
Management

T. Menne
Digital Farming

F. Reiff
Strategic Marketing

B. Naaf
Business Affairs
& Communications

R. Spoor 4
Product Supply

A. Percy
Research & Development

L. Yuen
Commercial Operations
China

M. Reichardt
Agricultural Commercial
Operations

M. A. Schulz
Finance

F. Terhorst
Pre-Merger Planning

J. Triana
Finance
D. Ehle
Animal Health

As of March 1, 2017

C Further Information

319

Organization Chart

Augmented Version

320

C Further Information

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

GRI Content Index

G4 Content Index of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) with the
10 Principles of the U.N. Global Compact
For fiscal 2016, we are once again applying the GRI G4 Guidelines in accordance with the “comprehensive” option.
Where there is insufficient information for a particular GRI indicator, we have explained this. In addition, the detailed GRI
Content Index includes the corresponding principles of the UNGC and the assignment of our areas of activity to the GRI
aspects. Moreover, we indicate whether our scope to exercise influence lies within or outside the company (GRI G4-19,
G4-20, G4-21).
For the implementation of the GRI Materiality Disclosure Service the GRI had access to the “Annual Report 2016 – Augmented Version.” The correct positioning of the “G4 Materiality Disclosures” (G4-17 – G4-27) was confirmed by the GRI.
M

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

General Standard Disclosures

Statement from the most
senior decision-maker

1-7

G4–1

G4–2

Key impacts, risks and
opportunities concerning
sustainability

41, 47-57, 62,
92, 95, 171,
173, 179

Organizational Profile

6

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
within

Strategy and Analysis

G4–3

Name of the organization 44

G4–4

Primary brands, products 41, 44-46
and services

G4–5

Location of the
organization’s
headquarters

G4–6

Countries with significant 42-44
operations

G4–7

Nature of ownership
and legal form

G4–8

Markets served

42-43, 52,
99-100

Scale of the
organization

Cover 3 (front
inside cover),
42-43, 77, 96,
203, 205

G4–9

Comments

Bayer area
of activity

42

40, 44

Employees by
77-79, 84
employment type, gender
G4–10 and region

outside

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

321

GRI Content Index

Augmented Version

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

General Standard Disclosures

3

Significant changes
during the reporting
G4–13 period

90-91

5, 44, 129, 144

Implementation of the
G4–14 precautionary principle

105

External initiatives
that the organization
G4–15 endorses

28, 55-56, 61,
87, 93, 103,
105, 125

Significant memberships
in industry and business
G4–16 associations

55, 59, 82, 92,
105, 117

Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
Entities included in the
consolidated financial
G4–17 statements

28, 232- 233

Process for defining
G4–18 the report content

56-57;
www.bayer.com/
materiality

Material Aspects
G4–19 identified

320-333;
www.bayer.com/
areas-of-activity,
www.bayer.com/
gri

Aspect Boundaries
G4–20 within the organization

320-333;
www.bayer.com/
areas-of-activity,
www.bayer.com/
gri

Aspect Boundaries
G4–21 outside the organization

320-333;
www.bayer.com/
areas-of-activity,
www.bayer.com/
gri

Restatements of
information provided
G4–22 in previous reports

28-29

Significant changes in
the Scope and Aspect
G4–23 Boundaries

56-57;
www.bayer.com/
areas-of-activity

Stakeholder Engagement
Stakeholder groups
G4–24 engaged

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
within

Percentage of employees 86
covered by collective
G4–11 bargaining agreements
Description of the
G4–12 supply chain

Comments

Bayer area
of activity

58-59

Identification and
G4–25 selection of stakeholders 58
Approach to stakeholder
engagement and
G4–26 frequency

39, 56-62, 65, 77,
82, 94

Key topics and concerns
raised through
stakeholder engagement
G4–27 and response

39, 56-57;
www.bayer.com/
en/corporategovernance.aspx

outside

322

C Further Information

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

GRI Content Index

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

General Standard Disclosures
Report Profile
28

Date of most recent
G4–29 previous report

Annual Report:
2016-02-26

G4–30 Reporting cycle

Annually

Contact point for
questions regarding
G4–31 the report

Cover 5 (back
inside cover)

“In accordance” option
with GRI and Content
G4–32 Index chosen

28, 320-333

External verification
G4–33 of the report

29, 303-314

Governance
Governance structure,
30-32, 34-36,
incl. committees of the
G4–34 highest governance body 182-184
Process for delegating
56, 182, 185
authority for economic,
environmental and social
G4–35 topics

Processes for
consultation between
stakeholders and the
G4–37 highest governance body

30-31, 56, 88,
102, 168, 170,
182-183
39, Cover 5 (back
inside cover);
www.bayer.com/e
n/corporategovernance.aspx

Composition of the
highest governance body
G4–38 and its committees
32, 181
Independence of the
Chair of the highest
G4–39 governance body

32, 183

Nomination and selection 35, 180-181,
processes for the highest 184
governance body and its
G4–40 committees
Process for avoiding
G4–41 conflicts of interest

180-182, 185

Highest governance
body's role concerning
G4–42 strategy and goals

32-34, 182-183

Measures taken
concerning the highest
governance body’s
knowledge in
G4–43 sustainability issues

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
within

G4– 28 Reporting period

Executive-level position
with responsibility for
economic, environG4–36 mental and social topics

Comments

Bayer area
of activity

34-35

outside

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

323

GRI Content Index

Augmented Version

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

General Standard Disclosures

Bayer area
of activity

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
within

Evaluation of the highest
governance body’s
performance concerning
G4–44 sustainability

32

Highest governance
body’s role concerning
sustainability impacts,
G4–45 risks, and opportunities

168-170, 183,
185

Highest governance
body’s role concerning
the effectiveness of the
G4–46 risk management

33-35, 169-170,
183

Frequency of the highest
governance body’s
review of sustainability
impacts, risks, and
G4–47 opportunities
34-35, 170
Highest committee that
formally reviews and
approves the
G4–48 sustainability report

56

Process for
communicating critical
concerns to the highest
G4–49 governance body

36, 39, 185-186;
www.bayer.com/
asm

Critical concerns that
were communicated to
the highest governance
G4–50 body

33;
www.bayer.com/
asm

Remuneration policies for
the highest governance
41, 185, 187-191,
body and senior
G4–51 executives
198-199
Process for determining
G4–52 remuneration

34, 187, 198

Stakeholders’ views
G4–53 regarding remuneration

187, 198;
www.bayer.com/
asm

Ratio of the highest
annual total
compensation to the
median annual total
G4–54 compensation

Not available: we do not consider this
compensation detail to be of informative
value for the evaluation of the
appropriateness of our compensation
structures. We report on these in detail in the
section “Competitive compensation and
variable pay” and in our Compensation
Report.

Ratio of percentage
increase in the
highest annual total
G4–55 compensation

Not available: we do not consider this
compensation detail to be of informative
value for the evaluation of the
appropriateness of our compensation
structures. We report on these in detail in the
section “Competitive compensation and
variable pay” and in our Compensation
Report.

outside

324

C Further Information

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

GRI Content Index

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area
of activity

General Standard Disclosures

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
within

outside

within

outside

Ethics and Integrity

10

Values, principles,
standards and norms of
G4–56 behavior

41, 56, 81, 87,
184-185

10

Mechanisms for seeking
advice on ethical and
G4–57 lawful behavior

185

10

Mechanisms for reporting
concerns about unethical
G4–58 or unlawful behavior
87, 101, 185
Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19
Economic

7

7

6

Aspect: Economic Performance –
Management Approach

47, 88

G4EC1

Direct economic value
created and distributed

47, 83-84, 87-88,
244

G4EC2

Financial implications
and other risks and
opportunities due to
climate change

G4EC3

Coverage of benefit plan
obligations

83, 86, 177,
264-269, 272

G4EC4

Financial assistance
received from
government

65

Aspect: Market Presence –
Management Approach

6

G4EC5

Ratios of standard entry
level wage compared to
local minimum wage

6

G4EC6

Proportion of senior
management hired from
the local community

Employee relations &
development

X

Product and process
innovation

X

X

Environmental
protection / resource
efficiency

X

X

Employee relations &
development

X

171;
www.bayer.cm/
CDP-Climate

82
We align our compensation with local
market conditions in Emerging Markets
and developing countries. Furthermore,
in keeping with our human rights
position, we pursue the goal of paying
adequate salaries that ensure a suitable
standard of living for our employees and
their families. In all Emerging Markets
where we are active, the lowest salary
paid by Bayer is at least in line with the
applicable minimum wage and in most
cases higher. We are not currently
reporting on the margin between
standard entry salary and minimum
wage. A new survey on this aspect is
currently being performed.

82

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

325

GRI Content Index

Augmented Version

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area of
activity

Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19

within

Aspect: Indirect Economic
Impacts – Management Approach 47, 88
G4EC7

Infrastructure
investments and
services provided

49, 88-89, 95

G4EC8

Indirect economic
impacts

47

Aspect: Procurement Practices –
Management Approach

91

G4EC9

91, 335

Proportion of spending
on local suppliers

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
outside

Sustainable food
supply

X

Access to
health care

X

Supplier
management

X

Environmental

7, 8

Aspect: Materials –
Management Approach

7, 8

G4EN1

Materials used by
weight or volume

Percentage of materials
used that are recycled
input materials

96, 102-103, 120

91

We do not report on the weight and volume of
the materials used. This information constitutes
a business secret.

127-128

We do not provide any information on volumes
relating to the total material use of secondary
raw materials since this also constitutes a
business secret. We do provide information on
production-, material- and, where possible,
product-related recycling.

8

G4EN2

7, 8,
9

Aspect: Energy –
Management Approach

54, 96, 102-103,
120-121

7, 8

G4EN3

Energy consumption
within the organization

120-121

G4EN4

Energy consumption
outside of the
organization

8

G4EN5

Energy intensity

120-121

8, 9

G4EN6

Reduction of energy
consumption

121

8, 9

G4EN7

Reductions in energy
requirements of
products and services

7; 8

Aspect: Water –
Management Approach

54, 96, 102-103,
120, 124-125

7, 8

G4EN8

Total water withdrawal by source

125

8

G4EN9

Water resources
significantly affected

124;
www.bayer.com
/CDP-Water

Environmental
protection / resource
efficiency

X

X

Environmental
protection / resource
efficiency

X

X

Environmental
protection / resource
efficiency

X

X

Such energy consumption is contained in the
details of greenhouse gas emissions for Scope
3, which we publish in the CDP Report
(www.bayer.com/CDP-Climate).

We do not consider this indicator to be
applicable to our product portfolio as a Life
Science company. Data are therefore not
available.

326

C Further Information

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

GRI Content Index

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area of
activity

Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19
8

G4EN10

7, 8,
9

Aspect: Emissions –
Management Approach

7, 8

G4EN15

Direct greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions
(Scope 1)

122

7, 8

G4EN16

Energy indirect
greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions (Scope 2)

122

7, 8

G4EN17

Other indirect
greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions (Scope 3)

122-123;
www.bayer.com/
CDP-Climate

8

G4EN18

Greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions intensity

122-123

8, 9

G4EN19

Reduction of
greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions

121, 127

7, 8

G4EN20

Emissions of ozonedepleting substances
(ODS)

123

7, 8

G4EN21

NOx, SOx and other
significant air emissions

123

8

Aspect: Effluents and Waste –
Management Approach

8

G4EN22

Total water discharge
by quality and
destination

125-126

8

G4EN23

Total weight of waste
by type and disposal
method

126-127

8

G4EN24

Total number and
volume of significant
spills

124

8

G4EN25

Handling of hazardous
waste

G4EN26

Water bodies
significantly affected
by discharges of water
and runoff

8

7, 8,
9

7, 8,
9

Water recycled and
reused

Aspect: Products and Services –
Management Approach

G4EN27

Mitigation of
environmental impacts
of products and
services

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
within

outside

125
54, 96, 102-103,
120-123

96, 102-103, 110,
120, 124-128,
174

126-127

Waste transported across borders is recorded
in Europe in line with legal regulations and
reported to the responsible authorities.

124

We give detailed information on all waterrelated issues in our CDP Water Report
(www.bayer.com/CDP-Water)

104, 111, 114,
120, 174

76, 111-113

Environmental
protection / resource
efficiency

X

X

Environmental
protection / resource
efficiency

X

X

Product and process
innovation

X

X

Product stewardship

X

X

Environmental
protection / resource
efficiency

X

X

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

327

GRI Content Index

Augmented Version

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area of
activity

Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19
8

G4EN28

8

Aspect: Compliance –
Management Approach

8

8

G4EN29

Reclaimed products
and packaging

Fines and sanctions
for noncompliance
with environmental
regulations

Aspect: Transport –
Management Approach
G4EN30

8

Aspect: Supplier Environmental
Assessment – Management
Approach

G4EN32

Percentage of new
suppliers that were
screened using
environmental criteria

Significant
environmental impacts
in the supply chain

8

G4EN33

8

Aspect: Environmental
Grievance Mechanisms –
Management Approach

8

G4EN34

within

outside

127-128
54, 169, 175,
184-186

Business ethics

X

X

Safety

X

X

Environmental
protection / resource
efficiency

X

X

223, 273, 291,
294-295

90, 98-99, 174

Significant
environmental impacts
of transporting products 98-99

8

8

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21

Grievances about
environmental impacts

53, 90, 92-93, 99,
174

Supplier
management

92-93

We do not report on the percentage of
new suppliers screened using
environmental criteria because these data
are not available. We report on the
procedure used for assessment.

93-94

We do not report in detail on the negative
environmental impact determined during
supplier assessment. We give details on
the areas in which essential impacts were
identified and corrective measures were
defined.

113, 185-186

185-186

X

Business ethics

X

Employee relations
& development

X

We do not report on the number of grievances
with respect to negative environmental impact.
We report on the total number of notifications
registered with the compliance hotline. We
internally record the precise reason for the
grievance, track how it is followed up and take
corresponding action in line with our corporate
policy. More detailed information on this would
constitute a business secret.

Labor Practices and Decent Work
6

Aspect: Employment –
Management Approach

76-77, 84

6

G4LA1

New employee hires
and employee turnover

79-80

G4LA2

Benefits provided to
full-time employees

83

X

328

C Further Information

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

GRI Content Index

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area of
activity

Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19
Return to work and
retention rates after
parental leave

6

G4LA3

3

Aspect: Labor / Management
Relations – Management
Approach

3

G4LA4

1, 6

Aspect: Occupational Health
and Safety –
Management Approach

81-82

G4LA6

Injuries, occupational
diseases, lost days and
work-related fatalities

115-116

We do not report on occupational injuries by
gender, as these data have to be collected in
certain regions anonymously. It is important for
us to have classification by incident type and a
detailed analysis of the causes of the individual
incidents.

G4LA7

Workers with high
incidence or risk of
diseases

115-116

G4LA8

Health and safety topics
covered in formal
agreements with trade
unions
85-86

Aspect: Training and Education –
Management Approach
76-77, 80, 174
Average hours of
training

81

G4LA10

Programs that support
the continued
employability of
employees

80, 86, 116

6

G4LA11

Percentage of
employees receiving
regular performance
and career
development reviews

81

1, 6

Aspect: Diversity and
Equal Opportunity –
Management Approach

6

G4LA12

6

Aspect: Equal Remuneration for
Women and Men –
Management Approach

Employee relations
& development

X

Safety

X

Employee relations
& development

X

Employee relations
& development

X

Employee relations
& development

X

81
54, 76, 85, 96,
102-103, 114116, 174, 185
We do not report on the percentage of the total
workforce represented in health and safety
committees as these data are not available. We
plan to record these data in the future.

Composition of
governance bodies and
breakdown of
employees by aspects
of diversity

outside

84-85

G4LA9

6

within

Percentage of total
workforce represented
in health and safety
committees

G4LA5

6

Minimum notice
period(s) regarding
operational changes

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21

54, 76-77, 81-82,
174, 181

30-31, 77-78, 8283, 87, 181, 315317

83

We do not report on minorities, as these data
may not be recorded in some countries on
grounds of protection of personal rights.

X

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

329

GRI Content Index

Augmented Version

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area of
activity

Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19

6

G4LA13

Ratio of basic salary
and remuneration of
women to men

Aspect: Supplier Assessment
for Labor Practices –
Management Approach

G4LA14

G4LA15

Percentage of new
suppliers that were
screened using labor
practices criteria

Significant impacts
for labor practices in
the supply chain

Aspect: Labor Practices
Grievance Mechanisms –
Management Approach

G4LA16

Grievances about
labor practices

83

within

outside

We do not report quantitatively on the ratio of
the basic salary and compensation of women
to men. Male and female employees at Bayer
receive equal compensation. It is awarded on
the basis of qualifications and responsibility.

53, 90, 92-93,
174

Supplier
management

92-93

We do not report on the percentage of
new suppliers screened using labor
practices criteria because these data are
not available. We report on the procedure
used for assessment.

93-94

We do not report in detail on the negative
impact on labor practices determined
during supplier assessment. We give
details on the areas in which essential
impacts were identified and corrective
measures were defined.

87, 185-186

185-186

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21

X

Business ethics

X

X

Business ethics

X

X

We do not report on the number of
grievances with respect to the negative
impact on labor practices. We report on
the total number of notifications registered
with the compliance hotline. We internally
record the precise reason for the
grievance, track how it is followed up and
take corresponding action in line with our
corporate policy. More detailed
information on this would constitute a
business secret.

Human Rights
6

6

2, 3

Aspect: Non-discrimination –
Management Approach

G4HR3

Incidents of
discrimination and
corrective actions taken

Aspect: Freedom of Association
and Collective Bargaining –
Management Approach

81, 87, 185

185-186

We do not report on the number of
incidents of discrimination. We report on
the total number of notifications registered
with the compliance hotline. We internally
record the precise reason for the
grievance, track how it is followed up and
take corresponding action in line with our
corporate policy. More detailed
information on this would constitute a
business secret.
Employee relations
& development
X

87, 92, 185

Supplier
management

X

X

330

C Further Information

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

GRI Content Index

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area of
activity

Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19

2, 3

2, 5

2, 5

2, 4

G4HR4

Operations and
suppliers identified in
which the right to
exercise freedom of
association may be
violated or at risk, and
measures taken

Aspect: Child Labor –
Management Approach

G4HR5

Operations and
suppliers having
significant risk for
incidents of child labor,
and measures taken

Aspect: Forced or
Compulsory Labor –
Management Approach
Operations and
suppliers having
significant risk for
incidents of forced or
compulsory labor, and
measures taken

2, 4

G4HR6

1

Aspect: Security Practices –
Management Approach

1

G4HR7

2

Aspect: Supplier Human Rights
Assessment – Management
Approach

2

Percentage of new
suppliers that were
screened using human
rights criteria

G4HR10

Percentage of security
personnel trained in the
field of human rights

Significant human rights
impacts in the supply
chain

2

G4HR11

1

Aspect: Human Rights
Grievance Mechanisms –
Management Approach

1

G4HR12

Grievances about
human rights impacts

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
within

outside

87, 93

87, 90, 95, 185

Employee relations
& development

X

Supplier
management

X

Employee relations
& development

X

Supplier
management

X

Employee relations
& development

X

X

87, 95-96

87, 92, 185

X

87, 93
87

87
53, 87, 90, 92-93,
174

Supplier
management

92-93

We do not report on the percentage of
new suppliers screened using human
rights criteria because these data are not
available. We report on the procedure
used for assessment.

93-94

We do not report in detail on the negative
impact on human rights determined
during supplier assessment. We give
details on the areas in which essential
impacts occurred and corrective
measures were defined.

87, 185-186

185-186

Business ethics
We do not report on the number of formal
grievances with respect to human rights
violations, but on the total number of
notifications registered with the compliance
hotline. We internally record the precise
reason for the grievance and take corresponding action in line with our corporate
policy. More detailed information on this
would constitute a business secret.

X

X

X

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

331

GRI Content Index

Augmented Version

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area of
activity

Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
within

outside

Society

1

Aspect: Local Communities –
Management Approach

54, 58, 62, 88, 90,
96, 98-99, 102103, 114-115,
117-118, 124125, 174, 185

G4SO1

Percentage of
operations with
implemented local
community
engagement, impact
assessments and
development programs

58, 62

1

G4SO2

Operations with actual
and potential negative
impacts on local
communities

117, 119, 124

10

Aspect: Anti-corruption –
Management Approach

1

10

10

G4SO3

G4SO4

Percentage of
operations assessed
for risks related to
corruption and risks
identified

Communication
and training on
anti-corruption

Confirmed incidents of
corruption and actions
taken

54, 101-102, 169,
175, 184-186

185

We do not report such risks in relation to
operations but in relation to sales. Complete
coverage across segments is key in
compliance / anti-corruption in the first
instance. Areas at risk are monitored more
frequently than others.

186

We do not report quantitatively on training for
the Board of Management, Supervisory Board
and business partners. Anti-corruption training
is performed globally, we therefore do not
disclose such information explicitly according to
region.

185-186

We do not report on the number of confirmed
incidents of corruption. We report on the total
number of notifications registered with the
compliance hotline. We internally record the
precise reason for the grievance, track how it is
followed up and take corresponding action in
line with our corporate policy. More detailed
information on this would constitute a business
secret.

10

G4SO5

10

Aspect: Public Policy –
Management Approach

60, 63

10

G4SO6

60-61

Total value of political
contributions

Aspect: Anti-competitive
Behavior – Management
Approach

G4SO7

Legal actions for anticompetitive behavior,
anti-trust and monopoly
practices

Aspect: Compliance –
Management Approach

54, 102, 169, 175,
184-186

Safety

X

X

Stakeholder
engagement /
partnering

X

X

Societal
engagement

X

X

Business ethics

X

X

Business ethics

X

X

Business ethics

X

X

Business ethics

X

X

223, 273, 291
54, 169, 175,
184-186

332

C Further Information

Augmented Version

Bayer Annual Report 2016

GRI Content Index

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area of
activity

Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19
G4SO8

2

Fines and sanctions for
noncompliance with
laws and regulations

Aspect: Supplier Assessment
for Impacts on Society –
Management Approach

G4SO9

Percentage of new
suppliers that were
screened using criteria
for impacts on society

2

G4SO10

Negative impacts on
society in the supply
chain and actions
taken

2, 3

Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms
for Impacts on Society –
Management Approach

2, 3

G4SO11

Number of grievances
about impacts on
society

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21
within

outside

223, 273, 291,
294-295
53, 90, 92-93, 9899, 174

Supplier
management

92-93

We do not report on the percentage of new
suppliers screened using criteria for impact on
society because these data are not available.
We report on the procedure used for
assessment.

93-94

We do not report in detail on the negative
impact on society determined during supplier
evaluation. We give details on the areas in
which essential impacts occurred and
corrective measures were defined.

101, 185-186

185-186

Business ethics

X

X

X

We do not report on the number of formal
grievances with respect to the negative impact
on society. We report on the total number of
notifications registered with the compliance
hotline. We internally record the precise reason
for the grievance, track how it is followed up
and take corresponding action in line with our
corporate policy. More detailed information on
this would constitute a business secret.

Product Responsibility

Aspect:
Customer Health and Safety –
Management Approach

G4PR1

Percentage of significant
product and service
categories for which health
and safety impacts are
assessed

G4PR2

Incidents of
noncompliance with
regulations and
voluntary codes
concerning the health
and safety impacts of
products and services

7

Aspect: Product and Service
Labelling – Management
Approach

7

G4PR3

Principles / procedures
for product and service
information and labeling

G4PR4

Incidents of
noncompliance with
regulations and
voluntary codes
concerning product
and service information
and labeling

Sustainable food
supply

54, 102-107,109112, 114, 172,
184

X

Product
stewardship

X

X

Product
stewardship

X

X

68, 76, 104-106,
109, 114

291

We do not report on the number of incidents of
noncompliance with regulations and voluntary
codes concerning the health and safety impact
of products and services. Any proceedings
on account of violations would be reported in
B Note 32 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, Chapter “Legal Risks.”

90, 99-100, 104106, 111, 113114

104-106, 109

291

We do not report on the number of incidents of
noncompliance with regulations and voluntary
codes concerning product and service
information and labeling. Any proceedings on
account of violations would be reported in B
Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, Chapter “Legal Risks.”

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

333

GRI Content Index

Augmented Version

GRI G4 Content Index
UNGC
Principles

G4 Standard Disclosures

Page

Comments

Bayer area of
activity

Specific Standard Disclosures G4-19
G4PR5

Results of surveys
measuring customer
satisfaction

7

101-102, 107,
111

7

G4PR6

Sale of banned or
disputed products

113

G4PR7

Incidents of
noncompliance with
regulations and
voluntary codes
concerning marketing
communications

G4PR9

Significant fines
concerning the
provision and use of
products and services

within

291

Aspect: Biodiversity –
Management Approach

54, 169, 175,
184-186

223, 273, 291293

96, 107-108

8

G4EN11

Operational sites
in protected areas

96

8

G4EN12

Impacts on protected
areas or areas of high
biodiversity value

107-108

2

G4-HR1

Significant investment
agreements and
contracts that include
human rights clauses
or screening

96

1

G4-HR2

Employee training on
human rights issues

87, 94

Aspect: Customer Privacy –
Management Approach

G4-PR8

Substantiated
complaints regarding
breaches of customer
privacy

175, 185

175

Product
stewardship

X

X

Business ethics

X

X

We do not report on the number of incidents of
noncompliance with regulations and voluntary
codes concerning marketing communications.
Any proceedings on account of violations
would be reported in B Note 32 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, Chapter
“Legal Risks.”

Further G4 Standard Disclosures
8

outside

100

Aspect:
Marketing Communications –
Management Approach

Aspect: Compliance –
Management Approach

GRI aspect
limitation
G4-20 G4-21

We use our site register to record all site-related
data (including size). For confidentiality reasons,
we do not publish any size data on our sites, for
example.

334
Augmented Version

C Further Information

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Glossary

Glossary
A

APM is the abbreviation for
alternative performance measure;
see A 2.4 for more information.

B

Biocides are substances and
products that control pests such
as insects, mice and rats, as well
as algae, fungi and bacteria.

C

CDP is a nonprofit organization
that works on behalf of institutional investors to compile annual
rankings of detailed environmental data, especially in respect of
greenhouse gas emissions (CDPClimate) and water management
(CDP-Water), from the top 500
publicly listed companies in the
world. According to CDP, more
than 800 investors representing
fund assets of around US$100
trillion currently draw on this
information for their investment
decisions.
Conflict minerals are those
mined in conflict regions. They
include tin, tungsten and tantalum ores, gold or their derivatives. Armed conflicts over the
control of these resources occur
particularly in the eastern part of
the Democratic Republic of
Congo and neighboring countries.
Continuing operations Sales
and earnings reporting for
continuing operations pertains
only to business operations that
are expected to remain in the
company’s portfolio for the foreseeable future; opposite of discontinued operations.
(Corporate) compliance comprises the observance of statutory and company regulations on
lawful and responsible conduct.

Corporate governance comprises the long-term management and oversight of the company in accordance with the
principles of responsibility and
transparency. The German Corporate Governance Code sets
out basic principles for the management and oversight of publicly listed companies.
Corruption Perceptions Index
(CPI) Since 1995, NGO Transparency International has produced an annual index of countries – 176 in 2016 – by the
perceived level of public-sector
corruption. The CPI ranks countries according to the extent to
which public servants and politicians are believed to engage in
bribery and to grant or accept
undue advantage.
Credit default swaps (CDS) are
tradable insurance contracts
used to hedge against the default
of a borrower.

D

Debt Issuance Program (DIP)
Formerly the multi-currency
European Medium Term Notes
(EMTN) program, DIP is a documentation platform that enables
Bayer to flexibly issue notes in
various currencies and with
different maturities.
Diversity designates the variation within the workforce in terms
of gender, origin, nationality, age,
religion, sexual orientation and
physical capability.

F

Foreign exchange Claims for
payments in foreign currencies
traded on foreign exchanges,
usually in the form of balances
with foreign banks or bills of
exchange or checks payable
abroad; banknotes and coins
denominated in foreign currencies are not considered to be
foreign exchange.

G

GHG protocol The Greenhouse
Gas Protocol is an internationally
recognized tool for recording,
quantifying and reporting greenhouse gas emissions. Its standards cover all emissions within a
company’s value chain. Bayer
aligns itself to the Corporate
Standard for direct (Scope 1) and
indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse
gas emissions and also to the
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)
Accounting and Reporting
Standard, which covers further
indirect emissions along the
value chain. Dual reporting was
introduced in 2015 with the
updating of the GHG guidelines
for Scope 2. Indirect emissions
have now to be reported using
both the location-based and the
market-based methods. The
location-based method uses
regional or national average
emissions factors, while the
market-based method applies
provider- or product-specific
emissions factors based on
contractual instruments.
Global commercial paper
program Commercial paper (CP)
issued under Bayer’s program is
a short-term, unsecured debt
instrument normally issued at a
discount and redeemed at nominal value. It is a flexible way of
obtaining short-term funding on
the capital market. Bayer’s commercial paper program allows the
company to issue commercial
paper on both the U.S. and
European markets.

GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) is a nonprofit organization
that works to promote the dissemination and optimization of
sustainability reporting. The GRI
guidelines are considered the
most frequently used and internationally most recognized
standard for sustainability reporting. These guidelines are evolved
in a multi-stakeholder process.
GRI was established in 1997 by
Ceres (Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies) and UNEP (United Nations
Environment Programme).
GxP is a collective term for all
guidelines that govern “good
working practice” and are particularly relevant for the fields of
medicine, pharmacy and pharmaceutical chemistry. The “G”
stands for “Good” and the “P” for
“Practice,” while the “x” in the
middle is replaced by the respective abbreviation for the specific
area of application – such as
Good Manufacturing Practice
(GMP), Good Laboratory Practice
(GLP), Good Clinical Practice
(GCP) or Good Agricultural Practice (GAP). These guidelines are
established by institutions such
as the European Medicines
Agency or the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration.

H

HSEQ stands for health, safety,
environment and quality.
Hybrid bond A hybrid bond is
a corporate bond with equityequivalent properties, usually
with either no maturity date or
a very long maturity. Due to its
subordination, it has a lower
likelihood of repayment than a
normal bond in the event of
issuer bankruptcy.

Bayer Annual Report 2016

C Further Information

335

Glossary

Augmented Version

I

N

R

U

ILO core labor standards
The eight core labor standards
of the ILO (International Labour
Organization) that define the
minimum requirements for humane working conditions are
internationally recognized “qualitative social standards.” They
represent universal human rights
that are deemed valid in all
countries regardless of their
economic development status.

Neonicotinoids are a chemical
class of systemic insecticides.

Innovative Medicine Initiative
(IMI) is a public-private partnership developed by the European
Commission and the European
Federation of Pharmaceutical
Industries and Associations
(EFPIA) with the goal of promoting biomedical research in
Europe. IMI finances research
projects aimed at overcoming
the major bottlenecks in the
research and development of
new pharmaceuticals. The partnership provides funding to
project participants from academic institutes, small and
medium-sized businesses,
patient organizations and other
institutions. The pharmaceutical
industry contributes to these
projects by donating capacities
and resources.

Pharmacovigilance is defined
as the science of, and activities
related to, the identification,
assessment, comprehension and
prevention of side effects or
other problems associated with
pharmaceutical products.

3RS principle (replace, reduce, refine) Replace: prior to
each project, Bayer checks
whether an approved method is
available that does not rely on
animal studies and then applies
it. Reduce: if no alternative
method exists, only as many
animals are used as are needed
to achieve scientifically meaningful results based on statutory
requirements. Refine: Bayer
ensures that animal studies are
performed in a way that minimizes any suffering.

United Nations Global
Compact (UNGC) The United
Nations Global Compact is the
most far-reaching and important
responsible corporate governance initiative in the world.
Based on ten universal principles
in the areas of human rights,
labor, environment and anticorruption, the UNGC pursues the
vision of an inclusive and sustainable global economy that
benefits people, communities
and markets everywhere. By
committing to the UNGC, companies agree to document each
year their efforts to uphold the
ten principles.

L

Life Sciences This term describes Bayer’s activities in health
care and agriculture and comprises the Bayer Group excluding
its legally independent subsidiary
Covestro. It refers to the businesses of the Pharmaceuticals,
Consumer Health and Crop
Science divisions and the Animal
Health business unit.
Local procurement means that
the procuring (Bayer) company is
located in the same country as
the supplier.

O

OTC (over-the-counter) designates the business with nonprescription medicines.

P

Phase I-IV studies are clinical
phases in the development of a
drug product. The active ingredient candidate is generally tested
in healthy subjects in Phase I,
and in patients in Phases II and
III. The studies test the therapeutic tolerability and efficacy of
active ingredients in a specific
indication. Phase IV studies are
conducted following the approval
of a new drug product to monitor
its safety and efficacy over an
extended period of time. The
studies are subject to strict legal
requirements and documentation
procedures.
Price / cash flow ratio The
price / cash flow ratio is the ratio
of the share price to gross cash
flow per share. It shows how
long it would take for the company’s cash flow to cover the
share price.
Price / earnings ratio This is the
ratio of the current share price to
earnings per share (EPS). A high
price/earnings ratio indicates that
the market assigns a high value
to the stock in the expectation of
future earnings growth.

Reconciliation The reconciliation
records, on the one hand, those
business activities not assigned
to any other segment (“All Other
Segments”), including particularly
the services provided by Business Services, Technology
Services and Currenta. It also
includes “Corporate Functions
and Consolidation,” which largely
comprises Bayer holding companies and the Bayer Lifescience
Center.

V

Vector control describes methods for the avoidance or targeted
control of organisms that transmit pathogens triggering infectious diseases. Vectors include
blood-sucking insects such as
the Anopheles mosquito, which
can transfer malaria parasites, for
example.

S

Short-Term Incentive program
(STI program) is a variable
income component for all managerial staff.
Significant locations of operation A selection of countries
that accounted for more than
80% of total Bayer Group sales
in 2016 (United States, Germany,
China, Brazil, Japan, France,
Canada, Italy, Mexico, U.K.,
India, Spain, Australia, Russia,
Switzerland, Poland, Turkey,
Argentina and Belgium)
Syndicated credit facility
Credit line agreed with a group of
banks; generally used for extensive financing requirements, such
as when making an acquisition,
to increase available liquidity
or as security for the issuance
of debt instruments. The credit
facility can be utilized and
repaid flexibly, either in full or in
portions, during its term.

W

Working capital is the difference
between short-term current
assets and short-term liabilities;
it is calculated by deducting
short-term liabilities from current
assets (excluding cash and cash
equivalents). In the statement of
cash flows, the change in working capital is one of the variables
used to assess a company’s
financial health. The objective of
working capital management is
to reduce working capital by
minimizing the “financing gap”
caused by the time lapse between the disbursement of funds
(= payment for necessary raw
materials) and the receipt of
funds for the finished product.

336

C Further Information

Bayer Annual Report 2016

Five-Year Summary

Five-Year Summary
€ million

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Bayer Group
Sales

39,741

40,157

41,339

46,085

46,769

EBITDA 1

6,916

7,830

8,315

9,573

10,785

EBITDA before special items 1

8,280

8,401

8,685

10,256

11,302

20.8%

20.9%

21.0%

22.3%

24.2%

EBIT 1

3,928

4,934

5,395

6,241

7,042

EBIT before special items 1

5,639

5,773

5,833

7,060

8,130

Income before income taxes

3,176

4,207

4,414

5,236

5,887

Net income (from continuing and discontinued operations)

EBITDA margin before special items 1

2,403

3,189

3,426

4,110

4,531

Earnings per share (from continuing and discontinued operations) (€) 1

2.91

3.86

4.14

4.97

5.44

Core earnings per share (from continuing operations) (€) 1

5.30

5.61

5.89

6.82

7.32

Net cash provided by operating activities
(from continuing and discontinued operations)

4,530

5,171

5,810

6,890

9,089

Net financial debt

7,022

6,731

19,612

17,449

11,778

Capital expenditures as per segment table

2,012

2,155

2,484

2,511

2,578

Total dividend payment

1,571

1,737

1,861

2,067

2,233

Dividend per share (€)

1.90

2.10

2.25

2.50

2.70

3,013

3,406

3,537

4,274

4,666

14.5

15.8

15.6

16.0

17.0

9.3

9.8

10.3

10.7

11.7

12,900

13,509

13,900

14,753

15,229

110,000

112,400

117,400

116,600

115,200

9,194

9,430

9,693

11,176

11,357

Proportion of women in senior management (%)

23

25

26

28

29

Proportion of employees with health insurance (%)

94

95

96

96

98

– / 14.1

5.5 / 14.0

4.8 / 11.4

5.0 / 13.9

4.6 / 12.3

–

17.8

18.0

20.0

22.1

0.39

Bayer AG

Innovation
Research and development expenses
Ratio of R&D expenses to sales – Pharmaceuticals (%)
Ratio of R&D expenses to sales – Crop Science (%)
Employees in research and development
Employees
Number of employees2 (Dec. 31)
Personnel expenses (including pension expenses) (€ million)

Fluctuation (voluntary / total) (%)
Hours of vocational and ongoing training per employee
Safety & Environmental Protection
Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) for Bayer employees

0.49

0.47

0.43

0.42

Loss of Primary Containment Incident Rate (LoPC-IR) 3

0.38

0.35

0.23

0.22

0.32

83,184

80,848

85,317

83,182

84,494

Energy efficiency (MWh/t) 4

8.86

8.54

7.62

6.34

6.77

Total greenhouse gas emissions (CO 2 equivalents in million t) 5

8.96

9.00

9.55

9.71

9.87

Specific greenhouse gas emissions (CO 2 equivalents in t / manufactured
sales volume in t), according to the market-based method 6

Total energy consumption (terajoules)

1.88

1.83

1.72

1.69

1.54

Hazardous waste generated (thousand t)

603

467

487

541

547

Water use (million m³)

384

361

350

346

330

2015 figures restated; figures for 2012-2014 as last reported
1
For definitions of the indicators see Chapter 2.4.
2
Employees calculated as full-time equivalents (FTEs)
3
Number of incidents per 200,000 working hours in which chemicals leak from their primary container, such as pipelines, pumps, tanks or drums
4
Quotient of total energy consumption and manufactured sales volume; Life Sciences only
5
Direct emissions from power plants, waste incinerators and production plants and indirect emissions from external supplies of electricity, steam and refrigeration
(according to the market-based method); portfolio-adjusted in accordance with the GHG Protocol
6
Life Sciences without Currenta

Financial Calendar
Q1 2017 Interim Report
Annual Stockholders’ Meeting 2017
Planned dividend payment date
Q2 2017 Interim Report
Q3 2017 Interim Report
2017 Annual Report
Q1 2018 Interim Report
Annual Stockholders’ Meeting 2018

April 27, 2017
April 28, 2017
May 4, 2017
July 27, 2017
October 26, 2017
February 28, 2018
May 3, 2018
May 25, 2018

Masthead
Publisher

Editor

Investor Relations

Bayer AG, 51368 Leverkusen,
Germany

Jörg Schäfer, Tel. +49 214 30 39136
email: joerg.schaefer@bayer.com

Peter Dahlhoff, Tel. +49 214 30 33022
email: peter.dahlhoff@bayer.com

Date of publication

Sustainability & Business Stewardship

English edition

Wednesday, February 22, 2017

Dagmar Jost, Tel. +49 214 30 75284
email: dagmar.jost@bayer.com

Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG
Language Service
ISSN 0343 / 1975

For fast and easy access to our online services, there’s no need to copy down the internet addresses.
Simply scan the codes below with your smartphone and an appropriate app:
Annual Report online

Annual Stockholders’

Other publications

Available at:
bayer.com / ar16

Meeting 2017

Overview available at:
bayer.com / publications

Information available at:
bayer.com / asm

Bayer on the internet: www.bayer.com
Combined Management Report and consolidated financial statements produced in-house with firesys.
The paper this report is printed on is derived from
sources managed in line with social, economic
and ecological principles and therefore bears the seal
of the Forest Stewardship Council ® (FSC Mix Credit).

Cautionary Statements Regarding
Forward-Looking Information
Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute “forward-looking statements.” Actual results could differ materially
from those projected or forecast in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially include
the following: uncertainties as to the timing of
the transaction; the possibility that the parties
may be unable to achieve expected synergies
and operating efﬁciencies in the merger within
the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate Monsanto’s operations into
those of Bayer; such integration may be more
difﬁcult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be
lower than expected; operating costs, customer
loss and business disruption (including, without
limitation, difﬁculties in maintaining relationships

The inside section was produced using 100% recycled
fibers – as guaranteed by the E.U. Ecolabel certification
(paper reg. no. FR / 011 / 003).

with employees, customers, clients or suppliers)
may be greater than expected following the announcement of the transaction; the retention of
certain key employees at Monsanto; risks associated with the disruption of management’s attention from ongoing business operations due to
the transaction; the conditions to the completion
of the transaction may not be satisﬁed, or the
regulatory approvals required for the transaction
may not be obtained on the terms expected or
on the anticipated schedule; the parties’ ability
to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of
the merger; the impact of indebtedness incurred
by Bayer in connection with the transaction and
the potential impact on the rating of indebtedness of Bayer; the effects of the business combination of Bayer and Monsanto, including the
combined company’s future ﬁnancial condition,
operating results, strategy and plans; other fac-

tors detailed in Monsanto’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K ﬁled with the SEC for the ﬁscal year
ended August 31, 2016 and Monsanto’s other
ﬁlings with the SEC, which are available at
http://www.sec.gov and on Monsanto’s website
at www.monsanto.com; and other factors discussed in Bayer’s public reports which are
available on the Bayer website at www.bayer.
com. Bayer and Monsanto assume no obligation
to update the information in this communication,
except as otherwise required by law. Readers
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
these forward-looking statements that speak
only as of the date hereof.
Legal Notice
The product names designated with ™ are
brands of the Bayer Group or our distribution
partners and are registered trademarks in many
countries.

