Deutsche Bahn

2015 Integrated Report
More quality, more customers, more success

AT A GLANCE
Æ † ¥
Change
Selected key figures [€ million]
Revenues adjusted
Profit before taxes on income
Net profit for the year

2015

2014

absolute

%

40,468

39,720

+748

+1.9

– 932

937

–1,869

–

–1,311

988

–2,299

–

EBITDA adjusted

4,778

5,110

–332

– 6.5

EBIT adjusted

1,759

2,109

–350

–16.6

Equity as of Dec 31

13,445

14,525

–1,080

–7.4

Net financial debt as of Dec 31

17,491

16,212

+1,279

+7.9

Total assets as of Dec 31

56,059

55,883

+176

+ 0.3

Capital employed as of Dec 31

33,459

33,683

–224

– 0.7

5.3

6.3

–

–

Redemption coverage (%)

18.5

20.9

–

–

Gross capital expenditures

9,344

9,129

+215

+2.4

Net capital expenditures

3,866

4,442

– 576

–13.0

Cash flow from operating activities

3,489

3,896

– 407

–10.4

4,306

4,348

– 42

–1.0

Return on capital employed (ROCE) (%)

PASSENGER TR ANSPORT

Passengers (million)
R AIL PA SSENGER TR ANSPORT

Punctuality passenger transport (rail) in Germany (%)
Passengers (million)
		 thereof in Germany

93.7

94.5

–

–

2,251

2,254

–3

– 0.1

2,014

2,030

–16

– 0.8

88,636

88,407

+229

+ 0.3

748.7

763.3

–14.6

–1.9

2,055

2,094

–39

–1.9

1.5

1.1

+ 0.4

+36.4

Volume sold 1) (million pkm)

7,994

8,097

–103

–1.3

		 thereof long-distance bus

413.0

370.4

+ 42.6

+11.5

Volume produced (million bus km)

1,622

1,601

+21

+1.3

Volume sold (million pkm)
Volume produced (million train-path km)
BUS TR ANSPORT

Passengers (million)
		 thereof long-distance bus

R AIL FREIGHT TR ANSPORT

Freight carried (million t)

300.2

329.1

–28.9

– 8.8

Volume sold (million tkm)

98,445

102,871

– 4,426

– 4.3

FREIGHT FORWARDING AND LOGISTICS

101,703

98,867

+2,836

+2.9

Air freight volume (export) (thousand t)

Shipments in European land transport (thousand)

1,128

1,112

+16

+1.4

Ocean freight volume (export) (thousand TEU)

1,942

1,983

– 41

–2.1

Warehouse space contract logistics (m² million)

7.7

7.1

+ 0.6

+ 8.5

R AIL INFR ASTRUCTURE

93.6

94.3

–

–

Train kilometers on track infrastructure (million train-path km)

Punctuality DB Group (rail) in Germany (%)

1,054

1,044

+10

+1.0

		 thereof non-Group railways

290.0

261.0

+29.0

+11.1

27.5

25.0

–

–

150.9

148.4

+2.5

+1.7

31.5

28.6

+2.9

+10.1

		 share of non-Group railways (%)
Station stops (million)
		 thereof non-Group railways
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Order book passenger transport as of Dec 31 (€ billion)

92.8

84.2

+ 8.6

+10.2

33,332

33,426

– 94

– 0.3

5,681

5,676

+5

+ 0.1

Rating Moody’s/Standard&Poor’s

Aa1/AA

Aa1/AA

–

–

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

297,202

295,763

+1,439

+ 0.5

Employee satisfaction – index

–

3.7

–

–

Employer attractiveness – rank

24

13

–11

–

Share of women in Germany as of Dec 31 (%)

22.8

22.8

–

–

Health rate in Germany (%)

93.6

94.1

–

–

Percentage of staffing needs covered in Germany as of Dec 31 (%)

97.3

–

–

–

Reduction of specific CO ₂ emissions compared to 2006 (%)

–24.5

–22.7

–

–

Share of renewable energy in the traction current mix (%)

42.0

39.6

–

–

Track kilometers noise remediated in total as of Dec 31 (km)

1,495

1,400

+ 95

+ 6.8

Freight cars refitted with whisper brakes in total as of Dec 31

12,703

6,665

+ 6,038

+ 90.6

97.2

95.6

–

–

Length of line operated (km)
Passenger stations

Recycling rate (%)
1)

Excluding DB Arriva.

ABOUT THIS REPORT
μμIntegrated reporting: what does it mean?

μμFulfilled reporting standards

Integrated reporting is more than just a simple combination
of the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report. In our
Integrated Report, we want to collect information, combine
it, and present it in context. Our aim: a comprehensive overview of DB Group and the implementation of its DB 2020
strategy with its three dimensions: ECONOMIC ≈ , SOCIAL †
and ENVIRONMENTAL ¥ .

In our Integrated Report, we fulfill all of the standards applicable
in Germany for financial reporting and the international guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for sustainability
reporting. For the first time the report complies with the G4
“core” GRI guidelines. At the same time it satisfies the requirements of the German Sustainability Code and also serves as a
progress report on the implementation of the United Nations
Global Compact’s ten principles. The GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT
INDEX [PAGE 2 79 F.] provides compact information for each
indicator.

μμHow do you use this report?
In order to simplify using this report, we have added a few features that,
for example, serve to link information or go into greater depth.
Supplemental information
We have also highlighted an additional level of information
next to the main text. We distinguish between two forms: critical
topics and in-depth information.
Critical topics: This is what we call topics that
are critical for our success, although neither we
nor a third party are delivering the required performance level yet.

A red thread through the report

We have defined FIVE FOCUS TOPICS [PAGE 52]
for the 2015 Integrated Report: Group restructuring (F1), Railway of the Future (F2), Highperformance infrastructure (F3), Digitalization (F4) and
Growth (F5). Whenever focus topics appear in the report,
they are marked with the ∫ symbol and a direct identification
of the text passage:
F1
Page previous passage

In-depth information: This is how we identify
specific topics that are of particular interest for
us. We provide additional information by means
of images and/or text.
More information online
You can find additional and supplemental in­­
formation in the online report or on the Internet.
We have set up a special Web page for links at
www.db.de/ir15_links. The corresponding points in the report
are marked with the Œ SYMBOL .
We have also identified additional offers in the
online report. The download symbol √ notes
that the content can be downloaded online, for
example as an Excel file. Graphics that offer online
value are marked with a QR code that is linked directly to the
online graphic.

P. 64
P. 113

Focus topic 1
Page next passage

Where is a specific
GRI standard covered ?
The GRI Index shows you the page where you
can find information on specific GRI indicators.
To show which text passages on a page refer to a specific GRI
indicator, we have complemented the GRI Index by marking
the side of the text at the start of the relevant chapter with
GRI
GRI
G4-1 or with G4-EC1 and the ‡ symbol directly in the relevant
paragraph.
Delve into a topic
Text references within the 2015 Integrated Report
are always marked as follows: KEYWORD [PAGE XX]

More information on a section
We refer to additional information on a specific
section within the 2015 Integrated Report or in
the Internet with the following designation:
Ω MORE DETAILS

WORLD-WIDE PRESENCE
μμDB Long-Distance
μ	Europe: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark,
France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland,
Switzerland

μμDB Regional
μ

Europe: Germany

μμDB Arriva
μ

Europe: Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Great Britain,

Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Serbia,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden

Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Taiwan, Tajikistan,
Thailand, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan,
Vietnam, Yemen
μ	Africa: Algeria, Angola, Botswana, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa, Tanzania, Tunisia,
Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe
μ Americas: Argentina, Aruba, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Curacao,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, USA, Venezuela

μμDB Cargo

μμDB Netze Track

μ	Europe: Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, France, Germany,

μ

Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland,
Romania, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland

Europe: Germany

μμDB Netze Stations
μ

Europe: Germany

μμDB Schenker
μ

Europe: Albania, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia,


Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Great Britain,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russia,
Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
Turkey, Ukraine
μ	Asia/Pacific: Armenia, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Macao, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mauritius, Myanmar, New Zealand, Oman, Pakistan,
Palestinian areas, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea,

μμDB Netze Energy
μ

Europe: Germany

μμDB Engineering & Consulting
μ

Europe: Azerbaijan, Croatia, Georgia, Germany, Great


Britain, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Romania, Russia, Serbia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey
μ	Asia/Pacific: Australia, China, India, Israel, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Mongolia, Oman, Qatar, Republic of
Korea, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, United
Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam
μ Africa: Algeria, Egypt, South Africa
μ Americas: Bolivia, Brazil, USA

About this report/World-wide presence/Our fleet and networks

OUR FLEET AND NETWORKS

CONTENTS
001

μ

Fit for the future

029

μ

To our stakeholders

030

Report of the Supervisory Board

049

μ
μ
μ
μ

051

μ

Group managment report

052

μ Overview
μ DB Group
μ Trends and strategy
μ Business and overall conditions
μ	Group performance – economic dimension
μ	Group performance – social dimension
μ	Group performance – environmental dimension
μ Development of business units
μ Additional information
μ Opportunity and risk report
μ Events after the balance sheet date
μ Outlook

036
045

054
066
077
089
110
116
122
165
168
177
178

185
186
187
188
189
190
266

267

Corporate Governance report
Stakeholder dialog
Compliance and privacy report

μ	Consolidated financial statements
μ Consolidated statement of income
μ Consolidated balance sheet
μ Consolidated statement of cash flows
μ	Consolidated statement of changes in equity
μ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
μ	Auditor’s report

μ	Additional information
on sustainability

268
270
273
277

μ DB Group
μ Social
μ Environmental
μ	Independent Practitioner’s Limited
Assurance report

279

μ

GRI and Global Compact Index

281

μ

Additional information

282
285
286

μ Glossary
μ List of abbreviations
μ	Contact information and financial calendar

DB2020 STRATEGY

μμOur three dimensions

ENVIRONMENTAL
Eco-pioneer

SOCIAL
Top employer

ECONOMIC
Profitable
market leader

μμOur four strategic directions

Resource
conservation/
emissions and
noise
reduction

Customer
and quality
Profitable
growth

Cultural change/
employee
satisfaction

O UR COMPA S S

O UR PRO GR A M

FIT FOR THE
FUTURE
O UR CHALLENGE

O UR OPP ORT UNI T Y

001

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

“We will inspire
more customers and
achieve economic
success by improving
product quality.”

Environmental
Eco-pioneer

Social
Top employer

Economic
Profitable
market leader

“The Group
restructuring also
marks the start
of the digital age
of the railways.”

002

“We are investing
20 billion euros of
DB funds in the
future of the railway
in Germany.”

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Topic choice:

Fit for the future |
Your are here: IR 2015 |

To our stakeholders
Fit for the future |

|

change

All contents

Group management report

| Consolidated financial statements | Additional infos sustainability | Additional information

Chairman’s letter

CHA IR MAN’ S LET TER
Dear ladies and gentlemen,
The challenges Deutsche Bahn faced in 2015 were quite special. Apart from the longest train
drivers’ strike in the history of our company, a number of developments necessitated a fundamental reorganization of the company.
Competitive pressure continued to increase in 2015, making it all the more essential that
we vastly improve our product quality so that we can attract even more customers to DB Group
and our products, and ensure our economic success in the future. Deutsche Bahn is therefore
undertaking the most extensive Group restructuring since the German Rail Reform in 1994.
It is by no means just the long-distance buses that are exerting competitive pressure. Our
trains still carry as many passengers in just four days as all long-distances buses in one year.
The growing competition between rail and road is increasingly being driven by regulatory
causes. Paradoxically, although rail transport is actually the most environmentally friendly
mode of transport – especially compared to road transport, which causes far more climate
damage – it is facing ever-increasing energy and regulation costs. In addition, rail freight transport must bear the cost of refitting its freight cars to reduce noise, whereas truck tolls and
fuel costs were recently reduced.
Our Group restructuring is moving all entrepreneurial levers to:
1. reverse the critical trend in operating profits generated by the railway in Germany,
2. generate further growth in our international business, and
3. at the same time, take advantage of the significant opportunities offered by digitalization
by implementing new corporate structures that encourage innovation.

0 03

DE
EN

Topic choice:

Fit for the future

| To our stakeholders

Your are here: IR 2015 |

Fit for the future

change

All contents

| Group management report

| Consolidated financial statements | Additional infos sustainability | Additional information

| Chairman’s letter

Our primary goal is to substantially improve DB Groupʼs ability to compete.
To this end, we are investing around 55 billion euros until 2020, of which 20 billion euros
will be financed from our own funds. The capital expenditure priorities remain on our home
market in Germany and the railway business, which together will account for 90 percent of
the planned capital expenditures. Our Railway of the Future program outlines this clearly.
Railway of the Future is something like a timetable for us, mapping the future of rail transport in Germany.
We will also reduce costs. We want to make our entire organization leaner, more efficient
and more competitive so that we can become faster and more agile as a company. The Group
Management Board now has fewer members, and the Group headquarters has been streamlined. The next step will be to merge DB Mobility Logistics AG – which was originally set up
as a second holding company in preparation for the initial public offering – with Deutsche
Bahn AG. At the same time, we will also reorganize the intra-Group service functions.
Further plans include equity participation of third parties of our international business
units – DB Arriva and DB Schenker. In both entities we will keep the majority stakes. This
equity participation of third parties is important, not just to give us more scope to exploit
the high growth potential abroad, but also to raise the funds needed for the aforementioned
capital expenditures in Germany, while at the same time limiting our debts and securing the
financial stability of DB Group.
With regard to the 2015 financial year, we were hit hardest by the strike. The collective
bargaining disputes cost 314 million euros in operating profit. EBIT totaled around 1.8 billion
euros. Group revenues increased slightly, to 40.5 billion euros.
The increase in the number of long-distance rail passengers was also encouraging.
132 million passengers represent an increase of 2.2 percent over the previous year. Longdistance transport defended its market position in 2015. The international connections to
France, Belgium and the Netherlands even setting a new passenger record (around five million
passengers). Growth totaled 3.5 percent.
This positive trend in demand gives us a tailwind for our Railway of the Future program.
Our goals are ambitious, especially with regard to punctuality, as more and more construction projects are being implemented, during ongoing operations as part of the campaign
we have started, to modernize the infrastructure. We have demonstrated, however, that we
can significantly improve punctuality, even in metropolitan areas with heavy traffic volumes
by cutting the number of delays in 2015 nearly in half in some cases on numerous lines operated by the S-Bahn (metro) Stuttgart or the S-Bahn (metro) network in North Rhine-Westphalia. The S-Bahn (metro) in Munich even set a new record of 97.4 percent for punctuality
in December 2015 – the highest figure ever recorded since measurement began more than 20
years ago.

004

DE
EN

Topic choice:

Fit for the future |
Your are here: IR 2015 |

To our stakeholders |
Fit for the future |

change

All contents

Group management report | Consolidated financial statements | Additional infos sustainability | Additional information
Chairman’s letter

We know that our customers expect this. Railway of the Future shows, however, the extent
to which the growing needs of our customers are being reflected in our own aspirations. In
2016, rail passengers in Germany will notice that we have already made significant progress –
not just in terms of punctuality, but also with regard to passenger information, on-board
comfort and service, and quality of stay in the stations.
Digitalization plays a key role in this. The contours of our new innovation culture and the
development of DB 4.0 are taking shape on several fronts, through several labs our growing
start-up network, DBʼs own “hackathons,” our open data platform and numerous research
cooperation projects. More than 260 projects are being worked on in six 4.0 Initiatives based
on ideas submitted by employees or founders, but also by our customers, whom we now bring
on board right from the start when developing our mobility products.
The Group restructuring marks the start of a far-reaching process of change at DB Group.
In 2015, we set the course on which we will embark in 2016. Railway of the Future will guide
us further in the years beyond 2016 as well. Change will become a continuous task.
With the start of the Group restructuring, we continue to implement our DB2020
strategy
and ensure harmony among our three dimensions of sustainability – economic, social and
environmental. Deutsche Bahn declared its commitment to the principles of the United
Nations Global Compact and to the German Sustainability Code as evidenced, not least, by
this Integrated Report. It provides a comprehensive review of the past financial year while
also looking to the future.
We are convinced that the future of Deutsche Bahn as a sustainably successful company
is a question of the interplay between customer and quality, together with better performance
on one side combined with leaner structures and faster processes on the other. We are taking
on the challenge on both sides with all of our strength and passion.
Sincerely yours

Dr. Rüdiger Grube
CEO and Chairman of the Management Board
of Deutsche Bahn AG

005

DE
EN

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

All contents

Topic choice:

an

ders |

stakehol
re | To our
Fit for the futu

fin
| Consolidated
t
or
p
re
t
en
Group managem
of
agement Board

e Man
Members of th
|
re
tu
fu
e
th
t for

IR 2015 | Fi
You are here:

μμBe

rthold Huber

nspo rt
	Tra ffi c an d Tra
Bo rn in 19 63
20 18
Ap po int ed un til
sin ce 19 97
p
ou
Gr
DB
th
Wi

fer
Dr. Volker Ke

μμ

hairman of th e

	Vic e-C
ard
Ma na ge me nt Bo
Se rvi ce s
re,
ctu
tru
ras
	 Inf
y
an d Te ch no log

Bo rn in 19 56
20 17
Ap po int ed un til
ce 20 06
sin
p
ou
Wi th DB Gr

006

μμDr. Richard Lutz

llin g
Finan ce/Con tro
Bo rn in 19 64
20 18
Ap po int ed un til
sin ce 19 94
Wi th DB Gr ou p

DB AG

DE
EN

change
stainability
ditional infos su

ts | Ad

ncial statemen

μμDr. Rüdiger Grube
th e
	Chair ma n of
ard
Ma na ge me nt Bo
51
19
in
Bo rn
20 17
Ap po int ed un til
ce 20 09
sin
p
ou
Gr
Wi th DB

rmation

fo
| Additional in

μμRonald Pofalla

Ulrich Weber

gal
	Ec on om ic, Le
Af fairs
an d Re gulat ory
59
19
in
rn
Bo
20 18
Ap po int ed un til
ce 20 15
sin
p
ou
Gr
DB
Wi th

μμ

es
Hu ma n Re so urc
Bo rn in 19 50
17
Ap po int ed in 20
sin ce 20 09
Wi th DB Gr ou p

007

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

OUR COMPASS –
DB2020
Sustainable strategy for sustainable success
With our DB 2020 strategy we meet the challenges of tomorrow and seize the opportunities of the future. Through the
DB 2020 strategy we aim to bring lasting harmony to the economic, social and environmental dimensions in order to
ensure sustainable business success and social acceptance.
By 2020 we plan to be a profitable market leader with a strong customer and quality focus, a top employer, and
an eco-pioneer. We have already anchored the principle of sustainability in the strategy and organization of DB Group:
first, an integrated target system at Group and business unit level has been developed, and second, all business units
and service centers have developed their own strategies with corresponding plans for action, which they have derived
from DB 2020.

“Our DB 2020 strategy
continues to be the
indispensable compass for
our sustainable success.”
Dr. Rüdiger Grube
CEO and Chairman

008

DB2 0 2 0

F I T F O R T H E F U T U R E — O U R C O M PA S S

Since announcing our plans in mid-July 2015, we have talked a lot about the Group restructuring and the
associated Railway of the Future program, which is our response to the rapid changes that have occurred
in our markets in recent years. The Group restructuring is an essential topic that will remain with us over
the years to come. Digitalization is, and will continue to be, a key topic. We must face these challenges if
we want to regain our ability to compete in the future. In this respect, our DB 2020 strategy is of fundamental
importance: it is our compass whenever we need guidance.
We must never lose sight of the fact that our service and product quality are the key to further business
success and thus profitable growth. With lean structures, leveraging synergies and further strengthening
our customer and quality focus, we intend to get back on the track to success. The basis for our actions
will continue to be the ongoing implementation of our sustainable DB 2020 strategy.

009

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

OUR INTEGR ATED THINK ING I S SHOW ING US THE WAY
With our sustainable DB 2020 strategy we strive to keep the
economic, social and environmental dimensions in harmony.
To do this, it is essential to consider the context, connections
and interdependencies, and to incorporate them into decision-making processes.
An essential requirement for this is integrated thinking,
which is exemplified in our integrated reporting. Integrated
thinking for us means constant and continuous engagement
with all three dimensions of sustainability. In our decisions,
we consider how actions in one area can affect other areas,
and in the end how this all affects our top targets.
We do this out of a deep conviction that companies can only
be sustainably successful if they deliver a solid performance
in all three dimensions – economic, social and environmental.

PROFI TABLE MARKET LE ADER W I TH CUSTOMER AND QUAL I T Y FOCUS
The economic dimension has moved increasingly into the
forefront of our attention. Although we have made good
progress so far in the social and environmental dimensions,
we are not yet close enough to our goal of becoming a profitable market leader.
Superb product quality and satisfied customers are essential to achieve our economic targets. This is why we focus even
more rigorously on customers and their needs in both passenger transport and our international freight and logistics
activities.
The second important aspect is growth. We want to consistently seize the opportunities presented to us, for example,
as a provider of integrated mobility and logistics solutions
from a single source.

¿Æ

010

F I T F O R T H E F U T U R E — our compass

“Guided by our firm
conviction that people
make the difference, we are
shaping the working
environments of the future
and the transformation
of DB Group. After all, we
can only implement Railway
of the Future successfully
if we work together.”
Ulrich Weber
Member of the Management
Board, Human Resources

†

We continue to strive toward our goal of be­­
coming a top employer to enable us to recruit
and retain qualified employees who are passionate about working for our company. They
are the basis for customer satisfaction and thus
for our sustainable success.
We are focusing on further developing our
corporate culture since an understanding of
leadership that is fit for the future, new forms
of cooperation, and a sense of responsibility
that is embraced and demonstrated in practice
are indispensable for achieving the challenging
targets in our Railway of the Future program.
Since we can only succeed by working to­­
gether, we want to strengthen our communication and collaboration by seizing the opportunities offered by digitalization: our employees can
network better over a social intranet.

DEFENDING AND FURTHER E XPANDING OUR ENV IRONMENTAL LE AD
Climate change and resource scarcity are among the
biggest challenges facing the globalized world. We
want to do our part. In our efforts to become an ecopioneer, we want our products to set standards for the
efficient use of available resources. To achieve this,
we are working on five action areas – climate protection, noise reduction, resource efficiency, air quality
control and nature conservation – for which we have
set ourselves binding and measurable targets.
In recent years we could score, for example, in re­­
spect to CO₂ reduction or in the increase of renewable
energy, and were even able to exceed our targets.
We are implementing an integrated overall plan to
reach our targets for noise reduction, encompassing
modifications to both the rail network and the fleet
of rolling stock.

“Our green products
enable us to offer
environmentally
friendly mobility and
logistics solutions.
50 percent of our freight
cars will be quiet by
the end of 2016, underscoring our efforts
in noise reduction.”
Ronald Pofalla
Member of the
Management Board,
Economic, Legal and
Regulatory Affairs

¥

011

DB2 0 2 0

TOP EMPLOYER IN GER MANY AND WORLDW IDE

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

OUR PROGRAM –
RAILWAY OF THE FUTURE
For more quality, more customers, more success
Our new program, Railway of the Future (Zukunft Bahn), puts the focus of our actions squarely on our strategic
direction of customer and quality. We intend to be relentless in approaching the critical issues from the point of view
of our customers in the German rail business. The target of improved products and services is clear. We are therefore
directing our attention along the entire travel chain to the needs of our customers across all business units. Through
improved processes, revised structures and new technology, we aim to increase our productivity and become more
competitive. As a first step in the short term, we intend to eliminate annoyances for our customers. In the medium
term, we will strive for extraordinary quality – for example, through reliable travel chains and outstanding service.
Over the long term, we will undertake measures that will inspire our customers.

“By implementing the packages
of measures defined in Railway
of the Future, we will make
a quantum leap in the product
and service quality we offer
our customers.”
Dr. Volker Kefer
Member of the Management Board,
Infrastructure, Services and Technology

012

R A ILWAY OF THE FU T UR E

FIT FOR THE FUTURE — OUR PROGR AM

As it stands today, the railway in Germany is not fit for the future, in spite of the measures taken in recent
years. Our core business – the railway in Germany – is particularly exposed to fiercer competitive and cost
pressure. This is where we need to start to work. Huge efforts are needed to move the railway in Germany
forward. This is why we have initiated our Railway of the Future program.
Railway of the Future is certainly the largest challenge I have faced in my professional career to date.
If we are successful in making the railway in Germany fit for the future in every respect, we will raise it
to a new level. We want to be a railway system that inspires appreciation and enthusiasm among our
customers. If we are to achieve this ambitious goal, Railway of the Future cannot be just a temporary
project. On the contrary: Railway of the Future is a comprehensive Group program spanning several years
to achieve demanding quality targets.

013

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

R A ILWAY OF THE FUTURE
Time horizon III

Time horizon II
Time horizon I

“Eliminating annoyances”

“Quality that persuades”

“Performance that inspires”

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 069 FF.

IMPROV ING PUNCTUAL I T Y
The expectations of our customers are clear: they simply want
a smooth arrival. Our main value proposition is that we can get
them to their destination safely and on time. The top priority
of Railway of the Future therefore is, once again, to reliably
achieve a very high level of punctuality.
This requires a new mindset and vast improvement in coop­
­eration in nearly all areas: train operating companies, service
providers and infrastructure are equally challenged. Our set
of measures includes the assurance of high levels in vehicle
and system availability with zero fault tolerance for critical
system components. Other important factors include in­­
creasing quality and the ability of the timetable to withstand
disruptions. We also need more effective operations in regular
service and during construction. The hubs, above all, are the
weakest points in the current operating system. By putting
new clearance procedures in place, we can significantly in­­
crease capacities at some critical hubs.

“In the medium term, we are
aiming for 85 percent punctuality
in long-distance transport.
We intend to achieve a significant
improvement for our customers
even in 2016: we have set a
very ambitious goal of 80 percent.”
Scan here for more
information
on punctuality .

Birgit Bohle
CEO DB Long-Distance

014

F I T F O R T H E F U T U R E — our P rogram

Passenger information is a basic service provided to
cus­­­tomers in normal operating circumstances, but
more important when disruptions occur. The challenge is not just to provide correct information in
good time; it must also be presented consistently and
under­standably.
We plan to put a comprehensive real-time customer
information system in place by 2020. We want to give
our customers the best possible support throughout
their entire journey by implementing a consistent and
understandable customer information system.
We plan to improve the chain of information at
stations through measures that include the gradual
intro­­duction of multipurpose displays at major longdistance stations, digital car sequence displays and
mobility monitors. We are systematically working on
expanding the DB Navigator, which is also available for
the Apple Watch. Furthermore, we are in the process
of establishing a comprehensive technical platform
that will provide a basis for consistent, extensive and
modular information for the entire industry.

“We will provide prompt and
correct information to our
customers, at all times and in all
places. This is essential for
motivating customers to choose
DB Regional transport.”
Scan here for more information
on Railway of the Future.

Dr. Jörg Sandvoß
CEO DB Regional

015

Travel information
Display of the route, with
departure times, platform, seat,
connections and stations.
Information on delays
Notification and vibration in
case of timetable changes.
Stops in the vicinity
Display of stops in the vicinity,
complete with departure board
indicating trains and platforms.

R A ILWAY OF THE FU T UR E

IMPROV ING PA S SENGER INFOR MAT ION

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

ENHANCING COMFORT

97%
of the elevators
and escalators
in metropolitan areas
will function
reliably as of 2016.

Modern and clean stations should be our showcases in the
future. This is why we are focusing considerable effort on the
development of stations as part of Railway of the Future. In
addition to improving basic features such as cleanliness and
reliably functioning escalators and elevators, our plans include
modern waiting areas equipped with WiFi and USB sockets
to enhance the quality of station experience while waiting for
connections. We also plan to improve conditions for our S-Bahn
(metro) passengers: over the coming years, we will be renovating 31 underground S-Bahn stations.
We are also focusing with our station offensive on the
improvement of the connection of local areas to the rail network and thus reach customers who don’t live and work in
urban centers. In collaboration with the Federal states, we
plan to create 350 new stops for two million people around
Germany.

“In particular, we want to raise the
satisfaction of our customers in heavily
frequented stations to a consistent
rating of good or very good.”
Dr. André Zeug
CEO DB Station&Service

016

Scan here for more information
on Railway of the Future.

F I T F O R T H E F U T U R E — our P rogram

E XPANDING THE SERV ICE PORTFOL IO

Scan here for more information
on Railway of the Future.

REDE SIGNING R A IL FREIGHT TR ANSPORT
Our rail freight transport business is battling against a fierce­­ly
competitive environment and considerable losses in market
share. The previous business model no longer guaranteed that
DB Cargo would be fit for the future.
We are now fundamentally restructuring DB Cargo with a
new business model, and striving to defend and expand our
position as the leading rail freight transport company in
Europe. One example of these efforts is the introduction by
DB Cargo of a strong quality network with an annual timetable
and fixed frequencies for transports that can be planned over
the long term.

“We want to bring DB Cargo
back on the track to success with
a strong quality network.
Our aim is to fulfill 95 percent of
our promises to customers.”
Scan here for more information
on Railway of the Future.

Dr. Jürgen Wilder
CEO DB Cargo

017

R A ILWAY OF THE FU T UR E

We want our customers to feel at home on our trains. Our
service mentality and customer focus are commensurate with
the requirements expected of a premium product. In terms
of comfort, some attributes rank particularly highly: working
toilets, working climate control, cleanliness, availability of the
on-board restaurant and food and beverages, and telephone
and WiFi accessibility. By implementing measures that
include expanding our maintenance capacities and improving
our logistics processes, we have set a target for significant
improvements in these areas even in 2016.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

OUR CHALLENGE –
DIGITALIZATION
Identifying and seizing opportunities
There can be no doubt: digitalization is changing our markets and the environment in which we compete. We are
actively embracing the resulting challenges. How can we design new products to prevail against the competition?
Which new products and services can we offer to make the travel chain more attractive? How can we remain the first
point of contact for our customers in a digital world? The trend towards digitalization is posing more questions than
answers. It is permanently changing the mobility and transport markets. And it is precisely this aspect that makes
digitalization such a relevant topic for DB Group. Our 4.0 initiatives are helping to shape the change, and we intend
to seize the resulting opportunities.

“Unlike any other means of transport,
passengers really can spend their
time as they wish on a train. We want to
take advantage of these structural
advantages with the aid of the added
options presented by digitalization.”
Berthold Huber
Member of the Management Board,
Traffic and Transport

018

Our everyday lives are dominated by mobile technologies and the Internet, which satisfy many people’s
yearning for smart simplicity. Smartphones and tablets have become our digital companions and indispensable helpers. This trend is spawning not just new habits but, above all, new demands for products
and services and, consequently, for service providers like ourselves. Researching and linking means of
transport, reserving and paying, and organizing alternative routes all need to be made possible quickly
and easily. Smart and simple linkage is becoming increasingly important. Whoever provides it can play
a key role in shaping the mobility and logistics markets, without regard to whether they are active players
already. We need to actively address this topic and find answers to the challenges of both the present
and the future. This also includes having the courage to simply try out new approaches in collaboration
with our customers in quick decision-making processes. We are already working on this in more than
260 projects.

019

DIGITA LIZ ATIO N

FIT FOR THE FUTURE — OUR CHALLENGE

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

4.0 INI T I AT I VE S – SEI Z ING OPPORTUNI T IE S

5,200 km

The
core ICE network is fully
equipped for Internet
reception. By the end of 2016,
255 ICEs will be equipped
with the necessary
technology.
Our six initiatives
[1] Mobility 4.0 – new products based on
scenarios for digital mobility markets.

We are delving deeper into the challenges and oppor­
­tunities of digitalization in our 4.0 initiatives. Our
mission in the 4.0 era is to provide the right product
for each customer at any time, regardless of whether
that product relates to mobility or freight transport
and logistics. To this end, we are rigorously driving
the digitalization of our products and processes.
Digital competence is not a substitute for operational
excellence. When it comes specifically to the railway
in Germany, digitalization will help us to improve – im­­
provements to punctuality, for example, or passenger
information.
We have pooled our digital activities into six 4.0
initiatives aimed at actively driving digitalization in
our business with the ultimate goal of making our
products and services even more attractive, and
exploiting the efficiency potential in our processes.

Scan here for more
information on the
4.0 initiatives.

020

[2] Logistics 4.0 – development of digital
customer interfaces and Web-based
production processes.
[3] Infrastructure 4.0 – consistent networking with customers and digital
process improvements.
[4] Production 4.0 – automation and
digitalization of railway operations
and maintenance.
[5] IT 4.0 – development of a smart,
effective and efficient IT landscape.
[6] Working Environments 4.0 – developing scenarios for the professions of
the future.

F I T F O R T H E F U T U R E — O ur challenge

CHALLENGE S IN THE DIGI TAL ENV IRONMENT
The speed at which digitalization is changing the
business environment in which DB Group operates
is enormous. Many social and technological trends
are receiving a special boost from digital change.
Self-driving cars, for example, will drastically change
the mobility market in a few years’ time and will
result in different mobility behavior. 3-D printing
technology could make transport and warehousing
services superfluous in the future. These are just two
example of changes that are creating new market
structures and potential business opportunities. In
our case, they result in challenges, such as rethinking
our customer relationships, examining the viability
of our existing business models, and redesigning our
processes.

Excerpt from the DB trend landscape
[1] Smart simplicity – the demand and
readiness to pay extra for smart,
simple products and services are
increasing.
[2] Digital living – daily life, hobbies
and work are increasingly being
organized via the Internet and smart
devices.
[3] Transport innovation – cars and trucks
are becoming more interlinked,
safer and more efficient. CO₂-neutral,
fully automatic cars will be ready
for serial production before 2030.
[4] Interlinked transport systems –
customers are increasingly demanding
interlinked transport solutions.

future trends that
we have analyzed
in more detail.

Scan here for more
information on trends.

021

DIGITA LIZ ATIO N

24

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

OUR OPPORTUNITY –
GROWTH
Winning customers with products and services
Our basic direction is forward. We want to further develop DB Group based on our sustainable DB 2020 strategy. We
want to seize new opportunities in the marketplace by offering new products, such as smart and integrated mobility
and logistics solutions from a single source. To do this, we need to continue intensifying, interlinking and – where
gaps still exist – strengthen our national and international networks along the traffic flows. Our greatest growth
potential is found primarily in our DB Schenker and DB Arriva platforms. As in the past, we want to tap this potential
with a combination of organic growth and acquisitions.

“Our Group portfolio offers the
widest range of opportunities for
growth – especially in our
international business units. Even
the most environmentally friendly
of all modes of transport, the railway,
still offers enormous potential. It is
up to us to tap it in the years to come.”
Dr. Richard Lutz
Member of the Management Board,
Finance/Controlling

022

We are moving to the fore. Since the German Rail Reform in 1994, we have systematically positioned
DB Group such that our Group portfolio offers the widest range of opportunities for growth – especially in
our international business units DB Arriva and DB Schenker. The developments in recent years are commensurate with this approach. DB Group benefits considerably from its international position. And the
trend is not yet over. Both business units offer enormous potential for further growth in the years to come.
But “offense is the best defense” is a phrase that applies not just to our international business units.
Railway of the Future is our program for making rail freight transport once again fit for the future and
for generating further growth. The long-distance campaign we launched in 2015 is the biggest service
campaign ever in the history of DB Group. The most environmentally friendly of all modes of transport,
the railway, still offers enormous potential. It is up to us to tap it in the years to come.

023

GROW TH

FIT FOR THE FUTURE — OUR OPPORTUNIT Y

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

INTRODUCING A EUROPE AN PACK AGE PRODUCT

Throughout all of

Europe
DB Schenker offers
integrated parcel services
together with GLS.

DB Schenker is responding to the requests of numerous customers by offering an “all-

in-one” solution in the future. At the beginning of September, DB Schenker and pan-Euro­
­pean parcel service GLS agreed a strategic partnership at the European level.
In the future, the companies will provide mutual support to one another for their
transport services: GLS will deliver parcels for DB Schenker, while DB Schenker will handle
general cargo transports (pallets) for GLS. Thus customers of both companies can be
offered new shipping options through their relevant logistics provider. As part of the
cooperation agreement, DB Schenker will assume responsibility for part of the transport
chain and generally collect the parcels from customers along with the general cargo.
GLS will take care of the onward transport and is responsible for delivery to companies
and their customers.
The cooperation will start in Germany in March 2016 before being gradually rolled out
across Europe.

“E-commerce is a clear driver
of growth, offering outstanding
prospects for the European
parcel market. We intend to be
part of it.”
Jochen Thewes
CEO DB Schenker

Scan here for more
information on
e-commerce logistics.

024

F I T F O R T H E F U T U R E — O ur opportunit y

W INNING NEW TR ANSPORT CONTR ACTS
The competition for transport contracts is becoming
increasingly fierce, even outside of Germany. Nevertheless, DB Arriva prevailed over the strong competition in Great Britain, securing the Northern Rail
tender with a high-quality offer.
The transport contract covers rail transport in
Northern England with an annual operating capacity
of around 50 million train kilometers. This equates
to about one-third of all the transport contracts put
out to tender in Germany in 2015 and is more than
three times larger than the biggest German tenders
to date. Winning the Northern Rail tender increases
DB Arriva’s share of the British rail transport market
from 14 to 22 percent, a leap that makes DB Arriva
one of the biggest providers presently operating in
the British market.
Once the contract starts on April 1, 2016, we plan
to implement significant future quality improvements
for our customers. This will involve extensive capital
expenditures for modernizing the fleet. We are also
working on expanding capacities, cutting travel
times, raising awareness, and improving ticketing
procedures.
DB Arriva also successfully took part in tenders
in other European countries, such as Denmark and
Sweden, in 2015.

Currently

90 million
passengers travel by train
each year in Northern
England.

Dr. Manfred Rudhart
CEO DB Arriva

025

GROW TH

“We are proud of winning the
Northern Rail transport contract. We
plan to implement significant
improvements in quality for the
customers in the years to come and,
as a result, substantially
increase the volume of passengers.”
Scan here for more
information on
Northern Rail.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

S YSTEMAT IC ALLY IMPROV ING INFR A STRUCTURE

Germany’s longest
railway bridge,
the Elster-Saale valley
bridge, spans

8.6 km
at section VDE 8.2.

German unification transport project no. 8 (VDE 8) is the
largest infrastructure project in Germany. In two years’ time,
our customers on the new line between Munich and Berlin
will be traveling much faster: the journey time will be cut to
under four hours – two hours less than today.
The second stage of VDE 8, the new construction line of
Erfurt – Halle/Leipzig was put into service, as scheduled, on
December 13, 2015. As a result, the journey is significantly
faster and more comfortable for our customers, and offers
more connections. The journey from Leipzig to Erfurt, for
example, takes 30 minutes less, and passengers save a full 60
minutes on the trip from Frankfurt/Main to Dresden.
The line was built to the very latest technical standards,
including the elimination of lineside signals in accordance
with the European Train Control System (ETCS) and the integral
construction of bridges. This innovative method of construction makes bridges more durable, with a slimmer appearance
that blends better into its surroundings.
A solid system replaces the usual ballast on the track to
allow maximum speeds of up to 300 km/h on the line.

“Now that we have successfully completed
construction of the new Erfurt – Halle/
Leipzig line, we are putting all our efforts
into opening the last section of
VDE 8 from Nuremberg to Erfurt in 2017.”
Frank Sennhenn
CEO DB Netz

026

Scan here for more
information on VDE 8.

F I T F O R T H E F U T U R E — O ur opportunit y

INCRE A SING R A ILWAY SERV ICE S IN URBAN AND REGIONAL ARE A S

50 million
more passengers
per year
from 2030 onwards

S can here for more
information on our
long-distance campaign
(only in German).

“As part of our new long-distance
concept we want to connect
urban and regional areas even more
often, faster, and more directly
in the future. Our goal is to
encourage many more people to
travel by train.”
Birgit Bohle
CEO DB Long-Distance

027

GROW TH

The growing number of long-distance bus connections and declining fuel prices are
increasing the ability of automobiles, buses and aircraft to compete, and are thus exert­
­ing pressure on DB Long-Distance. Our response is the biggest service campaign ever
launched in the history of DB Long-Distance. We plan to expand our long-distance
portfolio by 25 percent between now and 2030 to enable us to gain an even larger edge
over our competitors.
In addition, more than 150 routes currently operated with IC trains will be incorporated into the new ICE network, for example, allowing our passengers to enjoy the
future comfort that will be standard in ICEs. This includes not only free use of the
infotainment portal on board, but also free WiFi hotspots in both 1st class and – in the
future – 2nd class. The new IC network will connect all major German cities with more
than 100,000 residents to the long-distance network at two-hour intervals. Thanks to
new or reinstated IC stops, a total of 190 new direct connections to Germany’s 50
largest cities – for example between Hanover and Potsdam – will be in place by 2030.
Our customers have already been able to experience the real benefits of our new
long-distance campaign since the timetable change in mid-December 2015. By putting
VDE 8.2 into service and operating additional ICE Sprinter connections, our customers
can travel significantly faster between Frankfurt and Dresden, for example.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

DB2020 – OUR COMPASS
ECONOMIC

≈

WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED

WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON

μμSeized the opportunities offered

μμImproving punctuality
μμImproving customer and passenger

by digitalization

μμIncreased the robustness of our fleet

information
Improving service and product quality
Achieving our financial targets

and infrastructure

μμ
μμ

μμSecured our long-term capital expenditures
plans with the agreement of LuFV II
Implemented initial measures to
improve our service orientation

μμ

SOCI AL

†

WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED

WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON

μμOrganized nearly 13,000 follow-up workshops

μμTransformation process to

to our 2014 employee survey
Persisted in conveying our new understanding
of leadership
Signed a collective bargaining agree­­ment
that is economically reasonable
Put an early warning reporting system in place
to avoid staff shortages

Group restructuring

μμIncreasing our employer attractiveness
μμOur 2016 employee survey
μμImplementing “Working Environments 4.0”
μμCollective bargaining agreement “Work 4.0”
μμFurther increasing the share of women
μμDeveloping the HR division

μμ
μμ
μμ

ENV IRONMENTAL

¥

WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED

WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON

μμReduced specific CO₂ emissions
μμHighest ratio of green power in the transport

μμNew climate protection target for 2020
μμComplying with the Federal Government’s

sector through the share of renewable
energy in the traction current mix
Expanded our noise reduction program
Reduced the particle emissions of our
proprietary fleet

μμ
μμ

targets for conversion to quiet brake shoes

μμImplementing noise remediation program
μμDeveloping environmental protection
targets that extend beyond 2020

μμTechnical solutions on overhead lines to
protect birds

028

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

To our
stakeholders

μμReport of the Supervisory Board

030

μμCorporate Governance report

μμThe report of the Supervisory Board of DB AG also

036

μμThe Corporate Governance report is a component

includes the report of the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG
with respect to the integrated Group management
structure for information purposes
One inaugural meeting, four ordinary meetings,
two extraordinary meetings and one strategy meeting
of the Supervisory Board
Several changes in the composition of the Supervisory Board
and the Management Board

of the Group management report

μμGood corporate governance is fundamental
to the success of the company

μμCompliance with recommendations of the Public

μμ

Corporate Governance Code with one exception

μμ

μμStakeholder dialog

045

μμCompliance and privacy report

μμOngoing dialog with stakeholders
μμFourth DB Sustainability Day drives the direction for the

μμThe Compliance and privacy report is a component
of the Group management report

future of DB Group
Train to Paris focuses on climate protection

μμCompliance instruments enhanced
μμExpansion of international privacy

μμ

029

049

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
μμSupervisory Board 

030

meetings 

μμMeetings of the 

032

μμCorporate 

Supervisory Board
committees

governance

033

μμAnnual financial 

033

statements

μμChanges in the

034
composition of the
Management Board and
the Supervisory Board

GRI
G4-33
G4-34

In view of the integrated Group management structure, the
report of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bahn AG (DB AG)
also includes, for information purposes only, the report of
the Supervisory Board of DB Mobility Logistics AG (DB ML AG).
In the year under review, the Supervisory Boards of
DB AG and DB ML AG observed the entire responsibilities
incumbent upon them by virtue of the law, the company’s
Articles of Association and its bylaws. The Supervisory Boards
extensively advised and supervised the respective Management Board in the management of the companies and business operations. The Management Boards reported regularly, without delay and in detail to the Supervisory Boards
regarding corporate planning and the business, strategic
and financial development of DB AG and its subsidiaries
respectively of DB ML AG and its subsidiaries. All significant
business events were discussed by the Supervisory Boards
and the responsible committees based on the Management
Boards’ reports. Significant deviations in the actual business development were explained by the respective Management Board and examined by the respective Supervisory Board. The Chairmen of the Supervisory Boards of
DB AG and DB ML AG maintained close contact at all times
with the Management Boards of DB AG and DB ML AG, who
regularly reported on the latest business developments at
DB AG and/or DB ML AG, upcoming business decisions and
risk management.

μμSupervisory Board meetings
μ μDB AG
The Supervisory Board of DB AG was involved in all decisions of fundamental significance for DB AG.

With the end of the last term of office in March 2015, the
Supervisory Board was reconstituted. In the year under
review, it held one inaugural meeting, four ordinary and
two extraordinary meetings as well as a strategy meeting.
One Supervisory Board member fully participated in
less than half of the meetings held in the year under review.
In the year under review, three resolutions were adopted
by written ballot. Meetings of the Executive Committee,
the Personnel Committee and the Audit and Compliance
Committee were held in preparation for the meetings of the
Supervisory Board of DB AG.
The main issues discussed in the plenary meetings were
the development of Deutsche Bahn Group’s (DB Group)
revenue, profit and employment situation, as well as significant capital expenditures and equity investment projects.
At an extraordinary meeting in July 2015, the Supervisory
Board approved a new direction for DB Group and the
related changes to the Management Board and changes to
the allocation of duties handled by the Management Board.
In its subsequent meetings in the year under review, the
Supervisory Board intensively discussed the progress of
Group restructuring, in particular the Railway of the Future
program, which aims at achieving a sustainable increase in
the quality and performance of the German rail system. The
Supervisory Board also extensively discussed the presentation of the measures foreseen for DB Group’s financial
planning.
In the scheduled meetings held during the year under
review, the Supervisory Board again dealt intensively with
the progress and costs of the major Stuttgart 21/Wendlingen-Ulm project and the situation in long-distance rail passenger transport. Especially in the first half of 2015, the
Supervisory Board was regularly informed about the strike
action taken by the German Train Drivers’ Union (Gewerkschaft Deutscher Lokomotivfuhrer; GDL) and its impact on
the economic situation of DB Group.

030

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

Prof. Dr. Dr.
Utz-Hellmuth Felcht,
Chairman of the
Supervisory Board of
Deutsche Bahn AG

The Supervisory Board also discussed the strategy of DB
Group and of the major business units and Group divisions
at its special strategy meeting. At this meeting, the market
and competitive situation of the major business units, in
particular the effects of increasing digitalization and the
continued development and integration of modern IT procedures into business processes were intensively discussed
within the framework of the digitalization strategy of DB
Group.
The Supervisory Board was also informed of significant
individual items and adopted the necessary resolutions. For
example, the Supervisory Board set targets as required by
the entry into force of the “Act for Equal Participation of
Women and Men in Management Positions in the Private
and Public Sector.”
In addition, in December, the Supervisory Board provided
advice on medium-term planning for 2016 to 2020 for DB
Group and approved both DB Group’s budget for the 2016
financial year and DB Group’s capital expenditure planning
for 2016 to 2020.

μ μDB ML AG
The Supervisory Board of DB ML AG was involved in all decisions of fundamental significance for DB ML AG.
With the end of the last period of office in March 2015,
the Supervisory Board was reconstituted. In the year under
review, it held one inaugural meeting and four ordinary and
two extraordinary meetings as well as a strategy meeting.
One Supervisory Board member fully participated in
less than half of the meetings held in the year under review.

In the year under review, one resolution was adopted by
written ballot. Meetings of the Executive Committee, the
Personnel Committee and the Audit and Compliance Committee were held in preparation for the meetings of the
Supervisory Board.
The main issues discussed in the plenary meetings were
the development of DB Mobility Logistics Group’s (DB ML
Group) revenue, profit and employment situation, as well
as significant capital expenditures and equity investment
projects. At an extraordinary meeting in July 2015, the
Supervisory Board approved a new direction for DB ML
Group and the related changes to the Management Board
and changes to the allocation of duties handled by the
Management Board. In its subsequent meetings in the year
under review, the Supervisory Board intensively discussed
the progress of Group restructuring, in particular the
Railway of the Future program, which aims at achieving a
sustainable increase in the quality and performance of the
German rail system. The Supervisory Board also extensively
discussed the presentation of the measures foreseen for
DB ML Group’s financial planning.
In its scheduled meetings held during the year under
review, the Supervisory Board again regularly dealt with the
situation in long-distance rail passenger transport. Especially in the first half of 2015, the Supervisory Board was
regularly informed about the strike action taken by the GDL
and its impact on the economic situation of DB ML Group.
The Supervisory Board also discussed the strategy of
DB ML Group and of the major business units and Group
divisions at its special strategy meeting. At this meeting,
the market and competitive situation of the major business
units, in particular the effects of increasing digitalization

031

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

and the continued development and inclusion of modern IT
procedures into business processes were intensively discussed within the framework of the digitalization strategy
of DB ML Group.
The Supervisory Board was also informed of significant
individual items and adopted the necessary resolutions. For
example, the Supervisory Board set targets as required by
the entry into force of the “Act for Equal Participation of
Women and Men in Management Positions in the Private
and Public Sector.”
In addition, in December, the Supervisory Board provided advice on medium-term planning for 2016 to 2020 for
DB ML Group and approved DB ML Group’s budget for the
2016 financial year and DB ML Group’s capital expenditure
planning for 2016 to 2020.

μμMeetings of the Supervisory
Board committees

μ μDB AG
The Supervisory Board of DB AG has established four permanent committees to facilitate its work efficiently.
The Supervisory Board’s Executive Committee met five
times in the year under review and was in regular contact
with the Management Board regarding all major business
policy issues. In its meetings, it focused in particular on
preparing the focal topics for each of the Supervisory Board
meetings.
The Audit and Compliance Committee met five times
during the year under review, addressing, in particular, the
Group’s current financial situation and individual business
units, the risk reporting, the quarterly and half-year financial statements, and the review findings concerning these.
The Audit and Compliance Committee discussed in detail
the progress and costs of the major Stuttgart 21 project in
the Management Board’s quarterly reports, each of which
was accompanied by a review by the auditors. In its Decem­
­ber meeting, the committee also discussed in detail the
budget and capital expenditure plan submitted and the
medium-term planning of DB Group. The committee also
continued to address updates in corporate governance and
the internal controlling system necessitated by the German
Accounting Law Modernization Act (Bilanzrechtsmodernisierungsgesetz; BilMoG). The Audit and Compliance Committee also received regular information on compliance-related investigations and internal audit findings. In addition,

the committee discussed the hiring of the auditor for the
financial statements and the progress of the auditing process. The committee also dealt with the financial development of acquisitions and the regular efficiency audit conducted in 2015 and prepared an evaluation thereof; the
committee was also informed of individual items of financial importance. The Chairman of the Audit and Compliance
Committee was in regular contact with the Management
Board and the external auditor, and reported regularly and
in detail on the committee’s work to the full Supervisory
Board.
In the year under review, the Personnel Committee held
four regular meetings and three extraordinary meetings to
prepare Management Board-related matters for discussion
by the Supervisory Board. The committee dealt in particular with the Management Board members’ performance
target attainment for 2014 and the Management Board’s
performance target agreements for the year under review.
The Personnel Committee also worked intensively to prepare personnel changes in the Management Board of DB AG
for the Supervisory Board.
The Mediation Committee established in accordance with
section 27 (3) of the German Co-Determination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz; MitbestG) did not have occasion to
meet in the year under review.

μ μDB ML AG
The Supervisory Board of DB ML AG has established four
permanent committees to facilitate its work efficiently.
The Supervisory Board’s Executive Committee met five
times in the year under review and was in regular contact
with the Management Board regarding all major business
policy issues. In its meetings, it focused in particular on
preparing the focal topics for each of the Supervisory Board
meetings.
The Audit and Compliance Committee met five times
during the year under review, addressing, in particular, the
Group’s current financial situation and individual business
units, the risk reporting, the quarterly and half-year financial
statements, and the review findings concerning these. In its
December meeting, the committee also discussed in detail
the budget and capital expenditure plan submitted and the
medium-term planning of DB ML Group. The committee also

032

T O O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S — R eport o f the S uper v isory B oard

μμCorporate governance
During the year under review, the Management Boards and
Supervisory Boards of DB AG and DB ML AG again considered the further development of corporate governance. In
a Cabinet decision on July 1, 2009, the German Federal Government adopted the Public Corporate Governance Code
(PCGK). The PCGK sets out the essential provisions of appli­
­cable law governing the management and monitoring of
non-listed companies in which the Federal Republic of Germany holds a majority stake, while outlining the internationally and nationally acknowledged principles of good and
responsible corporate governance. The Supervisory Boards
of DB AG and DB ML AG dealt with the application of the
PCGK within DB Group and DB ML Group respectively and
adopted the necessary resolutions.

μμAnnual financial statements
μ μDB AG
The annual financial statements and management report
of DB AG, as prepared by the Management Board, and the
consolidated financial statements and Group management
report for the period ending on December 31, 2015 were
audited and awarded an unqualified audit opinion by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungs­
­gesellschaft (P wC), the auditor appointed by resolution at
the Annual General Meeting. The auditor also reviewed the
risk management system (RMS) as part of the annual audit
of the financial statements, noting no objections.
The auditor’s report was reviewed by the Audit and Com­
­pliance Committee in its meeting held on March 11, 2016
and was discussed in full at the Supervisory Board’s financial statements meeting held on March 15, 2016, in the presence of the auditors who signed the audit reports. The
auditors reported on the salient audit findings and were
available to answer questions. The Supervisory Board concurred with the audit findings.
The Supervisory Board reviewed the annual financial
statements and management report of DB AG, the consolidated financial statements and Group management report
for the year under review, and the proposal for the appropriation of profits, noting no objections. The DB AG financial statements for the 2015 financial year were approved
and thereby adopted.
The auditor additionally reviewed the report on relationships with affiliated companies prepared by the Management Board. The auditors issued an unqualified audit
opinion and reported on their audit findings.
The Supervisory Board also reviewed this report, raising
no objections concerning the Management Board’s concluding declaration contained in the report or the audit
conducted by P wC.

μ μDB ML AG
The annual financial statements and management report
of DB ML AG, as prepared by the Management Board, and
the consolidated financial statements and Group management report for the period ending on December 31, 2015
were audited and awarded an unqualified audit opinion by
P w C , the auditor appointed by resolution at the Annual
General Meeting. The auditor also reviewed the risk management system as part of the annual audit of the financial
statements, noting no objections.

033

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

continued to address updates in corporate governance and
the internal controlling system necessitated by the BilMoG.
The Audit and Compliance Committee also received regular
information on compliance-related investigations and in­­
ternal audit findings. In addition, the committee discussed
the hiring of an auditor for the financial statements and the
progress of the auditing process. The committee also dealt
with the financial development of acquisitions and the regular efficiency audit conducted in 2015 and prepared an
evaluation thereof; the committee was also informed of
individual items of financial importance. The Chairman of
the Audit and Compliance Commit­­tee was in regular contact with the Management Board and the external auditor,
and reported regularly and in detail on the committee’s
work to the full Supervisory Board.
In the year under review, the Personnel Committee held
four regular meetings and three extraordinary meetings to
prepare Management Board-related matters for discussion
by the Supervisory Board. The committee dealt in particular
with the Management Board members’ performance target
attainment for 2014 and the Management Board’s performance target agreements for the year under review. The
Personnel Committee also worked intensively to prepare
personnel changes in the Management Board of DB ML AG
for the Supervisory Board.
The Mediation Committee established in accordance
with section 27 (3) of the MitbestG did not have occasion
to meet in the year under review.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

The auditor’s report was reviewed by the Audit and Compliance Committee in its meeting held on March 11, 2016
and was discussed in full at the Supervisory Board’s financial statements meeting held on March 15, 2016, in the presence of the auditors who signed the audit reports. The
auditors reported on the salient audit findings and were
available to answer questions. The Supervisory Board concurred with the audit findings.
The Supervisory Board reviewed the annual financial
statements and management report of DB ML AG, the consolidated financial statements and Group management
report for the year under review, and the proposal for the
appropriation of profits, noting no objections. The DB ML AG
financial statements for the 2015 financial year were approved
and thereby adopted.
The auditor additionally reviewed the report on relation­
ships with affiliated companies prepared by the Management Board. The auditors issued an unqualified audit opinion
and reported on their audit findings.
The Supervisory Board also reviewed this report, raising
no objections concerning the Management Board’s concluding declaration contained in the report or the audit con­
­ducted by P wC.

μμChanges in the composition
of the Management Board
and the Supervisory Board

μ μDB AG
In the year under review, the following changes were made
in the Management Board of DB AG. Gerd Becht and Dr. Heike
Hanagarth resigned their mandates as members of the
Management Board of DB AG as of July 31, 2015. Mr. Becht
was responsible for the Board division Compliance, Privacy,
Legal Affairs and Group Security; Dr. Hanagarth was respon­
­sible for the Board division Technology and Environment.
At its extraordinary meeting on July 27, 2015, the Supervisory Board appointed Ronald Pofalla to the Management
Board of DB AG with effect from August 1, 2015 to July 31,
2018. Mr. Pofalla is responsible for the recently created
Board division Economic, Legal and Regulatory Affairs.
At its extraordinary meeting on July 27, 2015, the Supervisory Board appointed Berthold Huber to the Management Board of DB AG with effect from August 1, 2015 to July
31, 2018. He is responsible for the recently created Board
division Traffic and Transport.

At its extraordinary meeting on July 27, 2015, the Super­
visory Board approved the appointment of Dr. Volker Kefer
as Deputy Chairman of DB AG for the duration of his current
appointment to the Management Board of DB AG.
The term of office of the members of the Supervisory
Board elected by the Annual General Meeting on March 24,
2010 (Christoph Dänzer-Vanotti, Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth
Felcht, Dr. Jürgen Grossmann, Kirsten Lühmann, Prof. Dr.
Knut Löschke, Dr. Jürgen Krumnow and Dr. Heinrich Weiss),
the term of office of the members of the Super­visory Board
appointed by the Federal Government (State Secretary
Michael Odenwald from the Federal Ministry of Transport
and Digital Infrastructure (Bundesministerium für Verkehr
und digi­tale Infrastruktur; BMVI), State Secretary Dr. Thomas
Steffen from the Federal Ministry of Finance (Bundesminis­
­terium der Finanzen; BMF) and Parliamentary State Secretary Brigitte Zypries from the Federal Ministry for Economic
Affairs and Energy (Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und
Energie; BMWi) and the employee representatives on the
Supervisory Board of DB AG expired at the end of the
Annual General Meeting held on March 18, 2015 that passed
a resolution approving the actions of the Supervisory Board
for the 2014 financial year.
The Annual General Meeting elected Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht, Dr. Michael Frenzel, Dr. Ingrid Hengster, Prof.
Dr. Susanne Knorre, Dr. Jurgen Krumnow, Dr. Jürgen Großmann
and Kirsten Luhmann, effective March 18, 2015, to the Super­
­visory Board of DB AG for a term until the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting that passes a resolution approving
the actions during the fourth financial year following the
start of their term. Steffen Kampeter, State Secretary Michael
Odenwald from the BMVI and Parliamentary State Secretary
Brigitte Zypries from the BMWi were appointed to the Supervisory Board of DB AG by written notice dated March 5, 2015.
At its meeting on March 11, 2015, the delegates Assem­
­bly of employees elected Heike Moll as successor to Vitus
Miller, who left the Supervisory Board on March 18, 2015;
in addition, it also re-elected the following persons to the
Supervisory Board of DB AG: Jurgen Beuttler, Jörg Hensel,
Klaus-Dieter Hommel, Alexander Kirchner, Ludwig Koller,
Fred Nowka, Mario Reiß, Regina Rusch-­Ziemba and Jens
Schwarz. Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht was elected as
Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Alexander Kirchner
was elected as his deputy.

034

μ μDB ML AG
In the year under review, the following changes were made
in the Management Board of DB ML AG. Gerd Becht, Dr. Heike
Hanagarth, Ulrich Homburg and Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch
resigned their mandates as members of the Management
Board of DB ML AG as of the end of July 31, 2015. Mr. Becht
was responsible for the Board division Compliance, Privacy,
Legal Affairs and Group Security, Mr. Homburg for the Board
division Passenger Transport, Dr. Rausch for the Board Division Transport and Logistics and Dr. Hanagarth for the Board
division Technology and Environment.
At its extraordinary meeting on July 27, 2015, the Supervisory Board appointed Ronald Pofalla to the Management
Board of DB ML AG with effect from August 1, 2015 to July 31,
2018. Mr. Pofalla is responsible for the recently created
Board division Economic, Legal and Regulatory Affairs.
At its extraordinary meeting on July 27, 2015, the Supervisory Board appointed Berthold Huber to the Management Board of DB ML AG with effect from August 1, 2015 to
July 31, 2018. He is responsible for the recently created
Board division Traffic and Transport.
At its extraordinary meeting on July 27, 2015, the Supervisory Board approved the appointment of Dr. Volker Kefer
as Deputy Chairman of DB ML AG for the duration of his
current appointment to the Management Board of DB ML AG.
The term of office of the members of the Supervisory
Board elected by the Annual General Meeting on March 24,
2010 (Professor Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht, Dr. Jürgen
Krumnow, State Secretary Michael Odenwald from the
BMVI, State Secretary Dr. Thomas Steffen from the BMF,
Dr. Heinrich Weiss and Parliamentary State Secretary Brigitte
Zypries from the BMWi, and the employee representatives
on the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG expired at the end of
the Annual General Meeting on March 18, 2015 that passed
a resolution approving the actions of the Supervisory Board
for the 2014 financial year.
The Annual General Meeting elected the following persons to the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG: Prof. Dr. Dr. UtzHellmuth Felcht, Dr. Ingrid Hengster, Steffen Kampeter,
Dr. Jürgen Krumnow, State Secretary Michael Odenwald
from the BMVI and Parliamentary State Secretary Brigitte
Zypries from the BMWi, effective March 18, 2015, for a term
until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting that
passes a resolution approving the actions during the fourth
financial year following the start of their term.

On March 18, 2015, Wolfgang Erler, Wolfgang Zell and
Heike Moll also left the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG as
employee representatives. They were succeeded by KlausDieter Hommel, Jürgen Knörzer and Gerhard Schlauer, who
were also elected to the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG on
January 15, 2015 along with Sabine Groben, Alexander
Kirchner and Margarita Kiefer. Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth
Felcht was elected as Chairman of the Supervisory Board,
and Alexander Kirchner was elected as his deputy.
The Supervisory Board thanks the departing members
of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board for
their committed and constructive support of the company.
The Supervisory Board would also like to thank the
Management Board, the employees and the works council
representatives of DB AG and DB ML AG and affiliated companies for their achievements in the year under review.

Berlin, March 2016
For the Supervisory Board

Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
of Deutsche Bahn AG

035

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

T O O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S — R eport o f the S uper v isory B oard

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
μμStatement 

036

of compliance

μμCompliance039

μμCooperation 

036
between the Management Board and
Supervisory Board

μμAccounting

039

and auditing

GRI
G4-34
G4-56

μμTransparency038

μμRisk management

038

μμEfficiency audit

μμCompensation 

039

of the Supervisory
Board

Corporate governance rules are intended to ensure good,
responsible, value-focused company management. On July 1,
2009, the German Federal Government adopted the Public
Corporate Governance Code (PCGK) regulating the principles of good corporate and investment management. The
PCGK sets out the essential provisions of applicable law
governing the management and monitoring of non-listed
companies in which the Federal Republic of Germany holds
a majority stake, while outlining the internationally and
nationally acknowledged principles of good and responsible corporate governance. The objective of the PCGK is to
make the management and oversight of companies more
transparent and easier to understand as well as to establish
more precisely the role of the Federal Government as a
shareholder in such companies. Concurrently, the intention
is to increase awareness of good corporate governance.
We are convinced that good corporate governance is
fundamental to the success of DB Group. Our aim is to
sustainably increase the enterprise value so as to promote
the interests of customers, business partners, investors,
employees and the public, while maintaining and expanding
trust in DB Group.

μμStatement of compliance
The Management Board and the Supervisory Board of DB AG
hereby issue the following joint statement: “Since the last
statement of compliance was published on March 18, 2015,
DB AG has complied with the recommendations adopted by
the Federal Government on July 1, 2009, concerning the
PCGK , with the exception of point 3.3.2 (the insurance
deductible when taking out D&O liability insurance for the
Supervisory Board). DB AG will continue to comply with the
regulations with the exception mentioned above in the
future, until a decision is reached concerning deductibles
for the Supervisory Board.”

039

report

A statement of compliance was also issued by the Manage-

ment Board and Supervisory Board of DB ML AG for DB ML AG
with the same exceptions.
DB AG and DB ML AG intend to continue to comply with
the other recommendations of the PCGK in future.

μμCooperation between the
Management Board
and Supervisory Board

As a German Aktiengesellschaft (joint stock corporation),
DB AG and DB ML AG are subject to a two-tier management
and monitoring structure in the form of the Management
Board and Supervisory Board. These two bodies are strictly
segregated in terms of both their membership and their
competencies. The Management Board manages the company solely on its own joint responsibility. The Supervisory
Board monitors the activities of the Management Board and
is responsible for appointing members to, and dismissing
members from, the Management Board.
In the interests of optimum company management, we
see it as very important for the Management Board and the
Supervisory Board to maintain continuous dialog with each
other and to work together efficiently and in an atmosphere of mutual trust for the benefit of the company. The
Management Board provides the Supervisory Board with
regular, prompt, comprehensive information on all matters
relevant to the company, particularly those concerning
planning, business development, risk position and the risk
management, as well as the internal control system.
An overview of the MEMBERS OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD AND
SUPERVISORY BOARD [PAGE 263 FF.] of DB AG, including the mandates they hold, is provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

036

μ μMANAGEMENT BOARD
The Management Board manages the company on its own
joint responsibility. It is required to safeguard the interests
of the company and is committed to achieving sustainable
growth of company value. It specifies the corporate objectives and defines the strategies to be implemented in order
to attain these objectives. The Management Board is responsible for making decisions on all matters of fundamental and
key importance for the company.
On August 1, 2015, the number of Board divisions at
DB AG and DB ML AG was unified and reduced on the basis
of the resolutions of the Supervisory Boards of DB AG and
DB ML AG.
The Board division Infrastructure and Services of DB AG
and the Board division Services of DB ML AG were each
renamed Infrastructure, Services and Technology. The division Traffic and Transport was newly established in the Man­
­agement Board of DB AG, and the existing Board division
Passenger Transport of DB ML AG was renamed Traffic and
Transport. The Compliance, Privacy, Legal Affairs and Group
Security divisions of DB AG and DB ML AG were each re­­
named Economic, Legal and Regulatory Affairs. The Board
divisions Technology and Environment, and Transport and
Lo­­gistics were dissolved and the functions assigned to these
divisions were allocated to the remaining Board divisions.
The Management Board of DB AG and DB ML AG now
consist of six divisions each. As well as the division of the
CEO, the Management Board also encompasses the following
divisions: Finance/Controlling; Personnel; Economics, Legal
and Regulatory Affairs; Traffic and Transport; and Infrastruc­
­ture, Services and Technology.
The Management Board members must discuss any conflicts of interest with the Supervisory Board immediately
and must also notify their colleagues on the Management
Board of these. There were no conflicts of interest during
the year under review. In order to ensure integrated Group
management, the meetings of the Management Board of
DB AG are generally held jointly with those of the Management Board of DB ML AG.

μ μSUPERVISORY BOARD
The Supervisory Board advises and monitors the Management Board in its management of the company.
In line with the requirements of the German Co-Determination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz; MitbestG), the Super­
­visory Board of DB AG consists of 20 members, of whom ten
members are shareholders’ representatives and ten members are employee representatives. Some of the shareholders’ representatives are seconded to the Supervisory
Board and some are elected at the Annual General Meeting.

The employees’ representatives on the Supervisory Board
are elected in line with the requirements of the Co-Determination Act.
In line with the requirements of the German Co-Determination Act, the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG consists
of 12 members, of whom six members are shareholders’
representatives and six are employee representatives. The
shareholders’ representatives are elected at the Annual
General Meeting. The employees’ representatives on the
Supervisory Board are elected in line with the requirements
of the Co-Determination Act.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of DB AG and
DB ML AG is Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht. PER SONAL OR
BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS [PAGE 251] of the individual Supervisory Board members of each company are stated in the
Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The Supervisory Board members must discuss any conflicts of interest with the Supervisory Board immediately
and must also provide the Supervisory Board with information about any such conflicts. There were no conflicts of
interest during the year under review.
Transactions of fundamental importance and other
Man­­agement Board decisions with a major impact on the
business activities and on the asset, financial and profit
situation of the company require the authorization of the
Supervisory Board. The Management Board reports to the
Supervisory Boards of DB AG and DB ML AG on the development of business and the position of the Group at least
once every quarter. The Management Board also reports to
the Supervisory Board regularly on all measures implemented
within the company that are intended to ensure compliance
with laws and corporate regulations. In addition to the au­­
diting and approval of the company’s annual financial statements, the tasks of the Supervisory Board include audit­­ing
the company’s management report, the consolidated financial statements, and the Group management report. The
Supervisory Board also monitors the accounting process,
the effectiveness of the internal control system, the risk
management system, and the internal audit system, as well
as the process of auditing the annual financial statements.
In addition, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is in
regular contact with the Management Board and specifically the Chairman of the Management Board to discuss
company strategy, business development and risk management. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives regular reports from the Chairman of the Management Board
on all events that are of key importance for assessing the
company’s situation and development, as well as for its
management.

037

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

T O O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S — C orporate G o v ernance report

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

There were no consultancy agreements or other comparable service agreements or contracts for services between
the members of the Supervisory Board and DB AG or be­­
tween the members of the Supervisory Board and DB ML AG
in the year under review.

μμJoint Supervisory Board meetings
The Supervisory Board of DB AG and the Supervisory Board
of DB ML AG meet regularly with the aim of increasing the
efficiency of the consultation process. Resolutions of the
respective Supervisory Board are adopted by their members. The possibility still exists for separate Supervisory
Board meetings to be held.

μμSupervisory Board committees
In order to enable the Supervisory Board to carry out its
monitoring activities to the best of its abilities, the Supervisory Boards of DB AG and DB ML AG have made use of the
option of setting up further committees in addition to the
Mediation Committee, which has to be set up in accordance
with the Co-Determination Act. The Supervisory Boards
have each created an Executive Committee, an Audit and
Compliance Committee, and a Personnel Committee. A list
of the members of these COMMITTEES [PAGE 265] can be found
in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The
Supervisory Board reports on the WORK OF THE COMMITTEES
[PAGE 32 F.] in the year under review in its report. Details of
the FUNCTIONS OF THE INDIVIDUAL COMMITTEES Œ can be found
on our Web site.

μ μSHARE OF WOMEN ON THE
MANAGEMENT BOARD
AND SUPERVISORY BOARD
There are currently six women serving on the Supervisory
Board of DB AG . A target of 30% share of women on the
Supervisory Board of DB AG was set, with a deadline of June
30, 2017; this target was achieved with the new composition
of the Board on March 18, 2015.
There are currently no women on the Management Board
of DB AG. A target of 15% share of women on the Management Board of DB AG was set, with a deadline of June 30,
2017.
At the other managerial levels of DB AG the following
medium-term targets have been set (deadline June 30, 2017):
at the first managerial level below the Management Board
a 26.1% share of women, and on the second managerial level
below the Management Board a 30.9% share of women.

There are currently four women serving on the Supervisory
Board of DB ML AG. A target of 30% share of women in the
Supervisory Board of DB ML AG was set, with a deadline of
June 30, 2017; this target was achieved with the new composition of the Board on March 18, 2015.
There are currently no women on the Management Board
of DB ML AG. A target of a 15% share of women on the Management Board of DB ML AG was set, with a deadline of June
30, 2017.
At the other managerial levels of DB ML AG the following
medium-term targets have been set (deadline June 30, 2017):
at the first managerial level below the Management Board
a 24.6% share of women, and on the second managerial level
below the Management Board a 31.1% share of women.

μμTransparency
All important information regarding the consolidated and
annual financial statements, the interim report, the financial calendar and information on reportable security transactions can be found on our WEB SITE Œ . In addition, we provide regular information on current developments within
the framework of our investor relations activities and corporate communication.

μμRisk Management
Good management also encompasses a responsible approach
to the risks and opportunities arising in connection with
business operations. The early identification and limitation
of business risks is therefore of paramount importance to
the Management Board and the Supervisory Board.
The Management Board is responsible for ensuring adequate risk management and monitoring this within the company, and for continuously improving both of these things.
The German Accounting Law Modernization Act (Bilanzrechtsmodernisierungsgesetz; BilMoG) precisely defines
the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board with regard to
monitoring the accounting process and ensuring the effectiveness of the internal control system, the RMS and the
internal audit system. For the Supervisory Board to be able
to discharge this responsibility, it must be provided with

038

suitable information based on which it can form an opinion
on the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems. Regular
reports are made to the Audit and Compliance Committee
concerning the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal
control system. In addition, the Management Board reports
to the Audit and Compliance Committee regarding risks of
major importance to the Group companies and the handling of these risks by the Management Board. It also monitors whether the early-warning risk system complies with
the requirements of section 91 (2) of the German Stock
Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz; AktG).

μμCompliance
Compliance is an integral component of the corporate and
leadership culture in DB Group. To us, compliance means
ensuring our business activities comply with the relevant
laws and regulations that apply to them.
Our compliance activities focus on preventing corruption
and other corporate crime, as well as the consistent fight
to combat it. Mandatory compliance policies serve to protect
DB Group, our employees and our executives. Increasing
awareness among our employees and executives remains
of great importance, because only risk-aware employees
can recognize risks and successfully avoid or, at least, minimize them.
The compliance work of DB Group includes the early
detection of compliance risks as well as the introduction of
relevant countermeasures. This work includes conducting
compliance programs, constant communication and process improvements.
Additional information on the topic of compliance can
be found in our COMPLIANCE AND PRIVACY REPORT [PAGE 49 F.] or
on our WEB SITE Œ.

μμAccounting and auditing
On March 18, 2015, the Annual General Meetings of DB AG
and DB ML AG appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktien­
gesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (P wC), Berlin,
as auditor for the 2015 financial year. The Audit and Compliance Committees prepared the proposals of the Supervisory Boards regarding the election of the auditor and,
following the election of the auditor by the Annual General
Meeting, defined the key audit aspects in conjunction with

the auditor. Once again this year it was agreed with the
auditor that the Chairman of the Audit and Compliance
Committee will be notified of any possible reasons for
exclusion or prejudice that emerge in the course of the
audit. It was also agreed that the Chairman of the committee will be notified immediately by the auditor of any
separate findings and any irregularities in the statement of
compliance.

μμEfficiency audit of the
Supervisory Board

The Supervisory Board regularly monitors the efficiency of
its activities. An efficiency audit is carried out every two
years. The last efficiency audit took place in the year under
review.

μμCompensation report
The compensation report outlines the compensation system
and lists the individual compensation of the members of
the Management Board and the Supervisory Board.

μ μTHE COMPENSATION SYSTEM OF
THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
The compensation system for the Management Board of
DB AG and DB ML AG aims to provide appropriate compensation to the Management Board members in accordance
with their duties and areas of responsibility, while at the
same time directly taking into account the performance of
each Management Board member and the success of the
company.
The appropriate level of compensation is reviewed regularly using a comparison process. This review examines
the level of Management Board compensation both in comparison to the external market (horizontal appropriateness)
and in comparison to other levels of compensation within
the company (vertical appropriateness). If the review shows
a need to adjust the compensation system or the level of
compensation, the Personnel Committee of the Supervisory
Board submits its proposals in this regard to the Supervisory
Board for approval.

039

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

T O O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S — C orporate G o v ernance report

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μCOMPENSATION COMPONENTS
The total compensation for Management Board members
consists of fixed basic compensation, a performance-linked
annual director’s fee and a long-term bonus program based
on multi-year figures (long-term incentive program). Total
compensation also includes benefit commitments, other
commitments and ancillary benefits.
Fixed basic compensation is cash compensation linked
to the financial year. It is based on the scope of responsibil­
­ity and the experience of each Management Board member.
The individually defined fixed income is paid out in 12 equal
installments.
The annual performance-linked director’s fee is calculated using a factor linked to the achievement of business
targets (director’s fee factor) and the achievement of individual targets (performance factor). There is a multiplicative link between the director’s fee factor and the performance factor. The director’s fee factor depends on the level
of success in attaining the business targets set out by corporate planning. The parameters for this relationship are in
equal parts operational success (operating income after
interest) and return on capital employed (ROCE).
The performance factor reflects success in meeting personal targets. The target fee corresponds to the annual
director’s fee paid to the Management Board member in a
“normal financial year” for fully meeting performance targets (meeting targets). If the Group results do not meet
planned objectives, the director’s fee factor can, in extreme
cases, be reduced to zero, regardless of personal performance. This means that the annual director’s fee can be zero.
If planned objectives are sufficiently exceeded and the maximum performance factor is also achieved, the annual director’s fee can amount to 2.6 times the target director’s fee.
The business and personal targets of the Management
Board members are decided by the Supervisory Board each
year based on recommendations from the Personnel Committee, and are then agreed in writing with the Management Board members.
Together with the corporate planning adopted by the
Supervisory Board, the personal targets form the basis for
assessing the annual director’s fee. This means that all of
the key parameters for total compensation are established
at the beginning of the financial year.

At the end of each financial year, the director’s fee and the
personal performance factor are calculated for each Management Board member based on Group results. Target
income is attained if both Group and individual targets
have been met in full. The final decision on this matter is
made by the Supervisory Board and is prepared by the Personnel Committee.
The long-term incentive element is determined based
on the sustained increase in the value of the company. This
basis for calculation rewards the attainment and/or exceed­
­ing of the operating profit targets included in the mediumterm planning and the effects of these on the enterprise
value. After the end of each planning period, the increase
in value achieved in comparison to the company’s original
planning and the payment factor are calculated. A peergroup comparison is then used to adjust the payout ratio of
the long-term incentive to reflect the external performance
of the company compared with a peer group. The term of
each plan is four years.
The payment amount for the long-term incentive plan
has an upper limit and can vary between 0% and 300%.
Claims from the long-term incentive plan are inheritable.
The Management Board members are entitled to an
appropriate severance fee if their contract is terminated
before the stipulated termination date provided that the
Management Board member was not personally responsible
through his or her actions for the termination. The severance fee is based on the remaining term of the contract,
the agreed target salary and, where applicable, the pension
benefits already owed by DB AG or DB ML AG for the remain­
­der of the contract.
In accordance with the recommendations of the PCGK,
a severance fee cap is included in all contracts of members
of the Management Boards of DB AG and DB ML AG. This
cap means that payments made to a Management Board
member due to premature termination of Management
Board duties cannot, without good cause as defined by
section 626 of the German Civil Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch; BGB), exceed the value of two years’ salary, including
variable compensation components, and must not provide
compensation for more than the remaining term of the
employment agreement.
Management Board members do not receive any additional compensation for mandates exercised in control
bodies of Group companies or affiliated companies.

04 0

μμPension entitlements
The Supervisory Boards of DB AG and of DB ML AG have set
a general retirement age of 65 for Management Board
members. After leaving the company, Management Board
members are entitled to pension payments. At the latest
upon reaching the age of 65, a Management Board member
is entitled to a lifelong pension if the term of employment
ends due to permanent invalidity, or if the contract is terminated before the agreed termination date or is not ex­­
tended, where the Board member was not responsible for
the termination, or if the Management Board member refuses
to continue the contract under the same or more beneficial
conditions.
Company pension commitments are based on a percentage of base salary depending on the length of time
that the Management Board member has been with the
company. Pension commitments include lifelong retirement
and surviving dependent benefits. There is no lump-sum
payment option.
In addition to Management Board member contracts
entered into before January 1, 2009, a reinsurance policy
was concluded to cover company pension benefits.

Contractual ancillary benefits

μμ

The contractual ancillary benefits for members of the Management Board include a company car with driver for business and personal use, a personal BahnCard 100 First free
travel card and standard insurance coverage. A housing

allowance is provided for second homes where these are
required for business purposes. Where these non-cash benefits cannot be granted on a tax-free basis, they are taxed
as non-monetary benefits for which the Management
Board members are fully responsible. Management Board
members, like any other member of the Group’s executive
staff, can choose to take part in the company’s deferred
compensation program.
The members of the Management Board are covered by
liability insurance against financial losses incurred due to
working for DB AG and/or DB ML AG (D&O insurance). In
the 2015 financial year, this insurance was offered as a
Group insurance policy with a legally established deductible. It provides coverage for potential financial losses that
could arise from carrying out Management Board activities.
The insurance cover of the existing D&O insurance policy
is valid for a period of five years after termination of activities as a member of the Management Board.

μ μCOMPENSATION FOR THE
2015 FINANCIAL YEAR
μμDB AG Management Board
The director’s fee for the previous financial year is due at
the end of the month in which the company’s Annual General Meeting takes place.
The members of the DB AG Management Board will
receive the following compensation for their work during
the year under review:
Variable compensation

Fixed
compensation

Remuneration
in connection
with the early
termination of
service

Short-term 1)

Dr. Rüdiger Grube

900

–

522

Dr. Volker Kefer

650

–

325

Berthold Huber (since August 1, 2015)

167

–

105

Dr. Richard Lutz

650

–

Ronald Pofalla (since August 1, 2015)

167

Ulrich Weber

715

Gerd Becht (until July 31, 2015)
Dr. Heike Hanagarth (until July 31, 2015)

3,899

Total compensation of the Management Board
[€ thousand]

Long-term
(payment
2016)

Long-term 2)

Other 3)

Total 4)

–

–

17

1,440

–

60

17

992

–

–22

12

284

361

–

83

25

1,036

–

105

–

38

11

283

–

334

–

15

9

1,057

417

2,824

–

–

–36

18

3,260

233

1,811

–

–

125

19

2,063

4,635

1,752

–

263

129

10,415

INCUMBENT MEMBER S OF THE MANAGEMENT
BOARD OF DB AG AS OF DECEMBER 31, 201 5

MEMBERS THAT LEFT THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
OF DB AG DURING THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW

Total
Individual figures are rounded and therefore may not add up.
1)

Subject to the decision of the Supervisory Board.

2)

Long-term variable compensation refers to additions to and releases of provisions for long-term incentives.

3)

Non-cash benefits accruing from travel discounts, usage of company cars, and insurance and housing allowances.

4)

Total without long-term variable compensation.

04 1

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

T O O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S — C orporate G o v ernance report

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμDB ML AG Management Board
The director’s fee for the previous financial year is due at
the end of the month in which the company’s Annual General Meeting takes place.

Total compensation of the Management Board
[€ thousand]

Fixed
compensation

Remuneration
in connection
with the early
termination of
service

The members of the DB ML AG Management Board will
receive the following compensation for their work during
the year under review:

Variable compensation

Short-term 2)

Long-term
(payment
2016)

Long-term 3)

Other 4)

Total 5)

INCUMBENT MEMBER S OF THE MANAGEMENT
BOARD OF DB ML AG AS OF DECEMBER 31, 201 5

Dr. Rüdiger Grube 1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Dr. Volker Kefer 1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Berthold Huber 1) (since August 1, 2015)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Dr. Richard Lutz 1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Ronald Pofalla 1) (since August 1, 2015)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Ulrich Weber 1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Gerd Becht 1) (until July 31, 2015)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Dr. Heike Hanagarth 1) (until July 31, 2015)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

379

3,351

–

–

–20

27

3,756

MEMBERS THAT LEFT THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
OF DB ML AG DURING THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW

Ulrich Homburg (until July 31, 2015)
Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch (until July 31, 2015)
Total

417

1,201

–

–

–22

16

1,634

796

4,552

–

–

– 42

42

5,390

Individual figures are rounded and therefore may not add up.
1)

Dr. Grube, Mr. Becht, Mr. Huber, Dr. Kefer, Dr. Lutz, Mr. Pofalla, Mr. Weber and Dr. Hanagarth
did not receive separate remuneration for their activities within DB ML AG .

2)

Subject to the decision of the Supervisory Board.

3)

Long-term variable compensation refers to additions to and releases of provisions for long-term incentives.

4)

Non-cash benefits accruing from travel discounts, usage of company cars, and insurance
and housing allowances.

5)

Total without long-term variable compensation.

No member of the Management Board of DB AG or DB ML AG
received any benefits or promises of benefits from third
parties related to his activities as a Management Board
member during the year under review.

DB ML AG MANAGEMENT BOARD
During the year under review, an amount totaling € 653
thousand was added to the pension provisions.
Additions to pension provisions (service costs) [€ thousand]

μμPension benefits of the Management Board
in the 2015 financial year
DB AG MANAGEMENT BOARD
During the year under review, an amount totaling € 4,028
thousand was added to the pension provisions.
Additions to pension provisions (service costs) [€ thousand]

2015

INCUMBENT MEMBER S OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
OF DB AG AS OF DECEMBER 31, 201 5

Dr. Rüdiger Grube 1)

–

Dr. Volker Kefer 1)

–

Berthold Huber 1) (since August 1, 2015)

–

Dr. Richard Lutz 1)

–

Ronald Pofalla 1) (since August 1, 2015)

–

Ulrich Weber 1)

–

MEMBER S THAT LEFT THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
OF DB ML AG DURING THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW

Gerd Becht 1) (until July 31, 2015; pension since August 1, 2015)

Dr. Rüdiger Grube

997

Dr. Volker Kefer

505

2015

INCUMBENT MEMBER S OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
OF DB ML AG AS OF DECEMBER 31, 201 5

Dr. Heike Hanagarth 1) (until July 31, 2015)

–
–

Ulrich Homburg (until July 31, 2015)

253

Berthold Huber (since August 1, 2015)

124

Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch (until July 31, 2015)

400

Dr. Richard Lutz

244

Total

653

Ronald Pofalla (since August 1, 2015)

314

Ulrich Weber

889

Individual figures are rounded and therefore may not add up.
1)

MEMBER S THAT LEFT THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
OF DB AG DURING THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW

Gerd Becht (until July 31, 2015; pension since August 1, 2015)
Dr. Heike Hanagarth (until July 31, 2015)
Total
Individual figures are rounded and therefore may not add up.

740
215
4,028

Dr. Grube, Mr. Becht, Mr. Huber, Dr. Kefer, Dr. Lutz, Mr. Pofalla, Mr. Weber
and Dr. Hanagarth did not receive separate pension commitments for
their activities within DB ML AG .

for former members of the
­ anagement Board are shown in total in the Notes to the
M
consolidated financial statements.
PENSION PROVISIONS [PAGE 2 51]

04 2

μ μCOMPENSATION OF THE SUPERVISORY
BOARD IN THE 2015 FINANCIAL YEAR

μμDB AG Supervisory Board
Compensation of the Supervisory Board of DB AG was most
recently regulated by the Annual General Meeting decision
of September 21, 2010. In addition to being reimbursed for
their cash outlays and the value-added tax due on their
compensation and cash outlays, the Supervisory Board
members each receive a fixed annual compensation of
€ 20,000, plus performance-linked annual compensation.
The performance-based compensation is calculated based
on the relationship between operating profit (EBIT) as disclosed in the consolidated financial statements for the
financial year compared to the previous year’s figures, and
the attaining of specific operational performance figures.
Performance-based compensation is limited to a maximum
of € 13,000. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives
double this amount, while his deputy receives one and a
half times the above figure. This compensation is increased
by a quarter for every position held on a committee by the
individual Supervisory Board member. Compensation in­­
creases by 100% for being Chairman of the Executive Committee or the Audit and Compliance Committee, and by
50% for being Chairman of the Personnel Committee. This
does not include membership or chairmanship of the committee that is required under the terms of section 27 (3) of
the MitbestG.
In addition, the members of the Supervisory Board of
DB AG receive an attendance fee of € 250 for each meeting
of the Supervisory Board and its committees at which they
are present. Supervisory Board members can also choose
between a personal BahnCard 100 First or five free train
tickets.
The members of the Supervisory Boards are covered by
liability insurance against financial losses incurred by risks
arising from the business activities of DB AG (D&O insurance). This insurance is designed as a Group insurance policy
with no deductible and provides coverage for financial
losses that may occur during the performance of Supervisory Board activities. There is also a Group accident insurance policy in place for members of the Supervisory Board.
The relevant company pays the premiums for these policies.
Supervisory Board members who have only been members for part of the financial year in question receive a twelfth
of the total compensation (equivalent to the amount payable per month) for each month or part of a month of their
membership. This rule also applies to the increase in compensation for the Chairman of the Board and his or her
deputy and to the increase in compensation for membership and chairmanship of a Supervisory Board committee.

Payment of compensation takes place after the conclusion
of the Annual General Meeting that votes to ratify the Super­
­visory Board’s activities in the previous financial year.
Taxes due on compensation received, including the
personal BahnCard 100 First and the five free train tickets,
are the individual responsibility of each Supervisory Board
member.
Supervisory Board members currently hold no shares in
the company, nor do they hold options entitling them to
purchase shares in the company.
Subject to the approval of the activities of the Supervisory Board by the Annual General Meeting on April 13, 2016,
the members of the Supervisory Board of DB AG will receive
the following compensation for their work during the year
under review:
Annual compensation 2015
Total compensation
of the Supervisory Board
[€ thousand]

Fixed Variable
compen- compensation
sation

Attendance Ancillary
fee services

Total

INCUMBENT MEMBER S OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
OF DB AG AS OF DECEMBER 31, 201 5

Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht

70.0

–

3.3

–

73.3

Alexander Kirchner

40.0

–

3.3

6.9

50.1

Jürgen Beuttler

20.0

–

1.8

–

21.8

Dr. Michael Frenzel

16.7

–

1.8

1.0

19.4

Dr.-Ing. Dr. E. h. Jürgen
Großmann

20.0

–

1.3

6.9

28.1

Dr. Ingrid Hengster

16.7

–

1.8

–

18.4

Jörg Hensel

25.0

–

2.8

1.0

28.8

Klaus-Dieter Hommel

20.0

–

1.3

6.9

28.1

Steffen Kampeter 1)

10.0

–

1.0

–

11.0

Prof. Dr. Susanne Knorre

16.7

–

1.8

–

18.4

Ludwig Koller

20.0

–

1.5

6.9

28.4

Dr. Jürgen Krumnow

40.0

–

2.5

1.0

43.5

Kirsten Lühmann

20.0

–

1.5

1.0

22.5

Heike Moll

16.7

–

1.8

6.9

25.3

Fred Nowka

20.0

–

1.8

6.9

28.6

Michael Odenwald

35.0

–

3.3

1.0

39.3

Mario Reiß

20.0

–

1.5

6.9

28.4

Regina Rusch-Ziemba

25.0

–

2.3

6.9

34.1

Jens Schwarz

30.0

–

3.0

1.0

34.0

–

–

–

–

–

Brigitte Zypries 2)

MEMBER S THAT LEFT THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
OF DB AG DURING THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW

Christoph Dänzer-Vanotti

5.0

–

0.3

6.9

12.1

Prof. Dr. Knut Löschke

5.0

–

0.3

6.9

12.1

Vitus Miller

5.0

–

0.3

6.9

12.1

Dr. Thomas Steffen

5.0

–

0.5

–

5.5

5.0

–

0.3

6.9

12.1

506.8

–

41.1

88.8

635.5

Dr.-Ing. E.h. Dipl.-Ing.
Heinrich Weiss
Total
Compensation for further
mandates in DB subsidiaries

107.6

Total

743.3

Individual figures are rounded and therefore may not add up.
1)

Mr. Kampeter waived the compensation for work as a member of the
Supervisory Board from March 2015 to July 4, 2015.

2)

Ms. Brigitte Zypries waived the compensation for work as a member
of the Supervisory Board.

04 3

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

T O O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S — C orporate G o v ernance report

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

No pension commitments exist for members of the Supervisory Board of DB AG.
The members of the Supervisory Board of DB AG did not
receive any compensation in the year under review for any
personally provided services.

μμDB ML AG Supervisory Board
Compensation of the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG is set
out in Article 15 of the Articles of Association and was most
recently regulated by the Annual General Meeting decision
on September 21, 2010. In addition to being reimbursed for
their cash outlays and the value-added tax due on their
compensation and cash outlays, the Supervisory Board mem­
­bers each receive fixed annual compensation of € 5,000.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives double this
amount, while his deputy receives one and a half times the
above figure. This compensation is increased by a quarter
for every position held on a Supervisory Board committee
and by half for each chairmanship of a committee. This does
not include membership or chairmanship of the committee
that is required under the terms of Section 27 (3) of the
MitbestG.
In addition, the members of the Supervisory Board of
DB ML AG receive an attendance fee of € 250 for each meet­
­ing of the Supervisory Board and its committees at which
they are present.
The members of the Supervisory Board are covered by
D&O insurance against risks arising from the business
activities of DB ML AG . This insurance is designed as a
Group insurance policy with no deductible and provides
coverage for financial losses that may occur during the performance of Supervisory Board activities. There is also a
Group accident insurance policy in place for members of
the Supervisory Boards of both companies. The relevant
company pays the premiums for these policies.
Supervisory Board members who have only been members for part of the financial year in question receive a twelfth
of the total compensation (equivalent to the amount payable per month) for each month or part of a month of their
membership. This rule also applies to the increase in compensation for the Chairman of the Board and his or her
deputy and to the increase in compensation for membership and chairmanship of a Supervisory Board committee.

Payment of compensation takes place after the conclusion
of the Annual General Meeting that votes to ratify the Super­
­visory Board’s activities in the previous financial year.
Taxes due on compensation received are the individual
responsibility of each Supervisory Board member.
Supervisory Board members currently hold no shares in
the company, nor do they hold options entitling them to
purchase shares in the company.
Subject to the approval of the activities of the Super­
visory Board by the Annual General Meeting on April 13,
2016, the members of the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG
will receive the following compensation for their work during
the year under review:
Annual compensation 2015
Total compensation
of the Supervisory Board
[€ thousand]

Fixed Variable
compen- compensation
sation

Attendance Ancillary
fee services

Total

INCUMBENT MEMBER S OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
OF DB ML AG AS OF DECEMBER 31, 201 5

Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht
Alexander Kirchner

15.0

–

3.3

–

18.3

9.6

–

3.3

–

12.8
6.5

Sabine Gröben

5.0

–

1.5

–

Dr. Ingrid Hengster

4.2

–

1.8

–

5.9

Klaus-Dieter Hommel

6.3

–

2.3

–

8.5

Steffen Kampeter 1)

2.5

–

1.0

–

3.5

Margarita Kiefer

6.3

–

2.5

–

8.8

Jürgen Knörzer

4.2

–

1.8

–

5.9

Dr. Jürgen Krumnow

7.5

–

2.5

–

10.0

Michael Odenwald

8.8

–

3.3

–

12.0

Gerhard Schlauer

5.2

–

2.5

–

7.7

Brigitte Zypries 2)

–

–

–

–

–

2.1

MEMBER S THAT LEFT THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
OF DB ML AG DURING THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW

Wolfgang Erler

1.6

–

0.5

–

Heike Moll

1.3

–

0.3

–

1.5

Dr. Thomas Steffen

1.3

–

0.5

–

1.8

Dr.-Ing. E. h. Dipl.-Ing.
Heinrich Weiss

1.3

–

0.3

–

1.5

Wolfgang Zell

2.5

–

0.8

–

3.3

82.6

–

28.2

–

110.1

Total
Compensation for further
mandates in DB subsidiaries
Total

12.3
122.3

Individual figures are rounded and therefore may not add up.
1)

Mr. Kampeter waived the compensation for his work as a member
of the Supervisory Board from March 2015 to July 4, 2015.

2)

Ms. Brigitte Zypries waived the compensation for work as a member
of the Supervisory Board.

No pension commitments exist for members of the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG.
The members of the Supervisory Board of DB ML AG did
not receive any compensation in the year under review for
any personally provided services.

04 4

T O O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S — C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T
S takeholder dialog

μμGuidelines for 

045

stakeholder dialog

GRI
G4-24
G4-25
G4-26
G4-27
G4-56

μμMaterial activities

046

μμSelection of

in 2015

048

sustainability
content

μμGuidelines for

μμMemberships in associations
DB Group is a member of numerous economic, industry-re-

stakeholder dialog

Broad social acceptance is the basis of the sustainable business success that DB Group’s DB2020
strategy aims for.
For this reason, we rely on collaborative dialog and a trustworthy relationship with all stakeholders based on integrity, continuity and transparency. We have laid down principles that apply Group-wide for responsible interaction
between DB Group and its stakeholders in our STAKEHOLDER
CHARTER Œ.

It forms the basis of all dialog activities. We openly discuss with stakeholders issues they raise and promote targeted cooperation so that we can learn from each other
and develop workable solutions.
Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

lated and other associations, whether directly or through
its subsidiaries. The targets of our commitment include in­­
formation, exchange and networking, as well as cooperative representation of our interests.
The following memberships are especially relevant for
public policy dialog at the national and international level:
Pro-Rail Alliance (Allianz pro Schiene; ApS)
Mobility and Transport Services Association (Arbeit­
geber­­organisation der Verkehrsdienstleister; Agv MoVe)
Association Francaise du Rail (AFRA)
Community of European Railway and Infrastructure Companies (CER)
German Transport Forum (Deutsches Verkehrsforum;
DVF)
Union Internationale des Chemins de Fer (UIC)
Association of German transport companies (Verband
Deutscher Verkehrsunternehmen; VDV)

μμ
μμ
μμ
μμ
μμ
μμ
μμ

PUBLIC POLICY DIALOG
FOLLOWS CLEAR RULES

μμ

As one of the largest mobility and logistics service providers, DB Group is subject to public scrutiny and public
policy unlike nearly any other company in Germany. This is
why we are a sought-after dialog partner, especially in public
debates. DB Group takes stances on public policy issues
related to transport at the national and international level
vis-a-vis political and administrative institutions, parties,
associations and relevant scientific fields. DB Group seeks
to contribute to a constructive opinion-forming process
with objective arguments. The principles of the Stakeholder
Charter also apply to our dialog on matters of public policy.
Furthermore, DB Group has established strict internal standards for participation in political processes; these are summarized in the “Group Principles Ethics Code of Conduct”
and compliance is mandatory Group-wide.

μ μOUR COMMITTEES
μμDB Advisory Board as provider of counsel
In 2002, the DB Advisory Board was established and staffed
with well-known personalities from business and academia
to provide independent counsel for public debates and to
position the Group. Since that time, the task of the DB Advisory Board has been to challenge and question DB Group’s
positions and to discuss their findings with the Management Board, as well as to support dialog between DB Group
and experts.
During the year under review, the DB Advisory Board
focused especially on the following topics: Railway of the
Future, digitalization, Mobility 4.0, the service campaign in
long-distance transport, the EU ’s fourth railway package
and the amendments to the Railway Regulation Act (Eisen­
bahn­­regu­­lierungsgesetz; ERegG) and the Regionalization
Act (Regionalisierungsgesetz) RegG.
The DB Advisory Board was dissolved at the end of the
year under review. The exchange with external scientific
experts will continue in a different format in the future.

04 5

GRI
G4-16

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μECONSENSE SUSTAINABILITY

μμAdvice from the Passenger Advisory Board
Since its founding, the Passenger Advisory Board has held
24 meetings, provided numerous workshops and successfully
set numerous measures into action. The Passenger Advisory
Board meets twice a year at ordinary meetings while also
providing support and advice on numerous projects that are
relevant to customers. During the year under review, the
focus of our shared work was on vehicle and offering topics,
both at DB Regional and DB Long-Distance, and the development of ideas to further improve DB information and the
sales channels. The call for the fifth term of office of the
Advisory Board was held in December 2015.
GRI
G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

μμMaterial activities in 2015
μ μFOURTH DB SUSTAINABILITY DAY
In mid-November, around
160 representatives of all
stakeholder groups held
discussions on the theme
of DB’s preparedness for
the future at the fourth DB
Sustainabil­­ity Day. An im­­
portant signal from our
Senior executives
and stakeholders
stake­­holders: the fact that
discuss DB Groupʼs
DB Group is facing propreparedness
found changes makes it all
for the future
the more vital that we act
For the fourth time since the event was
decisively and quickly. For
first held in 2012, the DB Sustainabi­­l­
­ity Day on November 10 and 11, 2015
us, this means taking ad­­
brought together around 160 represen­
vantage of the opportuni­t atives of all stakeholder groups in
ties of digitalization, more
Potsdam to look at DB Group’s readiclearly emphasizing in the
ness for the future and discuss the ideas
and requirements of stakeholders.
political sphere and to the
public the advantages of
rail in times of climate change and resolutely pursuing the
Group restructuring.
Since 2012, the DB Sustainability Day has become a central platform for the open exchange between the DB Management Board and other top managers and senior representatives of all stakeholder groups. We intend to continue
this dialog, which is built on mutual trust, in the coming year.

ROUNDTABLE
How can integrated thinking be strategically anchored in
the company? How can products contribute to the sustainable development of a company? How can the effects that
business processes have on people and the environment be
measured? Around 100 guests at the econsense sustainability roundtable (econsense Nachhaltigkeitsstammtisch)
discussed these issues at the end of September 2015. As
Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), Dr. Rüdiger Grube gave
the opening address. Representatives of BASF, Deutsche
Bahn and Otto Group then discussed with the public the
issue of implementing integrated thinking into practice.
There were presentations of different approaches to implementing integrated thinking at the levels of strategy, business processes and products. At the roundtable, the subjects of control and measurability were identified as key
factors for sustainable success.

μ μTRAIN TO PARIS
On November 28, 2015, a
special train to Paris took
300 invited guests from po­­
lit­­ical parties, associations
and media on a CO ₂-free
trip from Berlin to Paris to
the 21st UN climate conferSpecial train to Paris
ence. The program on board
The agreement of Paris in De­­
cem­­ber is intended to limit glob­
included discussions con­al warming to below 2 degrees
cerning the issue of climate
Celsius. In the transport sector,
protection, with the partici­
a shift of travel and transport to en­vi­pation of Federal Environronmentally friendly rail transport
helps to reduce CO ₂ emissions. This
ment Min­­i ster Barbara
was the message of DB Group’s special
Hendricks and DB Managetrain to the climate conference.
ment Board member Ronald
Pofalla. Particular highlights in­­cluded the train driver award for energy-efficient
driving by the Pro-Rail Alliance (Allianz pro Schiene) and
the award given to DB Group as the most climate-friendly
rail company in the world by the R ATING ORGANIZATION CDP Œ.
The special train was part of a campaign by the international railway association UIC.

04 6

μ μCREATING TRANSPARENCY
ABOUT OUR ACTIONS
The results of the stakeholder survey last year generally
confirmed the path we have chosen with our DB2020
strategy. At the same time, we have identified the need for
action in order to continuously improve our performance in
all dimensions. Accordingly, in the year under review we
added further measures to the key topics of the 2014 mate­
­riality analysis. In 2016 we will update the stakeholder survey.
Furthermore, in order to provide a communications frame­
­work for our activities, in the year under review we devel­
oped Group-wide positions which provide a transparent view
Stakeholder

Business customers

µ Passenger information
µ Punctuality and reliability

Investors

Suppliers

Associations/experts

Media

FORMATS CONTINUES
As in the previous year, in the year under review numerous
additional dialog formats were used to ensure a continuous
conversation with all stakeholders. The most important
activities are summarized in the following table:

The most important dialog formats

µ Passenger information
µ Punctuality

Employees

μ μLARGE RANGE OF DIALOG

Key topics 2015

Passengers

Policymakers/regulators

of our approach to the 33 topics of the 2014 materiality
analysis. These positions are available in the brochure
WOFÜR WIR STEHEN Œ (What we stand for) and are intended
to intensify discussion of these themes.

µ	Infrastructure development and financing
µ	Intermodal competition
µ Future of financing for public transport
µ Safety in rail transport
µ	Public policy, especially noise reduction;
Railway Regulation Act

µ Employee satisfaction
µ Employer attractiveness
µ Demographic preparedness
µ Competitive situation
µ Developments in factor costs
µ Dividend policy
µ Debt
µ Quality
µ	Innovation
µ Antitrust law
µ Ombudspersons
µ Business partner audits

µ	Infrastructure development and financing
µ Energy policy framework
µ Noise reduction
µ C ompliance: human rights, integrity and sponsoring
µ	Group restructuring
µ Long-distance rail service campaign
µ Digitalization projects
µ DB Group as employer
µ	Infrastructure plans
µ Strikes of the GDL

04 7

µ Passenger Advisory Board
µ Online dialog platforms
µ Customer surveys
µ Dialog forum with BahnCard 100 customers
µ Train and bus laboratories
µ “ITB Berlin” trade fair
µ Direct exchange with customers
µ “Transport Logistics” trade fair
µ	Dialog events such as the “Ports Conference”
and the “Pulp&Paper Summit”
µ Customer workshops
µ Personal and telephone surveys
µ Parliamentary evenings
µ Association activities
µ Participation in discussions and specialist presentations
µ	Our own events, such as competition
symposia or fireside chats
µ Rail summit in the German Federal states
µ	Initiative group for preventing corruption in Federal
administration and the economy

µ Employee survey follow-up workshops
µ Platform for trainee exchange DB Unplugged
µ trendence survey (employer ranking)
µ Negotiations with trade unions
µ Expert network Working Environments 4.0
µ Roadshows
µ One-on-ones
µ Direct contact
µ	Investor relations Web site
µ “Railway Forum” dialog event
µ Compliance dialogs with business partners
µ	Host of the annual conference of the Association of
German Transport Companies
µ “Passenger, Environment and Transport” workshop
µ	Top-level meetings and expert exchanges with
µ
µ

passenger, environmental and industry associations,
the rail industry and public transport authorities
Compliance forums
DB Group’s compliance conference

µ Press Web site
µ Press tours and press conferences
µ Background meetings
µ	Interviews
µ Social media (Facebook, Twitter)

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

T O O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S — S takeholder d i alo g

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI
G4-18
G4-20
G4-21
G4-26
G4-27
G4-DMA SO

μμSelection of

from both the external and internal point of view. We are
focusing in particular on the 15 key topics deemed as
having very high importance from the stakeholder and/or
DB point of view, and on five Group targets not covered by
the materiality matrix (financial stability, market position,
employer attractiveness, climate protection, material and
resource efficiency). We have clustered the resulting 20
topics into 11 essential topics which are addressed in the
2015 Integrated Report. The impact of the topics both within
and outside DB Group are analyzed. The Group target
system forms the basis for the selection of the key figures
relevant to management.
The essential topics include many aspects of the strategic direction CUSTOMER AND QUALITY ¿. This reflects the focus
that the improving of the quality of our performance has in
the R AILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] program. The issue of
DIGITALIZATION [PAGE 071] is closely linked with other key issues.
Other issues are reported on due to the internal assessment of them as significant. These include SOCIAL COMMITMENT
[PAGE 06 4 F.] and the areas of AIR QUALITY CONTROL [PAGE 2 74]
and NATURE CONSERVATION [PAGE 274 FF.].

sustainability content

In the previous year, we conducted the first STAKEHOLDER
SURVEY [2014 INTEGR ATED REPORT, PAGE 52 FF.] in order to systematically take into account the perspective of stakeholders
of DB Group. The survey identified 33 topics relevant to DB
Group. The selection of the topics was made by DB’s Sustainability Competence Center, involving various external
stakeholder representatives. An online survey of around
3,400 stakeholders was then conducted with a request to
prioritize the 33 topics for DB Group (stakeholder perspective). The top management of DB Group also prioritized the
topics (DB perspective). The results provided a basis for
creating a Group-wide materiality matrix, from which we will
develop central topics and areas of action for our sustainable success. The focus in the year under review was to
examine our activities against the priorities of our stakeholders, and to align them more intensively.
For DB Group, the key topics of the materiality analysis
and the GROUP TARGET SYSTEM [PAGE 067 F.] form the basis for
the selection of the most important issues to report on

GRI

≈†¥‡

G4-19
G4-32

Essential topics

DB -specific indicators (GRI)

Key figures (relevant to management)

References

Product quality

DB 01

Punctuality (product quality,
punctuality), customer satisfaction
(satisfaction index)

Management approach page 072
and measures pages 070, 091 ff.,
127, 131, 147, 151, 153, 155, 159

Price-performance ratio

DB 02

Satisfaction index

Management approach page 073
and measures page 091

Product innovation

DB 03

–

Management approach page 073
and measures pages 092 f., 141, 147, 151

ECONOMIC DIMENSION ≈

Revenues (market position)
Redemption coverage (financial stability)

Management approach page 073
and measures pages 68 ff., 141

DB 05

–

Management approach page 074
and measures pages 085 ff., 173, 177

Employee satisfaction

DB 06

Employee satisfaction index

Management approach page 074
and measures page 113

Employer attractiveness

DB 07

Rank

Management approach page 074
and measures page 111 f.

DB 08

Share of women in Germany/health rate
in Germany/percentage of staffing needs
covered in Germany

Management approach page 074
and measures pages 112 ff., 176

Climate protection

DB 09

Specific CO ₂ emissions compared
to 2006/share of renewable energy in the
traction current mix

Management approach page 074
and measures pages 117 ff., 176

Noise reduction

DB 10

Track kilometers noise remediated/
freight cars refitted with whisper brakes

Management approach page 075
and measures pages 119 f., 155

Material and resource efficiency

DB 11

Recycling rate

Management approach page 075
and measures page 121

Profitability

DB 04

Framework conditions

ROCE (profitability)

SOCIAL DIMENSION †

Demographic preparedness
ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION ¥

04 8

T O O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S — S TA K E H O L D E R D I A LO G
C o m p lia n ce a n d Pri vac y R e p ort

μμCompliance049

GRI
G4-DMA SO
G4-14
G4-56

μμPrivacy050

μμCompliance

μ μFURTHER EXPANSION OF BUSINESS

Compliance is part of the DB2020
strategy and the foun­
dation of the corporate and leadership culture in DB Group.
To us, compliance means ensuring our business activities
comply with the relevant laws and regulations that apply to
them. The compliance management system is intended to
ensure that climate risks are recognized early and appropriate
counteractive measures are implemented.

Successful lasting business operations require the careful
selection of business partners and suppliers who must then
be informed of DB Group values and commit to collabora­
tion based on shared values. DB Group has developed var­
ious formats to increase awareness among its business
partners and to more firmly anchor sustainable behavior in
the supply chain. The core topics are integrity, legal stan­
dards and ethical issues. In addition to the prevention of
corruption, these include antitrust compliance and human
rights. E-LEARNING FOR BUSINESS PARTNER S Œ fulfills this pur­
pose, among others.

PARTNER COMPLIANCE

μ μREORGANIZATION
F1
P. 054

GRI
G4-SO3

The GROUP RESTRUCTURING [PAGE 0 6 8 F.] gives the business
units of DB Group even greater operational responsibility
for their own compliance. In the future, the compliance work
of Group management will increase its focus on its central
governance functions, among other areas.
DB Group’s compliance activities focus on preventing
corruption and other corporate crime, as well as the consis­
tent fight to combat it. Special compliance instruments have
been developed to protect the company, its employees and
executives. For example, binding guidelines create the frame­
­work, which is anchored in DB Group by ongoing communi­
­cation and training.

μ μCOMPLIANCE INSTRUMENTS
We have various instruments available to achieve our com­
pliance goals and we improve them continuously. These
include guidelines, risk and process analyses, special com­
munications measures and consulting.
The established compliance risk atlas provides an over­
view of compliance risks for business activities.
A new compliance app was also introduced in the year
under review.
Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 268

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 268

μ μWHISTLE-BLOWING MANAGEMENT
IN DB GROUP
In DB Group, the Group Works Agreement governs whistleblowing management and the Group Committee of Execu­
tive Representatives Agreement regulates how to deal with
incoming whistle-blowing reports. The processes imple­
mented protect whistle-blowers and also considers the
interests of the person affected by allegations by setting
clearly defined requirements for the conclusiveness and
materiality of a whistle-blowing report.
Whistle-blowers have several ways to deliver a REPORT Œ :
the Electronic Business Keeper Monitoring System for whis­
tle-blowing, which can be used in seven languages; three
attorneys who are legally sworn to attorney-client confi­
dentiality; and the Whistle-blowing Team at DB Group.

μ μANTITRUST COMPLIANCE AND
PREVENTING CARTEL DAMAGES
Executives and employees are made aware of the topic of
cartels in ongoing in-person training events. The training
style is customized according to the requirements of the
business units or Group functions. The target group is all
executives and employees who have contact with compet­
itors or hold positions that are relevant for competition.
The training sessions are complemented in particular by
business-unit-specific rules and close (antitrust) legal advice.

04 9

TO O UR S TA K EHO LDER S

COMPLIANCE AND PRIVACY REPORT

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Measures to prevent cartel damages are also an important
component of compliance with antitrust law. To this end,
DB Group introduced a comprehensive cartel damages prevention system in 2014. An important part of the system is
the use of contractual conditions in markets prone to antitrust violations which obligate suppliers to introduce or
maintain antitrust compliance programs. In the year under
review, DB Group required around 200 suppliers to comply
with these conditions.

μμPrivacy
In the year under review, further progress was made in es­­
tablishing sustainable privacy in DB Group. The early involve­
­ment in the 4.0 INITIATIVES [PAGE 071 F.] ensures positive and
innovative results.
As in previous years, the privacy supervisory authorities
showed interest in DB Group’s privacy-related projects in
the year under review. Cooperation with the supervisory
authorities was continued in its proven form.
Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

F4
P. 050

F4
P. 050
P. 050

μ μINTERNATIONAL PRIVACY EXPANDED
In the year under review, minimum standards for privacy
were defined. These standards are part of global privacy
guidelines, which simultaneously identify the roles and
responsibilities on-site in the regions and countries. The
approval and implementation of the guidelines involved the
development of a model for coordinating support provided
to or cooperation with companies and countries provided
for under the Group privacy policy. In addition to numerous
discussions on central and global projects, this included the
standardization of contracts and other supporting media.

μ μDEVELOPMENT OF THE
AUDIT CONCEPT
The Group privacy policy took an integrated approach to
comprehensively fulfilling the legal requirements for identification and monitoring of all service providers that process personal data.
In the year under review, the range of the audit was ex­­
panded to include audit topics like social media and apps.
In addition, an audit approach was developed to respond
to international privacy incidents.

μ μAWARENESS-RAISING AND TRAINING
The quality of the advisory activities of the privacy organization was maintained by further professional training. In
particular, the ongoing digitalization and its effects on privacy were taken into account.

μ μFOCUS ON DIGITALIZATION
The working group Social Networks and New Technologies
focuses on technology trends in DB Group with respect to
their privacy implications as they are implemented. Areas of
focus were the use of social media technology in the em­­
ployee relationship, advice on implementing mobile device
management and cloud computing.
Digitalization plays a major role in the employee relationship. It is important to balance employer interests, the
opportunities of digitalization and the employees’ interest
in being protected against undue monitoring and profiling.
Customer privacy dealt with the increasing digitalization of consumption and mobility behaviors, such as the
design of new digital interfaces to customers and new trends
in social media marketing. Another consulting priority
included the use of video surveillance in DB Group’s trains
and buildings.

μ μPRIVACY ADVISORY BOARD –
ADVISOR AND PACESETTER
The Privacy Advisory Board advises the Management
Board on strategic privacy issues. One focus of the Board
is current privacy-related megatrends, in particular digitalization issues. In this area, the Board advocates an exemplary, innovative and pragmatic approach to privacy in DB
Group, including in its social media activities. The advice
given also focuses on business-unit-specific issues and privacy-related aspects of the operational business. The legislative activities on privacy – at European level, especially
on the General Data Protection Regulation – are analyzed
and discussed in terms of their significance and potential
impact on DB Group. In addition, the Board is developing
recommendations that will act as a guide for the future
handling of privacy in DB Group. The Board therefore supports the work of the privacy organization and also repre­­
sents a special form of stakeholder dialog in the context of
∫

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Œ.

050

F4
P. 050
P. 066

Group
management
report
μμDB Group
μμExtensive Group restructuring

dimension

μμDifferentiated performance
in the social dimension
an eco-pioneer

overall conditions

μμDifferences in economic development
μμComparatively strong economic
growth in Germany
Burdens from the regulatory
environment

μμ

μμGroup performance –

environmental dimension

program to streamline the Group
structure
Adjustments to names of
business units
DB Group assumes responsibility
for society and environment

116

μμNew climate protection target

μμGroup performance –
economic dimension

μμDB Group well positioned to exploit
opportunities
Material risks associated with the
economy, markets and competition
Risk portfolio unchanged, without any
risks to DB Group as a going concern

social dimension

110

μμHR2020 programs important for
implementing the DB2020 strategy

μμ

μμCollective bargaining negotiations

μμDevelopment of
business units

122

μμEvents after the

balance sheet date

177

μμGovernment passes bill for
implementing Directive 2012/34/EU
Saxony-Anhalt sues for cartel damages
DB Schenker expands its network
in Great Britain
Train accident near Bad Aibling

μμ
μμ
μμ

051

hired in Germany
concluded

μμAdditional information

165

μμPurchasing volume totaled

in Germany
Competitive and price pressure
persists in all business units
Revenue development of international
business slightly positive

168

μμGroup performance –

μμMore than 11,600 employees newly

μμ

μμ

089

μμ

μμ

μμ

launched to enhance quality, customer
focus and our ability to compete

of punctuality
Severe extraordinary burdens on
revenues and profits due to strikes
Deterioration in key value
management figures

μμ

risk report

in challenging times

μμGroup restructuring program

μμWeak performance in respect

μμ

μμOpportunity and

24 highly cross-linked trends

μμStrikes affect rail transport activities

under development
Refitting to whisper brakes
proceeding according to plan
High recycling rate

066

μμDB2020 remains our compass, even

μμ

077

μμTrends and strategy
μμDB trend landscape encompasses

μμ

μμFurther progress toward becoming

μμBusiness and 

054

€ 25.4 billion

μμNew orders for DB International
μμCartel proceedings due to
ticket sales

μμOutlook178
μμImprovement of economic
growth in 2016

μμDevelopment of operating profits
is expected to be positive in 2016

μμOutlook remains uncertain

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμOverview052
μμWeak development in the economic

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

OVERVIEW
μμDevelopment 

052

μμFocus topics 

of the top targets

052

μμOverview of 

in the 2015
Integrated Report

053

DB Group

μμDevelopment of the top targets μμFocus topics in the
Top targets economic
Customer satisfaction – passengers
Customer satisfaction –
freight transport and logistics

(SI)

(SI) 1)

Product quality – punctuality of DB Group (rail)
in Germany (%)
(€ billion)

Market position – revenues
Profitability – ROCE

(%)

Financial stability – redemption coverage
1)

(%)

2014

2015

2020

76.1

76.4

≥ 79

–

67.5

≥ 73

94.3

93.6

> 95

39.7

40.5

> 50

6.3

5.3

≥ 9.0

20.9

18.5

≥ 30

Survey every two years.

μμDifferentiated developments in customer satisfaction.
μμDeteriorating punctuality.
μμWeak performance of financial figures.
†

√

Top targets social

2014

2015

– index 1)

3.7

–

4.0

– rank

13

24

≤ 10

Demographic preparedness –
share of women in Germany as of Dec 31 (%)

22.8

22.8

25.0

Demographic preparedness –
health rate in Germany (%)

94.1

93.6

94.3

–

97.3

95.0

Employee satisfaction
Employer attractiveness

Demographic preparedness – percentage of
staffing needs covered in Germany as of Dec 31 (%)
1)

2015 Integrated Report

√

Æ¿

2020

Survey every two years.

μμEmployee satisfaction is measured every two years.
μμ Employer attractiveness has suffered as a result of the

There are central topics in the 2015 Integrated Report that
constitute a common thread running through the many
sections of the report. The symbol ∫ highlights these focus
topics in the report. A summarized OVERVIEW OF THE FOCUS
TOPICS Œ is available online.
∫  
F OCUS

μμ

TOPIC 1: GROUP
RESTRUCTURING

Deutsche Bahn Group (DB Group) is on the threshold of
changes that will have far-reaching consequences. The aim
of the Group restructuring is to bring DB Group back on the
track to success. Areas of focus include, among others, service quality and punctuality in rail transport. The Group has
decided to simplify the brand architecture as part of the
Group restructuring.
∫  
F OCUS

μμ

TOPIC 2: RAILWAY
OF THE FUTURE

Zukunft Bahn (Railway of the Future) is a key project within
the Group restructuring program, aimed at strengthening
our German rail business. It is one of the most extensive
programs ever launched by DB Group. It aims to significantly
improve quality over the short and medium term.

strikes.
¥

√

Top targets environmental
Climate protection – specific CO ₂ emissions
compared to 2006 (%)
Climate protection – share of renewable energy
in the traction current mix (%)
Noise reduction – track kilometers noise
remediated in total as of Dec 31 (km)
Noise reduction – freight cars refitted with
whisper brakes in total as of Dec 31
Material/resource efficiency – recycling rate
1)

(%)

2014

2015

2020

–22.7

–24.5

–20 1)

39.6

42.0

35 1)

1,400

1,495

≥ 2,000

6,665

12,703

60,000

95.6

97.2

≥ 95

Target in revision.

μμPositive progress on environmental targets.
μμClimate protection target already exceeded last year.
μμFurther progress in noise reduction.

∫

μμ

 OCUS TOPIC 3: HIGH-PERFORMANCE
F
INFRASTRUCTURE

A high-performance infrastructure is essential for rail trans-

port in Germany. Capital expenditures on maintaining and
expanding a high-performance infrastructure are therefore
crucial.
∫  
F OCUS

μμ

TOPIC 4: DIGITALIZATION

One key area of strategic action focuses on the disruptive
changes caused by digitalization, which are exerting considerable influence on our business.
∫  
F OCUS

μμ

TOPIC 5: GROWTH

The continued development of our business and resulting
growth are key if we want to meet our strategic targets.

052

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — O v er v ie w

μμOverview of DB Group
Æ

†

External revenues by divisions [%]

Employees (FTE) by business unit as of Dec 31 [%]
Passenger transport

42.5
43.0

Freight transport and logistics

48.9
48.9

Freight transport and logistics

Infrastructure
7.1
6.7

Infrastructure

Other
1.5
1.4

Other

2015

2015

2014

Æ

33.4
33.4
32.5
32.3
17.7
16.9
16.4
17.4

2014

†

External revenues by regions [%]

Employees (FTE) by regions as of Dec 31 [%]

Germany

Germany

56.6
57.7

Europe (excluding Germany)

63.1
63.5

Europe (excluding Germany)

31.5
31.1

Asia/Pacific
6.5
6.2

Asia/Pacific
4.8
4.7

North America
4.2
3.7

North America
2.9
2.6

Rest of the world
1.2
1.3

Rest of the world
0.8
0.8

2015

2014

2015

28.4
28.4

2014

BA S IC U ND ER S TA NDIN G O F D B G RO U P
PASSENGER TR ANSPORT

R AI

L W AY I N G E R M A N Y

INFR ASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES

053

FREIGHT TR ANSPORT AND LOGISTICS

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

Passenger transport

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

DB GROUP
μμGroup structure 

GRI
G4-3
G4-5
F1 G4-6
G4-7
P. 049 G4-9
G4-13
P. 054
G4-17

054

μμBusiness model 

060

μμResponsibility 

064
and social commitment

μμGroup structure

μμSimplification of the brand architecture

μ μCHANGES IN DB GROUP
At the end of July 2015 we introduced a far-reaching RESTRUCTURING OF DB GROUP [PAGE 0 6 8 F.] . The main points are as
follows:
The Management Board of Deutsche Bahn AG (DB AG)
plans to DIS S OLVE THE T WO - LEVEL HOLDING STRUC TUR E OF
DB ML AG/DB AG [PAGE 069] . A corresponding resolution of
the Supervisory Board has not yet been submitted and
is expected in the first half of 2016.
Reduction of the Group Management Board from eight
to six divisions, with a clear orientation to the requirements of the markets to increase power and efficiency.
Reassignment of the Technology and Environment division – distribution of responsibilities to other divisions.
Reassignment and consolidation of the areas of Economics, Law and Regulation into a single division.
Reallocation in the Group Management Board to consolidate the business units of the railway in Germany in
the new Traffic and Transport Board division and in the
expanded Infrastructure, Services and Technology Board
division as well as of the international business units in
the Finance/Controlling Board division.
Reassignment of the service functions and internal services in DB Group.
In the future, DB Group’s business portfolio will include
eight business units. The DB Services business unit will
be closed down during 2016. The corresponding activities will be allocated directly to the relevant divisions as
service units.

μμ

μμ
μμ

The Group restructuring also included the further simplification of the brand architecture. In order to strengthen the
market presence of DB Group, national and cross-border
passenger transport and rail freight transport will take place
under the uniform brand image “DB.” The simplification of
the brand architecture represents the implementation in
the area of branding of the streamlining process introduced
with the Group restructuring. At the same time, the brand
architecture reflects the spirit of R AILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE
069 FF.] by bringing together the different business units
under a single brand. The DB Schenker and DB Arriva business units will maintain their current market presence.
With the new management structure and the changed
brand architecture, the names of the following business
units have also been changed:

μμ
μμ

Name of business unit

New

DB Bahn Long-Distance

DB Long-Distance

DB Bahn Regional

DB Regional

DB Schenker Rail

DB Cargo

DB Schenker Logistics

DB Schenker

μμ
μμ

054

F1
P. 054
P. 068

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D B G roup

O RG A NI Z AT IO N A L S TRU C T U R E D B G RO U P
DEUTSCHE BAHN GROUP

CEO and Chairman

Human Resources

Economic, Legal and
Regulatory Affairs

CFO

Traffic and Transport

Infrastructure,
Services
and Technology

BUSINESS UNITS

DB Long-

DB Netze

DB Regional

DB Netze
Stations

DB Schenker

Distance

DB Cargo

		Overview of DB Group
DB Group is an international provider of mobility and
logistics services operating globally in more than 130
countries. Its headquarters are in Berlin. DB Group
has more than 300,000 employees, with just over a third
of these abroad.
We are designing and operating the transport networks of the future. By integrating transport and the
railway infrastructure, as well as using smart economic
and environmental intelligent linkage of all modes of
transport, we move both people and goods.
In passenger transport, we transport 12 million
people each day on our trains and buses. In freight transport and logistics, around 300 million t of goods are
transported by rail and nearly 102 million shipments are
made by road each year via our European network. More
than 1.1 million t of air freight and just under 2.0 million
TEUs of ocean freight are processed in our global networks. In Germany we operate the longest rail network
in Europe, at around 33,000 km in length. We are also
the fifth-largest energy provider in Germany.
DB AG has been a joint stock corporation in accordance with German law since it was founded in 1994.
Accordingly, it has a dual management and controlling
structure comprising a Management Board and Supervisory Board. It is wholly owned by the Federal Republic
of Germany (Federal Government).

Track

DB Netze

Energy

Within DB Group, DB AG manages all business units in
its function as an operational management holding
company. The operational management holding company manages and supports the business units via various GROUP AND SERVICE FUNCTIONS [PAGE 05 7 F.] (including
legal, corporate development, Group controlling and
finance and treasury) as well as internal service providers (for example, DB Environment). The business units
managed as internal service providers are subsidiaries
of DB AG.
The rail operations in Germany are part of the
rail­­­way in Germany. The infrastructure companies are
legal­­­ly independent companies with separate balance
sheets and profit and loss accounts, and thus fulfill all
unbundling requirements according to European and
national law. There is also a so-called functional unbundling which guarantees independent decisions of
DB Netz AG on infrastructure access and charges. Reliability and stability provide proof of the high quality
of the infrastructure. The essential cornerstones for
profitable busi­­­­ness are sustainable financing of the
existing infrastructure and expansion of this in line with
needs. The PERFORMANCE AND FINANCING AGREEMENT (LEISTUNGS- UND FINANZIERUNGSVEREINBARUNG; LUFV) II [PAGE 1 53 F.]

contributes significantly to ensuring the maintenance
of the existing network.

055

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

DB Arriva

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μCORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT AND COMPLIANCE AND
PRIVACY REPORT
The CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT

and the COM­
are components of

[PAGE 036 FF.]

­­­­PLIANCE AND PRIVACY REPORT [PAGE 0 49 F.]

the Group management report.

μ μSERVICE AND FINANCIAL
RELATIONSHIPS IN DB GROUP
Within DB Group, because of strong operative interconnections and dependencies, there are service and financial
relationships between the holding companies and the individual business units, as well as between business units.
These can be organized into four groups:
Operational business relationships between two companies, which may arise through the use of infrastructure, such as when DB Regio AG uses the rail network
of DB Netz AG, for which it pays train-path usage fees.
Business relationships due to Group and service functions: the management holding DB AG is responsible for
providing services for the operating companies such as
central purchasing, which organizes and controls the
procurement process for trains.
Group financing: the management holding company
performs and consolidates the financing function
in DB Group. In this context, DB AG obtains funds on
the capital market through its subsidiary DB FINANCE
[PAGE 099] and transfers these funds as loans to the
Group companies.
Domination and profit and loss transfer agreements: in
Germany, domination and profit and loss transfer agreements are used for the formation of a fiscal unit that
allows companies to offset tax losses against profits. In
DB Group, the company ultimately subject to tax in Germany is DB AG. This also reduces administration costs,
as only DB AG is required to complete tax returns in Germany, meaning that the tax authorities have only one
point of contact and can conduct comprehensive audits.
The armʼs length principle serves as the fundamental characteristic of the development of business relationships.
This means that the compensation is always oriented to
market prices. In DB Group, this applies to operational business relationships, service functions and Group financing.
For example, DB Group customers pay exactly the same
fees for utilization of train-paths as non- DB Group customers. The prices for intra-DB Group purchased services
are reviewed regularly on the basis of analyses to ensure

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

that prices are in line with the market. The terms of financ­
­ing transactions are based on prevailing market conditions
in the finance and capital markets.
The operational business relationships in DB Group in
which DB Arriva and DB Schenker are involved are of secondary importance.
Compensation is relinquished entirely if services are not
directly attributable. This applies in particular to GROUP AND
SERVICE FUNCTIONS [PAGE 05 7 F.] .
The reasons and motivation for aligning the costs of
business relationships in DB Group with market conditions
are as follows:
A value-based corporate management approach can
only be achieved if it is embedded at all levels in DB
Group. This, in turn, can only be achieved through business relationships at fair market conditions. Success
and failure must be transparent in order to facilitate
economic control.
Performance-based remuneration for employees and
management also takes place at the company level and
is therefore dependent on the conditions pertaining to
business relationships. Incentives must be based on
transparent and fair conditions.
The infrastructure companies are legally required to
provide their services without discrimination. The Federal Network Agency (BNetzA) assesses whether prices
are in line with the market. Prices are transparent for
everyone.
Alignment of business relationships with market conditions is also both necessary and required for tax reasons
or from the perspective of minority shareholders.
The effects of domination and profit and loss transfer agreements within DB Group on profits and payments are not
qualified as business relationships, but are a consequence
of DB Group’s status as a domestic contract group and the
associated rights and obligations of all the incorporated
domestic companies.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μ μOPERATIONAL BUSINESS
RELATIONSHIPS
The most extensive operational business relationships
arise from the use of the rail infrastructure and the procurement of energy from DB Netze Energy. As for non-Group
customers, fees for the use of infrastructure are based on
the corresponding pricing systems (train-path pricing
system, facility pricing system and station pricing system).
The procurement of energy includes purchasing of traction

056

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D B G roup

S IG NIF IC A N T O PER AT IO N A L B U S INE S S R EL AT IO N S HIP S (R A ILWAY IN G ER M A N Y )
OPER ATIONAL SERVICE ENTITIES

μμVehicle maintenance
μμIT services
μμ…

DB LONG -DISTANCE,
DB REGIONAL

μμTicket sales

μμBusiness journeys
μμEmployee journeys

DB ENGINEERING&CONSULTING

μμProject planning and
management

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

DB SALES

DB NETZE TR ACK

μμTrain-path utilization
μμFacility utilization
DB CARGO

DB NETZE STATIONS

μμConstructional transports and logistics
μμOther transport and logistics services

μμStation utilization
DB NETZE ENERGY

μμTraction current
μμStationary energy
μμDiesel
Fundamental DB intra-Group relationships.

Business relationships for services
rendered in infrastructure within
DB Group in 2015 [€ million]

DB Long-

DB

DB

DB

DB

DB

DB Netze

DB Netze

DB Netze

Distance

Regional

Arriva

Cargo

Schenker

Services

841

2,211

1

426

0

1

–3,483

0

0

3

28

53

0

128

0

1

–211

0

1

0

Station utilization

94

569

0

0

0

0

–6

– 657

0

0

Energy settlement

334

725

0

339

0

25

151

85

–1,679

20

Train-path utilization
Utilization of local infrastructure

energy (diesel fuel and traction current) as well as electric­
­ity for stationary facilities (such as switch heaters and train
preheating systems).
The main effects from the intra-Group settlement of
business relationships between the various DB Group business units for services rendered in infrastructure are illustrated in the table above.
Other operational business relationships result from
service functions (for example, DB Sales) in the broader
sense for the purpose of concentrating expertise and
increasing efficiency and productivity. In the infrastructure
area, DB Engineering&Consulting (DB E&C) carries out
planning and project management for DB Netze Track,
DB Netze Stations and DB Netze Energy business units.

Track

Stations

Energy

Subsidiaries/
Other

μ μBUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS DUE TO
GROUP AND SERVICE FUNCTIONS
DB Group incorporates various

GROUP AND SERVICE FUNCTIONS

that, with a few regulatory exceptions, perform
functions for the entire DB Group. The costs for Group
functions are not transferred to the business units (no
“Group charges”). Expenses for service functions are only
charged if these result from direct business relationships
with the business units or expenditures that are directly
attributable to a tangible service. This applies in particular
to the transfer of real estate, central purchasing and technology services and for centrally consolidated insurance
provisions.
[PAGE 056]

057

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

BU S INE S S R EL AT IO N S HIP S D U E TO G RO U P A ND S ERV ICE FU N C T IO N S
GROUP MANAGEMENT

GROUP MANAGEMENT

PASSENGER TR ANSPORT

μμDB Long-Distance
μμDB Regional
μμDB Arriva

GROUP FUNCTIONS

μμCompliance
μμFinance/Controlling
μμCommunication
μμCorporate development
μμGroup marketing
μμHuman Resources
μμLegal affairs
μμ...

SERVICE FUNCTIONS

Procurement
Accounting
DB Training
Personnel services
...

μμ
μμ
μμ
μμ

FREIGHT TR ANSPORT AND LOGISTICS

μμDB Cargo
μμDB Schenker

μμ

INFR ASTRUCTURE

μμDB Netze Track
μμDB Netze Stations
μμDB Netze Energy
Service functions, attributable and offset in case of direct business relationship.
Group functions, not directly attributable and not offset.

In order to prevent distortions or arbitrary demands for
payment, the costs of services rendered are borne by the
respective holding companies and not passed on. This
means that Group companies pay no Group charges for
these services.

The Group job market performs an important central function. DB JobService and DB Temporary Work ensure efficient deployment of personnel within the Group job market
and regulate measures for incentives to employment.

G RO U P F IN A N C IN G
MONEY MARKET

CAPITAL MARKET

μμMarket interest
DB FINANCE

μμMarket interest

μμMarket interest
DEUTSCHE BAHN AG

μμMarket interest + credit surcharge

μμMarket interest

PASSENGER TR ANSPORT

INFR ASTRUCTURE

μμDB Long-Distance
μμDB Regional
μμDB Arriva

μμDB Netze Track
μμDB Netze Stations
μμDB Netze Energy

FREIGHT TR ANSPORT AND LOGISTICS

μμDB Cargo
μμDB Schenker

058

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D B G roup

μ μGROUP FINANCING

credit margins for non-infrastructure companies are higher
and are based on an internal performance-based credit
rating and the credit margins quoted on the capital market.
Consolidation of the Group finance function in DB AG
gives us a coherent market presence in the financial and
capital markets, and allows us to achieve economies of
scale and cost benefits. In addition, central Group financing
enables us to adequately monitor all financial transactions
and achieve comprehensive risk management.

The GROUP TREA SURY [PAGE 99] at DB AG is responsible for
DB Group financing. The Treasury operates throughout
DB Group as an in-house bank, although it provides a service function rather than acting as a profit center. All Group
companies have business relationships with the Treasury.
It predominantly involves the borrowing and investment of
financial resources and the pooling of liquidity. Treasury
transactions are conducted at market rates, meaning that
the agreed interest rates are in line with the rates quoted
by banks when not intended to yield a profit.
Market rates mean that credit margins are adjusted in
line with the creditworthiness. The credit margin for the
infrastructure companies is largely in line with the credit
margins of DB AG on the financial and capital market. The

μ μDOMINATION AND PROFIT AND LOSS
Profit transfers and losses offset do not constitute business
relationships. On the contrary, the profit and loss transfer
agreement stipulates that the amount of profit distributed
or the amount required to offset losses is not reset every

D O MIN AT IO N A ND PRO F I T A ND LO S S T R A N S FER AG R EEMEN T S
FEDER AL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (OWNER)

μμDividend
DEUTSCHE BAHN AG

PASSENGER TR ANSPORT

μμDB Long-Distance
μμDB Regional
μμDB Arriva

INFR ASTRUCTURE

μμDB Netze Track
μμDB Netze Stations
μμDB Netze Energy

1)

1)

1)

FREIGHT TR ANSPORT AND LOGISTICS

μμDB Cargo
μμDB Schenker

1)
1)

Profit transfer/capital measures
Tax group; integration into the profit and loss transfer agreement of DB AG with automatic transfer of profits and compensation of losses.
		1)

Profit transfer via DB ML AG.

Cash flows between
DB AG and major direct
subsidiaries [€ million]

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Total

FROM PROFIT AND LOSS
TR ANSFER AGREEMENTS

DB Netz AG

+790

+181

+ 548

+324

+183

+260

+212

–146

–338

–768

+ 44

–307

–197

– 66

–217

– 81

+ 422

DB Station&Service AG

+70

–0

+251

–37

– 55

– 69

– 52

– 90

–190

–150

–141

–155

–160

–169

–188

–203

–1,338

DB Energie G mbH

–34

–2

–29

– 43

– 47

– 44

–111

–106

–18

– 91

–38

+38

– 62

+37

–39

– 51

– 640

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

– –1,263

–113

+109

– 827 –1,040

–397

–395

+157

–3,769

DB Netz AG

–

–

–

–

–

+ 600

–

–

–

–

+ 620

–

–

+5

–

–

+1,125

DB Station&Service AG

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

+286

–

+28

+111

+14

–

–

–

–

+ 439

DB Mobility Logistics AG
FROM CAPITAL INCREASES
BY DB AG

(+) Inflow of capital to subsidiary.
(–) Outflow of capital to DB AG .

059

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

TRANSFER AND AGREEMENTS

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

year but is calculated automatically. The flow of capital is
based on the shareholders right to profits or obligation to
compensate losses. Regardless of this, DB Group ensures
that all Group companies have sufficient capital stock
despite the obligation to offset potential losses generated
by other companies within the Group.
With regard to financial relationships, it is important to
note that interest payments and profit and loss transfers are
based on economically viable decisions and are necessary
for funding capital expenditures. Investors are only willing
to provide capital if amortization and returns are guaranteed. A purely debt-based financing model is not commer-

cially viable and is associated with high risks. Profits are
essential for maintaining DB Group’s capital expenditure
capacity. Profits generated are either retained or distributed
to the Federal Government. The share of profit retained in
the company increases the Groupʼs capital expenditure and
borrowing capacity.

BU S INE S S M O D EL D B G RO U P
VALUE PROPOSITIONS
CUSTOMER SEGMENTS

μμDB Group offers attractive, customer-

μμPrivate customers
μμBusiness customers
μμContracting organizations

focused and environmentally friendly
mobility, transport and logistics solutions
and networks from a single source

CUSTOMER ACCESS/
AFFILIATION

μμDirect customer contact
μμDigital offerings
μμCustomer loyalty program
OUTCOMES 1)

μμEBIT adjusted
μμCustomer satisfaction
μμGroup image
μμEmployee satisfaction
μμEmployer attractiveness
μμCO₂ emissions
μμNoise

RESOURCES/INPUTS

μμEmployees
μμFleets
μμNetworks/infrastructure
μμMeans of production

OUTPUTS 2)

μμQuantities/volumes
μμVolume sold
μμVolume produced
KEY ACTIVITIES

μμImplement intermodal transport solutions
μμLook after customers
μμFleet management
μμOperate and optimize regional and global networks
μμManage interfaces
μμProvide additional services close to the core business
1)

Internal and external consequences and results of the business activities and outputs along the entire value chain.

2)

Key products and services.

06 0

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D B G roup

μμBusiness model
The R AILWAY IN GERMANY [PAGE 053] is an essential part of DB
Groupʼs business activities. Since the beginning of the new
millennium, we have also gradually expanded our business
portfolio in order to meet our customers’ needs more effectively and respond to new market demands.
Today, our passenger transport business activities are
more broadly diversified. They comprise not only bus and
rail transport, but also intelligent linkage with other modes
of transport. Furthermore, we have business operations
throughout Europe that enable us to benefit from in­­
creasing market potential in opening bus and rail transport
markets.
Our business activities in the Freight Transport and
Logistics market were moved to an international platform
very early on. DB Cargo and DB Schenker are active first and
foremost in the business-to-business segment. We offer
our customers industry-specific solutions in European rail
freight transport and land transport, in global air and ocean
freight as well as in global contract logistics. Covering all
relevant modes of transport allows us to offer complex
combined logistics services and to make use of synergies in
our networks for the benefit of our customers.
Operating transport networks often necessitates a
high level of capital employed, long investment cycles and
distinct fixed-cost structures. In this respect, achieving
optimal capacity utilization of our networks and systematically developing, integrating and cost-effectively operating these networks with efficient use of resources are
extremely important to DB Groupʼs economic development.
Increasing volumes in our networks not only lead to economies of scale in terms of costs, but also generally improves
the quality of service for the customers with increased
service frequencies, and shorter travel and transport times.
Our leading market positions are an important success
factor for customer satisfaction and profitability. We use
operating performance data to measure capacity utilization
in our networks and our relative market shares in the transport markets. In order to determine a relative return, we
calculate ratios comparing performance data with the
generated revenues (specific revenues).
DB Group has an effective business model through the
linkage of the Traffic and Transport as well as Infrastructure
divisions. This allows DB Group to offer services from one
single source and means that it operates successfully in all
segments of the transport market with its national and
international services.

The four key success factors in the positive development of
DB Group which are a central component in DB Group’s
business model are as follows:
Entrepreneurial approach to business: in the course of
the rail reform, DB Group has established itself as a
commercial enterprise. Particularly worth mentioning
in this context are the establishment of a modern and
efficient organization and a value-based management
approach with the target of capital market viability.
Integrated Group: as a system integrator in Germany,
DB Group optimizes the wheel-rail system. In doing so,
it serves as an important driving force for technological
innovation. The integrated Group structure enables us
to achieve positive synergies and align our infrastructure to support efficiency, market orienta­­tion and
profitability.
∫ International direction: due to our focus on Europe in
passenger transport as well as our European and global
orientation in the areas of freight transport and logistics activities, DB Group has an excellent position in the
relevant markets. As a result, we are responding to the
increasing demand for cross-border solutions. At the
same time, we are best positioned to take advantage
of growth opportunities.
Cross-modal transport solutions: we offer our customers
door-to-door mobility and logistics solutions from a
single source. We intelligently link various modes of
transport in an economical and environmentally friendly
way. In addition, we offer complementary products and
services in the freight transport and logistics market.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μ μRELEVANT MARKETS
DB Group provides national and international services. We

are active globally and have leading market positions around
the world.
DB Group is first in local rail passenger transport and
second in long-distance rail passenger transport in
Europe. DB Group occupies third position in European
public road passenger transport. DB Group is also first
for rail infrastructure and in operating stations in Eu­­
rope, as well as for European rail freight transport and
European land transport.
DB Group occupies third place both for global air freight
and for global ocean freight, as well as fifth place for
contract logistics.

μμ

μμ

06 1

F5
P. 062

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

GRI
G4-4
G4-6
G4-8
G4-9

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμPassenger transport

μμInfrastructure

In passenger transport, our objective is to maintain our
strong market position in Germany in the long term while
growing in Europe. With DB LONG-DISTANCE [PAGE 1 25 FF.] and
DB REGIONAL [PAGE 1 29 FF.] we are very well-positioned in the
rail and bus services market in Germany.
Throughout Europe, transport contracts are being
increasingly tendered in regional and urban transport. We
intend to profit from these as well in the future. Through
DB ARRIVA [PAGE 1 3 4 FF.] , we have successful operations in the
bus and/or rail transport business in 14 European countries.
This puts us in a good position for further growth.
The liberalization of the European passenger transport
markets is, however, progressing at different speeds across
Europe. Germany has a pioneering role in the liberalization
of national long-distance rail passenger transport. In many
other countries, the national long-distance transport mar­
ket has not yet been opened to competition.

In Germany, we have assumed dual responsibility for rail
trans­­­­port as a result of our integrated Group structure: we
are both the operator and primary user of the rail infrastructure.
The resulting customer and efficiency focus in our infrastructure serves all train operating companies (TOC) without discrimination. In addition to the Groupʼs internal code
of conduct, we ensure competitive neutrality of our rail
infrastructure by means of regulation that is considered
strict by international standards. Our target is to continue
to develop the rail transport mode and thus strengthen the
transport infrastructure that is vital for Germany as a business location. At the same time, we are laying the foun­
dations for coping with the increasing flow of traffic in
Europe. We also take care of both the rail network and
passenger stations as well as the power supply for the TOC
in Germany.

F5 ∫
P. 061
P. 062

F5
P. 062
P. 069

μμ Freight transport and logistics
With DB CARGO [PAGE 1 4 0 F.] and DB SCHENKER [PAGE 1 45 FF.] we
are positioned in the freight transport and logistics market
as one of the leading logistics service providers globally.
The demand for international freight transport and logistics
services is rising due to increasing internationalization and
the shift towards cross-border production structures and
flows of goods in our customers’ markets. We would like to
take advantage of this opportunity to further expand our
outstanding market positions.
DB Cargo is Europeʼs leading rail freight service operator
and has a presence in all major markets. We use our own
European production network to do this. In this network,
national and cross-border transport is conducted efficiently
and in a customer-oriented and environmentally friendly
manner. DB Cargo is focused on the automotive, building
materials, industrial and consumer goods, chemicals, iron,
coal and steel (montan) and combined transport industries.
DB Schenker offers European land transport, global air
and ocean freight, and comprehensive logistics solutions
and global supply chain management (SCM) in contract
logistics. With a broad customer base, we have a futureoriented position in the high-growth logistics markets. We
have especially strong market positions in the areas of
automotive, high-tech and industrial and consumer goods.

R ELE VA N T M A R K E T S
GLOBAL

EUROPE

μμOcean freight
μμAir freight
μμContract logistics
μμRail projects

μμLand transport
μμRail freight transport
μμCross-border long-distance
rail passenger transport

μμRegional and urban transport

GERMANY

μμLong-distance transport
μμRail infrastructure

06 2

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D B G roup

Æ	
Market positions passenger transport 2015
No. 2 in European long-distance rail passenger
transport [based on revenues]

No. 1 in European local rail passenger transport
[based on revenues]

No. 3 in European public road passenger transport
[based on revenues]

1. Société Nationale des Chemins de fer Français (SNCF)

1. DB Group

1. Transdev

2. DB Group

2. SNCF

2. Régie autonome des transports Parisiens (RATP)

3. Ferrovie dello Stato (FS)

3. FS

3. DB Group

4. Swiss railways (SBB)

4. First Group

4. 	 SNCF

5. Nederlandse Spoorwegen (NS)

5. Go Ahead

5. London Underground

Data for competitors based on annual/analyst reports and own calculations.
Æ	

No. 1 in European rail freight transport
[based on tkm]

No. 1 in European land transport
[based on revenues]

No. 3 in worldwide air freight
[based on t]

1. DB Cargo

1. DB Schenker

1. DHL

2. Fret SNCF

2. DHL

2. Kuehne + Nagel

3. Rail Cargo Group

3. Dachser

3. DB Schenker

4. PKP Cargo

4. DSV

4. Panalpina

5. Trenitalia Cargo Group

5. Geodis

No. 3 in worldwide ocean freight
[based on TEU]

No. 5 in worldwide contract logistics
[based on revenues]

1. Kuehne + Nagel

1. DHL

2. DHL

2. XPO Logistics

3. DB Schenker

3. Kuehne + Nagel

4. Panalpina

4. CEVA Logistics
5. DB Schenker

Data for competitors based on annual/analyst reports and own calculations.

μ μDEVELOPMENT OF ORDERS
In most of our business units, incoming orders are not a
relevant performance indicator and the majority of the
Groupʼs revenues are generated independently of longterm contracts. DB Regional and DB Arriva are an exception
to this rule, together accounting for around 30% of Group
revenues. In these business units, the development of
orders in the form of LONG -TERM TR ANSPORT CONTR ACTS [PAGE
1 22 FF.] entered into with Germanyʼs Federal states and franchisers in other European countries constitutes a key performance metric. There are also long-term contractual
relationships with customers in the contract logistics/SCM
line of business of DB Schenker, which generates around
6% of Group revenues.
Ticket sales in DB Long-Distance generally generate
immediate revenues that are received within a short period
of time.

At DB Cargo and DB Schenker, framework contracts are also
concluded with customers who have continuous demand for
transport or both freight transport and logistics services.
At DB Netze Track, incoming orders generally relate to
train paths assigned to TOC, whereby we make a distinction
between scheduled and non-scheduled transport services.
DB Netze Stations has a similar structure. In this business unit, we conclude contracts with TOC for station stops
as well as long-term contracts for leasing station space.
The incoming orders at DB Netze Energy pertain to energy
purchased by TOC. The infrastructure business units generate most of their revenues with intra-Group customers.

06 3

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

Market positions freight transport and logistics 2015

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI
G4 DMA SO
G4-SO1

μμResponsibility and social

μ μDEUTSCHE BAHN FOUNDATION

commitment

We consider DB Group to have a particular responsibility for
social affairs and the environment due to our close links
with Germanyʼs social and economic development.
Given the current challenges, in the year under review
we made a tremendous effort and commitment to provide
refugees with fast and uncomplicated travel and care. Since
early September, around 320,000 people have traveled
safely through Germany to reception centers in more than
550 trains, including nearly 450 additional special trains of
DB Group. Thousands of railway employees have helped
provide care to refugees during this time and to give them
assistance and guidance.
DB Group has also made a commitment throughout Germany to aid in the construction of refugee housing. We continue to support training projects for refugees. 20 persons
with professional experience in the area of electrical engineering were hired for the training program in DB Group
in November.
DB Group sponsors more than 100 railway station missions (Bahnhofsmissionen) in Germany that are committed to providing care to people seeking protection in
the station. These missions, along with countless other
volunteers from other organizations, provide the new
arrivals with refreshments, language services and give
tips and advice to help them orient themselves. The railway station missions not only carry out social work and
pastoring tasks, they also provide help free of charge to
people who have limited mobility to get on and off and
change trains, and they accompany children traveling alone
as part of the “Kids on Tour” program. The railway station
mis­­sion at Berlinʼs Zoologischer Garten station opened the
first hygiene center. This center offers homeless persons
free use of sanitary facilities and a washing machine and
dryer.
We also continue to support the project Bahn apprentices against hate and violence (Bahn Azubis gegen Hass
und Gewalt) in which young employees promote toler­­ance
and respectful coexistence by combating xenophobia,
right-wing extremism and discrimination.
DB Group has also shown its social commitment outside
of Germany. At DB Schenker, social commitment is part
of the management training program. As part of the STEPforward training program, executives at DB Schenker work
with their team to select a corporate volunteering project
of their own. Under this program, participants volunteered
their time in the reporting year to help refugee children in
Turkey or children in Venezuela who were at risk because
of drugs.

DB Group has been even more effective in fulfilling its
social responsibility since the Deutsche Bahn Stiftung
gGmbH (Deutsche Bahn Foundation) was established in
2013. The foundation has consolidated the charitable projects and continues to develop them in accordance with its
mission statement: “Ensuring a connection. Creating links.
Setting the course.” The objective of the Deutsche Bahn
Foundation is to put people in a position to take responsibility for themselves and others. To achieve this aim, the
foundation cooperates with partners in the areas of education, integration and humanitarian aid.

μμResponsibility for people on the
margins of society
The Deutsche Bahn Foundation campaigns for people in
emergencies and supports projects that help people to gain
or to regain a livelihood. As part of this effort, the Deutsche
Bahn Foundation supports numerous projects near railway stations. Street work­­ers take care of homeless people
who are no longer able to
seek support services on
their own. In the railway
station mission in Berlinʼs
central station, the Deut­
sche Bahn Foundation further increased the range
of services pro­vided; the
Helping people help
themselves
Deutsche Bahn FoundaWith support from the Deutsche
tion worked with the Ber­­­­
Bahn Foundation, the Berlin city
lin city mission (Berliner
mission has installed mobile
Stadtmission) and IN VIA
case workers at its railway station misto launch “Courage prosion in Berlinʼs Zoologischer Garten
station. These street workers focus on
vider at the station” (Muthelping the homeless who are not in a
machern am Bahn­hof) in
position to seek help on their own
summer 2015, a support
because they are too ill or because
network for people with
they have simply given up hope. The
mobile case workers approach those
multiple psychosocial probwho cannot be reached in any other
lems.
way, gently encourage them to help
This includes a clinic
themselves, and assist them in reintenear Berlinʼs central stagrating into society.
tion where people without health insurance can receive free medical treatment
all year round.
The street workers of OFF ROAD KIDS Œ help homeless
young people to find new hope in life; this organization is
supported by the Deutsche Bahn Foundation. The Deutsche

06 4

Bahn Foundation has provided the organization with nine
transferable annual season tickets for the German rail network in the year under review, allowing them to provide
support to children on the streets all over Germany. About
60 children from youth care homes took part in the DB KIDS
CAMP Œ vacation program which was organized in conjunction with the ORK Foundation in the year under review.

μμAwareness efforts and research
on depression as an illness
The Deutsche Bahn Foundation is committed to pro­­
moting better understanding between people; it has
adopted the topic of depression and is cooperating
with the FOUNDATION GERMAN
DEPRE S SION AID Œ. The exBetter recognition
and treatment
pansion of the information
of depression
hotline and strength­­ening
DB Group is the first major comregional alliances against
pany that has committed a pordepression has improved
tion of its charitable contributions to
the service provided to
the fight against the widespread illness of depression. The Deutsche
those suffering from deBahn Foundation works with the
pression. The first study
Foundation German Depression Aid to
results
have been achieved
destigmatize the taboo topic of
in
the
area
of patient-oridepression and to improve the care
provided to those suffering from this
ented research.
illness. The Depression Research
In addition, the DeutCenter created by these two foundasche
Bahn Foundationʼs
tions carries out clinical research
support of the anti-bullyfocused on care and develops new
approaches to therapy.
ing program “Fairplayer.
Manual” developed by the
FU Berlin helps combat hatred and violence in schools.
Following Berlin and Brandenburg, Bavaria introduced the
training program for teachers and social workers in the year
under review.

μμOffering opportunities for the future and
giving uncomplicated assistance
The Deutsche Bahn Foundation worked with the Freudenberg Foundation to develop a new project in the year under
review: “Learning through volunteering, opportunities to
work” (Lernen durch Engagement für Chancen im Beruf).
As part of their school curriculum, school students commit
to working on a charitable project in their area, which helps
them gain skills relevant to their education. The aim is to
help these students find their way in the world of work and
to introduce them to the idea of social commitment at an
early age.

The Deutsche Bahn Foundation has also taken up the topic
of refugee assistance and is involved in helping refugees
both in Germany and abroad. For example, the Deutsche
Bahn Foundation provided a support package for the aid
organization MISEREOR e.V. for the Al-Rajaa Hospital in
Aleppo/Syria. The funds supplied by the Deutsche Bahn
Foundation were used to purchase 20 hospital beds,
including 16 special beds for burn victims. In the year under
review, the Deutsche Bahn Foundation supported 200
Syrian refugee children in a childrenʼs center in Lebanon
run by Kindernothilfe e.V., which provided psychosocial
care and prepared them to attend school. In Germany, the
Deutsche Bahn Foundation supported the refugee aid in
the railway station missions and also provided 130 welcome classes in Berlin with a package of materials to be
read aloud: “All the children of the world” (Alle Kinder
dieser Welt). This gave teachers much-needed instructional
material. The package contains nine books with stories
about children with and without immigrant backgrounds,
helping improve understanding of other cultures. Around
39,000 nurseries around Germany had received the package
by the end of 2015.

μμDB Museum – railway history, a lively telling
Under its umbrella, the Deutsche Bahn Foundation runs
the DB Museum with locations in Nuremberg, Koblenz and
Halle (Saale). It preserves the oldest railway history collection in Germany and makes the different eras of rail transport permanently available. In remembrance of the first
German rail connection between Nuremberg and Fürth, the
“Royal Bavarian Railway Museum” opened at Nuremberg
railway station in 1899. Todayʼs permanent exhibition
shows how railway as a means of transport in the 19th century changed peopleʼs daily lives and the economic development of Germany and Europe. The topic “German railways under National Socialism” has a permanent place in
this exhibition, as does the history of the Deutsche Reichsbahn which was founded in the Weimar Republic. The history of the East German railway is also represented and is
presented in parallel to the West German railway. At the
museum locations in Koblenz and Halle (Saale), railway
history also comes alive through such events as regular
public journeys with historic trains. Many volunteers work
in their local areas to maintain railway vehicles and offer
tours and school events. In the year under review, the
DB Museum set a new record, attracting more than 204,000
visitors.

06 5

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D B G roup

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

TRENDS AND STRATEGY
μμDB trend 

066

μμDB2020 strategy

067

μμManagement 

landscape

μμAdjustments 

approaches

075

to the target system

μμSustainability 

075

within the
target system

076

DB Group’s environment is in a state of constant change.

The DB trend landscape was developed in order to actively
benefit from opportunities and counter risks at an early
stage. It outlines the 24 most important developments
from the four trend clusters of customers, society, politics
and global economy, towards which DB Group gears its
activities. The DB trend landscape was developed as a basis
for DB Groupʼs strategy work and has been transferred into
the strategic management process (SMP). Our aim is to
transform potentials into business success at an early
stage. A broad look at the environment focused on a large
number of developments which were analyzed, combined
and prioritized in relation to the Group’s business activities.
DB Group wishes to understand complex developments
and be actively involved in shaping change. Significant
possible effects on the future development of DB Group
can be found in OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS [PAGE 170 FF.] .
In our work with trends, we focus on especially dynamic
developments. However, all other trends also remain relevant and will be taken into account to a greater degree in
the future. In order to ensure that we recognize new trends
early on, we continuously monitor our environment and
communicate with internal and external experts.
Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

P. 050
P. 068

μμInterdependencies 

management

μμDB trend landscape

F4

072

μ μFOCUS TRENDS 2015
μμDigitalization
Digitalization is rapidly changing the business environment of DB Group. Many social and technological developments are receiving a particular boost from digital change.
We have to rethink customer relationships, put existing
business models to the test and redesign our processes.
This is the challenge we have set ourselves in the 4.0 INITIATIVES [PAGE 071 F.] .

DIGITAL LIFE
Digital life determines what customers want and what they
expect from providers: intuitive digital applications that
simplify their daily life. At the same time technical innovations like big data analysis and the Internet of Things
increasingly offer new opportunities to meet the needs of
customers faster, more cost-efficiently and with a greater
degree of individualization. Big data analysis and the
Internet of Things translate the processes of the physical
world into data signals and link them together. The intelligent networking of systems can also make it easier to
manage the operation of trains. For example, in the future
it will be possible to assign train-paths in freight transport
automatically and to carry out maintenance before damage
occurs.
TR ANSPORT INNOVATION
Innovation in transport is attracting new players to the
market and increasing competition. Autonomous driving on
roads and rails in particular will change the mobility and
logistics business. In air freight, in turn, drones offer benefits such as facilitating the delivery of individual packages
in rural areas.
INTERLINKED TR ANSPORT, INTELLIGENT
SIMPLICITY, COST- CONSCIOUS MOBILITY BEHAVIOR
Interlinked transport plays a major role in passenger transport. At the same time, the focus on intelligent simplicity
is increasing. Offers that make easy DOOR-TO -DOOR MOBILITY
[PAGE 07 3] possible have particular potential. These include
digital assistance systems that show users the best connections across all types of transport, everywhere and at all
times.

06 6

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — T rends and S trateg y

CHANGES IN THE CONDITIONS FOR
VALUE CREATION IN LOGISTICS
The changes in the conditions for value creation in logistics
provide opportunities to optimize processes. In automated
warehouses, interlinked products send themselves and
communicate their location and status at all times. At the
same time, competition is changing as the logistics segment is also seeing new players enter the market offering
direct booking of load capacities through online platforms.
3-D printing could even bring about a fundamental change
in logistics structures if, for example, spare parts can be
directly printed locally.

μμCultural change and methodological
competence
In all dynamic developments, it is vital to remain flexible and
to think quickly. For this reason, our work on trends in the
year under review had a strong focus on methodological

competence. The trendbox training materials, which are
anchored in the continuing education portfolio at DB Aca­demy and DB Training, use an innovative workshop format
to invite employees to rethink strategic issues surrounding
the future of mobility and logistics. Our TREND FILM Œ is a
communications tool that serves to encourage further discussion of trends.

μμDB2020 strategy
Since the German rail reform began in 1994, DB Group has
transformed itself into a modern mobility and logistics com­­pany with leading market positions in Germany, Europe
and worldwide. The objectives that were set to increase rail
traffic in the face of much greater competition, to significantly reduce pressure on the Federal budget, and to bring
about an economic turnaround by implementing entrepreneurial structures have been fully achieved.
With the DB2020
strategy [201 4 INTEGR ATED REPORT,
PAGE 076 FF.] DB Group has created a strategic framework
whose aim is to bring the ECONOMIC≈ , SOCIAL † and ENVIRONMENTAL ¥ dimensions into harmony with each other in
order to ensure sustainable business success and social
acceptance. Particularly under much more difficult con­
ditions, this approach sets the standards for our actions
and for the future orientation of DB Group.

V I S IO N S A ND G OA L S
OUR VISION: WE WILL BE THE LEADING GLOBAL MOBILITY AND LOGISTICS COMPANY
Sustainable business success and social acceptance

DIMENSIONS

STR ATEGIC
DIRECTIONS

TOP TARGETS

ECONOMIC DIMENSION

SOCIAL DIMENSION

PROFITABLE MARKET LEADER

TOP EMPLOYER

ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION
ECO -PIONEER

As a profitable market leader
we offer our customers
first-class mobility and logistics
solutions.

As a top employer, we attract and
retain qualified employees who
are enthusiastic about working for
us and our customers.

As an eco-pioneer, we set
benchmarks with our
products for efficient use
of available resources.

¿

Æ

†

¥

CUSTOMER AND
QUALITY

PROFITABLE
GROWTH

CULTUR AL CHANGE/
EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION

RESOURCE CONSERVATION/
EMISSIONS AND NOISE REDUCTION

Customer satisfaction
Product quality
Innovation

Market position
Profitability
Financial stability

Employee satisfaction
Employer attractiveness
Demographic preparedness

Reduction of CO ₂ emissions
Noise reduction
Material/resource efficiency

06 7

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

In addition to traditional transport providers, innovative
car-sharing and dynamic ride-sharing options are growing
in importance as part of the travel chain. In private transport, driverless cars could ensure full connection mobility
on the last mile. At the same time, mobility behavior is
becoming increasingly price-conscious. Passengers increasingly focus on price when they decide on a means of transport and they compare online quotes. Increased transparency puts greater pressure on pricing.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

One area in which strategic action is currently vital is DIGITALIZATION [PAGE 071 F.] . Many social and technological developments are receiving a particular boost from digital
change. DB Group is also affected by this trend to a great
degree. Digitalization presents us with challenges because
it increases competition. For example, business models such
as long-distance bus services would be virtually inconceivable without digital sales and ticketing solutions. At the
same time, however, digitalization is also connected with
major opportunities. It is key to substantial improvements:
from customer offerings to quality to our cost structures
and the options this gives us in pricing. We have initiated
six initiatives with the goal of realizing this potential.
The biggest challenge we currently face, which is in part
related to digitalization, is the economic performance of
DB Group.
In the year under review, the harmony of the three
dimensions that is the objective of the DB2020 strategy
was not achieved. We have made good progress in the
SOCIAL † and ENVIRONMENTAL¥ dimensions since 2012.
We must now move forward and build on what we have
achieved here. In the ECONOMIC ≈ dimension with the strategic directions CUSTOMER AND QUALIT Y ¿ and PROFITABLE
GROWTH Æ performance lagged behind expectations.
The weak economic performance of DB Group in recent
years is attributable mainly to the developments in the rail
business in Germany (railway in Germany), which is under
strong pressure in many respects. In particular, rail passenger transport and rail freight transport in Germany have
become considerably less competitive and profitable. This
is due mainly to the following factors:
Unsatisfactory product quality, especially in terms of
PUNCTUALITY [PAGE 090] .
∫ The entry into the market of new competitors and the
expansion of offers from existing competitors in longdistance transport, which have been driven by digitalization, and aggressive price competition, which has led
to increased price sensitivity and a decline in customersʼ
willingness to pay.
Low fuel prices, the expanded use of long trucks and
reduced tolls for trucks, which favors the shift of freight
transport to road transport providers.
Aggressive competitors, fragmentation in the value
chain and new financing models in regional traffic.
A high cost dynamic for personnel and energy costs
which make up more than 50% of total costs and which
cannot be compensated by higher capacity utilization
or productivity. Energy costs have been negatively
impacted by regulatory measures.

F4 ∫
P. 066 F.
P. 068

μμ
F4
P. 068
P. 070

μμ

As a result, the railway in Germany recorded weaker economic performance in recent years. At the same time, there
is a need for extensive capital expenditures in the coming
years, including for fleet modernization. This makes financial strength essential to ensuring the future viabil­­­ity of
DB Group. This is particular true for our international activities, which, as growth platforms, rely on capital expenditures. However, based on continued weaker economic
performance and the current debt situation, the scope for
greater capital expenditures would be limited.
∫ Overall, DB Group thus faces the greatest challenges
since the 1994 rail reform. In response to these developments and challenges, we have initiated a far-reaching

F1
P. 054
P. 068 F.

Group restructuring program.

μ μGROUP RESTRUCTURING
TO INCREASE QUALITY AND
COMPETITIVENESS
The Group restructuring will make DB Group leaner, faster,
more efficient and more customer-oriented, as well as more
competitive. In addition to competitive cost structures, the
emphasis is on achieving higher quality, placing a stronger
focus on customers and their needs and on improved profitability, especially in the businesses of the railway in Germany. At the same time, the international business units
will be given sufficient financial scope to make the necessary capital expenditures in growth.
The first measures were implemented in the year under
review. In addition, the ongoing implementation of efficiency programs and further activities to give Group management a leaner and more efficient orientation should be
mentioned.
Moreover, in August 2015, Group-wide sub-projects
were launched, aimed specifically at increasing the quality
and competitiveness of the business units of the railway in
Germany, which is under significant market pressure, the
establishment of competitive cost structures in Group management, and ensuring that the international business units
have the financing they need in order to grow.

μμ

μμ
μμ

06 8

GRI
DB 05

F1
P. 068
P. 091

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — T rends and S trateg y

μμCreating flexibility for growth

The key components to increasing the competitiveness of
the railway in Germany are product quality and customer
orientation. Already in the medium term, improvements in
quality and customer satisfaction must lead back to growth
in the core business, which has high fixed costs. In addition, it is important to increase efficiency in order to make
it possible to offer our services at competitive costs.
The aim of the recently launched program R AILWAY OF THE
FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] is to achieve the far-reaching and comprehensive optimization of the railway in Germany. Customer
offerings, service quality and profitability in particular should
be significantly improved.
The restructuring will also result in the organizational
consolidation of our railway competences in Germany. This
will create the conditions for increased efficiency and synergy effects in the railway system as a whole. At the same
time, an in-depth, long-term restructuring phase of our
operational processes will be launched in order to increase
their focus on customer needs.
Programs to increase quality and profitability that have
already been initiated, such as the CUSTOMER AND QUALITY INITIATIVE [PAGE 091] and much of the program DB2020
– PROFITABLE GROWTH [201 5 INTERIM REPORT, PAGE 5] , will be absorbed
in the Railway of the Future program.

DB Arriva and DB Schenker are our international growth

μμStreamlining of Group management
Group management must also make its contribution to
achieving competitive cost structures. Three sub-projects
aim mainly to simplify, streamline and focus the organizational and procedural structure of Group management.
The two-level holding structure with DB AG and DB Mo­­bil­­­­ity Logistics AG (DB ML AG) was introduced in 2008 with
the objective of partially privatizing DB ML AG. The renewed
merger of DB AG and DB ML AG is intended to simplify the
Group structure, accelerate decision-making processes and
reduce costs. Group management will also be restructured
and focused on control and management functions with
policy responsibility. All service functions of Group management will be consolidated organizationally. The focus
in doing so is on increasing transparency, excellence and
efficiency.
In addition to the allocation of the business units and
functions, Group management functions will be reviewed
and adapted to the new structure. The landscape of governing bodies in DB Group as well as the Works Council
structures, organization and systems will be adapted.

platforms. These two business units face European and
global competition, which is marked by a very high level of
competitiveness and strong cost pressure. In particular for
logistics, as a network business, it is critical to achieve eco­
nomies of scale by expanding networks and increasing
volumes. The weakness of the economy has limited the flexibility for international growth.
The possibility of a capital investment in DB Arriva
and/or DB Schenker by a third party increases the financial flexibility for capital expenditures and for realizing
growth opportunities in light of our specific experience
and expertise in these two business units. This would also
have the effect of easing the debt situation in the medium
term. Only the sale of minority shareholdings is being considered. DB Group will retain the majority shareholding of
these companies. The Supervisory Board has not yet
reached a decision on a possible capital investment by a
third party; the decision is expected in the first half of 2016.

μ μRAILWAY OF THE FUTURE – WORKING
TOGETHER FOR MORE QUALITY,
MORE CUSTOMERS, MORE SUCCESS
Recent years have seen numerous efforts undertaken in the
direction of CUSTOMER AND QUALITY ¿ , including in particular
capital expenditures in our networks, infrastructure and
vehicle fleet. However, these efforts have not increased
the quality of our offerings sufficiently to successfully
counter the increasing competition and rising cost pressure. Added to this are the changes associated with DIGITALIZATION [PAGE 066 F.] .
In order to raise the basic quality in the core business
of DB Group to another level, as part of the Group restructuring, in July 2015 we decided to launch the Railway of the
Future program to strengthen the core business.

μμFocus on customers
Railway of the Future is one of the most comprehensive
programs ever launched by DB Group. It is intended to
significantly improve quality in all business areas in the
short and medium term, especially in the rail system. This
program is more than a list of coordinated measures – it
involves the fundamental restructuring of DB Group.

06 9

F5
P. 062
P. 073

F2
P. 072

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμFocus on the railway in Germany

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

As part of the Group restructuring, we are consolidating our
efforts in the core business and focusing strongly on customer orientation and thus increasing the quality of our products and services. Better processes and structures, including
via the use of new digital technologies, will also increase
productivity and competitiveness.
Defects will be systematically remedied and, at the same
time, the restructuring necessary to actually get this “new
railway” rolling will be introduced.
Railway of the Future has a strong focus on the need for
improvement seen by our customers. Many of the measures
are being developed in close cooperation with the line
organization and with the different business units. This will
ensure rapid implementation.
The customer-oriented measures resulting from the Rail­
­­­­­way of the Future will have three time horizons:
Time horizon I – “Eliminate annoyances”: We intend to
make noticeable improvements in 2016 and eliminate
many annoyances for customers.
Time horizon II – “Impressive quality”: Between 2017 to
2020, we expect to implement the majority of our customer-oriented measures and to offer our customers
products and services of impressive quality.
Time horizon III – “Inspiring service”: In 2021 and the
following years, we will introduce long-term measures
that we believe will inspire our customers.
With Railway of the Future, we are laying the foundation
for the greatest increase in the quality of our German rail
offerings since the introduction of the ICE network and
forming the basis for the sustainable success of our German
rail business in the 21st century.

μμ

a thing of the past. Customers will then be able to use apps
and digital information channels, or consult a DB employee,
to receive reliable information in trains. Beginning in 2016,
customers will also be able to get information from multiline track indicators, made possible by a new technical platform. Big data analyses will steadily improve forecasts for
departure and arrival times.
EXPANDING WIFI ACCESS
The development of a unified WiFi portal (WiFi@DB) for all
long-distance and local trains as well as for railway stations
by 2020 will gradually make DB Group the largest mobile
WiFi network in Germany. The ICE portal serves as the basis
for this development. In the future, this offering should be
available to customers in the railway stations, in IC trains
and, in consultation with the transport authorities, in local
trains. In parallel, beginning in 2016 we are building new
receiver technology into ICE trains, which will improve both
telephone and Internet use.

μμ

μμ

GRI
DB 01

μμKey measures
INCREA SING PUNCTUALITY
In order to significantly improve punctuality – especially in
long-distance transport – we are restructuring our operational processes. This includes using digital technology and
mobile teams to significantly reduce the number of technical faults in vehicles and the infrastructure, redesigning
timetables to make them more reliable and changing the
way time buffers are used. Digital switch diagnosis processes should reduce defaults by up to 50%. In addition,
improved vegetation controls, which will be available in the
medium-term, and new digital driver assistance systems for
train drivers will have a positive impact.
IMPROVING PA SSENGER INFORMATION
Beginning in 2016, we are gradually introducing a new technical platform to provide timely and accurate information
to all passengers. Conflicting or missing information on
track changes or changes to the order of train cars will be

INCREASING TR AVEL COMFORT
Our comprehensive program to increase comfort on board
our trains will noticeably improve the quality and availability of on-board dining and toilets beginning in 2016.
This program includes the introduction of additional mobile
fault-clearing teams, freeing on-board personnel to provide
services to customers by relieving them of operational
duties.
INCREASING R AILWAY STATION COMFORT
We are initiating short-term measures in 2016 to increase
comfort during stopovers in railway stations. The program
improves the reliability of elevators and escalators at stations in metropolitan areas, and waiting areas in major
railway stations are being modernized and equipped with
WiFi. Moreover, we will be renovating 31 underground
S-bahn (metro) stations in the next few years. Around two
million commuters will benefit from these renovations. The
construction of an additional 350 stations by 2025 will give
an additional two million people in the regions direct rail
connections.
REALIGNMENT OF R AIL FREIGHT TR ANSPORT
We are introducing a new business model to fundamentally
transform DB Cargo. The production system is being radically simplified, making it less susceptible to disruptions.
The objective is to keep 95% of the service promises made
to customers. To accomplish this goal, a stable quality network with an annual timetable and established frequencies
is being introduced for the majority of the traffic. However,
separately from this, short-notice traffic will continue to be

070

F4
P. 068
P. 071 F.

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — T rends and S trateg y

DIGITALIZATION
Another important area of strategic action concerns the
disruptive changes brought about by digitalization, which
have a considerable influence on the shape our businesses
take now and in the future. We are taking a proactive
approach in this area and in order to take advantages of the
opportunities it offers, we have launched six initiatives:
Mobility 4.0, Logistics 4.0, Infrastructure 4.0, Production
4.0, IT 4.0 and Working Environments 4.0. The established
Digitalization Competence Center is a complementary platform for fast exchange and coordination of the initiatives.
We intend to use these initiatives to drive the digital
transformation of DB Group. The focus is centered on three
aspects:
Simplification of the customer interface and introduction of new business models in order to improve the
customer experience and increase customer benefits
(“customer centricity”)
Faster and more efficient processes to increase quality
and profitability (“operational excellence”)
Creation of supportive conditions, including the establishment of a culture of innovation, the development of
a powerful IT infrastructure and the development of key
competences for digital transformation
In addition to internal cooperation, the focus is on “seeing
the big picture,” the exchange and cooperation with exter­­­nal parties, in particular with START-UPS [PAGE 1 59] .
The aim of the initiatives is to be agile in our approach
to work in order to strengthen the culture of innovation and
thus bring ideas and innovations onto the market more
quickly. This is intended not only to provide a “glimpse of
the future” but to create additional scope for growth.
The individual initiatives have different focuses:
The Mobility 4.0 initiative involves developing our future
strategic positioning in passenger transport. The development of products along the travel chain and the redesign of customer interfaces will be implemented very
quickly.
The objective of the Logistics 4.0 initiative is to develop
the product portfolio of the future. The focus is on the
complete digitalization of the customer interface, the
systematic expansion of Web-based production processes and, in the railway area, automated train operation as a future basis for increasing efficiency, utilization and availability.

INCREA SING FLEXIBILITY
In order to reduce competitive disadvantages, we are placing even more emphasis on increased flexibility across
DB Group. Shift and job schedules will vary more in order,
for example, to optimize the maintenance of trains through
the use of mobile teams. At the same time, employees and
executives will have a greater stake in the Groupʼs success.
The variable compensation of executives is changing fundamentally beginning in 2016. In the future, customer satisfaction as well as joint, cross-business unit quality and
service targets will be on an equal footing with economic
targets in determining performance-based compensation.

μμ

μμ

μμTargets and implementation
The measures introduced as part of Railway of the Future
are also expected to lead to improvements in the short
term. In long-distance transport, for example, we plan to
increase PUNCTUALITY [PAGE 090] to 80% in 2016. This should
increase to 85% by 2020, which will make long-distance
transport the most punctual mode of transport. In rail
freight transport, we plan to fulfill 95% of our individual
customer promises by 2020, a level that no provider currently achieves.
Railway of the Future is not a conventional project, but
a joint program involving all the business units of the rail
system. The proposed changes therefore address:
business-unit-specific topics and the comprehensive
optimizations necessary in the rail system,
structural changes and the necessary adjustments in
operational management and in the target system,
hard facts as well as the equally important soft skills in
the area of culture and attitude on the part of our executives and employees.
The transformation process will take place over several
years and includes large parts of DB Group. The measures
developed within the project by the three Board members
Dr. Volker Kefer (Chairman), Berthold Huber and Ulrich
Weber and the chairs of the business units affected by
the transformation will be carried out within a structured
program.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ
μμ

μμ

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

071

F4
P. 070
P. 072

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μ μSIX INITIATIVES DRIVE

organized. Improvements in quality and lower production
costs should increase network utilization. In addition, the
construction of a modern sales and revenue management
structure and the expansion of the European network should
contribute to the achievement of growth of 1% at DB Cargo
across the European market beginning in 2018.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμThe focus of Infrastructure 4.0 is on the “Internet of

μμ

μμ

μμ

GRI
G4-DMA-EC
G4-DMA-EN
G4-DMA-LA
G4 DMA-PR
GRI
GRI-PR5

GRI
DB 01

F4
P. 071 F.
P. 073

Things” – the networking of all assets and the capturing
of movement data. This will form the basis for the development of products that enable more automated and
more efficient maintenance of railway facilities as well
as the automation of timetables.
The focus of the Production 4.0 initiative is on automation of driving and on maintenance. The goal is a higher
degree of automation in controlling, driving and dispatching trains and on condition-based maintenance.
The IT 4.0 initiative is developing a smart, agile and efficient IT landscape which will be capable of capturing,
storing and analyzing the increasing amount of information that will be received from the different units in the
future. Important components of this landscape are
modern big data systems and cloud technologies.
With the initiative WORKING ENVIRONMENTS 4.0 [PAGE 111], we
wish to clearly illuminate the effects of digitalization on
the people in DB Group.

μμManagement approaches
μ μECONOMIC
μμCustomer and quality
We put customers at the center of our actions. This makes
customer satisfaction indicators part of our most important
indicators. They measure our success from the customerʼs
perspective. We gain knowledge that we can use to develop
specific improvement measures. In addition to the various
facets of product quality, the continuous optimization of
the price-performance ratio (PPO) and product innovations
are the main levers for increasing customer satisfaction.
PRODUCT QUALITY
∫ Improving PUNCTUALITY [PAGE 090] is the most important
way to improve product quality. Other important levers
include the use of modern vehicles, the quality and reliability of services offered, as well as reasonable travel
and transport times. This is why we continually invest in
our fleet and in infrastructure, optimize cooperation with
our suppliers and pursue numerous activities to achieve
improvements in these areas. In doing this, we take advantage of opportunities offered by digitalization.

Punctuality is a central component of our service promise.
Information on punctuality is collected and monitored daily.
Punctuality data is presented at every Management Board
meeting and the current requirements for action and decisions are identified. Punctuality is a central indicator for
product quality at the Group level as part of the DB2020
strategy. It is also underpinned by punctuality targets at
the business unit level. Improving punctuality is also a key
topic of the new R AILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] program.
∫ A high-performance infrastructure is another component of product quality. It is the basis for rail transport.
This makes investing in the maintenance and expansion of
a high-performance infrastructure indispensable. With
LuFV II, we and the Federal Government have launched an
extensive modernization program. We have agreed on a set
of quality parameters for the condition of the infrastruc­­
ture, compliance with which is continuously monitored.
The results of this monitoring are published in the annual
Infra­structure State and Development Report (Infrastrukturzustands- und -entwicklungsbericht; IZB) and reviewed by
the Federal Railway Authority (Eisenbahn-Bundesamt; EBA).
Furthermore, customer and transport information is of
particular significance. Customer demand for comprehensive, understandable and current (real-time) information
plays a very important role. For this reason we continuously improve both passenger information for our custo­
mers in passenger transport and transport information for
our logistics customers. The identification of customer
requirements for passenger information was a key issue in
the cooperation with the PASSENGER ADVISORY BOARD [PAGE 046]
in the year under review.
In regular customer surveys, we collect comprehensive
information on the SATISFACTION OF OUR CUSTOMERS [PAGE 090]
with various aspects of product quality. Just as with our
cooperation with the PASSENGER ADVISORY BOARD [PAGE 046] this
provides valuable input for the development of measures.
In addition to capital expenditures in the fleet, the continuous optimization of our services, comprehensive information and first-class service are the levers for increasing
customer satisfaction. In order to assess the success of our
measures and other potential areas of improvement from the
point of view of our customers, we conduct regular customer
satisfaction surveys. We use the information gained from
these surveys to develop specific measures for improvements. The success of the business units and of DB Group
is measured using the target attainment on the defined
customer satisfaction development path.
∫

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 091 FF.

072

F2
P. 069 FF.
P. 092

F3
P. 153

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — T rends and S trateg y

PRICE- PERFORMANCE R ATIO
To meet the different expectations and needs of our customers, we work constantly to offer first-class mobility and
logistics solutions with a reasonable price-performance
ratio. In addition to specific pricing measures, the focus is
on measures that increase the efficiency of our processes
and the quality of our services. We use both direct indicators, such as growth in revenues and customer base, and
the results of regular surveys to evaluate the success of
these measures from the customerʼs point of view.
The satisfaction index (SI) is an important indicator for
the price-performance ratio.
Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 090 FF.

GRI
DB 03

F4
P. 072
P. 092

PRODUCT INNOVATION
The best way to win over our customers is to offer them
innovative and differentiating solutions. For this reason, we
are constantly investing in innovative projects and solutions aimed at developing progressive processes and innovative business models. Our focus is on developing new
products and services which meet tomorrowʼs needs. In
order to be a strong driver of innovation in the future, we
are working on customer-oriented solutions as part of our
4.0 INITIATIVES [PAGE 071 F.] . We use innovation platforms (for
example, Moving Ideas) to develop ideas together with
our customers in order to integrate them systematically
in the innovation process.
∫ Interlinked mobility is a key topic. It is vital in order
for us to be able to offer customers individualized solutions
tailored to their needs. In this area DIGITALIZATION [PAGE 066 F.]
offers new opportunities for innovative offerings in the
direction of intelligent networking of different transport
providers. For example, the mobility platform QIX XIT Œ
enables travel planning across different modes of transport. We are also increasing the development of combinations of existing offers. For example, in the area of passenger transport we are working on a comprehensive
door-to-door mobility offering, while the logistics area is
optimizing its existing cross-modal transport offering.
No indicators were created for innovative products or
interlinked mobility.

μμProfitable market leader
PROFITABILITY
∫ For DB Group, profitability is essential for financing capital
expenditures in the core business, for the continued development of business and in order to take advantage of future
growth opportunities.
We intend to expand our market positions by growing
organically and expanding our portfolio. This will involve
consistently making the most of the synergies available to
us thanks to the integrated Group structure. As an operator
of complex networks, a high level of utilization is a key
competitive advantage. Improvement of capacity utilization and productivity, and the continuous provision of competitive cost structures are therefore an important prerequisite in order to maintain our position in our markets and
grow profitably. Profitability cannot be improved without
ENTREPRENEURIAL LEADERSHIP [PAGE 101 FF.] .
Profitability as an overarching goal of VALUE MANAGEMENT
[PAGE 101] ensures that reasonable rates of return are achieved
over several economic cycles. We calculate the WEIGHTED
AVER AGE COST OF CAPITAL [PAGE 102 F.] of debt and equity capital
on an annual basis using market values. The actual return,
i.e. the RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) [PAGE 101], is calculated as the ratio of operating profit before interest and
taxes (adjusted EBIT) to capital employed. The target ROCE
is set higher than the cost of capital. The long-term aim is
to keep the multi-year average ROCE above the target,
thereby covering the cost of capital. This target ROCE corresponds to the minimum required rate of return (MRR).
∫ DB Group has a target of continuing to expand its
leading market positions in all relevant markets/market
segments in the future. The indicator for this is REVENUE
DEVELOPMENT [PAGE 094 F.] .
In addition, financial stability is an essential component
of our profitability. As an asset-intense company, it is essential that DB Group has constant access to the capital markets at favorable terms and conditions. Consequently, an
additional material target is achieving appropriate key debt
ratios from the standpoint of our debt investors. A central
performance indicator for debt management is REDEMPTION
COVER AGE [PAGE 10 4] .

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 092 F.

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 094 FF.

073

GRI
DB 04

F5
P. 069
P. 073

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

GRI
DB 02

F5
P. 073
P. 094

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI
DB 05

FR AMEWORK CONDITIONS
In the context of transport policy and the regulatory environment, national legislative initiatives or initiatives of
the EU Commission may have noticeable effects on our
business activities. This makes dealing with regulations
a matter of significance for DB Group. We have set up
centralized and decentralized units to allow us to recognize
changes early on and to use our influence to reduce their
impact on DB Group.
Furthermore, preventing corruption is important for
DB Group since DB Group is one of the biggest investors
in Germany. COMPLIANCE [PAGE 0 49] is part of the DB2020
stra­t­­­­­egy and the basis for the corporate and management
culture of DB Group.
No indicators were created for dealing with regulations
or the prevention of corruption.

μ μSOCIAL
μμTop employer
GRI
DB 06

EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION
Contented employees mean satisfied customers and thus
sustainable business success. This is why we work hard on
the development of our corporate culture. This culture is
characterized by a collaborative approach and consistent
inclusion, appreciative cooperation and management that
leads by example. In the year under review, the follow-up
process to the second employee survey was carried out. On
the basis of nearly 13,000 Group-wide follow-up workshops, a total of 30,000 measures were implemented.
Our indicator for employee satisfaction is calculated on
the basis of the employee survey. The employee satisfaction
index is created every two years. If no survey is conducted,
the performance indicator “follow-up workshop implementation rate” is used.
Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 11 3

GRI
DB 07

EMPLOYER AT TR ACTIVENESS
We work intensively on increasing our attractiveness as an
employer. A visible and persuasive presence in the labor
market is decisive for success in the competition for spe­
cialists and executives. This is ensured by our integrated
approach to talent acquisition. This approach includes: our
employer branding campaign, effective employer branding,
professional and modern recruiting, innovative social media
activities and a candidate experience oriented toward the
target group. This close integration of all key elements in
recruitment forms the basis for a strong competitive position in an increasingly difficult job market. Yet it takes more

to be, and to remain, an attractive employer; this is why we
provide our employees with interesting tasks and activities,
attractive employment conditions and an appreciative corporate culture.
Our indicator for employer attractiveness is calculated
based on the employer rankings of trendence, the European market leader for employer image studies.
Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 111 F.

DEMOGR APHIC PREPAREDNESS
Population dynamics present DB Group with major challenges. Competition in the labor market will continue to
increase in future years, and at the same time we need to
hire around 8,000 new employees each year as a result of
fluctuation and retirement. In addition to gaining new
employees, we must also encourage the career development and retention of our current employees. The professional development of employees should be based on
individual career and life stages in order to allow them to
spend their entire working lives in DB Group. Versatile
development opportunities, meaningful, varied and forward-looking activities along with a wide range of opportunities for health promotion, in addition to enabling the
collective pay basis, help ensure employeesʼ commitment.
A key indicator of these measures is the health rate. This
should remain stable in spite of demographic challenges
and the resulting aging of the workforce. We are also committed to promoting the diversity of our workforce. For
example, we are working intensively to increase the percentage of women in the workforce and in management
positions.

GRI
DB 08

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 111 FF.

μ μENVIRONMENTAL
μμEco-pioneer
CLIMATE PROTECTION
We support the international goal of limiting global warm­
­­ing to less than two degrees compared to pre-industrial
times. To make our contribution to achieving this goal, we
work mainly to use as little energy as possible and to use it
efficiently. Our goal is to reduce our global specific CO ₂
emissions (that is, those related to volume sold) by 20%
by 2020 compared to 2006. We achieved this goal early, at
the end of 2014, and are working on setting a new target.
In order to strengthen our position as an ECO -PIONEER ¥ and
to further reduce CO₂ emissions, we will further increase

074

GRI
DB 09

the share of renewable energy in the traction current mix,
increase energy efficiency in our operations and production
and continuously renew our vehicle fleet. Railway traffic
has a significant environmental advantage over other means
of transport. We want to increase this advantage and create
incentives to bring more traffic to the rails.
Our indicators in climate protection are specific CO ₂
emissions in comparison to 2006 and the share of renewable energy in the traction current mix.
Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 117 FF.

GRI
DB 10

NOISE REDUCTION
A central corporate goal is to halve the rail transport noise
in Germany between 2000 and 2020. To implement this, in
2012 we set up an in-house Group project and established
the role of noise protection officer. These coordinate the
continuation of activities for noise abatement in existing
railway lines, i.e. the construction of sound barriers and the
installing of noise-reduction measures in apartments (windows and ventilators) as well as the use of quiet brake shoes
on freight cars.
Our indicators for noise reduction are track kilometers
noise remediated as well as freight cars refitted with whisper
brakes.
Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 119 F.

GRI
DB 11

MATERIAL AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
We make a significant contribution to environmental protection through improved resource efficiency, in particular
on our infrastructure construction projects. Our goal is to
keep our already high recycling rate at over 95%. Global
waste generation is dominated by waste from construction
and infrastructure maintenance. While we have already
achieved a high recycling rate for waste from construction,
we would like to increase this in other areas of waste, particularly municipal waste, in the coming years. We also
want to extend the life cycle of our production resources,
use recycled materials and regularly optimize our materials
cycles.

integrated reporting. These three dimensions are intrinsically linked. Measures which are aimed at having an effect
in one dimension frequently also impact at least another
dimension.
The aim is to reflect and present the intrinsically linked
effects of economic, social, environmental and governance
factors on long-term company success. A holistic view gives
an indication of the added value that a company can create
and how it can secure its sustainable success.
Our target system comprises 12 top targets and four
directions, with three top targets being allocated to each
direction. The achievement of all top targets is essential to
the implementation of our strategy. There are numerous
interdependencies between the top targets. Understanding
these relationships is an important basis for assessing the
effectiveness of measures. During the year under review,
we began to identify interdependencies in the target sys­
tem systematically.
Initially we are using a qualitative procedure. Solely considering the direct, unilateral relationships between the
targets is not enough to adequately explain interdependencies in the target system. There are significantly more
complex relationships between the individual top targets.
There are numerous consequences and causal relationships whose interaction is not completely predictable. In
addition, the various effects of interdependencies are also
dependent on which specific measures will be implemented
in order to achieve the objectives.

μμAdjustments to the
target system

We made some adjustments in the year under review either
to or within our target system as part of the regular review
of our target figures and target values.

μ μECONOMIC
μμRegular surveys are conducted to determine satisfac-

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 1 21

μμInterdependencies within
the target system

The interplay of the ECONOMIC ≈ , SOCIAL † and ENVIRON MENTAL¥ dimensions along with identification and evaluation of their interdependencies is the starting point for

075

tion. For purposes of clarity, B2C customer satisfaction
was renamed passenger customer satisfaction. It in­­
cludes data from DB Long-distance, DB Regional,
DB Arriva and DB Sales as well responses from passengers and customers at railway stations and satisfaction of Call a Bike and Flinkster customers.

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — T rends and S trateg y

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμB2B customer satisfaction has evolved to give it a clear

μμ

end-customer orientation toward customer satisfaction
in freight transport and logistics. The focus here is now
solely on DB Cargo and DB Schenker, where customer
surveys are conducted regularly every two years.
The annual updating of DB Groupʼs COST OF CAPITAL [PAGE
102 F.] showed a decline from 8.4% to 7.7%. For this rea­
son, the ROCE target was adjusted from 10.0% to 9.0%.

μ μSOCIAL
The key indicator covering external staffing needs was
replaced with the key indicator percentage of staffing
needs covered. The percentage of staffing needs covered
includes overall staff coverage in the customer-oriented
job families and for young professionals in the system of
targets. The monitoring focus hereby also includes future
external as well as internal challenges and measures for
recruitment, staff retention and development with the aim
of counteracting staff shortages.

μμSustainability management
In order to anchor the sustainability ambitions of our
DB2020
strategy in DB Group, we established a sustainability management department in 2012. The CSO Dr. Rüdi­
­ger Grube, who took over the office from Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch on August 1, 2015, has overall responsibility
for the topic of sustainability.
The sustainability competence center, in which all relevant departments are represented, manages and discusses topics and projects related to sustainability across
divisions and business units. Among other things, the committee establishes the requirements for the sustainable
orientation of DB Group, manages the stakeholder dialog,
advises Group companies on carrying out their sustainability tasks and ensures compliance with international
standards in sustainability management. However, the
individual departments and business units are still responsible for the content. Coordination and operational management are carried out by the department of sustainability management and research of the future, which is
part of the corporate strategy.

μ μSUSTAINABILITY RATINGS
The view from the outside gives us important indications
as to where we stand and where we can improve. Our
ambition is to have top positions in the main ratings and
rankings.

In the year under review, the rating organization CDP Œ
named DB Group the most climate-friendly railway company in the world, high praise for DB Groupʼs commitment
to the climate. CDP awarded its best score A for the Groupʼs
climate-protection performance along with 100 points out
of 100 for reporting transparency. In addition, DB Group
was named “Best Supply Chain Responder Germany” for
the first time.
DB Group also received high marks for its sustainability
standards from ECOVADIS Œ . The organization creates supplier scores for third parties in the area of sustainability.
EcoVadis gave DB Groupʼs overall performance its gold
status.

μ μMEMBERSHIPS
Together with around 30 other global companies and
organizations in German industry, DB Group is an active
member of ECONSENSE Œ , the forum for the sustainable
development of the German economy. The shared aim of
all members is to develop solutions for sustainable business, initiate political decision-making processes and
thereby pool and drive innovations and strategies for
future-oriented issues. We have also had a seat on the
Board of Directors of econsense since November 2015.
At international level, DB Group is a member of the WORLD
BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (WBCSD) Œ . Our
membership in this global project shows our commitment
to promoting sustainable mobility in metropolitan areas.
We underscore our commitment to the business principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations with
the annual presentation of our progress across the ten principles of the Global Compact (Communication on Progress). Our Communication on Progress was rated at an
“Advanced Level” by the UN Global Compact in 2014. Furthermore, ­­DB Group is committed to the GERMAN GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK Œ , the forum for German companies for the
implementation and promotion of the principles of the
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). In the year under
review, DB Group was once again selected as a representative in the steering committee of the German Global Compact Network.
Within the framework of combating corruption, DB
Group has signed up as a corporate member of TR ANSPARENC Y INTERNATIONAL Œ . Regular discussions take place
regarding experiences with anti-corruption systems and
procedures with corresponding standards set as part of
our efforts to combat corruption. DB Group and other
companies benefit from the exchange with respect to
their future activities.

076

GRI
G4-15
G4-16

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — T R E N D S A N D S T R AT EG Y
B us i ness and o v era l l c ond i t i ons

BUSINESS AND OVERALL CONDITIONS
environment

077

μμDevelopments in

the relevant markets

080

μμPolitical 

environment

As an operator of networks for passenger and freight transport, as well as infrastructure, our economic success is influenced by the general economic environment and the specific development of the individual transport markets.
Demand for passenger transport is driven, above all,
by the size of the population, the number of people in
employment and real disposable income.
	 The competitive situation relative to automobiles is
influenced significantly by the development of fuel
prices.
	 The financial resources of the contracting organizations are also of key importance in the DB Regional and
DB Arriva business units. In rail and in bus services,
supplying the public with local transport services is
secured through long-term transport contracts that are
concluded between public transport authorities and
transport companies.
Our freight transport and logistics operations depend
largely on economic developments. Due to our global
networks, we monitor the development not only of
global gross domestic product (GDP) and world trade,
but also of economic growth in the regions, countries
and trade relations in which we have a high market share
or in which high growth rates in the exchange of goods
can be expected. Customary early-warning indicators of
the business climate and of the expectations of purchasing managers are an integral part of our monitoring
system.
The specific market environment of DB Cargo is particularly influenced by the manufacturing industry’s production output and the development of our core industries. The export and import activities of the individual
countries and the transport of goods within Europe are
of particular importance in cross border transports.
The services of the Infrastructure business units cover
important elements of the value chains of their cus­­to­mers. In this respect, the development of demand is
a factor that is largely determined by upstream passenger
and freight transport markets. The area of marketing in
DB Netze Sta­­­­­tions is also important. Consumer trends
in the general public are an important factor here, much
as they are in general retail in Germany.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

077

085

The development of the economic and early-warning indicators, as presented above, influences how we manage
our market activities and resources. Opportunities and risks
can therefore be recognized early on, and, as a result,
short-term management activities and long-term position­
­­ing can be focused accordingly. At the same time, we work
systematically on optimizing our operating value drivers.

μμEconomic environment
Developments in important
macroeconomic indicators [%]

2015

2014

2013

GDP

Global

+2.5

+2.7

+2.4

USA

+2.4

+2.4

+1.5

China

+ 6.9

+7.3

+7.7

Japan

+ 0.5

– 0.1

+1.4

Europe

+1.9

+1.5

+ 0.5

CIS

–3.1

+ 0.9

+2.1

Great Britain

+2.2

+2.9

+2.2

Poland

+3.6

+3.4

+1.3

Eurozone

+1.5

+ 0.9

– 0.3

Germany

+1.4

+1.6

+ 0.4

France

+1.1

+ 0.2

+ 0.7

Italy

+ 0.6

– 0.4

–1.8

+1.0

+3.6

+3.0

GLOBAL TR ADE (REAL)

Trade in goods

The data for 2013 to 2015, adjusted for price and calendar effects, is based on
information and estimates available as of February 2016.
Source: Oxford Economics

μ μASSESSMENT OF THE
ECONOMIC CLIMATE BY THE
MANAGEMENT BOARD
The continuing economic recovery in Europe, with comparatively strong growth in Germany, meant a generally positive economic climate for DB Group’s business units in 2015.
However, with respect to freight transport, this assessment
must be viewed in light of two trends.
First, since growth in global trade was much weaker
than total economic output, the demand for transport services was below average. This concerns in particular the
intra-Asian and trade between Europe and Asia. By contrast, Germany experienced strong growth in both imports
and exports. Second, rail-specific industries in Germany

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμEconomic 

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

such as coal, steel and chemicals had below-average
growth, or their production even declined. This structural
change is also reflected in changes to the modal split in
Germany.

μμStrong growth was also recorded in Poland, Sweden,

μ μEMERGING MARKET WEAKNESS

μμ

Romania and the Czech Republic.

μμBy contrast, Russia’s economy shrank noticeably in the

WEIGHS ON GROWTH
In 2015, the world economy continued its trend in previous
years of relatively low growth. Unlike past years, however,
the industrialized world contributed as much to growth as
the emerging markets. While growth in industrialized countries accelerated (Eurozone, Japan) or remained stable at
the previous-year level (USA), in some major emerging markets (China) it slowed down, or even slid into recession
(Brazil, Russia). The slump in raw materials prices, especially oil, was both the driver and the consequence of these
trends.
The weakness of the emerging markets also affected
global trade, with growth well below the long-term average
in 2015, as well as being below global economic output for
the first time in years. Economic development in China had
a particularly adverse impact as it influences the value
chains in Asia as well as global demand for raw materials.

μμ

EUROZONE

μμRecovery in the Eurozone.
μμGrowth was supported by domestic demand and ex­­
ports, especially within Europe and to the USA .

μμ Exports were favored through the weak euro, which
μμ

μμ

μμEconomic performance unchanged year on year.
μμ Recovery on the labor market and low inflation posi-

μμ

μμ
μμ

μμAsia
μμGrowth slowed further in China – although it continues

μμ
μμ

at a high level – after the government-induced investment boom in the past years resulted in surplus capaci­
ties in many sectors of industry and in the real estate
market.
One of the drivers of this development was the appreciation of the yuan which made Chinese products more
expensive abroad and thus reduced demand.
Japanese economic performance was also weak. While
domestic demand gradually stabilized, the feeble development in other Asian economies had an adverse effect
on exports.

μμEurope

made European products more competitive on the world
market.
Economic development, however, continued to differ
from one region to the next.
Spain and Ireland experienced renewed strong growth
after severe recession and the implementation of
reforms.
Italy put its first reforms in place, and managed to grow
slightly after three years of recession.
France also experienced stronger growth although it
continues to face structural problems.

μμ

μμUSA
tively effected private consumption.
The strength of the dollar kept export growth very
weak, resulting in an overall reduction of net exports.
The weak export growth and the low oil prices weighed
on corporate investments.

wake of low oil prices and Western sanctions following
the Ukraine crisis.
Growth in Germany was mainly driven by strong consumer demand, which benefited from rising wages,
lower inflation and historically high employment levels.
With increasing demand from Europe and the USA ,
exports were able to assert, in spite of weak performance by China and other emerging markets.

μ μENERGY MARKETS SHOWING SIGNS
OF OVERCAPACITY
The central hedging policy of DB Group is based on the
principle of minimizing energy price fluctuations. Our activities are therefore not exposed to the full impact of changes
in market prices.

μμOil market with good supply situation
Change
Brent crude oil [USD/bbl]
Average price

2015

2014

absolute

%

53.6

99.5

– 45.9

– 46.1

Highest price

69.6

115.7

–

–

Lowest price

36.0

55.8

–

–

Year-end price

37.3

57.3

–20.0

–34.9

Source: Thomson Reuters

μμAfter considerable inflows of speculative funds, Brent
μμ

μμOutside the Eurozone, Great Britain was one of the main
drivers of economic performance in Europe.

078

North Sea oil reached its year high at the end of May.
The oil price slump since mid-2014 led to investment
cuts in conventional exploration and extraction. Shale
oil production in the USA started declining noticeably
until July due to efficiency improvements in frack­­­­-

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — B u s i ne s s an d o v era l l c on d i t i on s

μμ

μμ
μμ

μμ
μμ

μμForward curve is under pressure, and the base load con-

μμ
μμ
μμ
μμ

μμ

tract for the subsequent year reached an all-time low
when contracts changed at year end. By contrast, the
base load price for next-day delivery averaged € 31.80
per MWh on the EPEX.
Spot market is increasingly driven by the weather: the
need for intraday adjustments is increasing, grid operators are faced with special challenges for grid stability.
CO₂: early introduction of market stability reserve at the
beginning of 2019; emissions market helped by weak
coal prices and the Paris Climate Protection Treaty.
Global oversupply of coal led to an all-time low in the
North­­­­­­­­ern European market.
Measures planned by Germany include maintaining an
emergency supply capability from brown coal plants that
had been shut down, and subsidizing combined heat and
power generating plants. Progress was achieved on controversial grid expansion issues (underground cables).
The European Commission plans to abolish boundaries
between national energy markets (Energy Union) and
to harmonize green power subsidy programs.

μμElectricity market surrounded

μ μEURO UNDER PRESSURE IN THE

by uncertainties

SECOND HALF OF THE YEAR
Change
Developments in energy prices

2015

2014

absolute

%

BASE LOAD POWER
(FOLLOWING YEAR) (€/MWH)

The DEVELOPMENT OF REVENUES [PAGE 094] at DB Group is also
influenced by the effects of exchange rates. In the year
under review, these effects on revenues amounted to
€ 768 million.

Average price

30.9

35.1

– 4.2

–12.0

Highest price

34.1

37.0

–

–

Lowest price

26.6

32.8

–

–

Year-end price

26.6

32.9

– 6.3

–19.1

Average price

7.7

6.0

+1.7

+28.3

GBP

Highest price

8.7

7.6

–

–

USD

Lowest price

6.3

3.7

–

–

Year-end price

8.3

7.3

+1.0

+13.7

EMISSIONS CERTIFICATES (€/TON CO₂)

μμ German providers are suffering severely from the energy

μμ

Essential revenue effects from changes in currency exchange rates in 2015
[€ million]
CNY

Source: Thomson Reuters

μμ

Æ

transition and are restructuring their business. The cost
of withdrawal from nuclear power seems to be covered,
however. The lack of clear regulatory guidance is causing
concern.
Ongoing, unplanned additions of renewable energy
sources spurred further overcapacity.
Modern thermal power facilities are no longer profitable, while obsolete depreciated plants continue to be
operated.

+109
+373
+232

Trends on the international currency markets were shaped
by the monetary policy strategies of the world’s major
central banks over the course of 2015. While the European
Central Bank (ECB) and the Bank of Japan (BoJ) boosted
market liquidity in their struggle to stabilize prices and
encourage stronger economic growth, the US Fed raised its
base rate at the end of the year, thus heralding the end of
its low interest rate policy. As monetary policies diverged,
the euro lost ground against the US dollar (USD) and other
currencies. The depreciation of the single area currency
was driven further by the weak growth prospects for the
Eurozone compared to other regions.
Apart from these fundamental influences, exchange
rates were also impacted by further country-specific
effects:

079

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμ

ing, after it had previously reached its highest level
since 1972. The US ban on crude oil exports was lifted
in December 2015.
Overcapacity on the oil market persists in light of the
ongoing struggle for market share.
Inventory levels in the USA and Northern Europe reached
all-time highs. The little remaining vacant stor­age capac­
­ity pushed up prices for forward contracts sharply at the
short end.
Oil price developments led to recovery in consumer
demand, but industry demand did not keep up.
In December 2015, Brent dropped to its lowest level
since July 2004, driven by massive overcapacity, the
appreciation of the US dollar, economic slowdown in
China, and the cancellation of long contracts by financial investors.
Following expansions in refinery capacity, China and
Saudi Arabia increased their product exports.
Geopolitical risks persist but are attracting little attention in light of the current supply situation.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμThe US economy’s strong growth by international com-

μμWhen the ECB opted for massive direct intervention in

parison prompted investors to increase their invest­­­­­­
ments. Positive differences in yields on the mar­­ket for
fixed-interest securities supported investor demand –
and with it the US dollar.
Due to the coupling of the Chinese yuan (CNY) to the
US dollar, its development is roughly equivalent to the
euro. The synchronous trend was limited, partly by
direct intervention in the capital market on the part of
the Chinese central bank in an effort to strengthen the
country’s ability to compete at international level, and
partly by capital outflows as the financial system was
liberalized.
The British pound (GBP) gained considerable ground
over the euro, helped by the relative strength of the UK
economy and the expectations of increased real interest
income, as was also the case in the US.
Along with the movements in the British pound and US
dollar, our outstanding foreign currency bonds as of De­­cem­
­­­­­­­­ber 31, 2015, were influenced, above all, by developments
in the Swiss franc.
When the Swiss central bank gave up trying to keep the
CHF stable against the euro at the beginning of the
year, the currency suddenly appreciated by 20%. As
fears eased concerning the exit of Greece from the
Eurozone, the exchange rate decreased somewhat as
the year progressed.

the market in an effort to combat deflationary trends
in the Eurozone economy, the investor uncertainty
sur­­­­­­­rounding future conditions on the bond market
increased, the yield levels soaring as a result.
The market underwent renewed consolidation in the
second half of the year. Yield levels subsided when debt
security volumes in the market decreased in the wake
of ECB bond purchases, and concerns about the stability of global economic growth grew. They did not,
however, fall all the way back to their historical all-time
lows.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμDevelopments in the relevant

μμ

μ μVOLATILE BOND MARKETS
Yield [%]

2015

μ μPASSENGER TRANSPORT
μμSolid market growth in Germany
Growth rate

Market share

German passenger transport market
[% based on volume sold]

2015

2014

2015

2014

Motorized individual transport

+1.5

+2.0

84.8

84.7

Rail passenger transport

– 0.0

– 0.2

8.0

8.1

		DB Group

– 0.2

– 0.9

7.1

7.2

		Non-DB Group railways

+ 4.4

+ 6.4

0.9

0.9
6.4

Public road passenger transport

+1.0

+1.5

6.4

		DB Group

–1.3

–2.1

0.7

0.7

Air transport (domestic)

+1.4

+ 0.6

0.9

0.9

Total market

+ 1.3

+ 1.7

100

100

Figures for 2014 and 2015 are based on information and estimates available
as of February 2016. The market share for each mode of transport has been rounded
up or down, therefore the total may not add up to 100.
Change
(percentage
2014
points)

GERMAN BUNDS (10 -YEAR)

Average yield

0.54

1.24

Highest yield

0.99

1.94

– 0.95

Lowest yield

0.08

0.54

– 0.46

Year-end yield

0.64

0.54

+ 0.10

– 0.70

Source: Thomson Reuters

DB Group regularly issues

markets

BONDS [PAGE 100] on the capital
market through its Group financing company DB FINANCE
[PAGE 099] . The central benchmarks for our bonds are the
corresponding German Federal bonds (bunds). Trends on
the bond markets varied throughout the course of 2015:
At the beginning of the year, bunds continued the trend
of the year before, with yield levels dropping to all-time
lows.

In 2015, the German passenger transport market continued
its previous-year trend with significantly stronger growth
compared to the long-term average, driven partly by sharply
lower fuel prices, and partly by a larger population, more
persons employed and a tangible increase in real disposable income.
Intense intermodal competition also aided growth.
Long-distance bus service providers and low-cost airlines
expanded their product portfolios. The resulting change
in price perception led to shifts in volumes among the
various modes of transport. The choice of transport was
influenced by recurring pilot and train driver strikes.

μμ

080

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — B us i ness and o v era l l c ond i t i ons

MOTORIZED INDIVIDUAL TR ANSPORT
Our own calculations indicate a strong increase in vol­­ume sold.
Main drivers were lower fuel prices and higher real disposable incomes.
Development was supported by recurring rail and air
transport strikes.
Market share increased slightly.

μμ

μμ
μμ
μμ

AIR TR ANSPORT
Increase in volume sold.
Demand was supported by increased real disposable
income. Cheaper tickets and expanded capacity made
air travel more attractive:
As the cost of kerosene decreased, airlines not bound
by long-term hedging contracts were able to lower
their prices.
Competition became fiercer when Ryanair resumed
its flights within Germany.
Recurring strikes by pilots and air crews were an
obstacle to stronger growth.
Market share remained unchanged.

μμ
μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ
μμ

μμ
μμ

μμSlight growth in the European passenger
transport market

μμ
μμ
μμ

μμ
μμ

PUBLIC ROAD PA SSENGER TR ANSPORT
Increase in volume sold.
Strong growth in long-distance bus routes:
Product portfolio expanded by around 30%.
Collaboration among providers increased, with preference given to expansion of cross-border transport
services.
Rail and air transport strikes also contributed to
higher demand.
Increases in volume sold was hindered by the
in­creased attractiveness of motorized individual
transport.
With fewer school students and vocational trainees,
local scheduled bus transport volume declined slightly.
DB volume sold decreased as a result of weaker demand
for local lines in rural regions and adjustments to the
business portfolio.
Market share remained stable.

μμ
μμ

μμ
μμ
μμ

μμ

μμ
μμ

Economic recovery in many countries improved the over­­­­all conditions for European passenger transport, although
performance differed from one region to the next.
European rail passenger transport volume increased by
around 0.5%, helped primarily by marked increases in Great
Britain, Italy, Poland, Spain and the Czech Republic, which
made up for the declines in France.
Liberalization of the passenger transport markets progressed in several European countries. France liberalized
its long-distance bus service, the Portuguese capital Lisbon
put the metro and bus service out for tender for the first
time ever, Finland announced it would open up its rail passenger transport service, and Spain discussed how to foster
competition in high-speed transport.
Development in 2015 in the countries that are most
important for our business activities developed as detailed
below:
GREAT BRITAIN
Increased numbers of people in employment and
strong growth in real income.
Increase in rail passenger transport volume sold (+3.3%).
Products and services improved continuously as fierce
competition for transport contract tenders had a positive effect.
Local bus service volume decreased (–1.7%).
Arriva UK Trains business increased thanks to better
weather conditions.
Arriva UK Bus business decreased as a result of a reduction in urban transport in London.

μμ
μμ
μμ

μμ
μμ
μμ

μμ

081

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

R AIL PA SSENGER TR ANSPORT
Volume sold remained stable.
Strikes by the GDL had a negative impact. Bargain prices
for long-distance bus services and the increased attractiveness of motorized individual transport also had a
dampening effect.
Long-distance transport recorded performance advantage due to special DB offers.
Strikes and fierce intermodal competition caused a
slight decline in regional transport.
DB volume sold was slightly below the previous year.
DB Long-Distance benefited primarily from the popularity of special offers. Failure to win tenders in North
Rhine-­Westphalia and Thuringia had an adverse effect
on DB Regional.
Non-DB Group railways were able to increase volume
sold, in particular in local transport.
The market share of rail passenger transport decreased
slightly.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

THE NETHERLANDS
Employment figures rose moderately, while real income
increased significantly.
The service provided by the Dutch state railway company
(NS) between Amsterdam and Rotterdam improved as
new Traxx locomotives were put into service, producing
a positive effect.
DB Arriva rail transport volumes declined slightly. In
con­­­­­­trast, bus volumes increased significantly when service commenced in the Province of Brabant.

μμ

μ μFREIGHT TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
μμRoad transport posted the strongest growth
in the German freight transport market

μμ

μμ

DENMARK
Growing number of people in employment and strong
increase in real income.
Increase in rail passenger transport volume sold (+1.1%).
Extensive infrastructure work had an adverse effect on
the services provided by the Danish state railway company (DSB).
DB Arriva rail passenger transport volumes increased,
while bus volumes decreased.

German freight transport market
[% based on volume sold]

Growth rate

Market share

2015

2014

2015

Rail freight transport

~ +1.5

0.0

17.3

17.2

		DB Group

~– 5.1

– 0.6

10.7

11.5

		Non-DB Group railways
Road freight transport

2014

~ +14.5

+1.2

6.5

5.8

~ +2.5

~ +2.3

71.8

71.0
9.0

Inland waterways

~–7.0

–1.6

8.3

Long-distance pipelines

~ +1.0

–3.5

2.7

2.7

Total market

~ + 1.4

~ + 1.3

100

100

μμ

Figures for 2014 and 2015 are based on information and estimates available
as of February 2016. The market share for each mode of transport has been rounded.

μμ
μμ

The German freight transport market got off to a weak
start in 2015. One reason was the reduced impulse from the
construction industry in spite of yet another mild winter.
Demand for transport picked up pace as the year progressed, supported by the positive effects arising from a
robust domestic market and dynamic foreign trade. For the
year as a whole, demand increased by about 1.4%, although
performance differed considerably among the different
modes of transport. Road freight transport accounted for
virtually all of the market growth, improving its market
position by nearly one percentage point. Rail transport
posted a moderate increase in volume sold despite the
impacts of the strikes, whereas inland waterway trans­­­­­­­­
port decreased significantly in the wake of persisting low
water levels.

μμ

SWEDEN
Increased numbers of people in employment and considerable growth in real income.
Increase in rail passenger transport volume sold (+1.0%).
Positive impulse came from lower prices for high-speed
connections and the launch of the X 2000 high-speed train
by Sweden’s state railway company (SJ), as well as from
the start of non-subsidized services between Stockholm
and Gothenburg by MTR.
DB Arriva rail passenger transport volume sold in­­creased
significantly, while bus volumes decreased.

μμ
μμ
μμ

μμ

ITALY

μμEmployment figures and real income increased moder­
ately.

μμ Increase in rail passenger transport volume sold (+ 4.1%).
μμThe gradual roll-out by the Italian state railway com-

μμ
μμ

pany (FS) of its Frecciarossa 1000 high-speed trains and
the start of the state-subsidized high-speed link be­­
tween Milan and Southern Italy had a positive effect.
Intermodal competition became fiercer when Megabus
and MeinFernbus FlixBus started the first long-distance
bus services.
DB Arriva bus volumes declined slightly.

R AIL
Volume increased moderately despite restrictions
caused by the weather at the beginning of the year
under review, and despite the impacts of the GDL
strikes. Growth in automotive and black coal volumes,
among others, contrasted with decreases in sectors
such as chemicals and forestry products. Combined
transport performance was virtually unchanged year
on year.
The slight increase in rail’s market share year on year,
despite the negative effects of the strikes, was due solely
to the strong decline in inland waterway transport.
DB volume sold decreased by 5.1% as customer uncertainty persisted throughout the year due to the GDL
strikes. Quality problems were a further key reason why
volume decreased.

μμ

μμ
μμ

082

μμGrowth in DB transports, mainly of black coal, paper,

μμ
μμ

μμ

cement, limestone and plaster, was offset by sometimes
sharp declines in sectors such as stones/soil, automotive, chemicals and especially combined transport.
DB market share fell intramodal from 66.4% to 62.1%
and intermodal from 11.5% to 10.7%.
Performance by non- DB Group railways was above
average, as in previous years, with volume sold increas­
­­ing by about 14.5%, not least due to strong shifts of
business away from DB Group.
Non-DB Group railways recorded the strongest growth
in combined transport, automotive, mineral oil and construction products.

ROAD
After a slow start to the year, the dynamics increased
and performance for the year was above average.
Growth impulses came from both foreign trade and a
robust domestic market.
Road benefited from its enhanced ability to compete,
primarily due to continuing reductions in diesel prices
and lower tolls, as well as a business shift away from rail.
As in previous years, trucks with foreign registrations
generated above-average growth according to the toll
statistics of the German Federal Agency for Freight
Transport.
Market position was further expanded.

μμ
μμ

μμ

and – in some cases marked – declines in demand, especially in the coal industry. The Ukraine crisis is also continuing to have adverse effects. 2015 was characterized by
a weak first half and stabilized demand in the second half
of the year. Business development was helped by ongoing
economic recovery as demonstrated, for example, by
increased demand from the automobile and construction
industries, and for combined transport.
In a fiercely competitive market environment, performance continued to differ significantly from one region to
the next. Based on current information, volumes increased
for French Fret SNCF and Croatian HZ Cargo, but decreased
for Polish PKP Cargo and Czech CD Cargo. Volume sold in
the European network operated by DB Cargo was also
lower year on year (about – 4%), due mainly to weak performance in its key markets of Germany and Great Britain.
Regional performance by year-on-year comparison is
discussed below.
GREAT BRITAIN

μμSignificant decrease of more than 10% in volume sold.
μμThe introduction of the additional tax on carbon emis-

μμ

μμ

INLAND WATERWAYS
After reaping the benefits of its improved competitive
ability and shifts away from rail transport in the first six
months of the year, growth of inland waterway transport slowed considerably in the second half of the year
as water levels remained extremely low. It closed the
year far below 2014.
Increased transport volumes of coke and mineral oil
products were offset, especially, by declines in ores,
stones/soil, coal and secondary raw materials.
Market share decreased significantly.

μμ

μμ

μμ

POLAND
Volume sold increased slightly year on year, by around
1%. This moderate performance was mainly due to in­­
creased volumes for the steel industry and intermodal
transport, which were able to offset the stagnating
demand for coal in the wake of the growing impact of the
energy transition and impacts of the Ukraine crisis.
Market leader PKP Cargo experienced a slight decline in
volume (–1%), but was able to hold its market position.
DB Cargo Polska managed to increase its volume sold
by about 5%, and expanded its market share.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμEuropean rail freight transport

μμ

market stagnated

sions on April 1, 2015, caused a strong decline in coal
volumes. Growth in intermodal and construction material volumes were unable to compensate for the negative development.
DB Cargo UK was heavily affected by the decrease in
coal transport volumes. Volume sold declined by about
10% although the company was able to defend its
leading position in the market.

Volume sold in European rail freight transport (EU 28, Switzerland and Norway) stagnated in 2015, remaining near the
level of the previous year. Reasons included reduced stimulus from the sectors that traditionally use rail transport

083

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — B us i ness and o v era l l c ond i t i ons

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

FR ANCE
The positive trend from the previous year continued,
with volume sold increasing significantly by about 4%.
Performance was driven in particular by intermodal
and chemicals volumes, as well as by transports for the
agricultural and food industries.
Market leader Fret SNCF benefited from the positive
market performance, increasing its volume sold by more
than 3%.
Volume sold by our subsidiary Euro Cargo Rail also grew
significantly, by about 4%, and market position was further expanded.

μμ

μμ
μμ
μμ

μμModerate growth in European
land transport
European land transport benefited from the gradual economic recovery, with real demand showing a larger
increase year on year, despite geopolitical crises. Fierce
competition and clear pressure on margins kept revenue
growth moderate, however, at 1.3%.
In these conditions, DB Schenker was only able to grow
its revenues by a marginal amount.

μμSlight growth in air freight
Volumes in the international air freight market increased
slightly in 2015 by year-on-year comparison, by 1.3%. With
the dock workers on the West Coast in the USA on strike at
the beginning of the year, global air freight volumes initially
increased strongly, but subsided again toward mid-year.
Market growth in 2015 was driven by the retail, consumer perishables and chemicals sectors, while volumes in
other industries were unchanged or slightly lower. Trends
on the key trade routes were varied. Volumes between
Asia and Europe declined in both directions, whereas
growth on the trade route from Asia to the USA was disproportionately high. The routes of Asia – Middle East and
Africa – Europe also recorded strong growth.
Capacities in the air freight market expanded further
and exceeded demand when the US seaport strike came to
an end. The excess capacity was also demonstrated by the
average air freight rates, which remained consistently low.
This trend was aided by low fuel prices.
DB Schenker volumes increased by 1.4% year on year.

μμSlight growth in ocean freight
Demand for global ocean freight increased by 1.2% in 2015.
Growth in the strongest market (intra-Asia) was only slight,
while one of the routes with the heaviest volumes (Asia –
Europe) even declined over the course of the year.
The only sectors that performed better than the market
were consumer and industrial. Chemicals, automotive and
retail recorded only marginal growth in the year under
review. Overcapacity continued to characterize the ocean
freight market in 2015, caused partly by sluggish demand
growth and partly by capacity expansion as new ships
were put into service. Freight rates decreased to their
lowest levels since the financial crisis in 2009 on the
Asia  –  Europe route, for example. Carriers were nevertheless able to improve their financial result, not least due
to low oil prices.
After adjusting its portfolio, DB Schenker volume
de­creased by 2.1%, which also resulted in lower mar­­­­ket
share.

μμPersisting momentum in contract logistics
The positive performance of the global contract logistics
market continued (+ 5.4%). All important regions contributed to this, although the Asian markets continue to have
above-average growth rates. Demand increased, especially
from the core sectors such as the healthcare and consumer
industries. Utilization of industrial and retail storage capacities was generally good, and order books stable.
In a fiercely competitive environment, DB Schenker
achieved an increase in revenues of more than 10% and was
able to expand its market position.

μ μINCREASING DEMAND FOR RAIL
INFRASTRUCTURE
Selected key figures
Rail infrastructure of DB Group
in Germany
Infrastructure customers
		DB Group
		Non-DB Group

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

412

401

+11

+2.7

17

16

+1

+ 6.3

+10

+2.6

395

385

Train-path demand
(million train-path km)

1,054

1,044

+10

+1.0

		DB Group

764.4

783.0

–18.6

–2.4

		Non-DB Group railways

289.8

260.9

+28.9

+11.1

27.5

25.0

–

–

Station stops (million)

150.9

148.4

+2.5

+1.7

		DB Group

119.4

119.8

– 0.4

– 0.3

31.5

28.6

+2.9

+10.1

		Share of non-DB Group railways (%)

		Non-DB Group railways

084

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — B us i ness and o v era l l c ond i t i ons

GRI
DB 05

μμPolitical environment
Details on regulatory and transport policy issues along with
further developments in the regulatory framework in the
railway sector are provided in our COMPETITION REPORTŒ ,
which is published every two years.

μ μREGULATORY AND TRANSPORT
POLICY ISSUES

μμFurther development of the station pricing
system
DB Station&Service AG and the BNetz A agreed in 2012 to

change a price element of the station pricing system – the
volume sold factor (Verkehrsleistungsfaktor; VLF) for the
calculation of station fees for local and long-distance
transport. Originally, a new procedure for determining
VLF – either derived from a cost basis or determined on
the basis of what the market could sustain – was supposed
to apply from January 2015 onward. In 2014, this deadline
was moved to January 1, 2016. In view of potential changes
resulting from the transposition of the Directive 2012/34/
EU into German law, DB Station&Service AG and BNetz A
have agreed to further postpone the implementation of the
new VLF. The new VLF is now scheduled to come into effect
no later than 12 months after a new ERegG is implemented.
If the benchmark for determining the station fees changes
as a result of the new law, implementation must be ensured
within a period of no more than 30 months.

μμTerms of use for vehicle maintenance
In August 2014, BNetz A officially ordered DB Fahrzeuginstandhaltung GmbH (DB Vehicle Maintenance) to draft
terms of use for its heavy maintenance facilities that were
compliant with railway law. DB Vehicle Maintenance filed
a formal objection and petitioned for temporary legal protection to create a postponement effect for the formal
objection to the order. In January 2015 the parties agreed
to end the summary proceedings. BNetzA waived the execution of the order until the lower court ruling in the main
proceedings. In exchange, DB Vehicle Maintenance withdrew its petition for temporary legal protection.
DB Group is of the view that heavy maintenance is not
subject to the regulatory requirements.

μμDecision regarding train-path pricing system
After several years of auditing, BNetz A issued an official
notice regarding the train-path pricing system in August
2015. The audit had focused on the level of fees charged in
2011. BNetz A conclusively decided that DB Netz AG had
complied with legal regulations, and therefore saw no cause
for objection to the levels of fees. BNetz A issued orders
and published findings related to its notice. Thus BNetzA
refused to accept the classification of certain costs asserted

085

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

The number of infrastructure customers rose further in the
year under review. No other country in the EU has such a
high level of competition in rail transport as Germany.
Demand for train-paths increased in 2015 as demand in
the freight and local transport markets rose. In keeping
with the long-term trend, non-DB Group customers were
able to gain market share while demand from DB Group
customers declined, partly as a result of the GDL strikes.
Growth in local passenger rail transport was mainly due
to additional services related to new contracts awarded in
the networks Central, South-West and the Eifel-Westerwald-­
Sieg diesel network. Tender wins drove up the share of
non-DB Group railways further.
In freight transport, the overall positive macroeconomic
development led to a growth in demand, in which non-DB
Group customers recorded a strong increase compared to
decreased demand from DB Group customers.
Volume produced in long-distance rail passenger transport declined slightly in the year under review. In addition
to the GDL strikes, which had a negative impact on demand,
car train services were reduced, and a non-DB Group railway
company (Interconnex run by Ostseeland Verkehr GmbH)
withdrew from the market.
The number of station stops in local rail passenger trans­
­port increased overall in the year under review, partly due
to higher frequencies in some transport authorities’ regions.
Non-DB Group railways further increased their share by
winning regional tenders.
The development of the retail and gastronomy revenue
performance respectively the competitive situation of the
range of goods and services offered in stations are of particular importance for DB Netze Stations. Real retail revenues in Germany (excluding motor vehicles and gas stations) increased slightly in the year under review.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

by DB Netz AG as costs for mandatory performance. DB
Netz AG has filed formal objection to the notice in order to
clarify some of BNetz A’s findings that were disputed in
­preliminary proceedings. The objection does not relate to
the confirmation of legitimacy of the fees charged in 2011.

to the ECJ are important steps in the attempt to clarify
whether civil courts may apply the regulations of Section
315 BGB in conjunction with railway law provisions, as it has
been assumed in most proceedings.

μμFederal Administrative Court confirms
official notice with regard to fitting digital
visual displays

Further development of the train-path
pricing system

μμ

In light of changes in European law from the introduction of
Directive 2012/34/EU (recast), DB Netz AG has been work­
­ing closely with BNetz A to improve the train-path pricing
system. Authorized users were also actively involved in the
process of reshaping the system. The introduction of the
new price system is contingent upon national implementation of the European regulations derived from the recast
(ERegG). As the legally specified lead times are long, the
law would have had to be passed by the end of 2015 at the
latest to enable implementation with the change of timetable in December 2016. As this was not the case, the introduction of the new price system had to be postponed.

With reference to the EU ’s Passenger Rights Regulation
(Regulation 1371/2007), EBA had issued per official notice
in 2010 to DB Station&Service AG to equip all stations and
stops with digital visual displays. In its ruling of September
2015, the Federal Administrative Court (Bundesverwaltungsgericht; BVerwG) as the court of last instance confirmed the legitimacy of the EBA’s orders. The timeframe
for completing the installations that was specified in the
official notice from 2010 commenced upon announcement
of this final decision. It allows 18 months for stations with
more than 300 passengers per day, and 48 months for stations with less than 100 passengers per day.

μμCivil proceedings on infrastructure

μμDecision regarding passenger information

usage fees
According to a judgment by the Federal Court of Justice
(Bundesgerichtshof; BGH), fees for the use of railway infra­
­­­­structure (train-path usage fees, station usage fees) can be
reviewed for fairness by the civil courts according to the
standard set out in Section 315 of the German Civil Code,
even if BNetzA has not objected to the fees and they are
effective according to regulatory law. In this connection,
legal disputes are currently pending before the civil courts
between DB Netz AG and DB Station&Service AG on the
one hand and train operating companies or transport
authorities on the other. The subject of the proceedings is
the review of fairness of the usage fees. Some claims under
antitrust law were also made. The majority of these legal
disputes relate to fees that were charged as regional factors or in accordance with the 2005 station pricing system.
In September 2015, a court suspended an ongoing civil
action for the first time, and referred it to the European
Court of Justice (ECJ). The court also admitted the constitutional complaints filed by DB Netz AG and DB Station&
Service AG in objection to the BGH’s refusal in 2012 to admit
appeals against rulings by various Higher Regional Courts.
The German Federal Constitutional Court (Bundesverfas­
sungsgericht; BVerfG) ruled that these decisions infringed
the rights of the two companies, and referred the case back
to the BGH. These decisions by the BVerfG and the referral

In July 2015, EBA gave DB Station&Service AG an official
notice of its obligation to provide passenger information
in a scope that far exceeds the current level. DB Station&
Service AG filed an objection with suspensive effect against
the notice. DB Station&Service AG received a decision at
the beginning of October 2015, which admitted some of the
arguments voiced by DB Station&Service AG , although
some of the requirements in the decision will be difficult
to implement in practical terms. The action for annulment
was filed in November 2015 to safeguard the suspensory
effect, and was accompanied by talks with EBA to try and
reach agreement out of court.

μμContract violation proceedings of the
European Commission continued
At the end of October 2014, the European Commission
brought proceedings before the ECJ against the Federal
Republic of Germany for alleged non-compliance with the
EU regulations on financial transparency in the railway
sector. These contract violation proceedings have been
ongoing since 2012, during which time the German Federal
Government has refuted the European Commission’s accusations several times over and provided extensive details

086

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — B us i ness and o v era l l c ond i t i ons

about the financial relationships in DB Group, for example
in its most recent statement of defense at the beginning of
2015 and in a further document filed in June 2015.

μ μFURTHER DEVELOPMENT
OF THE TRAFFIC AND REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK
μμRegionalization Act revised

Based on 2015, this equates to an EEG rate for traction
current of 1.234 cents/kWh, which results in additio­­­nal annual costs of about € 55 million for DB Group alone.
In 2016, the EEG surcharge will increase by 0.18 cents/kWh
to 6.354 cents/kWh. The equivalent EEG rate for traction
current will increase to 1.271 cents/kWh.

μμAmendment of the Combined Heat

μμGVFG funds continued
At the end of September 2015, the German Federal Government confirmed that the Federal states that the Community Transport Financing Act (Gemeindeverkehrsfinanzierungsgesetz; GVFG) (GVFG Federal program, about
€ 333 million p. a.) would be continued beyond 2019 without
cuts as part of the revised financial relationships between
government and state. Agreement on the continued payment beyond 2019 of unbundling funds (around € 1.3 billion p. a.) has not yet been reached between the Federal
Government and the Federal states.

μμHigher surcharge under the Renewable
Energy Sources Act
With the adoption of the Renewable Energy Sources Act
(Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetz; EEG) in 2014, the EEG levy
on railways for traction current was raised to 20% of the full
EEG surcharge as part of the “special equalization scheme.”

and Power Generation Act
On December 3, 2015, the German Bundestag approved the
Act Amending the Combined Heat and Power Generation
Act (Kraft-Wärme-Kopplungsgesetz; KWKG). The Act came
into force on January 1, 2016, resulting in higher KWKG
allocation rates. The Act adopts the same definition of rail­
­­­­way consumer delivery points as the EEG for the purpose
of managing KWKG load compensation. In addition, the
operators of closed distribution systems have been
included in the management of load compensation. Rail
transport with its numerous power distribution networks –
in stations, for example – is also affected. The amendment
will generate additional charges of around € 3 million for
DB Group in 2016.

μμImplementation of Directive 2012/34/EU
(recast) into national law
Directive 2012/34/EU establishing a single European rail­
­way area (recast) must be transposed into German law. In
principle, the EU regulations must be implemented exactly
as written in order to ensure equal opportunities in Europe’s
internal market. For this purpose, the Federal Ministry of
Transport and Digital Infrastructure (Bundesministerium
für Verkehr und Digitale Infrastruktur; BMVI) prepared the
draft for an act to strengthen competition in the railway
area and convened a hearing of association on the draft
legislation at the beginning of 2015. DB Group used the
opportunity to make a statement and submitted comprehensive comments. The Federal Government approved a
DR AFT BILL [PAGE 17 7] in January 2016.

μμNinth Act on changes to the
Railway Regulations
In early June 2015, the Ninth Act to revise the Railway Regulations (Gesetz zur Änderung eisenbahnrechtlicher Vor­­
schrif­­ten; ERAG) came into force. Through the new regulations, maintenance facilities are exempt from the regulation
of fees until the end of 2018. The BNetzA must in addition
conduct a market test until 2017 and examine whether there

087

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

In October 2015, the Federal Government and the Federal
states reached agreement on funding public local passenger trans­­­­port in Germany, and thus created a reliable
funding base for the Federal states, transport authorities
and train operating companies. The Federal Government
is increasing the regionalization funds to € 8 billion in 2016.
This money is used by the Federal states primarily to fund
local rail passenger transport. The subsidy is scheduled to
increase by 1.8% every year from 2017 until 2031. In return,
the Federal states must provide regular details on the specific utilization of the funds. The distribution of the subsidy
among the individual Federal states will be governed by a
decree, which must be approved by the German Federal
Council (Bundesrat). The agreement also included a declaration of intent to limit the rate of increase of infrastructure
fees – especially the station and train-path fees in local rail
passenger transport – in compliance with railway regulation law. The Third Act amending the Regionalization Act
came into force on January 1, 2016. The payout of regionalization funds to the Federal states will adhere to the
former distribution key for the time being, and will be
offset for each individual state upon presentation of the
new distribution key.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

is functional competition in the area of maintenance facilities. The new regulations are to be seen positively insofar as
they lead to relief for regulated companies until 2018. They
do, however, fall short of the expectations of the sector
and of DB Group. If a market test comes to the conclusion
that there is functional competition in maintenance facilities, then these should be freed from the provisions of the
regulations in general without a time limit.

μμFourth railway package: first reading
completed and agreement reached on the
technical part
The EU Commission presented its recommendations on
the fourth railway package on January 30, 2013. The
package includes a political part, the recommendations
on the liberalization of national rail passenger transport
markets and on further separation of the railway infrastructure, along with a technical part, consisting of propo­
sals on the technical interoperability and safety of the
European rail system.
The EU ’s legislative bodies agreed on common word­­­­­­­­­ing for the technical part of the package in June 2015. In
future, the European Railway Agency (ERA) will be res­
ponsible for licensing railways and issuing safety certificates for train operating companies. Licensing procedures
shall, moreover, be simplified and accelerated. These regulations should help to eliminate market entry hurdles and
improve intermodal competitiveness. The wording must
be formally approved by the European Parliament before
it can come into force.
The EU Council reached an agreement on the political
part of the package on October 8, 2015. Practical and reasonable solutions have been found that will continue to
ensure the necessary freedom for organizing railway companies efficiently. The resolutions help to define the independence requirements for rail infrastructure operators
more precisely, to further improve the transparency of
financing flows, and to strengthen regulation overall. The
Council’s position prevents unnecessary impairment of the
ability of railway companies to invest and compete. In addition, the member states have voted in favor of opening the
national markets for non-subsidized rail passenger transport starting in 2020 in principle, albeit with a range of
options for restriction. When awarding transport contracts,
the current option of choosing between tenders and direct
awards shall continue in principle. Consequently, the differences with regard to market entry in Europe could continue
to exist into the future.

In its first reading back in February 2014, the European Par­
­­­­­­­­liament had voted against far-reaching separation of the rail
infrastructure, and instead came out in favor of further
improving the transparency of financing flows in railway
companies and of strengthening regulation.
Political agreement in the EU Conference of Transport
Ministers does not, however, mark the end of the legislative process. The next step involves three-way negotiations
between Council, European Parliament and European
Commission. The legal acts regulating the fourth railway
package might be formally adopted during the course
of 2016.

μμFrench rail reform takes effect
The new railway structure in France, which provides for reintegration of the previous SNCF and the infrastructure operator Réseau ferré de France (RFF), formally went into effect
in January 2015 and was effectively implemented in July
2015. Under the new structure, a holding company (SNCF)
controls two main companies (SNCF Mobility and SNCF Network, each publicly owned). Requirements for employment
conditions in the entire rail sector as well as the transposition of the EU requirements of the Recast Directive will be
or have been regulated in further acts of law. Among others,
the social conditions for the entire sector are to be unified
on July 1, 2016 by a decree and a sectoral collective bargain­
­ing agreement. A definition in the direction of the level of
SNCF would represent a danger to competitiveness in rail
freight transport.

μμLiberalization of the long-distance
bus market in France
The French long-distance bus market was liberalized in 2015.
Liberalization of the long-distance bus market opened up
routes with distances above a threshold of 100 km be­­­t ween
two French cities without limitation (open access). Operators must notify the French Railway and Road Activities
Regulation Authority (ARAFER) of plans to offer trans­­­­­­­port
services on routes that are less than 100 km. Transport
authorities that believe the economic balance of transport
contracts will be substantially threatened may, following
review and approval by the regulatory authority, prohibit
or restrict the introduction of bus services below the
threshold level.

088

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT — BUSINESS AND OVER ALL CONDITIONS
G R O U P P E R F O R M A N C E – EC O N O M I C D I M E N S I O N

GROUP PERFORMANCE – ECONOMIC DIMENSION
μμTop targets –

089

economic dimension

μμCustomer and

090

μμProfitable 

quality

094

growth
(economic position)

μμTop targets – economic dimension
¿

Punctuality DB Group (rail)
in Germany (%)

How far did we progress toward our 2020 targets in 2015? (%)

As of
2014

As of
2015

DB2020

–

76.1

76.4

≥ 79

w

–

–

67.5

≥ 73

w

94.4

94.3

93.6

> 95

w

Start in
2012

As of
2014

As of
2015

DB2020

39.3

39.7

40.5

> 50

w

8.3

6.3

5.3

≥ 9.0

w

22.1

20.9

18.5

≥ 30

w

Customer satisfaction,
passengers (SI)
Customer satisfaction
freight transport and logistics

Target
value

Start in
2012

(SI)

20

Æ
Strategic direction
Profitable growth
Market position –
revenues (€ billion)
Profitability –
ROCE (%)
Financial stability –
redemption coverage

(%)

Target
value

40

60

80

100

120

140

160

180

200 On target

How far did we progress toward our 2020 targets in 2015? (%)
20

40

60

80

100

120

140

160

180

200 On target

D R I V ER S FO R TA RG E T AT TA INMEN T
INFR ASTRUCTURE
AVAILABILITY

Preventive maintenance and eliminating
bottlenecks through
targeted expansion.
PUNCTUALITY

Ω PAGE 093

OPTIMIZATION OF
EXISTING BUSINESS

Measures for
continuous productivity increases.
MODERNIZATION OF
THE VEHICLE FLEET

REGULATORY
FR AMEWORK

Improving vehicle
availability and
increasing passenger
comfort.

Both in passenger and
in freight transport.
Ω PAGE 090

Ω PAGE 1 41

Minimize burdens
through intervention.

Europe-wide participation in tenders.

Ω PAGE 085 FF.

Ω PAGE 1 2 4

Ω PAGE 1 2 7

RELIABILITY

Securing travel
chains and ensuring
transport quality.
Ω PAGE 091 FF.

MARKET GROWTH

CUSTOMER
ORIENTATION

PASSENGER
INFORMATION

COMPETITIVE COST
STRUCTURES

Especially in
the area of freight
trans­­­­port
and logistics.

Customer-oriented
offers and services.
Ω PAGE 091 FF.

Ω PAGE 082

Timely and
com­prehensive
communication.

Optimization of cost
structures, moderate
wage development.
INNOVATIVE
PRODUCTS

Further development
of range of services.
Ω PAGE 092 F.

Ω PAGE 1 59

089

LIBER ALIZATION
OF PASSENGER
TR ANSPORT

Ω PAGE 068 F.

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

Strategic direction
Customer and quality

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμCustomer and quality

Customer satisfaction with the price-performance ratio of
our offers developed largely positively during the year
under review.

μμ Special challenges for punctuality.
μμ Image values remained nearly unchanged.
μμ Measures consolidated in Railway of the Future

μ μPUNCTUALITY BELOW PREVIOUS

program.

YEARʼS LEVEL

VARIED DEVELOPMENT
IN CUSTOMER SATISFACTION

μμ

¿
Punctuality [%]

¿
Customer satisfaction

1)

GRI
G4-PR5

[SI]

2015

2014

2013

Passengers 1)

76.4

76.1

75.1

Freight transport and logistics

67.5

–

68.5

2013 not including DB Regional Bus or DB Fleet Management
(Call a Bike/car sharing).

Regular measurement of customer satisfaction is very
important to us. The data is gathered in each case by in­­­
dependent market research institutes. DB Arriva relies on
a survey of the independent British passenger association
Passenger Focus. In the year under review around 150,000
passengers and 2,000 business partners were surveyed DB
Group-wide.
During the year under review, the customer satisfaction
of passengers improved only slightly as a consequence of
the GDL strikes and due to lower punctuality. Customer
satisfaction was weaker in the area of freight transport and
logistics. This was the result of developments at DB SCHENKER
[PAGE 1 4 8 F.] , while DB Cargo was able to achieve a slight
improvement.
‡

μ μPRICE-PERFORMANCE RATIO
GRI
G4-PR5

In order to optimize the perception of the price-per­
formance ratio of our offers, concrete MEASURES [PAGE 091 FF.]
have been carried out designed to increase quality and to
broaden the scope of services as well as certain pricing
measures and measures to change customer perception.
Customersʼ views of the price-performance ratio are
collected through customer satisfaction surveys in many
business units. The responses to the inquiries are made
on a scale of 1 (very satisfied) to 6 (very dissatisfied). Only
DB Cargo uses a scale of 1 to 7. Based on the data, an SI is
calculated, which is used uniformly in DB Group. The grades
are converted to a scale of 0 to 100.
‡

2014

2013

93.6

94.3

94.0

Rail passenger transport in Germany

93.7

94.5

94.1

Within our strategic direction of customer and quality,
product quality is one of the three top targets. The key
figure for this is the development of punctuality in rail
transport.
To measure punctuality, we compare the target time
to the actual time for every train trip. We summarize the
arrival of punctual trains and trains with a delay of up to a
specified time period in
Taking construction
the degree of punctuality.
into account in
During the year under
timetable planning
review, the average figure
The increasing complexity of
for the punctuality of DB
timetables, particularly in congested hubs, puts greater pressure
Group (rail) in Germany
on punctuality, as the effects of exter­
de­­­­clined significantly as
­­nal factors such as weather can only
did the figure for passenbe compensated for to a very limited
ger transport in Germany.
degree. Extensive measures are necessary to improve punctuality. Among
Punctuality at DB LONG -DIS­­­other objectives we aim to produce
TANCE [PAGE 1 28] and DB RE­­­­timetables that are updated daily
GIO­­­­­­­­N AL [PAGE 1 32] declined.
and take all construction work into
The declines are pri­
account. These and other cross-bor­der
measures in the areas of timetable
marily due to the GDL
planning, construction management,
strikes and the high vol­­­­execution of business oper­a­­­­tions and
u­­­me of construction.
the reduction of technical service
The performance there­
interruptions in vehicles and infrastructure are bundled into the Railway
­­­­fore does not correspond
of the Future program.
to our FORECAST FROM THE 2014
INTEGRATED REPORT [PAGE 181] .

μ μIMAGE VALUE REMAINED LARGELY
UNCHANGED
¿
Image value DB Group

¿
Assessment of price-performance ratio [SI]

2015

DB Group (rail) in Germany

2015

2014

DB Long-Distance

65

62

DB Regional Bus

63

64

DB Cargo

56

56

DB Netze Energy (B2B) traction current

64

60

DB Vehicle Maintenance (B2B) external

60

63

DB Fleet Management car-sharing (B2C)

71

71

DB Fleet Management Call a Bike (B2C)

77

70

|

Corporate Reputation Index (CRI)

2015

2014

2013

52

53

–

In addition to customer satisfaction and punctuality, image
is a further important item measured in the area of custo­­m­
­­er and quality. The image of DB Group is measured using

09 0

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup performance – economic dimension

μμDB Arriva has placed 230 new energy-efficient buses

μ μMEASURES IN THE YEAR
UNDER REVIEW

F1
P. 068 F.
P. 097

We implemented or initiated a large number of measures
DB Group-wide in the year under review aimed at improving
customer satisfaction and quality.
The focus of our customer and quality initiative was on
improving punctuality in rail passenger and freight trans­
port as an essential component of our performance pledge
to customers.
In addition to projects for punctuality improvement in
DB Long-Distance, DB Regional, DB Cargo and DB Netze
Track, the focus was on reducing technical service inter­
ruptions to the infrastructure and to vehicles. We also tar­
geted our efforts on improving the situation in our large
hubs. Thus a bundle of operational-planning measures were
developed for the Hamburg and Frankfurt am Main hubs
which will significantly improve punctuality in the entire
network by improving punctuality at the hubs themselves.
Further projects were started in Munich and Cologne.
∫ As part of the GROUP RESTRUCTURING [PAGE 068 F.] the
activities of the customer and quality initiative were trans­
ferred to the new R AILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] pro­
gram in the year under review.

μμPassenger transport
With the aim of increasing passenger satisfaction, many
measures in addition to those for improving punctuality are
being introduced that address our ESSENTIAL TOPICS [PAGE 048]
in the area of customer and quality.
GRI
DB 01

PRODUCT QUALITY
The interactive forum DB BAHN SERVICE COMMUNITY Œ allows
passengers to ask questions for the first time on an inhouse DB platform and to answer questions asked by
other users.
Since June 2015, DB Regionalʼs customer service repre­
sentatives have been equipped with the new Mobile Ter­
minal (MTx). The MTx features a thermal printer, scanner
and near-field communications (NFC) for e-tickets.
DB Arriva was the first bus operator in Great Britain to
conclude a partnership with Google Transit. As a result,
users of Google Maps receive better access to real-time
data.
‡ The approximately 600 buses newly commissioned
by DB Regional in accordance with the Euro VI standards
are comfortable, fuel-efficient and environmentally
friendly.

μμ

μμ

μμ

GRI
G4-EN27

into service in Great Britain. These also include Sap­
phire buses, which offer passengers on key commuter
routes a higher level of comfort. As a result, Arriva Sap­
phire was nominated for the UITP Award in the Cus­
tomer Experience Award category.
The expansion of the ICE Sprinter network began in
December 2015. The expansion includes increasing
the frequency on existing connections as well as new
connections.
The practical testing of ideas and developments from
our train laboratories takes place in DB Regionalʼs new
“idea train.” We have permanently established a labora­
tory and test area for implementation tests, where new
features and specific spatial concepts are tested in
cooperation with customers. The goal is continuous
product improvement and a faster introduction of new
product features.
The DB IDEENSCHMIEDE Œ (DB think tank) competition
was held for the first time as part of the d.lab. Custom­
­ers were able to use an online platform to submit and
comment on ideas focused on orientation at the station
and on the platform, navigation to the train and in the
train, and infotainment in the train.

GRI
G4-EN27

μμ

μμ

μμ

PRICE- PERFORMANCE R ATIO
Two temporary offers were introduced with the aim
of winning new customers. The “Deutschland-Pass,”
which offers unlimited rail travel for the summer, and
the “Sommer-Sparpreis” of € 19 for DB Long-Distance
throughout Germany.
To win more new customers in the segment of priceconscious casual users, DB Regional Southeast intro­
duced the 120/120+ ticket in June 2015. The new offer
is valid for all of Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia
and selected branch lines. Distances up to 120 km cost
€ 15, distances over 120 km cost € 18.
In long-distance transport, there have been special
prices for advance booking since December 2015, with
a surcharge for the ICE Sprinter, while BahnCard and
ticket prices are unchanged.
DB luggage service provides pickup and delivery of
baggage to the final destination. Since December 2015,
no surcharge has applied for delivery to the German
islands. The improved information service sends realtime information on the shipment status directly to the
customerʼs smartphone.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

09 1

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

the Corporate Reputation Index (CRI) and is ascertained
by an independent market research institute. The value
remained virtually unchanged in the year under review.

GRI
DB 02

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

F4
P. 073
P. 093

PRODUCT INNOVATION
∫ The DB NAVIGATOR Œ app has been completely revised.
In addition to a new design and improved navigation, a
variety of functions were added. These include graphic
seat reservation and new station plans. The app is also
available for the Apple watch.
A free, browser-based entertainment portal in five lan­
guages was introduced for customers in IC BUSES Œ .
Since October 2015, passengers have been able to watch
the latest news and tourist information on the ICE Por­
tal. The ICE Portal can be used via the onboard WiFi.
In order to increase the satisfaction of its subscription
customers, SOUTH WEST EXPRESS (SÜWEX) Œ makes it pos­
sible to reserve a regular seat or indicate preferred
seat­­­ing on regional transport using an app. After suc­
cessful testing the offer will be extended to all SÜWEX
lines.
In Great Britain, the ARRIVA BUS APP Œ has features such
as a route planner, live map and timetable information,
further simplifying bus travel. The app is connected to
the DB Arriva m-ticket app and has been downloaded
over 800,000 times.
DB Arriva is the first bus operator in the Czech Republic
to introduce payment by smartphone.
Since April 2015, a pilot project with the ride-sharing
network FLINC Œ has been running in the Black Forest.
The target is an optimal and environmentally friendly
connection among various means of transport for doorto-door linkage of bus and passengers. In the future, the
flinc ride-sharing app will also integrate DB timetables
and the regional public transport system across Ger­
many. In addition, flinc itself is part of DB Mobility apps.
This means that flinc is also integrated into QIXXIT Œ .
Integration of DB Fleet Management offers into the
bahn.de booking process. Customers can book electric
vehicles from Flinkster Connect at the same time they
book their ticket. The offer will be tested first in Berlin.
The AIR ail service with Lufthansa has been expanded
and is now offered in six German cities. Passengers
benefit from an extremely accurate timetable that is
tailored to Lufthansa routes. They also receive a con­
nection and re-booking guarantee and a mileage credit
for Miles&More members.
DB Arriva has expanded its existing business in the
Netherlands in the province of Limburg. For example,
from the end of 2016 customers will be able to change
from regional transport directly to the IC bus from
Düsseldorf to Brussels.

μμ

μ μFreight transport and logistics
To increase the satisfaction of freight transport and logis­
tics customers, a variety of measures, in particular measures to optimize production processes and improve pas­
senger information, are being implemented. DB Cargo is
part of the R AILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] program.
∫

GRI
DB 03

F2
P. 072
P. 140

μμ
μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

PRODUCT QUALITY
Using an established pan-European information ex­­­change within the framework of the Quality Council,
DB Cargo identifies cross-border problems and works
to correct them.
DB Schenkerʼs training program for our approximately
300 Global and Regional Account Managers (GAM/RAM)
unifies and improves account managersʼ skills in selling
to major customers.
‡ In addition to the environmental aspects, the new
L AND TR AN SP O RT TER MIN AL IN HEL SINK I [PAG E 1 47] , which
opened in June 2015, makes it possible to handle ship­
ments more quickly and efficiently.
In European land transport, terminal processes and
structures are continuously optimized. This optimization
is based on the dissemination of best practices in accor­
dance with the train-the-trainer principle. This acceler­
ates the clearance of local transport and linehaul vehi­
cles and minimizes the risk of damage or loss of goods.
Coordination with other TOCs across Europe was intro­
duced using platform-based train-order management
in order to provide customers with valid estimates
for train arrival times even for short-term cross-bor­­­der special train orders. Twenty-five TOCs throughout
Europe are currently involved in this project.
The integrated scheduler of the combined train traffic
manages all trains from the different companies from
start to finish based on discrepancy reports. The sched­
uler manages any deviations of the trains in the interest
of the customers and is responsible for communicating
traffic information to internal and external customers.

μμ

GRI
DB 01

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

PRODUCT INNOVATION
DB Schenker now also offers transport by rail on the
southern route from China to Germany and the subse­
quent onward transport by air to North and South
America.
In January 2015, the service catalog was introduced in
Germany, which triggered the migration of customers
to network rail. The aim of network rail is the introduc­
tion of a capacity-controlled network to reduce the vari­
ations in transport times and make it more reliable and
predictable.

μμ

μμ

09 2

GRI
G4-EN27

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup performance – economic dimension

μμ∫ DB Cargo has further developed its online channels

P. 092
P. 093

with myRailportal. In addition to basic functions such
as ordering of loaded and empty transports and ship­
ment tracking, myRailportal offers the potential to
develop special apps to optimize the supply chain for
industries.
The customer platform ESCHENKER Œ provides simple,
transparent processes based on digital solutions. In
addition to traditional services such as worldwide online
shipment tracking, a fast and efficient booking system
for all modes of transport and the ability to retrieve the
complete timetables for all cross-border shipping ser­
vices in Europe, special services are also available when
needed.
The improved technology-based exchange of informa­
tion between the individual TOCs involved in the train
run makes it possible to provide prompt and reliable
information on the expected time of arrival (ETA) for
trains with a delay of more than 30 minutes.
The new Multimodal Competence Center is intended to
realize synergies in road and rail. By linking transport
we can fully exploit the potential of the European net­
work for intermodal customer solutions. We focus on
the general cargo market in order to fully leverage our
competitive advantage.
The terminal for combined transport in Burghausen offi­
cially began operations in mid-January 2015. Trains
travel from Bremerhaven to Hamburg and back on each
working day. Weekly shuttle connections between
Burghausen, Rotterdam and Antwerp are planned.
Since March 2015, DB Cargo has increased the number
of departures at the new London Gateway terminal to
five a week. In addition, DB Cargo has its own order
management system directly connected to the port.
This has made it possible for DB Cargo to record shoreto-door punctuality of 99.7% in container transport.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμInfrastructure
To increase the satisfaction of our infrastructure custom­
­ rs, a variety of measures are being implemented, in par­
e
ticular to improve quality and passenger information and
quality.

PRODUCT QUALITY
DB Netze Track has expanded its information tools and
simplified access to the network with new interactive
maps of terminals of combined load transport and of
loading stations. The information content of the maps
has been increased significantly. Since April 2015, the
combined transport map also shows transfer connec­
tions and the loading station map additionally includes
data from Austrian Federal Railways, Swiss railways and
the Association of German Transport Companies.
∫ DB LIVEMAPS Œ allows customers to track their trains
in real time and as a graphical application. DB Live­
Maps is available as a Web site and as an app.
Operational employees of DB Station&Service receive
eight days of practical training annually in regional ser­
vice workshops. The training modules were supple­
mented with the active use of age simulation suits to
test accessibility.
Digital visual displays (Dynamische Schriftanzeiger;
DSA) have been installed at approximately 100 addition­
­­­al stations.
Customer service representatives have been equipped
with tablets to allow them to better advise customers.

μμ

μμ

GRI
DB 01

F4
P. 093
P. 093

μμ

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

F4

μμ
μμ

PRODUCT INNOVATION
∫ The new STATIONS - PORTAL Œ (Station Portal) went
online at the end of August 2015. This is a Web-based
tool for registering station stops and concluding the
associated station-use contracts for customers using
regular and occasional transport services. Business cus­
tomers can enter which of their trains should stop at
which stations. In addition, contracts can also be con­
cluded electronically via the station portal.
DB Rent cooperates with moovel in order to offer our
customers a seamless mobility chain with door-to-door
connections. The complete rental process is smart­
phone-based. The linking of the mobility platforms
moovel and FLINKSTER Œ in June 2015 created the largest
mobility-services network in Germany.

μμ

μμ

μ μFURTHER MEASURES
Further measures in the year under review affecting cus­
tomer satisfaction, quality and image are presented in the
chapter DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS UNITS [PAGE 1 22 FF.], with an
overview of the measures planned for 2016 presented in
the chapter entitled OUTLOOK [PAGE 181 F.] .

09 3

GRI
DB 03

F4
P. 093
P. 111

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI
G4-6
G4-13

μμProfitable growth

μμThe REVENUE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUSINESS UNITS [PAGE 1 22

(economic position)

FF.]

μ μPROFIT SITUATION

changes to the scope of consolidation, revenues were
at the previous yearʼs level.

μμ Revenues at the previous yearʼs level on a
comparable basis.

μμ

Æ

√

Strikes had significantly negative impact

Change

on revenues and profits.

Revenues adjusted [€ million]

μμ Continued competitive and cost pressure in

DB Group

all business units.

±	Special items
DB Group adjusted

μμ DB Cargo with operating losses and high impairment.
μμ Group restructuring leads to high extraordinary

±	Effects from changes in the scope
of consolidation

special burdens.

±	Effects from changes in
exchange rates

μμ Profit after taxes significantly negative.

DB Group – comparable

μμNo major restrictions in comparability

2015

2014

absolute

%

40,403

39,728

+ 675

+1.7

65

–8

+73

–

40,468

39,720

+748

+1.9

–79

–26

– 53

–

–768

–

–768

–

39,621

39,694

–73

– 0.2

Æ

to previous year

Revenues adjusted [€ billion]

Trends in expenses and income in the year under review
were not significantly influenced by CHANGES IN THE SCOPE OF
CONSOLIDATION [PAGE 194 FF.] . To a limited degree the acquisition of MTS [PAGE 1 47] (included since June 2015) and of BUS
OPER ATIONS IN EASTERN EUROPE [PAGE 1 36] (included since July
2015) and the sale of The Original London Sightseeing Tour
Ltd. (TOT), London/Great Britain in the previous year
(included until September 2014) are relevant for comparability purposes.
There were no material changes to accounting.

2015

39.7

2013

39.1

2012

39.3

2011

37.9

Æ
External revenues by business units
[€ million]

2014

DB Long-Distance

3,801

DB Regional

8,568

DB Arriva
DB Cargo
DB Services

F5 ∫

√
Change
2015

DB Schenker

operationally stable
Driven by exchange rates revenue development was positive during the year under review. No positive stimulus
overall came from the operational business. However, DB
Arriva and DB Netze Track recorded particularly positive
performances.
The special item in the year under review resulted from
a reduction in sales deductions for previous years. The
special item in the previous year resulted from the sale
of WBN Waggonbau Niesky in July 2014.
Effects of changes in the scope of consolidation relate
to DB Schenker (€ + 58 million) and DB Arriva (€ +21
million).
Effects of E XCH A N G E R ATE CH A N G E S [PAG E 0 7 9 F.] were
attributable to DB Schenker (€ + 428 million), DB Arriva
(€ +290 million), DB Cargo (€ + 49 million) and DB LongDistance (€ +1 million).
The main negative factors were the effects of the GDL
STRIKES [PAGE 1 1 4 F.] in the amount of € –148 million
(2015: € –314 million, previous year: € –166 million) and
performance losses from growing competitive pressure
for DB Long-Distance, DB Regional and DB Cargo.

40.5

2014

μμSlight increase in revenues,
P. 073
P. 111

was varied in the year under review.

μμAdjusted for special items, exchange rate changes and

DB Netze Track

absolute

%

3,885

– 84

–2.2

8,721

–153

–1.8

4,836

4,485

+351

+7.8

4,417

4,517

–100

–2.2

15,390

14,894

+ 496

+3.3

269

259

+10

+3.9

1,275

1,118

+157

+14.0

DB Netze Stations

480

464

+16

+3.4

DB Netze Energy

1,128

1,073

+ 55

+ 5.1

304

304

–

–

40,468

39,720

+748

+ 1.9

Other
DB Group adjusted

μμ

μμRevenue structure shifts slightly
Æ
Structure of external revenues [%]

μμ

μμ

μμ

09 4

DB Long-Distance

√
2015

2014

9.4

9.8

DB Regional

21.2

22.0

DB Arriva

12.0

11.3

DB Cargo

10.9

11.4

DB Schenker

38.0

37.5

DB Services

0.7

0.7

DB Netze Track

3.1

2.8

DB Netze Stations

1.2

1.2

DB Netze Energy

2.8

2.7

Other

0.7

0.6

100.0

100.0

DB Group

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup per forman c e – ec onom i c d i men s i on

Æ

√

External revenues by regions
[€ million]

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

Germany

22,886

22,921

–35

– 0.2

Europe (not including Germany)

12,756

12,348

+ 408

+3.3

Asia/Pacific

2,612

2,466

+146

+ 5.9

North America

1,708

1,479

+229

+15.5

506

506

–

–

40,468

39,720

+748

+ 1.9

Rest of world
DB Group adjusted

Revenue development in all regions outside of Germany was
positive, due mainly to exchange-rate effects.
In Germany, revenues remained at the previous yearʼs
level. The negative development of DB Long-Distance,
DB Regional and DB Cargo was offset among others by
growth at DB Netze Track. At DB Schenker the first-time
inclusion of MTS had a positive impact.
In the regions of Europe (not including Germany),
Asia/Pa­­­­­cific and North America, positive exchangerate ef­fects had an impact, with an increase in revenues re­corded here as a result.
In Europe (not including Germany), exchange-rate
effects were particularly noticeable at DB Arriva and
DB Cargo. The operational development at DB Schenker
was supportive.
When adjusted for exchange rates, the Asia/Pacific
region had a slight decrease in revenues primarily due
to developments in Australia and China.
In North America, only a slight increase in sales was
recorded when adjusted for exchange rates.
The regional revenue structure was virtually unchanged.
The share of revenues generated outside of Germany
amounted to about 43% in the year under review (previous
year: about 42%). The share of revenues generated in
Europe (not including Germany) remained nearly stable at
about 32% (previous year: about 31%).

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ
μμ

GRI
G4-EC1

μμThe reclassification essentially relates to two issues.
The first issue is the reclassification of net interest
income components not related to net financial debt and
pension provisions reclassified: predominantly the compounding and discounting effects of non-current provisions (excluding pension obligations) and non-current
liabilities (excluding financial debt). The non-operational character of these components can be seen in
the fact that their influence on net interest income very
much depends on their given interest rates as of the
balance sheet date.
		 The second significant reclassification relates to the
depreciation of intangible assets capitalized in the
course of purchase price allocations (PPA) of acquisitions
conducted during the assessment of long-term custom­­er
contracts. The existing transport contracts are an
essential component in the purchase price valuation in
passenger transport in particular. In order to ensure the
operating assessment and to prevent these contracts
from being treated differently to other contracts, these
depreciation components are eliminated from operat­
­ing profit. The sum reclassified in the year under review
relates almost entirely to the acquisition of Arriva.
Adjustments for special items involve issues which are
extraordinary based on the reason and/or the amount
and which would result in an essential negative effect
on operational development over time. Regardless of
their amounts, book profits and losses from transactions with subsidiaries/financial assets are adjusted.
Individual items are adjusted if they are extraordinary in
character, can be accounted for and assessed precisely,
and are significant in volume.
The following presentation of income development describes
the changes in the key statement of income items, adjusted
for special items. The effects from the changes in the scope
of consolidation and exchange rate effects are presented
in the following table and are not explained further in the
following section.

μμ

μμProfits decline significantly
TR ANSITION TO ADJUSTED PROFIT CALCULATION

μμ Special issues are eliminated in the adjusted statement
of income – the transition to the adjusted statement of
income is a two-step process. The first is standard reclassifications, with the figures then being adjusted for
individual special items.

09 5

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

There were no significant changes in the revenue structure
at the business unit level.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ
Reclassifications

Transition to the adjusted statement of income [€ million]
Revenues

2015

Compounding/
discounting IFRS

40,403

–

Adjustment for special items

Net investment PPA amortiincome
zation
–

–

Group
restructuring
including
impairments at
DB Cargo

Impairments and
provisions
in superstructure

Other

2015
adjusted

–

–

65

40,468
2,699

Inventory changes and internally produced
and capitalized assets

2,699

–

–

–

–

–

–

Other operating income

2,772

–

–

–

–1

–

–8

2,763

Cost of materials

–20,208

–

–

–

26

–

17

–20,165

Personnel expenses

–15,599

–

–

–

242

–

–105

–15,462

– 5,750

–

–

–

81

97

47

– 5,525

4,317

–

–

–

348

97

16

4,778

– 4,471

–

–

99

1,322

31

–0

–3,019
1,759

Other operating expenses
EBITDA adjusted

Depreciation
Operating profit (EBIT) | EBIT adjusted

–154

–

–

99

1,670

128

16

Net interest income | Net operating interest income

– 800

41

–

–

–

–

+0

–759

Operating income after interest

– 954

41

–

99

1,670

128

16

1,000

Result from investments accounted for using
the equity method | Net investment income
Other financial result

22

–

1

–

–

–

+0

23

0

– 41

–1

–

–

–

–0

– 42

PPA amortization customer contracts

–

–

–

– 99

–

–

–

– 99

Extraordinary result

–

–

–

–

–1,670

–128

–16

–1,814

– 932

–

–

–

–

–

–

– 932

Profit before taxes on income
Æ

Change

Excerpt from adjusted statement of income [€ million]
Revenues
Inventory changes and internally produced and capitalized assets
Other operating income

thereof due
to changes
in the scope thereof due
of consoli- to exchangeabsolute
dation rate effects

2015
adjusted

2014
adjusted

40,468

39,720

+748

+ 53

+768

+1.9

2,699

2,684

+15

+0

+3

+ 0.6

%

2,763

2,545

+218

+1

+16

+ 8.6

Cost of materials

–20,165

–20,221

+ 56

– 49

–355

– 0.3

Personnel expenses

–15,462

–14,694

–768

–2

–236

+ 5.2

– 5,525

– 4,924

– 601

–2

–153

+12.2

Other operating expenses
EBITDA adjusted

4,778

5,110

–332

+1

+ 43

– 6.5

–3,019

–3,001

–18

–1

–11

+ 0.6

EBIT adjusted

1,759

2,109

–350

0

+32

–16.6

Net operating interest

–759

– 824

+ 65

–1

+6

–7.9

1,000

1,285

–285

–1

+38

–22.2

Depreciation

Operating income after interest
Net investment income
Other financial result
PPA amortization customer contracts

Extraordinary result
Profit before taxes on income

OPER ATING PROFIT FIGURES DEVELOP WEAKER
The REVENUE DEVELOPMENT [PAGE 0 9 4 F.] was operationally
stable during the year under review.
Other operating income increased significantly partly
as a result of higher compensation for damages at
DB Regional. For DB Netze Track, income from real
estate sales had an effect.

23

8

+15

–

–1

–

– 42

–77

+35

–3

+12

– 45.5
+ 4.2

– 99

– 95

–4

–

–5

–1,814

–184

–1,630

–

–23

–

– 932

937

–1,869

–4

+21

–

μμThe cost of materials in operations declined. Lower

μμ

μμ

09 6

energy consumption had the largest effect on this as a
result of the decreases in volume produced, lower
diesel prices and price effects for services purchased.
Personnel expenses were noticeably higher than the
previous yearʼs figure, mainly reflecting wage increases.

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup performance – economic dimension

Extraordinary result rose sharply

expenses for franchise licenses as a result of structural
changes in revenue support payments at DB Arriva. In
addition, higher allocations to the provision for potential losses had an impact on DB Regional, although this
was partially offset by reversals of provisions for potential losses recognized in other operating income.
The overall increase in expenses resulted in a decline in
adjusted EBITDA , while revenues development remained
stable.
Year on year, depreciation was higher overall. Higher
depreciation at DB Regional and DB Arriva, among others,
due to the vehicles added in the previous year was partially offset, primarily by decreases in DB Long-Distance.
Accordingly, adjusted EBIT and operating income after
interest also developed significantly weaker in the year
under review.
Net operating interest income improved because of
lower interest rates. This was partly offset by the higher
holdings of bonds compared with the end of the previous
year.

Æ

Æ

√

EBIT adjusted by business units

[€ million]

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

DB Long-Distance

164

212

– 48

–22.6

DB Regional

669

843

–174

–20.6

DB Arriva

270

265

+5

+1.9

DB Cargo

–183

46

–229

–

395

332

+ 63

+19.0
–14.6

DB Schenker
DB Services

70

82

–12

DB Netze Track

578

562

+16

+2.8

DB Netze Stations

254

240

+14

+ 5.8

DB Netze Energy

Other/consolidation
DB Group

66

55

+11

+20.0

– 524

– 528

+4

– 0.8

1,759

2,109

–350

–16.6

DEVELOPMENT OF ADJUSTED PROFIT S FOR THE BUSINES S UNIT S

was varied and was heavily influenced by the
negative performance of DB Long-Distance, DB Regio­­nal
and DB Cargo as a result of the strikes. The positive per­for­
­­mance of DB Schenker and the infrastructure business units
compensated in part.
The development of the other financial result was attributable in particular to lower effects of the compounding of
interest on provisions and liabilities.
Due in particular to an IMPAIRMENT AT DB CARGO [PAGE 203 F.]
the extraordinary result declined significantly, and accordingly profit before taxes on income also recorded a significantly negative performance.
[PAGE 1 22 FF.]

thereof
effecting

2015

EBIT

2014

DB Long-Distance

–35

–35

–

–

–

–

–32

–32

DB Regional

EBIT

DB Arriva

–17

–17

24

24

DB Cargo

–1,363

–1,363

92

92

–196

–196

–101

–101

–4

–4

–32

–32

–197

–197

–

–

DB Netze Stations

–2

–2

–

–

DB Netze Energy

–

–

7

7

Other/consolidation

–

–

–142

–142

–1,814

–1,814

–184

–184

DB Schenker
DB Services
DB Netze Track

DB Group

The extraordinary result increased significantly mainly
due to effects related to the Group restructuring (€ 1.7 billion). This resulted primarily from IMPAIRMENTS [PAGE 203 F.]
at DB Cargo (€ 1.3 billion). The remaining amounts relate
to restructuring expenses in the railway in Germany, as
well as DB Schenkerʼs and DB Cargoʼs activities outside
Germany.
Other major non-recurring effects at DB Netze Track
resulted from impairments and the formation of provisions
in the superstructure (decommissioning overhead line sys­
tems on disused routes).
Among the other special items, the release of personnel-related provisions was largely offset by the effects of
anti-trust fines at DB Schenker and by expenses for forming
provisions for civil proceedings relating to infrastructure
fees at DB Netze Track and DB Netze Stations.
Special items in the previous year mainly resulted from:
Effects from the impairment of fixed assets at DB
Regional
Effects from disposal of investments and adverse effects
of restructuring measures at DB Arriva
Effects of the sale of real estate in Great Britain and adverse effects of restructuring measures in the DB Cargo
business unit
Effects of restructuring measures in the DB Schenker
business unit
Effects of the disposal of investments and restructuring
measures in the DB Services business unit
Effects of forming provisions for regulatory matters in
the DB Netze Energy business unit
Expenses for forming provisions for restructuring measures (“Other”)
∫

μμ
μμ

The

thereof
effecting

Extraordinary result
[€ million]

μμ

μμ
μμ
μμ
μμ

09 7

F1
P. 091
P. 178

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμOther operating expenses rose, partly due to higher

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

PROFIT AFTER TA XES

μμThe adjusted forecast was not achieved because the
negative effects described were greater than expected.

Æ

μμBased on an assumption that revenues would develop

Change

Excerpt from statement of income
[€ million]

2015

2014

absolute

%

Profit before taxes on income

– 932

937

–1,869

–

Taxes on income

–379

51

– 430

–

		actual tax expenses

–137

–136

–1

+ 0.7

		 deferred tax expenses

–242

187

– 429

–

Net profit for the year

–1,311

988

–2,299

–

DB AG shareholders
		

–1,325

966

–2,291

–

14

22

–8

–36.4

		
Minority interests

μμ

μμ

Earnings per share (€)
		undiluted

–3.08

2.25

– 5.33

–

		diluted

–3.08

2.25

– 5.33

–

The significant deterioration of profit before taxes on in­­
come was amplified by developments in the income tax
position. Accordingly, net profit for the year (profit after
taxes on income) fell even more significantly. The development in taxes on income was mainly a result of a negative
trend in deferred taxes at DB AG as a result of changes in
the profit outlook for DB Group.
Accordingly, the profit (after taxes on income) for DB AG
shareholders developed negatively in the year under review.
Net profit attributable to minority interests also fell.
The earnings per share developed accordingly.

μμ
μμ
Æ

Revenues

μμTangible deviation from the
projected profit situation

Revenues

(€ billion)

EBIT adjusted (€ billion)
ROCE

(%)

Redemption coverage

(%)

2014

2015
(outlook
March
2015)

2015
(outlook
July 2015)

2015

39.7

> 41.0

~ 41.0

40.5

2.1

>2.2

≥ 2.0

1.8

6.3

~ 6.3

< 6.0

5.3

20.9

>20

>19

18.5

μμ

2014

2015
(outlook
March
2015)

2015
(outlook
July 2015)

2015

DB Long-Distance

4,034

q

w

3,951

DB Regional

8,831

e

w

8,670

DB Arriva

4,491

q

q

4,843

DB Cargo

4,863

q

q

4,767

14,943

q

q

15,451

DB Services

3,172

w

e

3,192

DB Netze Track

4,951

q

q

5,110

DB Netze Stations

1,172

q

q

1,199

DB Netze Energy

2,797

q

q

2,812

q above previous yearʼs figure
e at previous yearʼs level
w below previous yearʼs figure

Development in the year under review fell short of our
expectations overall.
After slight growth in 2014, we had expected a significantly positive development in revenues during the year
under review.
In July 2015, we revised our revenues forecast to around
€ 41 billion. This was mainly due to the expectation of
the negative effects of the strikes and its impact on rail
transport as well as the difficult market and competitive
situation in the long-distance passenger and freight
transport business and in logistics.

μμ

[€ million]

DB Schenker

Æ

Outlook for the 2015
financial year

positively across all business units, we also expected a
noticeable improvement in adjusted EBIT.
In July 2015, we significantly decreased expectations for
adjusted EBIT due to the developments in the first half
of 2015, as we expected additional costs in addition to
the weaker revenue development.
The adjusted forecast was not achieved because
our rail activities in Germany, in particular DB Cargo,
experienced significantly weaker performance than
anti­cipated.
The forecast for ROCE developed in line with the
expected development of adjusted EBIT and, accordingly, also underperformed.
Due to the negative development of operating profit,
the redemption coverage was significantly below the
forecast.

At the business unit level, revenue development in the year
under review remained largely in line with our adjusted
forecast of July 2015.
At DB Cargo, ongoing performance losses due to the
strikes, among other factors, had a negative impact on
revenue development. Moreover, the forecast was not
reached due to the decline in demand resulting from
production instability linked to a drop in quality, as well
as lower demand in the coal and steel market.

μμ

09 8

Æ

2014

2015
(outlook
March
2015)

DB Long-Distance

212

q

w

164

DB Regional

843

e

w

669

DB Arriva

265

q

q

270

DB Cargo

46

q

e

–183

DB Schenker

332

q

q

395

DB Services

82

w

w

70

DB Netze Track

562

q

q

578

DB Netze Stations

240

q

e

254

55

q

q

66

EBIT adjusted [€ million]

DB Netze Energy

2015
(outlook
July
2015)

2015

q above previous yearʼs figure
e at previous yearʼs level
w below previous yearʼs figure

Our EBIT forecasts for the individual business units are
largely in line with the actual development during the year
under review.
Driven by lower revenues and cost increases, performance at DB Cargo declined, and profit development
fell significantly short of expectations.
DB Netze Stations exceeded their operating profit
forecast.

μμ

μμ

μ μFINANCIAL SITUATION
μμ Financial management unchanged.
μμ Ratings stable.
μμ Six bonds with a total value of € 2.5 billion issued.
In addition to aiming for a sustained rise in enterprise value,
DB Groupʼs financial management focuses on maintaining a
capital structure that will ensure excellent credit ratings.
Please see VALUE MANAGEMENT [PAGE 101 FF.] for detailed information on the key figures used: redemption coverage,
gearing and net financial debt/EBITDA .
The treasury center for DB Group is at DB AG. This structure ensures that all Group companies are able to borrow
and invest funds at optimal terms and conditions. Before
obtaining funds from external sources, we first conduct
intra-Group financing transactions. When borrowing
external funds, DB AG takes out short-term loans in its own
name, whereas long-term capital is generally obtained
through the Groupʼs financing company, Deutsche Bahn
Finance B.V. (DB Finance), Amsterdam/the Netherlands.

The funds are passed on to the Group companies within the
context of a dual-level treasury concept as short-term credit
lines, which can be utilized as part of cash pooling on inter­
­­nal current accounts and/or through fixed short-term credit,
or in the form of long-term loans. This concept enables us to
pool risks and resources for the entire Group, and to consolidate our expertise, realize synergy effects and mini­mize
refinancing costs.
DB Group continues to have access to a long-term debt
issuance program in the amount of € 20 billion. A total of
six bonds and one bond increase were issued via DB Finance
in the year under review. The total volume of the trans­
actions was € 2.5 billion. The terms of these bonds range
from 8 to 15 years, and they were issued in euros, Nor­
wegian krones, Swiss francs and Australian dollars. The
transactions were placed mainly in Germany, France, Scandinavia, Switzerland, as well as the Benelux countries and
the Pacific region. In addition, a € 700 million bond was
repaid in the year under review. This means that € 19.0
billion of the debt issuance program was utilized as of
December 31, 2015 (as of December 31, 2014: € 17.2 billion). The utilization of the program thus continued to rise
during the year under review.
With respect to short-term financing, as in the previous
year, € 2 billion was available from a multi-currency, multiissuer commercial paper program as of December 31, 2015.
This had not been utilized as of December 31, 2015 (as of
December 31, 2014: no utilization). As of December 31, 2015,
we also had guaranteed unutilized credit facilities of
€ 1.9 billion (as of December 31, 2014: € 2.0 billion), with a
remaining term of between 1.0 and 2.0 years as well as
further guaranteed unutilized credit facilities of € 0.1 billion
(as of December 31, 2014: € 0.1 billion).
In addition, credit facilities of € 2.2 billion were avail­­­
able for the operating business (as of December 31, 2014:
€ 1.7 billion). These credit facilities, which are made available to our subsidiaries around the world, include provisions for financing working capital as well as sureties for
payment.
No major finance leasing transactions were concluded
during the year under review. Outstanding volume de­creased
through expired transactions.

09 9

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup performance – economic dimension

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμRatings unchanged
Ratings DB AG

Standard&Poorʼs

Moodyʼs

The bond markets were characterized by low interest rates
and very high volatility. This meant that the receptivity of
investors to new bonds fluctuated greatly during the year,
which made it necessary for issuers to make concessions
to investors in some cases. In this environment, we took
advantage of market situations that were favorable to us
in order to avoid the impact of possible future disruptions
in the capital markets.
Strong demand for long-dated bonds in Norwegian
krone (NOK) enabled us to issue our biggest NOK bond
yet in the amount of NOK 3.4 billion, with a term of 15
years. In addition, this was one of the biggest NOK bonds
issued by a non-Norwegian company.
Following our roadshow in Asia and Australia, we issued
a bond in Australian dollars (AUD). The AUD 180 million
issue has a maturity of ten years with an attractive coupon.
It was placed with investors from Australia and countries
with low interest rates in Asia.
The focus of our issuance activity remained on the euro
in the year under review. We initially built on the floatingrate notes issued in the previous year and issued a bond
for € 400 million with a term of eight years. Investor
interest in this bond was very high, so we were able to
increase it by a further € 200 million a short time later. We
were active in fixed income with issues of over € 600 million (term: 10 years) and € 650 million (term: 15 years).
While the floating rate note (FRN) was primarily placed in
Germany, the greatest demand for the two fixed-rate
issues came from France.
We concluded our issuance activity in the year under
review with a ten-year bond in the Swiss market in the
amount of CHF 175 million. Despite a low interest rate, as
in the past, we saw strong interest on the part of Swiss
investors.

Current ratings

First
issued

Last
confirmation

Shortterm

Longterm

Outlook

May 16,
2000

August
28,
2015

A–1+

AA

negative

May 16,
2000

September 28,
2015

P–1

Aa1

stable

The creditworthiness of DB Group is constantly monitored
and assessed by the rating agencies Standard&Poorʼs (S&P)
and Moodyʼs. Credit ratings provide an independent, up-todate assessment of a companyʼs creditworthiness. When
calculating ratings for DB AG, the ownership structure means
that the rating agencies take into account not only the
quantitative and qualitative analysis of the company, but
also an assessment of the relationship to our owner, the
Federal Government, and the potential support that DB AG
could receive from the Federal Government. This means
that the ratings given to the Federal Government are also
significant for the ratings given to DB AG.
There was a change to S&P and Moodyʼs assessments
of DB AG during the year under review. While Moodyʼs confirmed its rating and outlook, S&P confirmed the rating, but
at the same time adjusted the rating outlook from stable
to negative. This adjustment is the result of what S&P
views as worse-than-expected revenues and profit development and the resulting sustained fail­­­ure to meet certain
targets. DB AGʼs ratings have remained unchanged since
they were first issued.
Please see our investor relations Web site for additio­nal information on the subject of R ATINGS Œ and complete
analyses for DB AG.

μμSix bonds issued
We issued six bonds and a bond increase through DB Finance
in the year under review, with a total value of € 2.5 billion.
In addition to the refinancing of maturing liabilities we also
took advantage of market opportunities.
Issuer

Currency

Volume (million)

Coupon (%)

Maturity

XS 1304662650

DB Finance

NOK

3,400

2.740

October 2030

15

XS 1306410249

DB Finance

AUD

180

3.750

October 2025

10

ISIN

Term (years)

XS 1306411726

DB Finance

EUR

600

FRN

October 2023

8

XS 1309518998

DB Finance

EUR

600

1.250

October 2025

10

XS 1316420089

DB Finance

EUR

650

1.625

November 2030

15

CH 0303138520

DB Finance

CHF

175

0.100

December 2025

10

100

μ μVALUE MANAGEMENT
μμ ROCE target adjusted to 9% in line with decrease
in cost of capital.

μμ ROCE continued to decline.
μμ Key debt ratios deteriorated.
Æ
Freight
transport
and
logistics

Group

Passen­ger
trans­port

ROCE

≥ 9.0

≥ 10.0

≥ 13.0

8.0

Redemption coverage

≥ 30

≥ 50

≥ 50

≥ 30

Gearing

100

100

100

100

≤ 2.5

≤ 1.5

≤ 1.5

≤ 2.5

Value management targets [%]

Net financial debt/EBITDA (multiple)

DB

Infrastructure

μμ

In the context of our value management, we want to maintain, increase and guarantee DB Groupʼs enterprise value
over the long term so that we can finance capital expenditures in our core business. The financial management of
DB Group and therefore also the monitoring of the success
of our targets for PROFITABLE GROWTH Æ – is performed on the
basis of a value-oriented management system based on key
figures. The results are an important factor for our strate­gic approach, capital expenditures decisions, as well as
employee and management remuneration.
Our value management approach is based on profitability and creditworthiness:
Profitability: profitability as an overriding target in value
management ensures that investors receive a reasonable
long-term rate of return over several economic cycles.
We calculate the weighted average cost of capital
(WACC) of debt and equity capital on an annual basis
using market values.
	 The actual return, ROCE, is calculated as the ratio of
operating profit before interest and taxes (EBIT adjus­
­ted) to capital employed. The target ROCE is set higher
than the cost of capital. The long-term aim is to keep the
multi-year average ROCE above the target, thereby covering the cost of capital. This target ROCE corresponds
to the minimum required rate of return (MRR).

The different business characteristics result in different
target values for our activities in passenger transport,
freight transport and logistics as well as in infrastructure. In the year under review in the non-infrastructure
area, we will differentiate between passenger transport
and freight transport and logistics for the first time. The
cost of capital and thus the expected returns from the
infrastructure business units are lower due to our projection of continually low profit volatility. The operating business is always controlled before taxes;
accordingly the reporting of key figures is based
mainly on pre-tax figures.
Creditworthiness: as an asset-intense company, it is
essential that we have permanent access to the capital
markets at favorable terms and conditions. Consequently, an additional material target of value management is achieving appropriate key debt ratios from
the standpoint of our debt investors. The key figures
for controlling indebtedness are redemption cover-­­­­
age (ratio of operating cash flow to the adjusted net
financial debt), gearing (ratio of net financial debt to
equity), and the ratio of net financial debt to adjusted
EBITDA . The target values for the key debt ratios are
derived from key rating figures as well as annual
benchmarking with comparable companies with an
excellent credit rating.

μμROCE decreased further

μμ

Æ

√
Change

ROCE

[€ million]

EBIT adjusted

÷ Capital employed as of Dec 31
ROCE (%)

2015

2014

absolute

%

1,759

2,109

–350

–16.6

33,459

33,683

–224

– 0.7

5.3

6.3

–

–

ROCE decreased by 1 percentage point during the year

under review. The decrease is due to a significant deterioration in adjusted EBIT, which could not be compensated
by the slight decrease in capital employed.
Æ
ROCE

2015

[%]
5.3

2014

6.3

2013

6.8

2012

8.3

2011
2010
2009

101

7.3
6.0
5.9

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup performance – economic dimension

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

CAPITAL EMPLOYED DECLINED SLIGHTLY

Æ

Æ

Cost of capital before taxes as of Dec 31 [%]
Change

Capital employed as of Dec 31
[€ million]

2015

2014

absolute

%

39,059

39,022

+37

+ 0.1

3,762

4,195

– 433

–10.3

BASED ON ASSETS

Property, plant and equipment
+	Intangible assets/goodwill

2015

2014

DB Group

7.7

8.4

Passenger transport

7.4

9.0

Freight transport and logistics

9.9

9.0

Infrastructure

7.3

7.7

2015

2014

Æ
Cost of capital after taxes as of Dec 31 [%]

+	Inventories

1,018

959

+ 59

+ 6.2

+	Trade receivables

4,018

4,146

–128

–3.1

DB Group

5.4

5.8

+	Receivables and other assets

1,334

1,247

+ 87

+7.0

Passenger transport

5.1

6.2

–	Receivables from financing

–110

– 91

–19

+20.9

Freight transport and logistics

6.9

6.2

56

84

–28

–33.3

Infrastructure

4.9

5.4

0

0

–

–

–	Trade liabilities

– 4,679

– 4,949

+270

– 5.5

–	Miscellaneous and other liabilities

–3,672

–3,653

–19

+ 0.5

+	Income tax receivables
+	A ssets held for sale

–	Income tax liabilities
–	Other provisions

–163

–170

+7

– 4.1

– 5,311

– 5,044

–267

+ 5.3

–	Deferred income

–1,853

–2,063

+210

–10.2

Capital employed

33,459

33,683

–224

– 0.7

The capital employed equates to the assets deemed nec­
essary for business and subject to the cost of capital as
derived from the balance sheet. The decrease in capital
employed is due in particular to the impairment of good­­will at DB Cargo. In addition, the decrease in trade receivables and an increase in other provisions also had the
effect of reducing capital employed. This was offset by
the decline in trade liabilities, among other things.
COST OF CAPITAL DOWN SLIGHTLY
The cost of capital is updated annually in order to account
for changes in market parameters. We take the long-term
focus of the controlling concept into consideration and balance out short-term fluctuations.
In the year under review, DB Group recorded a decline
in the cost of capital, before taxes, driven in particular by
passenger transport. The cost of capital after taxes also
declined.

We calculate DB Groupʼs cost of capital as a weighted
average interest rate of equity, net financial debt and pension obligations. This is determined once a year and reflects
current capital market parameters, the prevailing tax
framework and the value share of financing types used to
finance capital employed.
When determining the company-independent capital
market parameters market risk premium and risk-free
interest rates, short-term debt and equity market return
fluctuations are smoothed out in line with the long-term
focus of our value management concept. The parameters
are determined on the basis of the yields of long-term
bunds as well as the long-term average interest rates of the
German DAX 30 share index. The parameters used are also
validated on the basis of up-to-date recommendations
given by well-known valuation experts. The company-independent capital market parameters beta and credit spread
measure the risk of our debt and equity financing in comparison to alternative investment vehicles. Beta reflects
the risk of equity relative to the risks of the equity markets. Comparisons are performed against international
benchmark companies. The selection of peer group companies and their aggregation to beta follows the business unit
structure of DB Group and the structure of the areas of
passenger transport, freight transport and logistics, and
infrastructure. The credit spread corresponds to DB Groupʼs
current issue costs relative to bunds with an imputed term
of ten years. For the non-infrastructure area, the credit

102

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup performance – economic dimension

D E TER MININ G CO S T O F C A PI TA L

Beta

Unleveraged
0.59
0.53
0.86
0.53

COST OF CAPITAL

Leveraged
0.90
0.82
1.33
0.82

Equity

TA X FACTOR

1.44
1.44
1.44
1.44

7.7
7.2
10.2
7.2

COST OF CAPITAL (WACC)

Equity

Market risk premium 6.0

Weighting 1)

11.1
10.3
14.7
10.3

57.1
WACC

before
taxes

No-risk interest 2.25

Credit
spread

0.90
1.15
1.15
0.90

Liabilities

1.03
1.04
1.04
1.03

3.2
3.4
3.4
3.2

Net
financial
debt

3.25
3.52
3.52
3.24

Tax shield

WACC

1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00

DB Group
1)

Passenger transport

Freight transport and logistics

Weighting 1)

33.8

Pension
obligations

3.15
3.40
3.40
3.15

Weighting 1)

9.0

after
taxes

7.7
7.4
9.9
7.3

100–30.5

5.4
5.1
6.9
5.1

Infrastructure

Impact of capital structure is reflected only in the tax shield; due to DB Groupʼs fiscal unity the capital
structure of DB Group is used.

Figures as of Dec 31, 2015 (%).

spread is determined in line with the market, using current
capital market data of companies with comparable creditworthiness.
Tax factors are calculated using a taxation rate of 30.5%.
The tax factor for net financial debt reflects the German
trade tax on the attributable financing costs. Remaining
taxes are fully assigned to the cost of equity. The weighting
of financing types is based on market values. Net financial
debt and pension obligations are valued at their carrying
amounts. Equity weighting is based on recognized methods
of company valuation.

The weighting of financing types for passenger transport,
freight transport and logistics, and infrastructure corresponds to that of DB Group as the tax shield resulting from
the tax-deductible status of debt interest arises from DB
Groupʼs fiscal unity.

103

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

CAPITAL MARKET
PAR AMETER S

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

ROCE FURTHER BELOW THE COST OF CAPITAL

GEARING
Æ

Æ
Yield spread [%]

2016

2013

2012

–

5.3

6.3

6.8

8.3

8.4

9.1

8.9

9.3

–

–3.1

–2.8

–2.1

–1.0

Spread (percentage points)
1)

2014

7.7

ROCE

Pre-tax WACC 1)

2015

Gearing as of Dec 31 [€ million]

Each value taken at the beginning of the year.

REDEMPTION COVER AGE
Æ

√

[€ million]

2014

absolute

%

EBITDA adjusted

4,778

5,110

–332

– 6.5

+ Net operating interest income 1)

–759

– 824

+ 65

–7.9

Operating cash flow

4,019

4,286

–267

– 6.2

Net financial debt as of Dec 31

17,491

16,212

+1,279

+7.9

+	Present value operate leases
as of Dec 31

4,208

4,336

–128

–3.0

÷	Adjusted net financial debt
as of Dec 31
Redemption coverage (%)
1)

2015

21,699

20,548

+1,151

+ 5.6

18.5

20.9

–

–

To ensure that this item is properly calculated, we use net operating interest,
adjusted for those components of net interest income related to the compounding
of interest on non-current liabilities and provisions.

2015

target: 30
18.5

2014

20.9

2013

20.5

2012

22.1

2011
2010
2009

20.5
18.1
19.4

%

+2,094

+10.3

–	Cash and cash equivalents and
receivables from financing

– 4,659

– 4,122

– 537

+13.0

–278

–

–278

–

Net financial debt

17,491

16,212

+1,279

+7.9

÷	Equity

13,445

14,525

–1,080

–7.4

130

112

–

–

Gearing (%)

Gearing deteriorated over the course of the year under
review and remains above the target value of 100%. This
is due to the increase in NET FINANCIAL DEBT [PAGE 105] with a
simultaneous decrease in equity.
Gearing [%]

target: 100

2015

130

2014

112

2013

110

2012

109

2011

110

2010

118

2009

115

NET FINANCIAL DEBT/EBITDA
√
Change

Æ
[%]

absolute

20,334

Æ

Redemption coverage as of December 31, 2015 was significantly below the previous yearʼs level. This is due to a
lower operating cash flow and an increase in adjusted net
financial debt. The increase in adjusted net financial debt
resulted from higher net financial debt.
Redemption coverage

2014

22,428

Æ

Change
Redemption coverage

2015

Financial debt

–	Effects from currency hedges

In the year under review, the negative difference between
ROCE and cost of capital increased to 3.1 percentage points
(previous year: –2.8 percentage points). The shortfall is
mainly due to DB Netze Track and DB Cargo.

μμKey debt ratios deteriorated

√
Change

Net financial debt/EBITDA [€ million]

2015

2014

absolute

%

Net financial debt as of Dec 31

17,491

16,212

+1,279

+7.9

÷ EBITDA adjusted

4,778

5,110

–332

– 6.5

3.7

3.2

–

–

Net financial debt/EBITDA
(multiple)

The net financial debt/EBITDA key figure deteriorated
during the year under review due to the increase in net
financial debt coupled with a decrease in adjusted EBITDA.
Æ
Net financial debt/EBITDA [multiple]

target: 2.5

2015

3.7

2014

3.2

2013
2012
2011

3.2
2.9
3.2

2010
2009

104

3.6
3.4

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup performance – economic dimension

μ μASSET SITUATION

Æ

√

Summary statement of cash flows
[€ million]

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

Cash flow from operating activities

3,489

3,896

– 407

–10.4

Cash flow from investing activities

–3,916

–3,276

– 640

+19.5

Cash flow from financing activities

911

514

+397

+77.2

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

484

1,134

– 650

– 57.3

4,549

4,031

+ 518

+12.9

Cash and cash equivalents as of Dec 31

μμThe main factor in the decrease in cash flow from operating activities was the significantly negative performance of profit before taxes, depreciation and interest
(€ – 692 million).
 This was offset by positive working capital effects
and lower adjustments of non-operating items from the
sale of property, plant and equipment (€ +152 million).
In the previous year, effects from sales of real estate in
Great Britain had an impact.
The cash outflow from investing activities increased.
This resulted primarily from increased payments for
net capital expenditures (€ –242 million). Catch-up
effects due to payments for capital expenditures from
the previous year, which were not made until the year
under review, had effects on this. Repayments of
investment grants also rose (€ –157 million).
	 In addition, the offsetting effects from the sale of
real estate and shares in companies, among other factors, were lower.
Cash flow from financing activities increased significantly during the year under review. This resulted in
part from a higher net cash inflow from the ISSUE AND
REDEMP TION OF BONDS [PAGE 10 0] (€ +257 million). The
higher cash inflow from the expanded issuance activity
(€ + 527 million) exceeded the higher cash outflow from
the redemption of bonds (€ –270 million).
	 In addition, the net cash inflow (€ +225 million)
from the issue and repayment of borrowings had an
impact in the year under review. In the previous year, a
cash outflow was recorded due to the repayment of
EUROFIMA loans (€ + 498 million).
	
This was offset by, among other things, a higher
cash outflow for the dividend payment for the 2014
financial year (€ – 500 million).
As of December 31, 2015, DB Group held significantly
higher cash and cash equivalents compared with the
end of the previous year.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ Noticeable increase in net financial debt.
μμ Capital expenditures continued at a high level.
μμ Total assets at previous yearʼs level.

μμNet financial debt increased
Æ
Net financial debt as of Dec 31
[€ million]
Interest-free loans
Finance lease liabilities

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

1,337

1,494

–157

–10.5

426

593

–167

–28.2

Other financial debt

20,665

18,247

+2,418

+13.3

		thereof bonds

19,307

17,162

+2,145

+12.5

Financial debt

22,428

20,334

+2,094

+10.3

–	Cash and cash equivalents and
receivables from financing

– 4,659

– 4,122

– 537

+13.0

– Effects from currency hedges

–278

–

–278

–

17,491

16,212

+ 1,279

+7.9

Net financial debt

To offset exchange rate fluctuations in hedged foreign
currency bonds, we have also taken into account the cor­
responding hedging transactions in the calculation of net
financial debt since the year under review.
Within financial debt, interest-free loans decreased due
to repayments.
Finance lease liabilities decreased as of December 31,
2015, mostly due to ongoing repayment.
Other financial debt was significantly shaped by the
development of the bond portfolio. In the year under
review BONDS [PAGE 100] were issued with a total volume
of € 2.5 billion and a bond with a value of € 0.7 billion
was repaid. In addition, the bond portfolio increased
due to exchange rate effects (€ + 0.3 billion), mainly
in response to the development of the SWISS FR ANC [PAGE
079 F.] . Since our foreign currency-denominated bonds
are with very few exceptions hedged against currency
fluctuations by the corresponding derivative, currency
effects are offset by the corresponding opposite position of the hedge. Our unhedged foreign currency bond
portfolio was mainly influenced by the DEVELOPMENT OF
THE BRITISH POUND [PAGE 079 F.] .
Due to the expansion of the bond portfolio, financial
debt also increased significantly.

μμ
μμ

μμ

μμ

105

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μ μSTATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμNet financial debt increased also noticeably because
financial debt had increased disproportionately compared to cash and cash equivalents as of December 31,
2015. In contrast, the positive impact of currency
hedges partially compensated for this.
Æ
Net financial debt as of Dec 31 [€ billion]
2015

17.5

2014

16.2

2013

16.4

2012

16.4

2011

Æ	
Summary of financial debt as of Dec 31 [%]
Bonds

Interest-free loans
6.0
7.3
Finance lease liabilities
1.9
2.9
EUROFIMA loans

0.9
1.0

16.6

2010

Bank borrowings/other
5.2
4.4

16.9

2009

86.1
84.4

15.0

The maturity structure of the financial debt changed as of
December 31, 2015 due to the significant increase in current
financial debt. This was partly due to the larger volume of
bonds maturing in 2016 compared to 2015.

2015

2014

μμCapital expenditures continued
at a high level
Æ

Æ
Maturity structure of financial debt as of Dec 31 [%]
Up to 1 year

2 to 3 years

3 to 4 years

Gross capital expenditures
Investment grants
Net capital expenditures

9.4
11.3
9.5
9.9
9.5
10.5

4 to 5 years

10.2
10.3

More than 5 years

2015

Capital expenditures [€ million]

11.9

5.7
1 to 2 years

Change

49.5
52.3

2014

The composition of financial debt changed slightly as of
December 31, 2015 due to the larger bond portfolio and
higher short-term bank borrowings.

2015

2014

absolute

%

9,344

9,129

+215

+2.4

5,478

4,687

+791

+16.9

3,866

4,442

– 576

–13.0

We have underlined our long-term focus with higher gross
capital expenditures. This resulted from a significant
in­crease in INVESTMENT GR ANTS [PAGE 107] in connection with
the LuFV II. Net capital expenditures were significantly
below the previous yearʼs level, mostly due to very high
capital expenditures for DB Regional vehicles in the previous year.
The principal elements of our capital expenditures
activities again in the year under review were measures to
improve the performance and efficiency of the rail infrastructure and the continued rejuvenation of our vehicle
fleet for both rail and bus services.
At the business unit level, DB Netze Track, DB Long-Distance and DB Cargo in particular undertook higher gross
capital expenditures. By contrast, capital expenditures
activity at DB Regional decreased significantly after very
high capital expenditures during the previous year.

106

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup per forman c e – ec onom i c d i men s i on

many) resulted mainly from the increase in the DB Cargo
business unit. In contrast, gross capital expenditures
de­­creased in the DB Arriva business unit.

Æ	
Gross capital expenditures by divisions [%]
19.6

Æ	

26.9

Gross capital expenditures by regions [%]

Freight transport and logistics
7.4
4.8

Germany

Infrastructure

70.0
65.6

Other

Other

3.0
2.7

2015

7.8
5.5

2015
2014

92.2
94.5

2014

The structure of gross capital expenditures was still dominated by the business units in the infrastructure division,
mainly by DB Netze Track at around 62% (previous year:
around 58%).

DEVELOPMENT OF INVESTMENT GR ANTS
Investment grants received in the year under review
increased by € 791 million, or 16.9%, to € 5,478 million. As
in the previous year, the recipients were almost exclusively
our infrastructure companies. Please see our Web site for
details on the various GR ANT FORMS Œ .

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES BY REGIONS

Æ	

Gross capital expenditures by regions
[€ million]

Federal Government

Change
2015

2014

8,619

8,629

–10

– 0.1

718

503

+215

+ 42.7

Asia/Pacific

28

38

–10

–26.3

North America

14

15

–1

– 6.7

4

5

–1

–20.0

Germany
Europe (excluding Germany)

Rest of world
Consolidation
DB Group

absolute

Germany
Europe (excluding Germany)

%

–39

– 61

+22

–36.1

9,344

9,129

+215

+2.4

Other
0.7
0.2
2015

2014

Æ	

absolute

%

3,144

3,945

– 801

–20.3

Investment grants by recipients [%]
DB Netze Track

500

+215

+ 43.0

38

–10

–26.3

North America

14

15

–1

– 6.7

DB Group

2.3
2.3

2014

28
4

5

–1

–20.0

–39

– 61

+22

–36.1

3,866

4,442

– 576

–13.0

80.6
81.2

16.4
16.3

2015
715

Rest of world

EU

Change

Asia/Pacific

Consolidation

Federal states

√

Æ
Net capital expenditures by regions
[€ million]

Investment grants by contributors [%]

√

Æ

DB Netze Stations

8.1
9.2

DB Netze Energy

1.8
2.0

Broken down by regions, the focus of gross capital expenditures remained on Germany. The decrease in gross capital
expenditures at DB Regional (€ –1,046 million) was nearly
entirely offset by particularly large increases at DB Netze
Track (€ + 576 million) and DB Long-Distance (€ + 438 million). The year-on-year increase in Europe (excluding Ger-

Other
0.5
0.3
2015

107

2014

89.6
88.5

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

Passenger transport

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμTotal assets at previous yearʼs level

μμ Total assets nearly unchanged as of December 31, 2015.
μμNon-current assets were slightly below the previous

Æ
Change
Balance sheet as of Dec 31
[€ million]

2015

2014

absolute

%

56,059

55,883

+176

+ 0.3

Non-current assets

45,199

45,530

–331

– 0.7

Current assets

10,860

10,353

+ 507

+ 4.9

Total assets
ASSETS

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Equity

13,445

14,525

–1,080

–7.4

Non-current liabilities

28,091

28,527

– 436

–1.5

Current liabilities

14,523

12,831

+1,692

+13.2

Æ
Balance sheet structure as of Dec 31 [%]
Assets
Non-current assets

Current assets

80.6
81.5
19.4
18.5

Equity and liabilities
Equity

24.0
26.0

Non-current liabilities

Current liabilities

2015

50.1
51.0
25.9
23.0

2014

Æ	
Equity ratio as of Dec 31 [%]
2015
2014

μμ

μμ
24.0
26.0

2013

28.2

2012

28.5

2011

yearʼs end level as of December 31, 2015. The main
reason for this was the decrease in intangible assets
(€ – 433 million), primarily due to IMPAIRMENT S AT DB
CARGO [PAGE 203 F.] . By contrast, the share of companies
accounted for using the equity method increased due
to currency and profit effects (€ + 40 million) as did
property, plant and equipment (€ + 37 million). The
impairments at DB Cargo were more than offset by
vehicle acquisitions in passenger transport.
The increase in current assets as of December 31, 2015
was significantly influenced by the increase in cash
and cash equivalents (€ + 518 million).
In structural terms there was a slight shift in the direction
of current assets.
On the equity and liabilities side of the balance sheet,
equity decreased significantly as of December 31, 2015.
This resulted from the negative net profit (€ –1,325 million) and the dividend payment to the Federal Government
(€ –700 million). The increase from changes recorded in
reserves related to the revaluation of pensions (€ +709 million) based on a higher interest rate had a compensating
effect. In addition, equity increased as a result of changes
recorded in reserves associated with exchange-rate volatility (€ +124 million) and HEDGES [PAGE 222] (€ + 66 mil­­lion),
in particular for hedges on energy prices. The positive
effects only partially offset the equity-reducing effects. The
equity ratio therefore declined as of December 31, 2015 due
to total assets remaining stable.
Non-current liabilities also declined as of Decem­­ber 31,
2015. This development was driven mainly by the decline
in pension obligations (€ – 669 million), other provisions
(€ –231 million) and deferred income (€ –161 million).
This was partially offset by the increase in NON- CUR­R ENT
FINANCIAL DEBT [PAGE 105] (€ + 580 million).
Current liabilities increased significantly from the previous year end as of December 31, 2015 mainly due to
the higher total of long-term bonds and loans maturing
in 2016 and higher other provisions (€ + 498 million).
This was partially offset by the decline in trade payables
(€ –270 million).

29.2

2010

27.5

2009

27.6

μμ

The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS). There were no material changes to the IFRS regulations for DB Groupʼs consolidation and accounting principles
that would result in any changes to the consolidated financial statements.

108

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup performance – economic dimension

μμOff-balance-sheet financial instruments

μ μDEVIATIONS FROM THE
PROJECTED FINANCIAL AND
ASSET SITUATION
Æ

2014

2015
(Outlook
March
2015)

Gross capital expenditures

9.1

~ 9.5

~ 9.0

9.3

Net capital expenditures

4.4

~ 4.0

< 4.0

3.9

Maturities

1.2

1.1

1.1

1.1

Bond emissions

2.0

>1.5

≥ 1.6

2.5

Cash and cash equivalents
as of Dec 31

4.0

< 3.0

< 3.0

4.5

16.2

>17.5

>17.5

17.5

Outlook for the 2015
financial year [€ billion]

and non-recognized assets
In addition to the assets shown in the Groupʼs consolidated
balance sheet, DB Group also uses off-balance-sheet financial instruments and assets that cannot be recognized in
the balance sheet.
The off-balance-sheet financial instruments are primarily leased or rented goods (operate leases). A present
value is calculated within the value management system
for operate leases. This amounted to € 4,208 million as of
December 31, 2015 (as of December 31, 2014: € 4,336 million). DB Arriva enters into operate lease contracts, in
some cases due to regulatory requirements, especially in
conjunction with providing vehicles for rail passenger
and road passenger transport. In the year under review
DB Arriva won the tender for NORTHERN R AIL [PAGE 1 36] . From
the spring of 2016 this will result in a significant increase
in present value of the operate leases.
Regarding company pension schemes for employees,
obligations are, in line with the respective rules, to some
extent covered and netted by plan assets which are capable
of being netted. As of December 31, 2015, total obligations
amounted to € 8,139 million (as of December 31, 2014:
€ 8,607 million), and the fair value of plan assets was
€ 3,941 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 3,639 million).
Total assets are reduced by offsetting obligations with plan
assets. The net obligation included in the balance sheet
was € 3,688 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 4,357 million). In the year under review, no endowments were carried out that would have had a significant impact on the
financial situation. Accordingly, no significant future effects
are to be expected in this respect.

Net financial debt
as of Dec 31

2015
(Outlook
July
2015)

2015

Our forecast for capital expenditures in the 2015 financial
year was largely met. Among other things, higher capital
expenditures at DB Netze Track led to gross capital expenditures that were higher than anticipated.
With respect to DB Groupʼs financial situation, our forecast for maturities corresponds with actual developments
in the year under review. In order to meet our need for
financing, in July 2015 we worked from the assumption that
we would make use of the financial markets with bond
issues in the amount of at least € 1.6 billion. In addition, we
expected that we would use the low interest level opportunistically in the year under review in anticipation of redemptions in 2016. Because this took place, the development was
higher than our forecast.
Regarding DB Groupʼs cash and cash equivalents, we
expected these to amount to below € 3.0 billion. Due,
among other things, to our higher-than-expected issuing
activity, cash and cash equivalents were significantly above
the forecast as of December 31, 2015.
Regarding net financial debt, the actual development
largely corresponds with our forecast. The increase in net
financial debt was somewhat weaker than expected.

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 190 FF.

μμExercising of balance sheet voting rights
Please see the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on the EXERCISING OF BALANCE SHEET VOTING
RIGHTS [PAGE 192 FF.] .

109

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

Within the structure of the equity and liabilities side of the
balance sheet, the ratio of non-current liabilities in relation
to total assets decreased slightly as of December 31, 2015.
In contrast, the ratio of current liabilities rose.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GROUP PERFORMANCE – SOCIAL DIMENSION
μμTop targets –

110

social dimension

μμStrategic 

111

μμTalent111

workforce planning

μμCorporate 

113

culture

μμPersonnel 

acquisition

μμEmployment 

114

μμOptimization and

conditions

112

development

115

μμDevelopment115

internationalization
of HR management

of the number of
employees

μμTop targets – social dimension
†

Top targets

Target
value

Start in
2012

As of
2014

As of
2015

DB2020

How far did we progress toward our 2020 targets in 2015? (%)
20

40

60

80

100

120

140

160

180

200 On target

Employee satisfaction 1)

– index

3.6

3.7

–

4.0

e

Employer attractiveness

– rank

31

13

24

≤ 10

w

		Share of women
in Germany as of Dec 31 (%)

22.1

22.8

22.8

25.0

w

		
Health rate
in Germany

94.3

94.1

93.6

94.3

w

–

–

97.3

95.0

e

Demographic preparedness

(%)

		Percentage of staffing needs covered
in Germany as of Dec 31 (%)
1)

The employee survey is conducted every two years. When no survey has been conducted the proxy indicator “Follow-up workshop implementation rate” is used.

D R I V ER S FO R TA RG E T AT TA INMEN T
STR ATEGIC WORK
FORCE PLANNING

OPTIMIZATION AND
INTER­N ATIONALIZATION
OF HR MANAGEMENT

We are looking to the
future and acting with
foresight.
Ω PAGE 111

TALENT ACQUISITION

We are strengthening
our employer brand
and filling jobs well and
professionally.

We value professionalism
and are focusing
more and more on an
international horizon.

Ω PAGE 111 F.

Ω PAGE 115

EMPLOYMENT
CONDITIONS

PER SONNEL
DEVELOPMENT

We are encouraging a good
work-life balance and
promoting good health.

We are forging new paths,
discovering talent
and redefining leadership.

Ω PAGE 114 F.

Ω PAGE 112 F.

CORPOR ATE CULTURE

We believe in culture and
are driving change.
Ω PAGE 113 F.

110

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup per f ormance – S ocia l dimension

been further expanded on the basis of this approach. Since
introducing the automatic early warning report last year,
monthly reports are now issued on potential risks of personnel bottlenecks in areas that are critical to operations.
We are currently working on rolling out an IT-based
forecasting model to further improve the IT-based reconciliation of future staffing needs with staffing levels.
Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 270

μμTalent acquisition
‡

DB Group wants to improve its profile as an attractive

employer and win new employees. To this end, in 2012 we
reorganized the content and administration of our talent
acquisition.

μμStrategic workforce planning

†‡

As DB Group grows around the globe, new jobs are being created. Moreover, because of demographic development in the coming years, numerous positions will become
vacant as their present occupants retire.
The hiring and development of female and male specialists and executives from the countries in which DB Group
does business belongs to the basic principles of DB Group
and is a business necessity.
Our strategic workforce planning (SWP) creates transparency on future staffing and staffing needs for key employee
groups. We now cover about half of domestic employees
with SWP based on unified DB Group standards, methods
and jointly developed business scenarios. Future per­sonnel
shortages or surpluses are identified by function and region.
In order to introduce corresponding counter­measures,
options for action are being investigated and evaluated.
∫ As digitalization increases, we are currently focusing
our SWP from the perspective of changing tasks. Our aim
is to develop SWP into a tool that can also simulate future
changes in the working environment and thus directly influence future business models and decisions from an HR
perspective.
In addition, we want to establish SWP in DB Group
world­­wide. The first international SWP models have been
implemented at DB Cargo in Poland and DB Arriva in Denmark. The successive introduction of an international data
warehouse plays an important role for the further inter­
national rollout of SWP.
In order to optimize personnel planning and management in the short and medium term, we have implemented
a standard means of mapping staffing needs in Germany in
a single IT system. The regular reporting procedures have

F5 ∫
P. 094
P. 122

F4
P. 111
P. 114

Change
Employer attractiveness
rank in Germany 1)

1)

–

2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

DB Group

24

13

–11

–

22

		High school students

33

14

–19

–

25

		Students/graduates

22

18

–4

–

22

		Skilled workers

18

11

–7

–

21

		Academically experienced
		professionals

18

10

–8

–

12

Derived from the individual values for the four DB Group
recruiting groups. Weighted target group values from six
ranking surveys conducted by trendence.

We measure employer attractiveness as the weighted
average of employer ranking surveys in the key target
groups of DB Group as conducted by trendence – Europeʼs
leading research institute for employer branding, personnel marketing and recruitment. Our ranks were hit hard by
the collective bargaining dispute in the year under review,
and therefore did not progress in line with our FORECAST IN
THE 201 4 INTEGR ATED REPORT [PAGE 183] . We are striving to get
back on track for our DB 2020 targets. Our top priority in
2016 will be to enhance our image as an employer, which
will include the continuation and further development of
our wide coverage employer branding campaign.
We organized three wide coverage campaigns in the
year under review as part of our employer branding campaign “A job like no other.” These three core elements of
our employer branding activities were supplemented by
five regional and target-group-specific recruiting campaigns. Two recruitment projects were also conducted
at international level in the year under review in the shape
of employer branding campaigns in Romania and Poland.

111

GRI
DB 07

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

F4
P. 093
P. 111

The core of our HR strategy focuses on the six HR 2020 PRO GR AMS † . We pushed ahead with our HR strategy in the year
under review, developing our Working Environments 4.0
initiative in response to increasing digitalization.
∫ As part of the WORKING ENVIRONMENTS 4.0 † initiative,
an expert network was set up to develop scenarios for the
future, development paths, and prototypes for subsequent
assessment in respect of their feasibility and, ultimately,
incorporation into the HR 2020 program landscape. It is
working on five themes: types of work and conditions, management and organizational models, job descriptions and
tasks, learning and competences, and communication, collaboration and innovation.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI
DB 07

GRI
DB 08

Social media channels such as Facebook, Twitter or YouTube
form part of our online activities and are used for communicating with specific target groups. We have created a new
online job profiler to give high school students as much
support as possible when choosing a profession, and have
opened a platform, called DB UNPLUGGED Œ , for authentic
communication at eye level between DB apprentices and
high school students with the aim of firmly anchoring our
employer brand with young people.
At trade fairs and events, we offer insights through virtual reality glasses into the professional world of DB Group.
With our almost 300 cooperation programs with schools,
20 national and four international universities, and recruiting events such as the backstage DB event “Women&Inno­
vation Day” we want to retain talented young people at an
early stage. Students can gain first work experience and
make important career contacts within DB Group while still
at university through internships, as working students or
while writing their theses.
University grad­­­­uates are
offered the possibility of a
trainee programor di­­rect
entry as a regular employee.
We aim to align our
se­­lection of candidates
even
more closely to their
Virtual reality glasses
poten
­­­­tial and talent over
DB Group adopted an innovative
approach to recruitment at the
the long term. In the career
Munich Careers Day in October:
networks we launched in
virtual reality glasses gave
the year under review for
visitors a virtually real insight into
school and university stuvarious railway professions from a
360° perspective.
dents and academics, potential candidates can network for entry in the DB Group among themselves and with
the Groupʼs employees.

In recruiting our focus is on further professionalization of
the recruitment process and successfully improving the
candidate experience during the application process.

μμPersonnel development
We have a strategic career development program to
enhance the qualifications of employees and executives.
Systematic promotion of high performers and high potentials is an important instrument for ensuring the supply of
future leaders, and for retaining motivated employees and
executives. The basis for this is a continuous dialog.
Through written development pathways, career development options are shown to employees and executives.
This procedure enables us to manage talent and succession planning DB Group-wide. Our Web tool and career
development map make the development pathways transparent and accessible for all employees and executives. The
professional development compass provides online information about on-the-job training schemes.
Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 270

μ μSECURING NEW TALENT
With more than 11,000 vocational trainees, dual degree
college students and “Chance plus” participants, DB Group
is one of the LARGEST VOCATIONAL TR AINER S † in Germany.
Along with the teaching of specialized knowledge and
practical skills, central components of vocational training
in DB Group are the acquisition of service-based, social
and methodological competences. The share of young
people who received an offer of employment at the conclusion of their vocational training was about 94%.
†‡
Young professionals as of Dec 31 [NP]

†‡
Demographic preparedness
Percentage of staffing needs covered in Germany
as of Dec 31 (%)

2015

2014

2013

97.3

–

–

Germany (companies with about 83% of domestic employees).

With the introduction of the PERCENTAGE OF STAFFING NEEDS
COVERED [PAGE 076] in the year under review the total staff
coverage in the customer-oriented job families and for
young professionals was included in the DB2020 target sys­
tem to enable prompt implementation of external and inhouse actions in response to potential staff bottlenecks. In
the year under review the percentage of staffing needs
covered was ensured at a high level.

2015

2014

2013

Vocational trainees 1)

9,918

10,214

10,361

Dual degree students 1)

1,012

1,050

1,083

Graduate trainees 2)

103

151

181

Interns 2)

508

622

615

“Chance plus” participants

290

310

310

1)

Germany. Includes all class years of vocational training (usually
three class years for both vocational trainees and dual degree students).

2)

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees).

During the year under review, 3,400 young people started
vocational training and over 300 began a dual degree program within DB Group.
We offer around 300 spots at nine locations throughout
Germany in our vocational preparation program, “Chance
plus.” School graduates with starting difficulties can prepare themselves here intensively for their training, together
with operational trainers and youth workers. Nearly 75% of

112

GRI
G4-10

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup per f orman c e – S o c i a l d i mens i on

An attitude of appreciation toward diversity and taking
advantage of the potential offered by diversity are both
central components of our corporate culture. Core themes
are equal development opportunities for men and women,
and encouraging collaboration between people of different
age groups and different cultures/ethnicities.
The law governing equal participation of men and
women in management positions in private enterprise and
the public sector came into force in May 2015. Pursuant to
this legislation, targets and deadlines must be set to
increase the share of women in the Supervisory Board,
Management Board and two top management levels at all
companies within DB Group that are subject to codetermination. DB Group has set targets in line with the legally
specified deadlines for those of its companies that are subject to codetermination. These targets are consistent with
our self-imposed obligation to increase the share of women
in management positions to 20%, and in the workforce as
a whole to 25%.

μμCorporate culture
The CULTUR AL CHANGE † introduced in 2010 is a central component of the DB2020 strategy. A strong corporate culture
characterized by mutual respect and the outstanding motivation, engagement and satisfaction of our employees
forms the basis for sustainable business success.
GRI
DB 06

μ μCULTURAL CHANGE
We have established an ongoing organizational development process to keep our corporate culture moving forward. Under consideration of DB Group strategic targets,
the results of the EMPLOYEE SURVEY † and lessons learned
from regular dialog events, the process is being successively
fine-tuned, and new themes of cultural change defined.
The concept of pacesetters, which we designed back
in 2012, was revised in the year under review to identify
active pacesetters and thus streamline the movement. At
the same time, we are striving to acquire new pacesetters.
Currently, just under 250 regional pacesetters across all
business units and at all levels of the Group are driving the
cultural change.
Additionally, we conducted in the year under review
the follow-up process to the 2014 employee survey. Groupwide 166,000 employees attended the follow-up workshops, with more than 29,000 actions being agreed on.
Most of these actions focused on communication, information and involvement.

†‡
Share of women as of Dec 31 [%]

Employee satisfaction (index)
Follow-up workshops implementation rate (%)

2015

2014

–

3.7

–

96.7

–

97.9

2014

2013

DB Group

23.4

23.1

22.6

		in Germany

22.8

22.8

22.5

The share of women remained at the previous yearʼs level
during the year under review. The Group-wide efforts to
gradually increase the share of women will show stronger
effects in the years to come. Progress is therefore not quite
in line with our FORECAST IN THE 201 4 INTEGR ATED REPORT [PAGE
183] . ‡ A wide range of programs and measures are aimed
at increasing the share of women.
Career empowerment: Specific programs aimed at promoting and retaining executives (interim management,
mentoring program for female engineers, career and
kids mentoring program, fathersʼ networks).
Improving childcare: We help DB employees to balance
their career and family obligations by offering an inhouse nursery and care facilities for around 200 children
throughout Germany.
Personalizing our approach to candidates: We want to
attract more women by offering recruiting events especially conceived for women, or through special advertising campaigns.
Executives who lead teams comprised of members of different ages play a particularly important role. DB Netz dove
deeper into this topic with skilled maintenance workers,
following both the pilot study with executives that was
conducted last year, and an event that was organized at the

μμ

†
Employee satisfaction

2015

2013

μμ

The employee survey is conducted every two years. When no survey has been conducted the proxy indicator “Follow-up workshop implementation rate” is used.

To promote the international development of our corporate
culture, we concluded the second cycle of our employee
child exchange program in May 2015.

μμ

113

GRI
G4-10

GRI
DB 08

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμDiversity

participants who completed the program of the class year
2014/2015 were subsequently able to either directly begin
work or vocational training in DB Group or in another company. The program was expanded to include young refugees in the year under review.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

DB Academy together with the HR Director in February

preventive healthcare are being developed DB Group-wide
in the “Health and working conditions” program (ProGEAR).

2015. Since fall 2015, more than 100 executives have
attended workshops to translate the lessons learned in the
pilot studies into specific options for action.
The third German Diversity Day took place in Germany
in June 2015. In addition to encouraging intercultural collaboration, the event also focused on the issue of welcome
culture. The concept aims to use good examples to raise
the visibility of intercultural collaboration, and to create a
corporate culture with the understanding of the benefits of
diversity in nationalities, religions and language.

†‡
Health rate in Germany

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 271

μμEmployment conditions

based on hours [%]

2015

2014

2013
93.6

DB Long-Distance

93.3

93.7

DB Regional

92.3

92.9

93.1

DB Cargo

92.9

93.3

93.3

DB Schenker

95.4

95.8

95.7

DB Services

92.9

93.3

93.2

DB Netze Track

94.6

95.0

94.8

DB Netze Stations

93.8

93.9

93.5

DB Netze Energy

95.6

95.9

95.8

Other

94.1

94.5

94.4

DB Group

93.6

94.1

94.0

GRI
G4-LA7

Germany (companies accounting for about 97% of domestic employees).

To retain employees in the long term, DB Group strives to
offer them prospects for combining their personal needs
with the requirements of the company in every phase of
their professional and private lives.

The health rate was lower year on year due to an unusually
widespread flu virus with far more victims than the record
year of 2013 and to the effects of the strikes. Progress is
therefore below our FORECAST IN THE 201 4 INTEGR ATED REPORT
[PAGE 183] .

μ μCOLLECTIVE BARGAINING POLICIES
AND EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS

μμCollective bargaining negotiations
for 2015 completed

Employment conditions must remain attractive and at the
same time affordable, even in light of changing overall conditions. Collective bargaining agreements make an important contribution to these efforts.
GRI
DB 08

The basic collective bargaining agreements with the GDL
and the EVG expired as of June 30, 2014, without any repercussions. These included the provisions on which trade
union is allowed to conclude collective bargaining agreements for which occupational group. This was a prerequisite for a collective bargaining policy with both competing
trade unions which is free from conflict and contradiction.
In addition to wage developments, therefore, in the 2014/
2015 bargaining round the focus was also on the basic issue
of which trade union negotiates for which occupational
group.
∫ At the end of May 2015, we signed a comprehensive
collective bargaining agreement with the EVG. One of the
provisions of the collective bargaining agreement governs
wage progression until September 30, 2016, with wages set
to rise by 5.1% in two stages, together with a one-off payment of € 1,100 in total. Improvements to the company
pension scheme were also agreed. A collective bargaining
agreement was also signed for the train drivers, which integrates the current rules without contradiction into the collective bargaining structure of the EVG . In addition, the
parties agreed to introduce a new, flexible remuneration
system that also includes performance components,
starting on January 1, 2016. Furthermore, DB Group and the
EVG have signed a collective bargaining agreement entitled
“Work 4.0.” The goal is to work together to actively shape
the rapid changes in the working environment from
increasing digitalization.

μμFurther development of the collective
bargaining agreement designed
to address demographic change
Sustainable HR policies form the focus of the COLLECTIVE BAR­GAINING AGREEMENT DESIGNED TO ADDRESS DEMOGR APHIC CHANGE †

that was negotiated with the German Railway and Transport Workers Union (Eisenbahn- und Verkehrsgewerkschaft;
EVG) and entered into force in 2013. Agreements include,
for example, a permanent job guarantee and a permanent
job offer for all vocational trainees who complete their
courses successfully.
A more individual approach to working times and work­
­ing conditions was also agreed in an effort to improve the
work-life balance. In our annual negotiations to improve the
collective bargaining agreement designed to address
demographic change, we agreed with EVG in the year under
review to make the concept of long-term accounts even
more attractive.
Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 272

GRI
DB 08

μμHealth promotion programs expanded
We are focusing more strongly on CORPOR ATE HEALTH PROMO TION PROGR AMS † . The topics of aptitude and suitability,
ergonomics, emotional well-being, inclusion and behavioral

114

F4
P. 111
P. 129

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup per f ormance – S ocia l dimension

Collective bargaining negotiations with the GDL were concluded successfully on June 30, 2015. After intense negotiations and a total of nine strike waves from the beginning
of the collective bargaining negotiations in mid-2014, both
parties approved the arbitration decision of the former
state premier Matthias Platzeck and the current state
premier of Thuringia, Bodo Ramelow. DB Group and the
GDL have negotiated a package of agreements governing
wage progression, a reduction of one hour per week of
regular working hours starting in 2018, and a comprehensive program to reduce workload and cut overtime hours.
Furthermore, the GDL received a long-term perspective as
a collective bargaining partner until 2020 with a binding
arbitration process. At the same time the working hour
system will be reformed. The agreements governing wage
progression run until September 30, 2016 and include a
wage increase of 5.1% in two stages, together with a
one-off payment of € 1,100 in total.
All results and agreements concerning working hours,
break time rules or compensation are completely consistent
with existing regulations. DB Group has therefore achieved
its aim of not having to differentiate by union membership
within the same occupation group.

DB Group has had a European Works Council (EWC) since

2005 with employee representatives from 21 European
countries to represent the interests of employees beyond
national borders.

μμDevelopment of the number
of employees

†

2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

16,217

16,461

–244

–1.5

16,564

DB Regional

36,494

36,605

–111

– 0.3

36,878

DB Arriva

46,484

45,712

+772

+1.7

46,718

DB Cargo

30,303

30,842

– 539

–1.7

30,925

DB Schenker

66,327

64,810

+1,517

+2.3

64,051

DB Services

24,771

25,476

–705

–2.8

26,319

DB Netze Track

45,972

43,382

+2,590

+ 6.0

42,206

DB Netze Stations

4,982

4,867

+115

+2.4

4,835

DB Netze Energy

1,726

1,770

– 44

–2.5

1,753

23,926

25,838

–1,912

–7.4

25,404

297,202

295,763

+ 1,439

+ 0.5

295,653

–1,434

–

–1,434

–

–

295,768

295,763

+5

–

295,653

DB Long-Distance

Other
DB Group

± Effects from changes in the
scope of consolidation
DB Group – comparable

μμOptimization and international-

G4-10

In order to guarantee better comparability over time, we
cal­­­­culate the number of employees on the basis of full-time
employees (FTE). Figures for part-time employees are measured in accordance with their share of the regular annual
working time.
As of December 31, 2015, the comparable headcount
within DB Group was unchanged. The effects of changes in
the scope of consolidation relate mainly to acquisitions by
DB Arriva in the year under review.

ization of HR management

The cultural change process in the HR division started in
2013 in order to intensify cultural change within the HR
organization and, at the same time, make it into a driver
within DB Group. The aim is for every employee in the HR
division to become an ambassador for the HR 2020 strat­­­­egy. By building an international HR manager network in
2012, we created the basis for trusting cooperation in the
personnel area. The PeopleSoft International (PSI) IT sys­
tem went live in early October 2014, marking an important
milestone in our efforts to standardize our HR system landscape. The system was rolled out in nine countries in the
year under review.
Our International Top Executive Development Program
concentrated for the first time on the systematic development of executives with international focus in the year under
review. 26 Spanish vocational trainees began vocational
training with DB Group in Germany. We have strength­­ened
our in-house consulting activities in respect of international
employee assignments, and offer systematic sup­­port with
the integration of foreign employees and interns in Germany.

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 27 3
†
Employees by region
as of Dec 31 [FTE]

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

Germany

187,420

187,882

– 462

– 0.2

187,837

Europe (excluding Germany)

84,496

83,858

+ 638

+ 0.8

84,228

Asia/Pacific

14,232

13,917

+315

+2.3

13,702

North America

8,515

7,585

+ 930

+12.3

7,326

Rest of world

2,539

2,521

+18

+ 0.7

2,560

297,202

295,763

+ 1,439

+ 0.5

295,653

Employee loyalty [years]

2015

2014

2013

Average length of service

20

21

21

Average age

46

46

46

DB Group

†

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees).

115

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

Employees as of Dec 31
[FTE]

GRI

Change

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GROUP PERFORMANCE –
ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION
μμTop targets –

116

μμClimate protection

117

μμNoise reduction

119

μμMaterial and

environmental
dimension

120

resource efficiency

μμTop targets – environmental dimension
¥

Top targets
Climate protection – specific CO ₂
emissions compared to 2006 (%)
Climate protection –
share of renewable energy in the
traction current mix (%)
Noise reduction – track kilometers
noise remediated in total as of Dec 31
(km)

Target
value

How far did we progress toward our 2020 targets in 2015? (%)

Start in
2012

As of
2014

As of
2015

DB2020

–12.3

–22.7

–24.5

–20

q

24.0

39.6

42.0

35

q

20

40

60

80

100

120

140

160

180

200 On target

1,200

1,400

1,495

2,000

e

Noise reduction – freight cars refitted
with whisper brakes in total as of Dec 31

150

6,665

12,703

60,000

e

Material/resource efficiency –
recycling rate (%)

94.1

95.6

97.2

≥ 95

q

D R I V ER S FO R TA RG E T AT TA INMEN T

RENEWABLE ENERGY

Share of renewable
energy of the traction current mix increased to 42.0%.
GREEN OFFER S

Ω PAGE 1 18

NOISE REMEDIATION

CO ₂ emissions for long-

distance rail passenger
transport at about 12 g per
person and kilometer.

52 km of sound barriers built
and 1,900 apartments
equipped with sound insulation equipment.

Ω PAGE 1 17

Ω PAGE 1 19 F.

WHISPER BR AKES

CO₂ REDUCTION

So far, around 12,700
freight cars in total
have been refitted with
V brake shoes.

Global specific CO ₂
emissions reduced by
24.5% since 2006.
Ω PAGE 1 17 F.

RECYCLING

Consistently high
recycling rate
of more than 95%.
Ω PAGE 1 21

116

Ω PAGE 1 19

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup per f ormance – E nvironmenta l dimension

GRI
DB 09

GRI
G4-EN19

Specific CO₂ emissions
by journeys and transports
of DB Group

μμClimate protection
Reducing CO₂ emissions is an important contribution to climate protection. The Climate Protection Treaty agreed in
Paris in December 2015 laid the foundations for globally
reducing the CO₂ footprint. Rail transport plays a key role as
the steady increase in CO₂ emissions in the transport sector
cannot be reduced without it. Together with our partners,
we amplified this message with our TR AIN TO PARIS [PAGE 046],
which carried the German delegation CO₂-free to the World
Climate Conference.
In the year under review, the R ATINGS AGENCY CDP Œ gave
us the HIGHEST SCORE OF 100 A [PAGE 076] for our climate protection reporting procedures and achievements.

μ μFURTHER REDUCTION OF SPECIFIC
CO₂ EMISSIONS
We are striving to steadily reduce the specific CO₂ emissions of our volume sold and volume produced. We are
making progress, for example, by lowering our energy con­
­­­sumption, using renewable energies, and raising capacity
utilization.
Last year, we managed to meet our climate protection
target – of reducing the specific CO ₂ emissions of our
world­­­­wide transport activities by 20% until 2020 compared
to 2006 – six years earlier than planned.
¥
Specific CO₂ emissions compared to 2006

[%]

2015

–24.5

2014
2013

–22.7
–18.7

We made further progress in the year under review, with
reductions being achieved, for example, through the
steadily improved energy efficiency of our fleet and the
higher share of renewable energy. We plan to build on this
success, and are working on a new strategic target to
reduce CO₂ that takes account of current overall conditions.
We measure achievement of our climate protection targets
on the basis of energy consumption, the corresponding
emissions factors and performance data.

GRI

¥ ‡

G4-EN15
G4-EN16

Change
2015

absolute

%

2013

58.9

– 0.5

– 0.8

59.6

58.0

– 0.3

– 0.5

63.1

10.6

+1.5

+14.2

19.8

74.6

+3.4

+ 4.6

78.0

91.6

76.7

+14.9

+19.4

80.0

20.5

21.0

– 0.5

–2.4

22.1

88.9

106.7

–17.8

–16.7

103.1

767

783

–16

–2.0

794

8.5

9.3

– 0.8

– 8.6

9.9

Regional rail passenger
transport (g/pkm)

58.4

		thereof in Germany

57.7

Long-distance rail passenger
transport g/pkm

12.1

Bus service g/pkm

78.0

		thereof in Germany
Rail freight transport
(g/tkm)
Road freight transport
(g/tkm) 1)
Air freight (g/tkm) 2)
Ocean freight (g/tkm)

2014

Well-to-wheel (WTW); scope 1 – 3; without pre- and onward carriage; rail passenger
companies are calculated with their own energy mix.
1)

Change in method from 2015 onward.

2)

Change in method from 2015 onward, figures for 2014 and 2013 retroactively
adjusted.

Specific CO₂ emissions may vary in long-distance rail passenger transport – which is largely powered by green
energy – as fluctuations in
volume produced over the
course of a year are generally balanced out by
reduced consumption of
standard traction current.
The figure for the year
under review is therefore
ICE 4
greater, albeit still well
Compared with the redesigned
ICE 1, the energy consumption
below that of all other
of the ICE 4 is lower by 22% per
means of transport. Speseat.
cific CO ₂ emissions in regional rail passenger transport and freight transport decreased slightly in the year
under review. Since 2006, we have reduced specific CO ₂
emissions in DB rail transport in Germany by about 38%.
Relative to 1990, which was the base year for our first climate protection program, we have achieved a reduction in
excess of 60%. The specific CO₂ emissions in road freight
transport have decreased due to a change in method.
Slow steaming has allowed us to reduce the CO₂ footprint of our shipping vessels. The figures for German bus
services have increased due to the implementation of technical quality improvements for the benefit of passengers –
such as air-conditioning systems – and to new insights in
diesel consumption.

117

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

In our efforts to become an ECO -PIONEER ¥ , we have defined
five areas for action: climate protection, noise reduction,
resource efficiency, air quality control and nature conservation. Our main areas of focus for the reduction of CO₂ emissions, the measures to reduce noise and the drivers of our
recycling rate are discussed below.
The issues of air quality control and nature conservation
are addressed in the chapter Additional information on
sustainability.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI
G4-EN3

μ μINCREASED ENERGY EFFICIENCY

¥ ‡

Less energy consumption helps the climate by reducing CO₂ emissions, and reduces our costs. By publishing
primary energy consumption statistics, we include the
upstream chains, such as the exploration, processing and
transport needed to make the energy ultimately available.

Traction current mix [%]

GRI

28.2			13.8 1)

Renewable energy

35.2
Nuclear energy

2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

Regional rail passenger
transport (MJ/pkm)

0.98

0.99

– 0.01

–1.0

0.99

		thereof in Germany

0.99

0.99

–

–

1.06

Long-distance rail passenger
transport (MJ/pkm)

0.38

0.38

–

–

0.48

Bus service (MJ/pkm)

1.22

1.18

+ 0.04

+3.4

1.19

		thereof in Germany

1.32

1.11

+ 0.21

+18.9

1.11

Rail freight transport
(MJ/tkm)

0.35

0.36

– 0.01

–2.8

0.37

Road freight transport
(MJ/tkm) 1)

1.31

1.57

– 0.26

–16.6

1.51

Air freight (MJ/tkm) 2)

10.46

10.68

– 0.22

–2.1

10.83

0.11

0.12

– 0.01

– 8.3

0.13

Ocean freight (MJ/tkm)

Change

Black coal
27.4
Brown coal

Natural gas

Change in method from 2015 onward.

2)

Change in method from 2015 onward, figures for 2014 and 2013
retroactively adjusted.

42.0

30.0
29.9

9.9
10.9

6.0
5.9
6.5

Other
0.1
1.0
1.2

Well-to-wheel (WTW); scope 1 – 3; without pre- and onward carriage.
1)

6.1

39.6

15.8
16.2
16.3

¥‡
Specific primary energy
consumption by DB Group
journeys and transports

G4-EN3

2015
1)

2014

2013

Additional purchased energy for all green products with 100% green electricity
(for example S-Bahn (metro) Hamburg, BahnCard, bahn.business, and from 2015
onward including Environment Plus and Eco Plus).

Data for 2015 is based on findings and estimates available as of February 2016.

Alongside the CO₂ emissions, we have also further reduced
our specific primary energy consumption in rail, road, air
and ocean transport.
Ω	MORE DETAILS Œ

μ μFURTHER RISE IN SHARE OF
RENEWABLE ENERGIES
GRI
G4-EN7

GRI
G4-EN 27

We have achieved our goal of raising the share of
renewable energy in the traction current mix to 35% by 2020
ahead of time. A further increase in this share between now
and 2020 will primarily result from the statutory allocation
of power quantities under the Renewable Energy Sources
Act (EEG).
‡ Since the year under review, the share of renewable energy has been expanded to include the green
energy for our CO₂-free products Eco Plus and Environ­ment Plus, which are optionally available for purchase.
Our green products account for 13.8 percentage points.
‡

The share of renewable energy in the traction current
mix increased slightly in the year under review, mainly
prompted by the increased EEG levy that is payable by
the railways. Accordingly, we were nearly on target with
our FORECAST IN THE 201 4 INTEGR ATED REPORT [PAGE 183] .
‡ Since April 2013, when it introduced its green products, DB Long-Distance has been playing a key role in
accounting for the high share of green energy. For BahnCard and season ticket holders, and bahn.business customers we buy the amount of green energy needed for
these journeys. Long-distance passengers who do not use
any of the obligatory CO ₂-free products can purchase an
Environment Plus ticket for a € 1 surcharge and also travel
CO₂-free.
In addition, all DB employees have been traveling CO₂free on business trips in Germany since October 2009, and
on private trips with DB Long Distance throughout Germany since April 2013. In regional transport, the S -Bahn
(metro) Hamburg has been relying 100% on green energy
since 2010. Rail freight transport customers have the option
of additionally purchasing green energy for their shipments.
The CO₂ reduction generated by our products Environment
Plus and Eco Plus is not included in the result of the climate
protection target of DB Group.

‡

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

118

GRI
G4-EN7

GRI
G4-EN27

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup per forman c e – E n v i ronmenta l d i men s i on

DB Long-Distance is in­vest-

ENERGY EFFICIENCY
GRI
G4-EN 27

Modern rolling stock can convert part of its kinetic
energy into electrical energy during braking and feed it
back into the traction current grid. As more modern stock
is deployed, more energy is “recycled.”
‡

¥
Brake energy recovery 1) [GW h]
Regional rail passenger transport
		Share of total electricity procurement (%)
Long-distance rail passenger transport
		Share of total electricity procurement (%)
Rail freight transport
		Share of total electricity procurement (%)
Total
1)

2015

2014

2013

781

697

620

18

16

14

278

280

279

11

11

11

160

153

140

7

6

6

1,219

1,130

1,040

Germany, tank-to-wheel (TTW).

The volume of recycled electricity increased in the year
under review. The recovery rate was around 13% (previous
year: about 14%).

μ μREDUCING ENERGY NEEDS IN
STATIONS, FACILITIES AND BUILDINGS
GRI
G4-EN7

GRI
G4-EN27

Our stationary systems – which include more than
5,000 stations and more than 2,000 facilities worldwide
operated by DB Schenker – account for around 10% of our
total energy requirement. Here, too, we want to reduce
energy consumption and CO₂ emissions. Which measures
we are taking are shown in the following examples.
‡ In our stations we managed to lower absolute primary energy consumption by nearly 17% in comparison to
2010 by the end of 2015.
We have therefore raised our reduction target by 2020
from 14% to 18%. The focus of the energy-saving measures
were particularly on upgrading the lighting and orientation
systems to LED, and on improving the operational performance of our ventilation, cooling and boiler systems.
After opening our first climate-neutral station in Kerpen-Horrem in 2014, we are currently building the second
green station in Lutherstadt Wittenberg, which is scheduled for completion by the end of 2016. These stations can
be operated with a neutral CO ₂ footprint by using geothermal energy, photovoltaics, rooftop vegetation, rainwater management and LED lighting.
‡

ing about € 220 million in
a new environmentally
friendly maintenance and
repair facility for ICE trains
in Cologne- Nippes. Of the
total capital expenditures,
30% are allocated to enviMeasuring station
ronmental measures. The
The measuring stations installed
around the Upper Middle Rhine
facility will operate quietly
Valley – a UNESCO world heriand 100% CO ₂-free. Plans
tage site – will document the
include a proprietary phoeffectiveness of the whisper brake
tovoltaic power generaover the next few years. Rail transport noise is decreasing as the share
tion plant measuring about
of quiet freight cars increases.
2,100 m ², a solar thermal
energy plant to generate
heat, and a geothermal plant to provide air-conditioning.
The use of the geothermal plant alone will save more
than 1,000 t of CO₂ each year.
DB Schenker incorporates the very latest requirements
in respect of energy efficiency and environmental protection for its plants, for example in the newly opened
TERMINAL IN FINLAND [PAGE 1 47] . Also, the Logistics Center in
Lower Austria was conceived virtually climate-neutral,
with an LED lighting system that is powered by daylight.
Throughout Europe, about 700 subsidiaries of DB Group
are affected by the EU ’s Energy Efficiency Directive from
the obligation to use energy audits.
Our target is to generate further energy savings through­
­­out the Group, in particular in our real estate area, with the
help of audit findings.

GRI
G4-EN27

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μ μBRAKE ENERGY RECOVERY INCREASES

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

μμNoise reduction
We are on target to meet our goals to reduce noise pollution from rail transport in Germany by 2020 to half of the
2000 levels. We are reducing noise by building sound barriers along the tracks and equipping our freight cars with
quiet braking technology. New freight cars have been purchased since 2001 with quiet brake shoes.

119

GRI
DB 10

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μNOISE REMEDIATION AND
PREVENTION CONTINUES
¥
Noise remediation and prevention in Germany

2015

2014

2013

NOISE REMEDIATION (EXISTING NETWORK)

Sound barriers erected (km)

52

55

62

Homes with passive measures in place 1)

1,853

2,400

2,500

Track kilometers noise remediated in total
as of Dec 31 (km) 1), 2)

1,495

1,400

1,300

Homes with passive measures in place as of Dec 31 1)

μ μMORE QUIET FREIGHT CARS
ON THE RAILS

NOISE PREVENTION
(NEW CONSTRUCTION AND EXPANSION)

Sound barriers erected (km)

The legal framework for NOISE PREVENTION MEASURES ¥ is provided by the 16th Federal Immission Control Act. It applies
to new construction and expansion projects, so that the
number of measures implemented is dependent on the construction projects of each year, and can therefore fluctuate
strongly.

17

29

36

12,474

8,100

2,800

1)

2014 and 2013 rounded.

2)

Completed sections of track as per Annex 1 of our overall noise
remediation program, cumulated.

Since 1999 we are voluntarily implementing the “noise
re­mediation of existing rail lines of the Federal Government
(Lärm­­sanierung an bestehenden Schienenwegen des Bun­­­­
des)” program launched by the Federal Government. On the
3,700-­­­km-long tracks identified as particularly affected in
Germany, we have built sound barriers and equipped apartments, for example, with soundproof windows. A list of priorities defines where the highest impacts are and sets out
the sequence in which these places will be noise-remediated. In the year under review, the Federal Government
provided € 130 million for noise abatement measures, which
is not only being used to fund conventional NOISE REMEDIATION ¥ measures on the tracks, but also to refit freight cars,
and to finance special noise protection schemes in the world
heritage site Upper Middle Rhine Valley. Around € 97 mil­­­lion was assigned to noise remediation programs in total,
some of which was used to build further sound barriers,
and to implement soundproofing measures in apartments.
The progress we have made with our noise remediation on
tracks is in line with our FORECAST IN THE 2014 INTE­­­­­­G R ATED REPORT
[PAGE 183] .
The Federal Government resolved to lower the limits for
noise remediation in the year under review. With effect
from January 1, 2016, for example, night-time noise in residential areas will be adjusted from formerly 60 to 57 dB(A),
and thus is line with the limit for road traffic. Subsequently,
noise protection performance must be increased by 3 dB(A).

With the use of so-called composite brake shoes (V brake
shoes), which minimize abrasion on the wheel surface,
passing freight transport noise can be effectively reduced
by about 10 dB(A) – which corresponds to a 50% reduction
for the human ear. For this purpose two different types of
V brake shoes are available. We started buying new freight
cars equipped with brake shoes of type K back in 2001.
¥
Freight cars equipped with V brake shoes
in Germany as of Dec 31
New freight cars in total
Refitted freight cars in total
Total

2015

2014

2013

8,182

7,838

7,750

12,703

6,665

650

20,885

14,503

8,400

2013 rounded.

The number of new freight cars with this noise-reducing
technology increased further in the year under review. We
refitted around 6,000 further freight cars in our pool to
quiet brake shoes (the vast majority to LL type shoes) in
the year under review. Progress was therefore in line with
our FORECAST IN THE 201 4 INTEGR ATED REPORT [PAGE 183] .
The refitting of existing freight cars is supported by a
funding program organized by the BMVI. The refitting process is also being flanked by the NOISE- BA SED TR AIN - PATH
PRICING SYSTEM (LATPS) OF DB NETZ AG [PAGE 1 55] which was introduced with the timetable changes in 2012/2013. A significantly larger number of new and refitted freight cars operated by DB Cargo were running on quiet brake shoes
throughout the rail network by the end of 2015. By the end
of 2020, all active DB Cargo freight cars will travel quietly.

120

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — G roup per f ormance – E nvironmenta l dimension

μ μADDITIONAL INFORMATION
PROVIDED
With the opening of the “InfoPunkt Larmschutz” (info point
noise control) at the Heinrich Hertz Institute in Berlin,
we have added another format to our information program
on the topic of noise control. Visitors can experience how
effective noise prevention measures and the refitting of the
freight cars are. With this new forum, we would like to
intensify the dialog with political officials, associations and
citizensʼ groups.
GRI
DB 11

μμMaterial and resource
efficiency

Our recycling rate was on target again in the year under
review. The large increase in total waste volume was
caused by the Stuttgart – Ulm project, where mainly ground
waste is being generated, which is recycled virtually in its
entirety, and thus increases the recycling rate. We are
focusing our efforts on maintaining this rate at a high level
until 2020.
Improving the rate in areas not associated with construction waste poses a special challenge. We do not consider thermal utilization, meaning waste incineration, to be
a form of recycling; it is therefore not included in the recycling rate. We were able to exceed our FORECAST IN THE 201 4
INTEGR ATED REPORT [PAGE 183] in the year under review.
¥

The scarcity of resources and increasing prices provides
DB Group with considerable challenges. DB Group uses a
wide variety of resources, therefore the pressure to act
increases, especially in materials for products needed for
the rail infrastructure. We are living up to our responsibilities in regard to our entire value chain: from purchasing to
the operational use to recycling and disposal. We intend to
transform our waste management process from an optimized disposal management system into a modern resource
management system. This is why our activities are mainly
focused on meeting our target, a recycling rate of at least
95% by 2020, thus sustaining the already achieved high
level.
In addition, we plan to increase the use of recycling
materials, and extend the service life of our production
equipment, including vehicles. In doing so, we – as a whole –
are contributing to the increased use of secondary raw materials and protecting natural resources, since the production
of recycling materials is better for the environment than
sourcing primary raw materials.

Volume of waste according to type [thousand t]

2015

2014

2013

Total waste (thousand t)

11,814

6,381

5,693

(%)

94.2

97.2

95.6

		Share of thermal recovery (%)

1.6

2.7

1.2

		 Share of disposal (%)

1.2

1.7

4.6

Share of hazardous waste in
total volume 1) (%)

6.3

15.7

16.4

		Recycling rate

2013

6,381

5,693

		 thereof construction waste

11,220

5,782

5,067

		 thereof scrap metal

458

481

498

		 thereof electronic scrap

2.2

3.3

1.3

		 thereof municipal waste

68.9

56.0

97.0

		thereof paper

23.1

16.8

8.0

5.9

5.1

5.3

35.7

37.2

16.7

		thereof other 1)

The data for 2015 is based on the information and estimates available
as of December 2015. Figures rounded; excluding DB Arriva. Method changed,
starting in 2014.
1)

Includes paint, varnish, sludge and other maintenance-related waste.

At the international level the data collection quality was
improved and led to an increase in the documented paper
and municipal waste volumes. With the exception of construction waste, all other waste volumes are declining in
the German companies.

Excluding DB Arriva. The data for 2015 consist of projections based on the information
and estimates available as of December 2015. Change in method from 2014 onward.
1)

2014

11,814

		 thereof waste oil

¥
Volume of waste according to type of disposal

2015

Total waste

Pursuant to the Waste Classification Ordinance, for example waste oil.

121

Ω	MORE DETAILS Œ

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS UNITS
μμOverview123

μμPassenger122

μμInfrastructure152

μμFreight transport  140

transport

of business units

μμServices151

and logistics

μμOther/164
consolidation

μμPassenger transport

Æ	

μ μPOSITIVE DEVELOPMENT

as of Dec 31 [€ billion]

Revenues from transport contracts DB Regional and DB Arriva
F5
P. 111
P. 125

OF ORDERS

2016

Revenues that are directly connected with transport
contracts or concessions are either independent of (se­­
cured revenues, primarily concession fees) or depen­­­
dent on (unsecured revenues, primarily revenues from
fares) the number of passengers.

2021

Æ

2022

Order volume in passenger
transport [€ billion]

Change

7.2/4.5
6.8/3.8

2017

5.9/3.3

2018

5.2/3.1

2019

4.4/2.9

2020

3.7/2.8
3.6/2.5

2023

3.3/2.5

2024

3.1/2.5

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

absolute

%

DB Regional

70.8

69.4

+1.4

+2.0

		secured

49.5

46.3

+3.2

+ 6.9

		unsecured

21.3

23.1

–1.8

–7.8

DB Arriva

22.0

14.8

+7.2

+ 48.6

		secured

8.9

6.9

+2.0

+29.0

		unsecured

13.1

7.9

+ 5.2

+ 65.8

μμTransport contracts in Germany

Total

92.8

84.2

+ 8.6

+ 10.2

Æ

		secured

58.4

53.2

+ 5.2

+ 9.8

		unsecured

34.4

31.0

+3.4

+11.0

2.5/1.4

2025
until 2039
secured

12.7/5.1
unsecured

Volume
(million train km)

Concluded transport contracts
(rail) 2015

The order volume increased in the year under review.
Additions from newly awarded transport contracts of
around € 19.7 billion and changes in assumptions of
about € 0.4 billion were offset by disposals, mainly due
to services performed, of about € 11.4 billion. The rise
in order volume is mainly due to DB Arriva. The win­
ning of the Northern Rail tender had a positive impact
in this respect.

Term

total 1)
134.3

S -Bahn Rhine-Neckar Lot 1

12/2016 – 12/2033

7.9

Meinerzhagen-Ludenscheid

12/2016 – 12/2033

0.3

5.1

Additional transport Saar RB 70 2)

12/2014 – 12/2018

0.6

2.4

Network 3b Gäu – Murr

12/2017 – 12/2025

2.1

16.8

euregiobahn

12/2016 – 12/2020

1.5

5.9

Network West

12/2016 – 12/2025

4.3

38.7

Interim transport RhinelandPalatinate for future
S -Bahn Rhine-Neckar 2)

12/2014 – 12/2017

2.1

9.2

Transitional contract
Baden-Württemberg

10/2016 – 06/2021

33.6

103.3

Ring sub-network S -Bahn Berlin

11/2020 – 12/2035

9.7

127.5

Diesel network
North-West Saxony Section C

06/2016 – 12/2025

Total 1)

122

p. a. 1)

1)

Differences due to rounding are possible.

2)

Published retrospectively in the EU Official Journal.

0.5

4.6

62.6

447.7

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμOverview of business units
Æ

√
Total revenues

Revenues adjusted [€ million]

Change

External revenues

Change

2015

2014

absolute

%

2015

2014

absolute

%

DB Long-Distance

3,951

4,034

– 83

–2.1

3,801

3,885

– 84

–2.2

DB Regional

8,670

8,831

–161

–1.8

8,568

8,721

–153

–1.8

DB Arriva

4,843

4,491

+352

+7.8

4,836

4,485

+351

+7.8

DB Cargo

4,767

4,863

– 96

–2.0

4,417

4,517

–100

–2.2

DB Schenker

15,451

14,943

+ 508

+3.4

15,390

14,894

+ 496

+3.3

DB Services

3,192

3,172

+20

+ 0.6

269

259

+10

+3.9

DB Netze Track

5,110

4,951

+159

+3.2

1,275

1,118

+157

+14.0

DB Netze Stations

1,199

1,172

+27

+2.3

480

464

+16

+3.4

DB Netze Energy

2,812

2,797

+15

+ 0.5

1,128

1,073

+ 55

+ 5.1

Other

1,529

1,765

–236

–13.4

304

304

–

–

Consolidation

–11,056

–11,299

+243

–2.2

–

–

–

–

DB Group

40,468

39,720

+748

+ 1.9

40,468

39,720

+748

+ 1.9

Æ

√
EBIT adjusted

Change

EBITDA adjusted

Change

2015

2014

absolute

%

2015

2014

absolute

%

DB Long-Distance

164

212

– 48

–22.6

437

546

–109

–20.0

DB Regional

669

843

–174

–20.6

1,316

1,452

–136

– 9.4

DB Arriva

270

265

+5

+1.9

525

498

+27

+ 5.4

DB Cargo

–183

46

–229

–

120

343

–223

– 65.0

DB Schenker

395

332

+ 63

+19.0

589

520

+ 69

+13.3

DB Services

70

82

–12

–14.6

274

270

+4

+1.5

DB Netze Track

578

562

+16

+2.8

1,513

1,503

+10

+ 0.7

DB Netze Stations

254

240

+14

+ 5.8

391

375

+16

+ 4.3

DB Netze Energy

66

55

+11

+20.0

133

123

+10

+ 8.1

– 524

– 528

+4

– 0.8

– 520

– 520

–

–

1,759

2,109

–350

–16.6

4,778

5,110

–332

– 6.5

4.3

5.3

–

–

11.8

12.9

–

–

Operating profit figures [€ million]

Other/consolidation
DB Group

Margin (%)
Æ

√
Gross capital expenditures

Capital expenditures [€ million]

Change

Net capital expenditures

Change

2015

2014

absolute

%

2015

2014

absolute

DB Long-Distance

673

235

+ 438

–

670

235

+ 435

–

DB Regional

881

1,927

–1,046

– 54.3

866

1,914

–1,048

– 54.8

DB Arriva

276

296

–20

– 6.8

276

293

–17

– 5.8

DB Cargo

451

195

+256

+131

445

195

+250

+128

DB Schenker

238

240

–2

– 0.8

238

240

–2

– 0.8

DB Services

276

262

+14

+ 5.3

276

262

+14

+ 5.3

5,837

5,261

+ 576

+10.9

928

1,113

–185

–16.6

DB Netze Track

%

DB Netze Stations

533

559

–26

– 4.7

88

129

– 41

–31.8

DB Netze Energy

167

169

–2

–1.2

68

76

–8

–10.5

12

–15

+27

–

11

–15

+26

–

9,344

9,129

+215

+2.4

3,866

4,442

– 576

–13.0

5,478

4,687

+791

+16.9

–

–

–

–

Other/consolidation
DB Group

		 thereof investment grants

123

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

25 tender award procedures were concluded by contracting
organizations for local rail passenger transport in Germany
in the year under review (previous year: 22). A total of
approximately 117 million train kilometers were awarded
(previous year: 63 million train kilometers). Of the train
kilometers awarded in the year under review, 74% (pre­
vious year: 64%) had previously been provided by
DB Group companies.
We won ten of the tenders (previous year: eight ten­
ders), which accounts for 53% of the train kilometers
awarded (previous year: 64%).

Æ

Concluded transport contracts
(bus) 2015

Æ
Volume
(million bus km)

Concluded transport contracts
(bus) 2015
VRN Pfalzer Bergland and Kaisers­

lautern (Lots 2, 3 and 4)

Term

p. a.

total 1)

01/2016–12/2025

5.6

56.2

12/2015–12/2025

3.0

30.3

Italy

SAF 2)

01/2016–12/2016

20.1

20.1
12.3

Great Britain

London
(4 partial lines) 2)

2 years each

6.1

Italy

SAB 2)

01/2016–12/2016

11.9

11.9

Italy

SIA 2)

01/2016–12/2016

11.0

11.0

Great Britain

Kent County
Council 2)

05/2015–05/2019

2.0

7.9

Italy

SAIA 2)

01/2016–12/2016

6.5

6.5

Denmark
The Netherlands

Movia A6 2)

02/2017–09/2018

4.1

6.1

HOV GGD 2)

12/2017–12/2019

2.0

4.0

Czech Republic

Teplice City

01/2016–06/2017

2.2

3.4

Serbia

City Transport
Kragujevac

11/2015–11/2018

1.1

3.2

Italy

SAL 2)

01/2016–12/2016

2.5

2.5

Denmark

Midttrafik 2 2)

07/2015–06/2016

1.7

1.7

1 – 6 years

4.9

16.3

103.8

288.9

30.1

VRN Leimen and St. Leon-Rot,
Sandhausen

12/2015–12/2025

2.1

21.4

Regional lines 300 and 500

04/2016–05/2021

0.9

4.6

Other 3)

Main-Taunus district East

12/2016–12/2024

0.9

7.0

Total 1)

LK Roth – LB Nordost (Lots 1, 2)

12/2015–12/2024

0.9

7.7

1)

MVV lines 904, 961, 974, 975

12/2016–12/2024

0.8

6.1

2)

MVV lines 240, 242, 243

12/2015–12/2023

0.6

5.2

Extension of the existing contract.

3)

Including extension of the existing contract.

48.5

95.5

Movia A13

3.0

165.4

19.1

Denmark

01/2016–12/2025

6.5

5 years each

Serbia

34.9

19.2

total 1)

Belgrade City
Transport

3.5

1 – 10 years

p. a.

London
(23 partial lines)

08/2015 – 06/2025

Other

Term

Great Britain

Dithmarschen (North and
South subnetworks)

Total 1)
1)

Volume
(million bus km)

Differences due to rounding are possible.

Æ

Differences due to rounding are possible.

In bus services, a volume of 79 million commercial vehicle
kilometers were awarded in Germany in the year under
review (previous year: 68 million commercial vehicle kilo­­meters) in 161 tenders (previous year: 115 tenders). Of
the commercial vehicle kilometers newly awarded, 41%
(previous year: 30%) had previously been provided by
DB Group companies.
In the year under review, we participated in 107 tenders
(previous year: 86 tenders) with a volume of 62 million
commercial vehicle kilometers (previous year: 53 million
commercial vehicle kilometers). We won 31% of the invi­
tations to tender in which we participated (previous year:
42%).

Volume
(million train km)

Concluded transport contracts
(rail) 2015

Term

p. a.

total 1)

Great Britain

Northern

04/2016 – 03/2025

61.8

556.6

Sweden

Pagatag 2)

12/2016 – 12/2018

12.2

24.4

Denmark

Jutland
(2 separate
lines) 2)

12/2018 – 12/2020

Total 1)
1)

Differences due to rounding are possible.

2)

Extension of the existing contract.

8.7

17.4

82.7

598.4

μ μCUSTOMER SATISFACTION IN

GRI
G4-PR5

PASSENGER TRANSPORT
The development of customer satisfaction at DB LONG DISTANCE [PAGE 1 28] , DB REGIONAL [PAGE 1 32] and DB ARRIVA
[PAGE 1 37] was mixed in the year under review.
¿

μμTransport contracts in Europe

Customer satisfaction [SI]

(excluding Germany)

|  D B Sales

2015

2014

2013

81

83

84

DB Arriva has participated in invitations to tender

throughout Europe. Significant tender successes have
been achieved in Great Britain, Serbia, Denmark, Italy
and Sweden. In rail transport, DB Arriva won the North­
­­­ern Rail tender, making it the biggest provider in the
British market.

To assess customer satisfaction at DB Sales, 3,000 cus­­to­mers are asked in two waves each year about their satis­
faction with their latest purchase. Despite the slight fall in
the year under review, overall satisfaction has remained at
a very high level for several years now.

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 1 35 FF.

124

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

μ μBAHNCARDS DOWN SLIGHTLY

key drivers are personnel, maintenance and infrastructure
costs, the latter being very fixed-cost intensive. Only a
small portion of costs varies with train capacity utilization.
The most important sources of income for commercially
operated long-distance transport are revenues from the
sale of tickets and BahnCards. Our employees, a modern
vehicle fleet and a high-quality infrastructure are key re­­
sources. This is why DB Group’s internal infrastructure companies, service providers and the vehicle industry are im­­
portant partners. Furthermore, cooperation with public
transport companies in countries bordering Germany is very
important for cross-border connections.

Æ

G4-EN27

BahnCards as of Dec 31
[thousands]
|

Total

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

4,915

5,093

–178

–3.5

4,966

The number of BahnCard customers declined slightly from
the previous year. This development is mainly due to a
decrease in the BahnCard 50 segment and to the free BahnCard 25 campaign in the previous year. All holders of a valid
BahnCard travel within Germany with 100% green power.
GRI
G4-EN27

μ μADDITIONAL MOBILITY SERVICES
μμMarkets and strategy

Æ ¿
Number in Germany
as of Dec 31

R AIL TR ANSPORT
∫ In the year under review DB Long-Distance presented its
largest service campaign with respect to both customers
and services: “Increasing railway services in urban and
regio­­­nal areas.” In the future, we intend to connect cities
and regions with each other more often, faster, more
directly and more conveniently. Once the network has been
expanded in line with the targets, nearly all cities with a
population of over 100,000 will be linked to long-distance
transport. This will expand our service offering by around
25% by 2030. As a result, we expect that 50 million more
passengers per year will travel by ICE or IC by 2030.
The Long-Distance 2020 strategy pursues the target of
being the first choice for customers and employees by 2020.
ECONOMIC ≈ dimension: DB Long-Distance is pursuing
the target of offering its customers high-quality products and thereby achieving profitable growth. By 2020,
we want to offer the most recognized and trusted prod­
­uct, both in terms of travel times and service. In the
event of disruptions, our employees take excellent care
of our passengers and, together with our digital platforms, provide an optimal flow of information and alternative solutions to bring passengers to their destination. New trains will make an important contribution to
improving the reliability of our performance pledge. At
the same time, the modernization of the ICE and IC fleet
creates the conditions for operational reliability and a
high degree of traveling comfort. The expansion of the
entertainment offering on the ICE Portal reinforces the
positive travel experience and helps to provide the most
relaxing form of travel for our customers using long-distance transport. Digital innovations make it even easier
to use our services. With these initiatives, we are preparing our­­selves for the increasing competition.

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

3,926

3,831

+ 95

+2.5

3,100

VEHICLES

Flinkster 1)
		 thereof electric vehicles

686

760

–74

– 9.7

580

9,928

9,108

+ 820

+ 9.0

9,071

130

130

–

–

132

Flinkster

287,510

269,750

+17,760

+ 6.6

253,000

Call a Bike

859,717

744,761 +114,956

+15.4

614,000

Call a Bike
		thereof pedelecs
CUSTOMER S

2013 rounded.
1)

Flinkster network vehicles (not including car2go) located at stations that can
be booked by customers in Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Italy.

The growing acceptance of Flinkster and Call a Bikes testifies to the popularity of individualized, need-based vehicle
use. Furthermore, the use of electric cars and Call a Bikes
leads to a reduction of harmful emissions in comparison to
other mobility services.

μμ

μ μDB LONG-DISTANCE BUSINESS UNIT
μμBusiness model
DB Long-Distance offers customers comfortable and environ­

­ entally friendly travel within Germany and into neighm
boring countries. Daily travel with the ICE/IC/EC fleet forms
the backbone of long-distance transport. Offerings are
being supplemented with selected services including car
trains and night trains, as well as island services on Sylt and
Wangerooge. Long-distance bus services provides an
ex­tension to the rail transport offering for some German
domestic and international travel.
Important key performance figures are volume sold and
the specific load factor of the trains. The cost side largely
correlates with the volume produced, which is derived from
the schedule. Personnel and facility resource management
is determined on the basis of the annual train schedule to
optimize the cost per unit per train kilometer traveled. The

125

F5
P.122
P. 127

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

GRI

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμ SOCIAL † dimension: In order to keep our promises to our

μμ

customers, we expect our employees to have a strong
focus on customers and quality. One prerequisite for
this is a solid cooperative spirit that can bring employees
together and allow them to participate. This is why we
are constantly working on improving our employee satisfaction, for example by including our employees in the
planning of specific working conditions, which also in­­
creases our employer attractiveness.
ENVIRONMENTAL ¥ dimension: DB Long-Distance has set
a target of being considered by its customers as the
most environmentally friendly provider by 2020. A central element in this regard are green offers with 100%
green power. Currently, about 75% of traction current is
drawn from renewable energy sources. New vehicles
support our efforts to achieve this goal. For example,

the Intercity 2 uses around 20% less energy than other
IC trains. In addition, the new service campaign shifts
transport from other modes of transport to rails, enabling
a savings of 1.7 million tons of CO₂ emissions per year in
the target state by 2030.
BUS SERVICE
The German long-distance bus market has recorded strong
growth since the liberalization in 2013. Several new providers have set up large networks in Germany. Initial market
consolidation has already occurred, and the battle for market
share remains intense. In the coming years, the market is
expected to continue to grow, though at a slower pace. This
is resulting in a further shift in demand, including at the
expense of long-distance rail passenger transport.

D B LO N G - DI S TA N CE BU S INE S S M O D EL
CUSTOMER ACCESS/AFFILIATION
VALUE PROPOSITIONS
CUSTOMER SEGMENTS

RESOURCES/INPUTS

μμPrivate customers
μμBusiness customers

μμDB Long-Distance offers easy,
relaxed, reliable and environmentally friendly travel

μμEmployees: more than 16,000
μμVehicles: 265 ICE and 1,545 IC cars
μμInfrastructure/networks:

μμTravel centers, agencies, ticket machines,
online, call center, on-board sales

μμBahnCard, BahnComfort and BahnBonus
programs, apps

OUTCOMES

μμEBIT adjusted: € 164 million
μμCustomer satisfaction: SI of 75
μμPunctuality: 74%
μμEmployee satisfaction: 3.6 (2014)
μμFinal energy consumption: –24.3%

ten provisioning depots for IC/ICE
Production factors: 138 million trainpath ­kilometers, 2.8 million station
stops, 2.2 billion kWh of traction current,
15 million l of diesel fuel

μμ

compared to 2006 (specific)

SERVICES/OUTPUTS

μμPassengers: 133 million
μμVolume sold: 37 billion pkm (rail)
and 0.2 billion pkm (bus)
KEY ACTIVITIES

μμProvide train and bus services
μμLook after customers
μμProvide and maintain vehicles
μμPlan networks and services

126

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

VEHICLE PROJEC T S IN LONG - DISTANCE TR ANSPORT
The new IC 2 trains offer in-seat food and drink service,
special family areas and wider doors. Other main features
of the modern facilities include LTE mobile signal boosters,
power outlets at each single and double seat and legroom
to ICE standards.
To stabilize the drive availability, 46 drive heads of the
ICE 2 fleet are being equipped with modern IGBT inverter
technology. The first train was retrofitted in September 2015.
Series conversion is expected to begin in 2016.
The retrofitting of the first ICE T production series was
completed at the end of 2015. The core of this work involved
stabilizing, modernizing vehicle technology and equipping
the multiple units with the European Train Control Sys­­tem
(ETCS). The interiors were refurbished and some components were renewed.
The preparations for the redesign of the ICE 3 continued.
Series conversion is expected to begin in late 2016. The ICE 3
trains not yet equipped with the ETCS will be equipped with
it as part of the redesign.
The stabilizing of our IC and EC fleet with additional
technological measures is moving forward and completion
is expected by the end of 2016.
The authorization runs of the ICE 4 began in September
2015. Commissioning approval for the first multiple unit is
expected in summer 2016. A one-year test run with two
multiple units will begin in fall 2016 in order to ensure that
quality is adequate to start regular operation in December
2017.

μμEvents in 2015
GRI
DB 01

VEHICLE AVAILABILITY IN
LONG - DISTANCE TR ANSPORT
The availability of the ICE fleet improved during the year
under review:
Mild weather at the start of the year led to limited vehicle
impairments and better maintenance options.
In the second half of the year, there were negative effects
from poor punctuality and malfunctioning air-condition­
­­ing units.
More drives on the ICE 1 and ICE 2 trains had to be ex­­
changed as a result of problems caused by distorted
wheel discs and by brake hollow shafts.
After approval of the new ICE 3 multiple units (407 series)
for transport in France, gradual introduction began in
early June. Approval in Belgium continues to be pursued.
The refitting of the ICE 3 fleet with new drive wheel sets
started at the end of June 2015, and is expected to be ongoing
until 2018. As a result, longer ultrasound testing intervals
will have a positive impact on availability. The EBA will evaluate the new drive wheel sets of the ICE T fleet before the
process is completed, and commissioning approval is therefore expected in the first quarter of 2016.
Intercity availability varied. The second half of the year
was marked by the challenges of refugee transport and high
temperatures. The new double-decker Intercity 2 (IC 2) went
into operation in mid-December 2015. The vehicles have had
several operational problems; among other factors, faults in
the doors and train steering lead to frequent delays and road
performance necessitates a modification to the IC 2. Due
to the situation, the migration of the second line between
Leipzig and Cologne has been temporarily suspended.

μμ
μμ

μμ

GRI
DB 01

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

The most significant events in the growing German longdistance bus market in 2015 were the merger of the two
largest operators, the expansion of German long-distance
bus service providers abroad and the entry into the German
market by international long-distance bus service providers.
By the end of 2016, we intend to significantly expand
the number of our long-distance bus connections which will
allow us to play a larger role in the market. The expansion
began in the year under review. The organizational groundwork for the planned expansion has been laid through the
hire of numerous key employees and the introduction of
new processes and structures. In addition, we had already
launched 11 new lines in October 2015, which significantly
expanded the offering in many regions and added 17 cities
to our network.

μμ

NEW CAMPAIGN FOR LONG - DISTANCE TR ANSPORT
In April, we started our new campaign with the slogan
“This time belongs to you” with TV and radio spots, print
advertisements, posters, online banners and various activities in DB travel centers and long-distance trains. There is
also an ONLINE PORTAL Œ, where customers can voice their
opinion, contribute their writing and tell others how they
use their time on the train.
INVESTMENTS

μμ∫ Bayern Express&P. Kühn Berlin GmbH (BEX) acquired F5
μμ

127

the remaining 35% of Berlin Linien Bus GmbH (blb) in
August 2015.
In October 2015, DB Fernverkehr AG sold 5% of the
shares in Railteam B.V., Amsterdam/the Netherlands,
to Thalys International and still holds 20% of the shares.

P. 125
P. 134

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

≈ † ¥

√
Change

DB Long-Distance

Punctuality (rail)

(%)

Rate of people making connections
(long-distance transport/long-distance transport) (%)
Customer satisfaction

(SI)

Passengers rail (million)
Passengers long-distance bus (million)

absolute

%

2013

76.5

–

–

73.9

86.1

86.3

–

–

86.3

75

75

–

–

74

131.9

129.0

+2.9

+2.2

130.9

0.8

0.5

+ 0.3

+ 60.0

0.3

36,102

+ 873

+2.4

36,777

Volume sold long-distance bus (million pkm)

218.0

186.5

+31.5

+16.9

110

Volume produced (million train-path km)

138.4

142.8

– 4.4

–3.1

142.6

Load factor (%)
Total revenues (€ million)
External revenues

(€ million)

EBITDA adjusted (€ million)
EBITDA margin (adjusted)

(%)

51.8

49.9

–

–

50.7

3,951

4,034

– 83

–2.1

4,083

3,801

3,885

– 84

–2.2

3,933

437

546

–109

–20.0

649

11.1

13.5

–

–

15.9

EBIT adjusted (€ million)

164

212

– 48

–22.6

323

Gross capital expenditures (€ million)

673

235

+ 438

–

168

16,217

16,461

–244

–1.5

16,564

–

3.6

–

–

–

95.9

–

–

–

98.0

26.6

26.9

–

–

26.9

93.3

93.7

–

–

93.6

98.0

–

–

–

–

–24.3

–21.3

–

–

–18.9

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)
Employee satisfaction

– index

Employee satisfaction

– follow-up workshop implementation rate (%)

Share of women in Germany
Health rate in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

(%)

Percentage of staffing needs covered in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

Specific final energy consumption (rail) compared to 2006

(related to pkm) (%)

μμDevelopment in the year under review
μμNegative impact of GDL strikes.
μμPositive effects of schedule changes, marketing, special
μμ

GRI

2014

74.4

36,975

Volume sold rail (million pkm)

G4-PR5

2015

offer tickets and BahnCard campaigns.
Intense competitive environment.

Punctuality was significantly below the previous year mainly
due to the GDL strikes and the effects from the high volume
of construction. Nevertheless, the rate of people successfully making long-distance transport connections remained
at nearly the same level due to increased planning efforts
to ensure the integrity of travel chains.
‡ To assess customer satisfaction, 12,000 customers
are asked each year in six
¿ Measures 2015
waves about their satisfacμμIntroduction of the ICE portal.
tion with their latest jour­
μμIntroduction of the new IC 2.
­ney. The high level of the
μμLaunch of the Erfurt–Halle/
previous year was mainLeipzig high-speed rail line.
tained in the year under
μμExpansion of international
connections.
review.
μμIn the future, the ICE Sprinter will
The performance in rail
make it possible to reach destinatransport was positive. The
tions faster and more conveniently.
number of passengers and
μμNew family area on board the ICE.
the volume sold increased
as a result of yield management and marketing measures.
In contrast, GDL strikes, service reductions in the car and
night train business as well as increased competition had

an opposite effect. As a result of higher construction activity
in the network and the GDL strikes, a slight decline was
recorded in volume produced in the year under review. The
load factor increased slightly, which is due to the effects of
strikes and marketing campaigns.
Due to business expansion, the performance in bus service was clearly positive.
The negative revenues development compared to the
previous year was mainly influenced by more intense competition and the GDL strikes. In addition, the drop in fuel
prices and sustained change in the perception of price and
performance on the part of our customers contributed to
declines in revenues.
Other operating income (–3.0%) decreased due to lower
income from vehicle sales and the release of provisions.
The cost of materials (– 0.3%) fell slightly. Increased ex­­
pense for maintenance and use of infrastructure were offset
by lower expenses for purchased transport services.
Higher personnel expenses (+1.0%) were primarily due
to increases in collective bargaining agreements.
Depreciation (–18.3%) decreased in the year under
review. This decline is attributed to several ICE 3 and ICE T
trains that reached the end of their useful life for accounting
purposes during the year under review. Vehicle acquisitions
of the ICE 3, the 407 series and the IC 2 had an opposite
effect.

128

Other operating expenses (+ 4.0%) increased in part as
a result of digitalization (tablets for train conductors, ICE
portal and Qixxit).
Overall, only a partial offset for the decline in revenues
was possible through declines in expenses, resulting in a
significant deterioration in adjusted EBITDA and adjusted
EBIT.
Gross capital expenditures in the year under review in­­
creased primarily due to vehicle acquisitions (ICE 3 and IC 2)
and workshop projects.
The number of employees
† Measures 2015
as of December 31, 2015,
μμThe rollout of our concept
fell slightly due in part to
“Leadership in long-distance
adjustments in the scope
transport” as an equal factor
of services in car and night
in the success of the customer
train transport.
campaign.
μμSystematic professionalization of
The follow-up workshop
occupational health management
implementation rate as part
initiated.
of the 2014 employee survey
was high.
The share of women was slightly below the previous
year’s level. In order to maintain the positive developments
in employment figures in the technical professions, women
are selectively targeted in the recruitment process. In the
non-technical professions, this potential has been largely
tapped.
The health rate dropped due to above-average influenza
intensity and strikes.
Percentage of staffing needs covered remained stable
at a high level through­­out
¥ Measures 2015
the year.
μμConstruction of a CO₂-free
In comparison to 2006,
ICE facility in Cologne-Nippes
final energy consumption
begun.
was re­­duced by nearly oneμμ130 trainees submitted 23
quar­­ter. During the year un­­­environmental ideas in the project
“Long-distance transport vocational
der re­­view, the use of new
trainees for the environment.”
vehicles and the energy-ef­
μμThe Energy League was presented
­­ficient driving methods of
with the internal DB Award.
our train drivers increased
energy efficiency.

F4 ∫
P. 114
P. 131

μ μDB REGIONAL BUSINESS UNIT
μμBusiness model
DB Regional’s core service is to bring millions of passengers

in regional transport each day to their desired destination
in a punctual, safe, reliable and environmentally friendly
way. In doing so, we fulfill the requirements of the transport authorities in a reliable fashion.

An extensive network of RegionalExpress, regional train,
S -Bahn (metro) and regional bus lines offers passengers
connections in metropolitan areas and the surrounding
countryside. Regional transport operators combine service
planning and provisioning with the target of offering local
transport that meets local transport needs.
As a negotiating partner for transport authorities at the
state and municipal level, DB Regional participates in competitions for long-term transport contracts and route concessions. We are defending our leading market position with
integrated transport concepts and high capital expenditures
on our vehicles.
Volume sold and volume produced are important key
performance figures. Transport contracts typically reference
volume produced. Moreover, there are contracts with public
transport authorities in which farebox revenues are awarded
directly to the contracting organization, while the transport company is completely compensated for the entire
range of its services by the public transport authority (gross
contracts).
Due to the fact that transport contracts span several
years, functioning sliding price mechanisms that allow
unexpected cost developments to be passed on to the public
transport authorities play an important role in managing
the procurement market risks relating to energy, personnel
and infrastructure utilization. Another important risk management component is how reutilization risk is managed in
the event that the useful life of vehicles exceeds the term
of a transport contract. An operationally flexible vehicle
fleet coupled with a broad and balanced portfolio of transport contracts considerably reduces this risk.
Concession fees, next to revenues from ticket sales, are
the most important source of income. Our employees, a
modern vehicle fleet and a high-quality infrastructure are
key resources for offering punctual transport. This is why
DB Group’s internal infrastructure companies, service providers and the vehicle industry are important partners for
DB Regional. Furthermore, cooperation with public transport authorities is very important.
Predefined terms in transport contracts and route concessions, combined with the expensive production system,
result in a cost structure with high fixed costs. Major drivers
are personnel, maintenance, energy and infrastructure
expenses. Only a small portion of costs varies with train
capacity utilization.

129

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμMarkets and strategy
The German local transport market will again be one of the
most interesting markets in Europe in the coming years,
even if contract volumes recede in the medium term.
ECONOMIC ≈ dimension: We want to increase our custo­­mer
satisfaction and defend our market position in a profitable way.
	 Our service pledge to customers is central to the
way we operate. In addition to our comprehensive efforts
to improve effectiveness and efficiency, we are also
focusing on customers. A close dialog with transport
authorities and market research on passenger needs
form the basis of measures designed to increase customer satisfaction.
	
To ensure our future competitiveness and thus further
increase our success rate in winning tenders, we will
continue to consistently reduce our costs and improve

μμ

μμ

our revenue power. Our bus services have had to prove
themselves in a field that has become increasingly competitive in recent years. DB Regional Bus countered cost
pressure in competitive invitations to tender with a
comprehensive efficiency program. To achieve this objec­
­tive, the current ideas from the “development plans” in
the rail line of business are being adopted. Over the
long term, we expect to maintain market share in the
public road passenger transport market and we will take
advantage of profitable growth opportunities through
innovative products and creative market penetration.
SOCIAL † dimension: Satisfied employees are essential for
success in the market. A key to this is to actively involve
employees in the continuous improvement of DB Regional.
These efforts include conducting workshops to follow
up employee surveys in which the results are discussed
and measures are developed jointly. Under the rubric

D B R EG IO N A L BU S INE S S M O D EL
CUSTOMER ACCESS/AFFILIATION

CUSTOMER SEGMENTS
RESOURCES/INPUTS

Employees: more than 36,000
Vehicles: 1,006 locomotives,
3,956 multiple units, 11,109
power cars, 3,815 passenger cars,
13,428 buses (including external)
Infrastructure/networks: 116
workshops and depots
Production factors: 115 million
station stops, 3.6 billion kWh
of traction current, 267 million l
of diesel fuel (bus and rail)

μμ
μμ

μμPrivate customers
μμBusiness customers
μμContracting
organizations

VALUE PROPOSITIONS

μμLocal sales points, travel centers, agencies, ticket

online, call center, on-board sales
μμDB Regional offers customer-oriented, μμmachines,
Subscriptions, apps
punctual, reliable and environmentally
friendly transport solutions

OUTCOMES

μμEBIT adjusted: € 669 million
μμCustomer satisfaction: SI of 71 (rail)
and SI of 74 (bus)

μμ

μμPunctuality: 94% (rail)
μμHit rate: 53%
μμEmployee satisfaction: 3.4 (2014)
μμFinal energy consumption: –26.3% (rail) and

μμ

+7.2% (bus), compared to 2006 (specific)

SERVICES/OUTPUTS

μμPassengers: 2.5 billion
μμVolume sold: 50 billion pkm
μμVolume produced: 0.5 billion
train-path km (rail) and 0.6
billion bus km (bus)

KEY ACTIVITIES

μμProvide train and bus services
μμLook after customers
μμProvide and maintain vehicles
μμCreate competitive offers

130

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

GRI
DB 01

μμ

430 series (Stuttgart S -Bahn design)
87 vehicles can still only be operated without the re­­
tractable step function. There are still many faults, and
work is currently being performed to remedy these faults.

μμ

Double-deck trains
The delivery of double-deck trains for operations in several transport networks began in mid-December 2015
after considerable delays.

μμ

REAL-TIME DATA CAPTURING FOR OUR BUSES
More than 4,000 buses use a computerized operational control system to send real-time information to the control
centers. Bus drivers can use the system to check the punctuality of other buses via smartphone or on-board computer.
This information is also available to customers on the DB
Navigator app. Additional vehicles will be equipped with
this system in 2016.

μμ Events in 2015
EXTENSIVE VEHICLE MEASURES
We are also working to constantly improve our local transport vehicle fleet. The measures include: redesign of interiors, adding passenger information and video recording
systems, and repainting.
100 vehicles of the 423 series were completely renovated
by the end of 2015 for the Rhine-Main S-Bahn (metro),
and 37 multiple units received an automatic passengercounting system.
For the Main-Weser/Kinzigtal/Niddertal tender, 131
double-decker cars were entirely renovated.
For the North-South tender, 101 double-decker cars
were completely renovated by the end of 2015. The
entire reno­­­vation volume is 102 vehicles.
For the Berlin North-East S -Bahn (metro), 68 doubledecker cars were completely renovated by the end of
2015.
For the future operation of the Stuttgart S-Bahn (metro),
44 of a total of 60 vehicles of the 423 series were completely renovated by the end of 2015.
77 vehicles of the EMU 425 series will be modernized by
mid-2017 for operation on the Rhine-Main S-Bahn (metro).
There are still delays and restrictions in the delivery of new
trains.

AGREEMENT WITH BOMBARDIER TR ANSPORTATION
At the end of the first quarter of 2015, DB Regional and
Bombardier Transportation were able to agree an out-ofcourt settlement for various vehicle projects, thereby mutually settling extensive legal disputes regarding the 442
series (Talent 2) and 430 series (Stuttgart S-Bahn (metro))
vehicles. The parties wish to resolve the remaining differences of opinion through a new, effective collaboration.

μμ

μμ

μμ

SUBSIDY PROCEDURES AND REQUESTS FOR
INFORMATION ON TR ANSPORT CONTR ACTS
There were no significant changes in the year under review
regarding the ongoing formal investigation by the EU Commission against the Federal Government for the alleged
provisioning of illegal subsidies as a result of the conclusion
of a transport contract between DB Regional and the states
of Berlin and Brandenburg. This also applies to the preliminary investigations concerning the transport contract for
S-Bahn (metro) Berlin, the transport contract of the RhineRuhr transport association (Verkehrsbund Rhein-Ruhr; VRR),
as well as the outside rail lines and the Baden Wurttemberg
transport contract.

μμ
μμ

μμ

442 SERIES (TALENT 2)
With the exception of 30 vehicles, all vehicles have now
been delivered and are in use. The delivery was significantly delayed and involved faults; work is currently
being performed to remedy these faults.

μμ

131

F4
P. 129
P. 151

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμ

430 series (Rhine-Main design)
The delayed delivery of the 91 vehicles ordered was
completed in January 2015. The delivery was significantly
delayed and involved faults; work is currently being performed to remedy these faults.

“Getting better,” we have continued our intensive dialog
about attitude and methodology with our executives.
This dialog is supplemented by providing regular information on key issues, for example in regional staff magazines
or new media. In addition, the structured identification
of high-potential and high-performance employees and
executives as well as highlighting opportunities for career
development ensure a high level of satisfaction and
guarantees that we make the best use of the potential
available to us.
ENVIRONMENTAL ¥ dimension: The target here is to continue to build on our strengths as a mode of transport
that has an environmentally friendly structure, above
all compared to car transport. For this reason, calls for
vehicle tenders by DB Regional Bus also take the vehicle
fuel consumption data into account in addition to the
acquisition and maintenance costs. In addition, an energysaving driving style is continuously emphasized.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI
G4-PR5

μμDevelopment in the year under review

A total of 1,500 customers are surveyed in two waves each

μμBusiness environment still intensely competitive.
μμGDL strikes had a negative impact.
μμNegative impact from increasing factor costs.

year about customer satisfaction in the regional bus line of
business. This showed a slight decrease of one index point
from a high level.
Performance declined in the year under review. The
volume sold declined both in the rail line of business and
in the bus line of business. In rail transport, tender losses
and the GDL strikes had negative effects. In contrast, the
development of volume in long-distance bus transport was
positive due to the increase in offers.
The economic performance of DB Regional is particularly affected by the development of the higher-revenue
and higher-performance rail line of business. Therefore, the
declines in revenues here, which are primarily due to lower
concession fees, had a negative effect on the business unit
overall. The decline in concession fees was largely attributable to margin and volume losses and the GDL strikes. Revenues in the bus line of business developed in line with the
previous year.
In contrast, other operating income posted a significant
increase (+ 41.4%) due to higher indemnity payments and
releases of provisions.

Punctuality in rail transport was lower than last year, partly
due to the GDL strikes and the high volume of construction.
Punctuality was affected in particular by the poor figures
in the Rhine-Main S-Bahn (metro) (alternating current) re­­
sulting from structural problems. In addition, vehicle problems in the Berlin S-Bahn (metro) (direct current) had a negative impact.
As a result of the significant progress made in rolling out
the computerized operational control system a punctuality
figure for our bus transport services can also be established
beginning in the year under review.
‡ To assess customer satisfaction, 19,000 customers
are asked each year in two
¿ Measures 2015
waves about their satisfacμμIntroduction of computerized
tion. Overall satisfaction
operations control system.
with rail services has im­­
μμNew DB passenger app.
proved continuously for
μμRollout of DB route agent app.
several years now. Another
im­­­prove­­ment was posted dur­­ing the year under review.
≈ † ¥

√
Change

DB Regional

Punctuality (rail) (%)
		 Punctuality regional transport

(%)

		 Punctuality alternating current S -Bahn (metro)
		 Punctuality direct current S -Bahn (metro)
Punctuality bus

(%)

(%)

(%)

Customer satisfaction rail

(SI)

Customer satisfaction bus

(SI)

Passengers (million)
		 thereof long-distance bus

2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

94.2

94.9

–

–

94.6

91.9

93.1

–

–

92.5

94.5

95.1

–

–

95.1

97.5

97.7

–

–

97.6

90.5

–

–

–

–

71

69

–

–

68

74

75

–

–

74

2,537

2,567

–30

–1.2

2,588

0.7

0.6

+ 0.1

+16.7

–

50,360

51,483

–1,123

–2.2

51,833

		 thereof long-distance bus

193.3

183.0

+10.3

+ 5.6

–

Total revenues (€ million)

8,670

8,831

–161

–1.8

8,839

Volume sold (million pkm)

(€ million)

8,568

8,721

–153

–1.8

8,734

Rail concession fees (€ million)

3,838

4,128

–290

–7.0

4,168

EBITDA adjusted (€ million)

1,316

1,452

–136

– 9.4

1,337

EBIT adjusted (€ million)

669

843

–174

–20.6

777

Gross capital expenditures (€ million)

881

1,927

–1,046

– 54.3

908

36,494

36,605

–111

– 0.3

36,878

–

3.4

–

–

–

100

–

–

–

98.6

External revenues

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)
Employee satisfaction

– index

Employee satisfaction

– follow-up workshop implementation rate(%)

Share of women in Germany
Health rate in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

(%)

16.0

–

–

15.7

92.9

–

–

93.1

97.2

–

–

–

–

Specific final energy consumption (rail) compared to 2006
(related to pkm) (%)

–26.3

–25.7

–

–

–20.6

Specific final energy consumption (bus) compared to 2006
(related to bus km) (%)

+7.2

+ 0.9

–

–

+ 4.1

Percentage of staffing needs covered in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

16.0
92.3

132

GRI
G4-PR5

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

R AIL LINE OF BUSINESS
GDL strikes had a negative impact.
Intense competitive environment.
Negative impact from increasing factor costs.

μμ
μμ
μμ

Æ †
Rail line of business
Selected key figures [€ million]

2015

2014

absolute

%

1,928

1,952

–24

–1.2

43,323

44,414

–1,091

–2.5

476.1

487.2

–11.1

–2.3

Total revenues

7,751

7,894

–143

–1.8

External revenues

7,364

7,511

–147

–2.0

Rail concession fees

3,838

4,128

–290

–7.0

EBITDA adjusted

1,201

1,309

–108

– 8.3

Passengers (million)
Volume sold (million pkm)
Volume produced (million train-path km)

|

Change

EBIT adjusted

613

763

–150

–19.7

Gross capital expenditures

778

1,799

–1,021

– 56.8

27,680

27,888

–208

– 0.7

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

Performance in the rail line of business was shaped by
declining volume sold and declining volume produced. The
performance losses relate primarily to the regions Southwest, Southeast and North. The strikes also negatively
impacted performance. The number of passengers also fell.
Driven by the decline in performance, the expansion of
the long-distance bus market and the GDL strikes, revenues
and concession fees declined. Higher revenues from the
public transport network due to prices had a dampening
effect here.
Other operating income (+ 41.0%) increased significantly
as a result of higher compensation payments connected to
vehicle procurement.
The decline in energy expenses due to performance was
offset by higher sales commissions, higher expenses for the
use of infrastructure due to price increases, as well as higher
expenses for maintenance. This resulted in an increase in
the cost of materials (+1.0%).
Despite a reduction in the workforce, personnel expenses
(+ 0.2%) stayed at the same level as the previous year as a
result of the collective bargaining agreement.
Other operating expenses (+13.5%) also increased. driven
mainly by higher additions to provisions. By contrast, savings were realized in services obtained.
Depreciation increased (+7.7%) due to vehicle additions.
In total, increased expenses combined with flat overall
income resulted in a decline in adjusted EBITDA and ad­­
justed EBIT.
Gross capital expenditures declined significantly due to
major procurement agreements concluded in the previous
year.
The number of employees decreased slightly in comparison to December 31, 2014 due to performance losses.

133

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

Higher expenses for items such as sales commissions, the
use of infrastructure and maintenance in the rail line of
business and higher purchased transport services as a result
of the new long-distance bus concept led to a slight increase
in cost of materials (+ 0.7%). On the other hand, declining
energy costs had a dampening effect on this increase.
Personnel expenses (+1.1%) increased due to collective
bargaining agreements.
Other operating expenses (+14.2%) increased as a result
of recognition of higher provisions.
As a result of additions of vehicles, depreciation in­­
creased (+ 6.2%).
Overall, the profit situation developed negatively. Ad­­
justed EBITDA and adjusted EBIT fell noticeably.
Gross capital expenditures were significantly lower as a
result of the conclusion in the previous year of two extensive vehicle acquisition projects.
The number of employees
† Measures 2015
remained at the level of
μμIntroduction of Regional info
December 31, 2014. Perforapp for communicating news.
mance-related decreases
μμ“Train crew initiative! Focus
in the rail line of business
on the customer – back to the
heart of regional transport:” Develwere largely offset by peroping and implementing measures
formance-related growth
to retain train crew personnel.
in the bus division.
The follow-up workshop
implementation rate related to the 2014 employee survey
was at a very satisfactory level.
After steady increases in the share of women in recent
years, this figure remained stable compared to the previous
year, despite the increased focus on women in the recruitment process.
The health rate dropped due to above-average influenza
intensity and strikes.
Percentage of staffing needs covered was at a high level.
Final energy consumption
¥ Measures 2015
was further reduced in rail
μμIn the “EcoTrain” project we
transport by the utilization
are developing a productionof modern vehicles and
ready hybrid drive for diesel
energy-efficient driving
trains.
methods.
μμStandardized tire pressure levels
and automatic control systems for
In our bus services, we
new vehicles lower fuel consumption
still have not been able to
and CO ₂ emissions.
attain any major energy
savings compared to 2006
due to technical quality improvements and new findings in
diesel consumption.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

BUS LINE OF BUSINESS
Increasing competition and demographic change.
Optimizing the business portfolio is having a positive
effect.
Negative impact from increasing factor costs.

μμ
μμ
μμ

Æ †
Bus line of business
Selected key figures [€ million]
Passengers (million)
		 thereof long-distance bus

2015

2014

absolute

%

608.2

615.1

– 6.9

–1.1

0.7

0.6

+ 0.1

+16.7

Volume sold (million pkm)

7,037

7,069

–32

– 0.5

		 thereof long-distance bus

193.3

183.0

+10.3

+ 5.6

Volume produced (million bus km)

559.3

557.2

+2.1

+ 0.4

Total revenues

1,321

1,319

+2

+ 0.2

External revenues

1,203

1,211

–8

– 0.7

115

143

–28

–19.6

EBITDA adjusted
EBIT adjusted

Gross capital expenditures
|

Change

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

56

80

–24

–30.0

103

128

–25

–19.5

8,814

8,717

+ 97

+1.1

The development of volume in bus service was slightly below
the previous year due to declining passenger numbers and
lost tenders in local transport. In contrast, the development
of our long-distance bus lines had a positive impact. The
volume produced was at the previous yearʼs level.
Revenues remained at the previous yearʼs level. The slight
decline in external revenues, partly due to negative price
effects and effects from lower passenger numbers was offset mainly by higher revenues from rail substitute transport.
Other operating income (+16.1%) rose, partly due to
higher internal income.
The cost of materials (+ 1.1%) rose due mainly to higher
purchased services, especially for long-distance bus transport. This was offset by the decline in expenses for energy
due to falling diesel prices.
Personnel expenses (+ 5.2%) rose due to the higher num­
­ber of employees and as a result of the collective bargaining agreement.
Other operating expenses (+18.5%) rose, partly due to
higher internal expenses.
Depreciation (– 6.3%) decreased due to lower capital
expenditures and the number of vehicles reaching the end
of their useful life for accounting purposes.
As a result of increased production costs, adjusted
EBITDA and adjusted EBIT decreased.
Due to the extensive vehicle acquisitions in the previous
year for new services won, gross capital expenditures de­­
clined significantly.
The number of employees increased slightly as of Decem­
­­ber 31, 2015. The increase in employees with the introduction of new transport services exceeded the decline in
employees due to lost tenders.

μ μDB ARRIVA BUSINESS UNIT
μμBusiness model
DB Arriva is DB Group’s European growth platform in
passenger transport. With buses, trains, trams, water buses
and patient transport, we offer a broad range of transport
services in 14 European countries. The activities of DB Arriva
are divided into three lines of business: UK Bus, UK Trains
and Mainland Europe.
Customers are primarily regional and national authorities or other contracting organizations. Proximity to local
markets and the ability to adjust to complex legislative
environments and fulfill growing customer requirements
are of major importance for reaching our targets.
We are working together with our most important partners – our customers – to design efficient and sustainable
transport mobility solutions.
Revenues are generated primarily from orders for transport services, along with our own transport services. Contracting organizations especially appreciate our strengths
in the areas of efficiency, reliability, price-performance ratio
and customer service.
Contracts for ordered transport services can be designed
in different ways, ranging from gross contracts with fixed
revenues to contracts with revenue risk or bonus/penalty
rules relating to quality or passenger numbers. By contrast,
for transport services that we operate on our own, ticket
sales are the primary source of income.
For ordered transport services, vehicles are sometimes
provided by the contracting organization. Costs are therefore driven primarily by personnel and energy expenses.
∫

μμMarkets and strategy
DB Arriva is our European growth platform in passenger

transport offering transport services in 14 countries:
Æ
Activities of DB Arriva by country

134

Services offered

Croatia

bus

Czech Republic

bus/rail

Denmark

bus/rail/waterbus

Great Britain

bus/rail/patient transport

Hungary

bus

Italy

bus/waterbus/tram

The Netherlands

bus/rail/waterbus

Poland

bus/rail

Portugal

bus/rail/tram

Serbia

bus

Slovakia

bus

Slovenia

bus

Spain

bus

Sweden

bus/rail/tram

F5
P. 127
P. 136

The DB2020
strategy forms the foundation of DB Arriva’s
strategy. The refreshed Arriva strategy is based on the
slogan “Arriva for your whole journey” and focuses on four
key themes which are a strong foundation, growth through
a bigger and better Arriva, the best employees, being preferred by customers by providing the best mobility solutions.
ECONOMIC ≈ dimension: Profitable growth is only possible if we provide high-quality services and have satisfied customers. To achieve this, we are continuously
investing in new vehicles and improving our customer
information systems. In addition, we are introducing
new ticketing systems through mobile and online solutions. Our innovations in the British rail market received
in­­dustry awards and recognition for using the latest
advance booking and ticketing solutions – setting standards for quality and customer satisfaction. Profitable
growth is our basis for guaranteeing a stable and sustain-

ably successful business. We accomplish this primarily by
taking part in tenders for transport contracts and through
acquisitions. In the UK Bus line of business, we aim to
optimize existing business and expand the services
offered to customers. For example, our premium bus
service, Sapphire, posted strong growth and is expanded
further. In the UK Trains line of business, we want to
strength­­en and expand our existing transport contracts,
win additional contracts and grow our presence in the
open-access market. Across our Mainland Europe line of
business, we are growing with newly won transport contracts, focused acquisition activities and the expansion
of our existing business. The liberalization of the European transport markets is also creating opportunities,
especially in Central and Eastern Europe where we have
experienced further positive growth over the past 12
months.

μμ

D B A R R I VA BU S INE S S M O D EL
CUSTOMER SEGMENTS
RESOURCES/INPUTS

μμEmployees: around 46,500
μμVehicles: 718 multiple units, 25 loco-

Private customers
Contracting
organizations

μμ
μμ

VALUE PROPOSITIONS

CUSTOMER ACCESS/AFFILIATION

DB Arriva offers customer-

μμLocal sales points, travel centers, agencies, ticket

oriented, efficient and economically viable transport solutions

μμSubscriptions, apps

μμ

motives, 99 passenger cars,
16,252 buses (including external),
449 ambulances
Networks/infrastructure: around
48,000 bus stops (Great Britain), 342
operating train stations (Great Britain)
Production factors: 519 million l of diesel
fuel, 255 million kWh of electricity

machines, online, call center, on-board sales

OUTCOMES

μμEBIT adjusted: € 270 million
μμCustomer satisfaction: SI of 83
μμPunctuality: 92% (rail)
μμEmployee satisfaction: 3.7 (2014)
μμCO₂e emissions: –12.6% (rail) and

μμ
μμ

–17.5% (bus), compared to 2006 (specific)

SERVICES/OUTPUTS

μμPassengers: 1.6 billion
μμVolume sold:
9 billion pkm (rail)

μμVolume produced:
KEY ACTIVITIES

μμProvide train and bus services
μμLook after customers
μμProvide and maintain vehicles
μμOperation and optimization of local networks

135

0.1 billion train-path km (rail)
and 1 billion bus km (bus)

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμSOCIAL † dimension: Satisfied employees are an essen-

μμ

F5
P. 134
P. 136

tial component of our success. Our attractiveness as an
employer enables us to recruit and retain talented executives and outstanding specialists. As part of this commitment, in the year under review, we launched our new
employer brand, which is underpinned by the slogan
“Together – we are Arriva.” Our new DB Arriva-wide graduate scheme has brought more talented graduates into
the business and we have seen a continued increase in
the number of apprentices across the whole of DB Arriva.
ENVIRONMENTAL ¥ dimension: Through the launch of Destination Green, which sets out DB Arriva’s environmental
ambitions and informs employees on how they can reduce
their own environmental impact, DB Arriva has developed
an ambitious target to reduce CO₂ emissions across the
business by 30% by the year 2020.
	 Going beyond initiatives for environmentally friendly
methods of driving, in which we have equipped more than
9,000 of our buses with driver-assistance systems, we
will expand the use of the automatic fuel-saving ECONO SPEED Œ system developed by Zeta Automotive whose
majority shareholder is DB Arriva. DB Arriva also maintains various partnerships with leading bus manufacturers to further promote the use of alternative energy
sources and to continually improve our carbon footprint.
	
We have also implemented measures to reduce water
and energy consumption and waste. We have equipped
many of our sites with rainwater collection systems, solar
modules and wind turbines.

μμ

μμ
μμ

London and Edinburgh. Discussions on train-path utilization are currently under way with the Office of Rail
and Road (ORR) and Network Rail.
DB Arriva has also been offered a permit to operate its
own direct passenger service connecting Blackpool and
London on the West Coast main line. Plans are in development to launch the new service in 2018.
In September 2015, DB Arriva placed the first fully electric bus line (Route 312 between South Croydon and
Norwood Junction) into service.
Since 2007, local rail transport in London has been operated by a joint venture in which DB Arriva already holds
a stake.

EXPANDING THE EUROPEAN NETWORK
DB Arriva was awarded a transport contract by Limburg
province with a term of 15 years for bus and rail services.
Operations will begin in December 2016. The services
are closely linked with the neighboring German transport networks. However, the transport contract’s legal
validity depends on the conclusion of an ongoing appeal.
In September 2015, DB Arriva and DriveNow launched a
car-sharing service in Copenhagen/Denmark with 400
electric cars.
During the year under review, 50 new buses were placed
into service as part DB Arriva’s two new joint venture
contracts in Budapest/Hungary. Further buses will be
delivered during 2016.
In both Italy and Slovakia DB Arriva re-won bus contracts.

F5

μμEvents in 2015

INVESTMENTS

F5

EXPANDING THE BRITISH NET WORK
DB Arriva has won the Northern Rail tender in Great
Britain. The contract covers an extensive network in
Northern England with annual operating capacity of
around 60 million train kilometers. The contract is for a
nine-year term with the option of a one-year extension
and begins on April 1, 2016. Winning the Northern Rail
tender increases DB Arriva’s share of the British rail
transport market from 14% to 22%.
DB Arriva has announced various plans for new open
access projects in Great Britain. These proposed projects include a direct express line on the East Coast main
line between London Kings Cross and West Yorkshire/
Lincolnshire, as well as a Pendolino HGV line between

μμIn June 2015, DB Arriva acquired 100% of the shares of

μμ

P. 136
P. 136

μμ
μμ

μμ

GOTFRI spol s.r.o. in Bratislava/Slovakia. The group of

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

136

companies has been included in the DB consolidated
financial statements since July 1, 2015.
In July 2015, DB Arriva acquired 100% of the shares of
BUS PARTNERS SERVICES s.r.o. in Bratislava/Slovakia.
The group of companies has been included in the DB
consolidated financial statements since August 1, 2015.
In November 2015, DB Arriva acquired 97.87% of the
shares of Alpetour Potovalna agencija, d.d., in Kranj/
Slovenia. The group has been included in the DB consolidated financial statements since November 1, 2015.
In December 2015, DB Arriva acquired the remaining 51%
of the outstanding shares of KM S.P.A. (KM) in Verona/
Italy. Since December 1, 2015, the company has been
included in the DB consolidated financial statements as
a fully consolidated company (it was previously reported
at equity).

P. 136
P. 141

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

During the year under review, customer satisfaction in­­­
creased slightly due to positive effects from improved
punctuality in the UK Trains line of business.
There was a slight decrease in the total number of passengers, mainly because of the trend in bus services in
London. This was partly offset by the overwhelmingly positive developments in the Mainland Europe and UK Trains
lines of business.
The trend in the rail transport volume sold reflected the
positive development in Sweden and Great Britain.
The increase in revenues is primarily attributable to the
new transport services launched in the Netherlands, the
acquisitions in Slovakia and Slovenia, and positive exchange
rate effects. These were partly offset, among other things,
by portfolio changes in the UK Bus business line due to performance losses, and the sale of TOT as of September 2014.
The cost of materials declined (–3.6%), mainly due to
lower fuel costs and lower train-path utilization costs at UK
Trains, which nevertheless were accompanied by higher
franchise payments. On the other hand, this led to a signifi­
­cant rise in other operating expenses (+27.4%).
Personnel expenses (+ 8.2%) increased substantially,
mainly because of exchange rate effects and an increase in
the number of employees due to acquisitions and the introduction of new services in the Netherlands. This was partly
offset by positive effects from pension adjustments.

μμPositive effects of the full-year inclusion of transport of
transport services in the Netherlands which commenced
in December 2014 – along with acquisitions in Slovakia
and Slovenia.
Negative effects of portfolio changes in the UK Bus line
of business (effects of the loss of London contracts and
the sale of TOT.
Positive exchange rate effects.
Punctuality in rail transport (Great Britain, Denmark, Swe­
­den, the Netherlands and Poland) increased significantly
during the year under review, primarily as a result of the
absence of weath­­er-related
¿ Measures 2015
disturbances.
μμFirst city-car concept inte‡ The customer satis­
grated with public transport
­­faction index for DB Arriva
in a metropolitan area.
is based on annual surveys
μμChiltern Railways launched
in the UK Bus and UK Trains
new service for Oxford to London –
the first new rail link between a
lines of business which re­­­
major British city and London in
ached out to around 4,000
over 100 years.
customers during the year
μμFleet continues to expand.
under review. The custo­
μμCrossCountry awarded prize for
Best Mobile Technology for its
­mer satisfaction statistics
online rail journey planner and
compiled by the contract­
retailing system.
­ing organizations are an
μμChiltern Railways awarded Best
important factor for our
Train Operator award at the global
Independent Travel Awards.
success.

μμ
μμ

GRI
G4-PR5

≈ † ¥

√
Change

DB Arriva

2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

92.1

91.4

–

–

91.7

83

82

–

–

83

Passengers (million)

1,633

1,647

–14

– 0.9

1,632

Volume sold rail (million pkm)

8,309

Punctuality (rail)

(%)

Customer satisfaction in bus and rail in Great Britain

(SI)

8,980

8,638

+342

+ 4.0

Volume produced (million train-path km)

132.7

131.6

+1.1

+ 0.8

133.9

Volume produced (million bus km)

1,024

1,003

+21

+2.1

975.2

Total revenues (€ million)

4,843

4,491

+352

+7.8

4,180

4,836

4,485

+351

+7.8

4,175

EBITDA adjusted (€ million)

525

498

+27

+ 5.4

467

EBIT adjusted (€ million)

270

265

+5

+1.9

245

Gross capital expenditures (€ million)

276

296

–20

– 6.8

275

46,484

45,712

+772

+1.7

46,718
–

(€ million)

External revenues

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)
Employee satisfaction

– index

Employee satisfaction

– follow-up workshop implementation rate (%)

Non-attendance

(%)

Employee turnover

(%)

Specific CO ₂e emissions (rail) compared to 2006 (related to rail car units)
Specific CO ₂e emissions (bus) compared to 2006

(%)

(related to bus km) (%)

137

–

3.7

–

–

88.8

–

–

–

–

5.1

4.9

–

–

4.5

6.8

6.2

–

–

6.4

–12.6

–10.1

–

–

– 9.6

–17.5

–14.9

–

–

–12.8

GRI
G4-PR5

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμDevelopment in the year under review

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

The adjusted profit figures EBITDA and EBIT increased.
Adjusted for exchange rate effects, adjusted EBIT was
slightly negative, mainly
¿ Measures 2015
due to costs incurred for
μμIntroduction of “Arriva Jobs,”
tenders in the UK trains
the central job portal
business line.
where all job vacancies are
Depreciation increased
an­­nounced. This measure
satisfies employees’ requests for
due to the extensive capgreater transparency about opporital expenditures during
tunities within DB Arriva and
the previous year and the
reflects our slogan: “Together we
acquisitions (+ 9.4%).
are Arriva.”
During the year under
review, gross capital expenditures declined due to the high
level of capital expenditures for new services during the
previous year.
The number of employees increased due mainly to acqui­
­sitions in the year under review. The loss of bus services in
London had the opposite effect.
The implementation rate of follow-up workshops as part
of the 2014 employee survey was at a good level.
Non-attendance slightly increased from the previous
year. At the companies with higher non-attendance figures,
countermeasures have been introduced and developments
will continue to be monitored.
Employee turnover increased in the year under review
due to the continued recovery of the British job market.
During the year under review, DB Arriva reduced its
emissions of CO₂. In addition to CO₂ emissions, CO₂ equivalents also include other
¥ Measures 2015
gases that are harmful to
μμFirst CO₂-free bus line with
the environment. Energyrenewable energy in the
saving measures, such as
Netherlands.
EconoSpeed and the in­­
μμEconoSpeed introduced in the
creasing use of hybrid and
entire British bus fleet and rolled
out in several other countries.
electric vehicles are at the
μμOther electric vehicles.
forefront of our drive to
reduce emissions.
UK BUS LINE OF BUSINESS
Negative effects from the sale of TOT.
Persistently high level of competitive pressure in the
London market has resulted in some contract losses.
However, in 2015, for the first time in three years, a trans­
­port contract in London was won.

Æ †
UK Bus line of business

selected key figures [€ million]

2015

2014

absolute

%

700.3

765.8

– 65.5

– 8.6

Volume produced (million bus km)

375.5

396.3

–20.8

– 5.2

Total revenues

1,346

1,311

+35

+2.7

External revenues

1,336

1,298

+38

+2.9

EBITDA adjusted

242

212

+30

+14.2

EBIT adjusted

151

127

+24

+18.9

Passengers (million)

Gross capital expenditures
|

Change

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

106

97

+9

+ 9.3

16,736

17,188

– 452

–2.6

Because of the loss of some lines in London, the number of
passengers and the volume sold decreased during the year
under review.
As a result of positive exchange rate effects, an increase
in revenues was recorded. Adjusted for exchange rate effects,
revenues were lower than in the previous year due to performance and the sale of TOT in September 2014.
Cost of materials decreased (– 8.7%) due to lower performance and lower energy prices.
Because of exchange rate effects, personnel expenses
remained at the previous year level (– 0.3%). Adjusted for
ex­­change rate effects, personnel expenses were considerably lower due to the lower headcount caused by the
decline in performance and a one-off effect due to pension
adjustments.
In particular, the one-off effect on personnel expenses
led to an increase in adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBIT.
Adjusted for exchange rate effects, gross capital expenditures were at the same level as in the previous year.
As of December 31, 2015, the number of employees was
lower, primarily because of the loss of lines in London.
UK TR AINS LINE OF BUSINESS

μμExpansion of services at Grand Central.
μμBurdens caused by tendering expenses.
Æ †
UK Trains line of business

selected key figures [€ million]

μμ
μμ

2015

2014

absolute

%

Passengers (million)

132.7

128.7

+ 4.0

+3.1

Volume sold (million pkm)

6,607

6,428

+179

+2.8

77.8

76.9

+ 0.9

+1.2

Total revenues

1,698

1,488

+210

+14.1

External revenues

Volume produced (million train-path km)

|

Change

1,666

1,460

+206

+14.1

EBITDA adjusted

71

67

+4

+ 6.0

EBIT adjusted

42

42

–

–

Gross capital expenditures

22

14

+8

+ 57.1

5,729

5,538

+191

+3.4

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

The performance trend was positive due to increases at
CrossCountry and Grand Central and a stable performance

138

at Arriva Trains Wales. The development of volume produced
was also positive, but was reduced by poor weather conditions, which resulted in temporary route closures.
Revenues development was very positive, in particular
because of exchange rates. Moreover, higher support payments for the CrossCountry franchise and growth at Chiltern and Grand Central had a positive effect. The higher
support payments were combined with opposing increases
in ex­­penditures.
Cost of materials (–3.6%) was adversely affected by ex­­
change rate effects and positively affected by lower energy
prices and lower train-path utilization costs. However, the
lower train-path utilization costs were offset by accompanying lower support payments and/or higher franchise payments (other operating expenses).
Personnel expenses (+19.4%) rose due to exchange rate
effects, a higher number of employees and increased pension expenses.
Adjusted EBITDA improved. Depreciation increased due
to exchange rate effects. Adjusted EBIT remained flat. This
also reflected the tendering expenses.
Year-on-year gross capital expenditures were higher due
to vehicle modernization projects and mobile ticket vending
machines.
The number of employees increased slightly over the
previous year-end figure due to new hires in the operations
area.
MAINLAND EUROPE LINE OF BUSINESS
Positive effects from transport services introduced in
the Netherlands in December 2014.
Positive effects from acquisitions in Slovakia and Slovenia.

Accordingly, the overall revenues development was also
positive. This performance was driven by the new services
introduced in the Netherlands in December 2014 and the
acquisitions in Slovakia and Slovenia.
Cost of materials decreased (– 4.2%), in particular as a
result of lower diesel prices and lower purchased transport
services. This was offset by the effects of the expanded
services.
Personnel expenses (+7.5%) rose due to new transport
contracts in the Netherlands and to acquisitions.
Overall, the adjusted profit figures improved, reflecting
the increase in revenues. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted
EBIT each increased significantly.
Gross capital expenditures fell year-on-year. This decline
was due to capital expenditures for new transport services
made in the previous year.
The increase in the number of employees was also mainly
driven by acquisitions.
Æ	
External revenues by countries [%]
The Netherlands
21.5
Denmark

19.2

Sweden

18.2

Italy

Czech Republic

μμ

Spain

2014

Poland

absolute

%

Passengers rail (million)

103.5

94.7

+ 8.8

+ 9.3

Passengers bus (million)

696.8

658.2

+38.6

+ 5.9

Volume sold rail (million pkm)

2,374

2,210

+164

+7.4

Volume produced (million train-path km)

54.9

54.7

+ 0.2

+ 0.4

Volume produced (million bus km)

648.7

606.8

+ 41.9

+ 6.9

Total revenues

1,902

1,794

+108

+ 6.0

External revenues

1,837

1,729

+108

+ 6.2

290

241

+ 49

+20.3

EBITDA adjusted

|

2015

EBIT adjusted

153

117

+36

+30.8

Gross capital expenditures

138

182

– 44

–24.2

23,774

22,758

+1,016

+ 4.5

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

Performance in bus service was positive thanks to the firsttime, full-year inclusion of transport services in the Netherlands and the acquisitions.

Slovakia

7.6

8.2

3.3
3.7
4.0
3.4

Other

2015

20.0

4.7
5.0

Æ †
Change

21.1

10.7
10.9

μμ

Mainland Europe line of business
selected key figures [€ million]

25.8

6.5
6.2
2014

The development of external revenues was influenced measurably by the first full year of including the transport services in the Netherlands begun in the previous year and the
companies acquired in the year under review. Accordingly,
the share of revenues generated in the Netherlands, Slovakia and Slovenia increased noticeably in some cases. At
the same time, the share of sales generated in Denmark
and Sweden declined as revenues were down.

139

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμFreight transport and logistics
μ μDB CARGO BUSINESS UNIT
μμBusiness model
With around 4,200 customer sidings in Europe, DB Cargo
provides its customers with access to one of the biggest rail
networks in the world and as such is the number one in
European rail freight transport. The international network
stretches along the huge European freight transport corridor. This means that rail transport is offered across Europe
in the product areas of block trains, single wagons and
combined transport. Individual industry solutions complete
the range of services offered. Production is largely carried
out with our own fleet. The key industries served are the iron,
coal and steel (montan) industries, chemical, automotive,

and construction materials industries, heavy industry and
con­­sumer goods, as well as intermodal transport. The customer structure is characterized by major customers.
The premiere key performance indicator here is volume
sold. The relevant capacity utilization figure is measured in
tons per train. The cost structure is mainly influenced by
volume produced. The most important source of revenue is
transporting goods by rail.
∫ The business model of DB Cargo is undergoing adjustment as part of the R AILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] program. The production system is being simplified, reducing
vulnerability to disruptions and increasing production
stability. For long-term predictable transport services, DB
Cargo is introducing a stable network of quality service with
an annual timetable and specified frequencies. By contrast,

D B C A RG O BU S INE S S M O D EL
CUSTOMER SEGMENTS

CUSTOMER ACCESS/AFFILIATION

μμBusiness customers with a focus on

μμIndustrial sales and distribution with key

automotive, construction materials,
chemical, industrial goods, intermodal, consumer goods and iron,
coal and steel (montan)

VALUE PROPOSITIONS

μμDB Cargo provides customeroriented, reliable and efficient
transport solutions across Europe

account management

μμRegional sales and distribution
μμTelephone sales and distribution
μμCustomer service center

RESOURCES/INPUTS
OUTCOMES

μμEmployees: more than 30,000
μμVehicles: 2,900 locomotives, 87,000 wagons
μμInfrastructure/networks: sites in 15 European

μμEBIT adjusted: € –183 million
μμCustomer satisfaction: SI of 64
μμPunctuality: 74%
μμEmployee satisfaction: 3.5 (2014)
μμFinal energy consumption: –16.8%

countries, 4,200 customer sidings, ten marshaling yards and 23 maintenance facilities
Production factors: 2.6 billion kWh traction
current, 196 million l of diesel fuel

μμ

compared to 2006 (specific)

SERVICES/OUTPUTS

μμFreight carried: 300 million t
μμVolume sold: 98 billion tkm
KEY ACTIVITIES

μμOperating trains
μμDesign European transport solutions
μμProvide and maintain vehicles
μμPlan and operate networks
μμProvide additional logistics services

14 0

F2
P. 092
P. 141

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D eve l opment of business units

P. 092
P. 141

F5
P. 136
P. 141

short-term transport services are assured by a review of all
the necessary resources and a specific production concept
before ac­­cepting orders.
The creation of continuous responsibilities in the corridors is intended to enable management of transport services
from a single source in the future. The more flexible working
conditions for drivers also ensure more efficient processes.
The operational concepts for local transport are organized
with a view to high resource utilization. ∫ Sales are rigorously focused on customer needs and streamlined. In addition, the creation of a modern sales and yield management
system and the expansion of the European network are being
further developed to take advantage of the growth potential on international corridors as part of a network alliance.
The key resources of DB Cargo are close customer loyalty, a high level of customer understanding, motivated and
well-trained employees along with efficient use of rolling
stock and a premium quality infrastructure. The internal
DB Group infrastructure companies and service providers
are important partners.

­port solutions and modernizing our fleet for this purpose. By 2020, we aim to have fitted our entire German
fleet of freight cars with QUIET BR AKE SHOES [PAGE 1 20] . At
the same time, we are committed to climate protection
and air quality control. By 2020, we want to have
reduced our specific final energy consumption by 21%
compared with 2006. New shunting locomotives are
fitted with soot particle filters and we are also urging
the use of hybrid technology. We also underscore our
position as an eco-pioneer by providing carbon-free
offers such as Eco Plus.

μμEvents in 2015
ACTION PLAN FOR GERMANY PLU S
WITH POSITIVE EFFECTS
The action plan for Germany implemented in 2012 has been
further developed in order to respond to the challenges in
Germany, and to ensure overall financial sustainability.
Efficiency and profits are optimized using various levers
within the action plan for Germanyplus. In addition to structural activities on the production side and measures with a
keener focus on the market and customers, attention has
been paid to process improvements in the use of resources
and the provision of services. The purpose of all these measures is to increase efficiency and improve the quality at
the same time.
In the year under review, the focus was on the sustainable optimization of our fleet management and maintenance and, in particular, on the continued development of
operational processes. We are also currently driving noticeable short-term optimizations to regional infrastructure
systems and long-term structural measures for the German
transport network of DB Cargo.
∫ We intend to consolidate and expand the effects of
the action plan for Germanyplus. Starting in 2017, selected
conceptual topics will be continued within the R AILWAY OF
THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] program.

μμMarkets and strategy
We are constantly expanding the close-knit international
network with subsidiaries in 15 European countries. This
makes DB Cargo the leading company in European rail freight
transport.
ECONOMIC ≈ dimension: We want to strengthen our position as market leader with a strong European network.
The new direction of the business model is aimed at sta­
­bilizing production quality and increasing organizational
efficiency. The focus is on creating competitive cost
structures and keeping the customer promise. Profitabil­
­­ity must be increased.
SOCIAL † dimension: In the year 2020, we want to be a
top employer in rail freight transport with a common
European corporate culture. Employee satisfaction should
be increased. In addition to the follow-up workshops to
the employee survey, we have also, among other things,
initiated the “Step by Step” initiative for this. We want
to expand our network with a strong international team,
and have launched various programs for this purpose.
A large number of measures have been implemented in
the health management area and regional working time
models have been developed further in order to in­crease
demographic preparedness.
ENVIRONMENTAL ¥ dimension: We want to reinforce rail
freight transport as being an environmentally friendly
means of transport. We are developing sustainable trans­

μμ

μμ

NEW EURO HUB IN BARKING
The development of the Barking Euro hub near London will
create a multimodal center for the import and export of
finished vehicles on a 34-hectare site. The hub provides a
direct connection with the high-speed rail link to the
Channel Tunnel and to the road network, making it the only
facility of its kind that is linked to the Eurotunnel by rail.
Customers will have the opportunity to load and unload

μμ

14 1

GRI
DB 04

F2
P. 140
P. 169

GRI
DB 03

F5
P. 141
P. 142

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

F2

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

their vehicles, store them, and to prepare and transship
them. Modern supply chain solutions ensure that transshipment times for customers are reduced to a minimum.
F5
P. 141
P. 142

EXPANSION OF INTERMODAL TR ANSPORT
We launched a new intermodal connection between Nuremberg and Ruse/Bulgaria in the year under review. In addition,
a terminal for COMBINED TR ANSPORT IN BURGHAUSEN [PAGE 093]
was put into operation at the beginning of the year under
review. This terminal connects the companies of the Bavarian
chemical triangle via road and rail transport networks to
the global logistics network.
INVESTMENTS

μμIn May 2015, we sold 13.94% of the shares of PCC Intermodal S.A. PCC Intermodal has not been included in the
DB consolidated financial statements since June 2015.
F5
P. 142
P. 147

OTHER EVENTS

μμDB Cargo defends its transport contract with the Royal
μμ

Mail. The minimum term is three years.
A contract with SBB Cargo gives DB Cargo a relevant
competitive advantage in Alpine transit even before the
opening of the Gotthard tunnel in 2016.

μμDevelopment in the year under review
μμ Negative impact of GDL strikes and quality problems.
μμA challenging economic and geopolitical environment.
μμPressures on price and from competitors have further
increased on both an intermodal and an intramodal basis.
Year on year, a slight increase of punctuality was recorded
due to operational improvements in Germany and at the
major foreign companies.
‡ DB Cargo conducts
¿ Measures 2015
a customer satisfaction sur­
μμAnother step towards
­vey every two years. Near­
network rail.
­ly 1,200 customers took
μμmyRailportal continues to
part in the survey in the
develop online channels.
year under review. Over­­all
μμIntroduction of the integrated
scheduler in combined train
customer satisfaction in rail
transport.
freight transport increased
slightly. Major drivers were
the significant turnaround in Great Britain and very positive
feedback from customers in Poland and South-East Europe.
The market situation in Europe remained challenging
for rail freight transport during the year under review. In
addition, the GDL STRIKES [PAGE 114 F.], the increasingly intense
competitive environment and geopolitical uncertainties

≈†¥

√
Change

DB Cargo

2015

2014

73.9

68.0

64

–

Freight carried (million t)

300.2

329.1

Volume sold (million tkm)

98,445
23.2

Volume produced (million train-path km)

187.0

Capacity utilization (t per train)
Total revenues (€ million)

Punctuality

1) (%)

Customer satisfaction

1) (SI)

Market share in Europe

External revenues

(%)

(€ million)

EBITDA adjusted (€ million)
EBIT adjusted (€ million)
EBIT margin (adjusted)

(%)

Gross capital expenditures (€ million)
Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)
Employee satisfaction

– index

Employee satisfaction

– follow-up workshop implementation rate (%)

Share of women in Germany
Health rate in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

(%)

Percentage of staffing needs covered in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

Specific final energy consumption compared to 2006
Freight cars refitted with whisper brakes in total
1)

Change in method from 2015 onward.

2)

2013 rounded.

(related to pkm) (%)

2) as of Dec 31

14 2

absolute

%

2013

–

–

67.0

–

–

63

–28.9

– 8.8

390.1

102,871

– 4,426

– 4.3

104,259

24.3

–

–

25.1

193.2

– 6.2

–3.2

196.0

526.5

532.5

– 6.0

–1.1

531.9

4,767

4,863

– 96

–2.0

4,843

4,417

4,517

–100

–2.2

4,495

120

343

–223

– 65.0

352

–183

46

–229

–

57

–3.8

0.9

–

–

1.2

451

195

+256

+131

182

30,303

30,842

– 539

–1.7

30,925

–

3.5

–

–

–

99.0

–

–

–

97.5

11.4

11.2

–

–

11.1

92.9

93.3

–

–

93.3

97.7

–

–

–

–

–16.8

–16.8

–

–

–14.3

12,703

6,665

+ 6,038

+ 90.6

650

GRI
G4-PR5

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D eve l opment of business units

Percentage of staffing needs covered was at a high level in
the year under review.
Final energy consumption remained at the same level
compared to 2006. The re­­
¥ Measures 2015
fitting of freight cars with
μ
μConversion target for whisper
whisper brakes was contin­
brakes achieved for 2015.
­ued, putting the com­­bined
μμTo reduce diesel consumpnumber of new quiet freight
tion, we equipped 230
shunting locomotives with an
cars at around 20,800.
automatic start-stop system.

REGION CENTR AL

μμGDL strikes with additional after-effects and quality
problems.

μμIncreased competition resulting from lower diesel prices
μμ

and reductions in truck tolls.
Difficult geopolitical environment.

Æ†
Region Central
Selected key figures [€ million]

|

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

Freight carried (million t)

250.6

259.3

– 8.7

–3.4

Volume sold (million tkm)

– 4.2

77,885

81,342

–3,457

Volume produced (million train-path km)

145.6

152.1

– 6.5

– 4.3

Total revenues

4,660

4,699

–39

– 0.8

External revenues

3,443

3,536

– 93

–2.6

EBITDA adjusted

151

252

–101

– 40.1

EBIT adjusted

–76

31

–107

–

Gross capital expenditures

141

121

+20

+16.5

19,637

19,916

–279

–1.4

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

The volume of freight carried and volume sold were lower
in region Central in the year under review. This was a result
of the GDL STRIKES [PAGE 11 4 F.], an increasingly intense competitive environment, and geopolitical uncertainties. The
intermodal competitive pressure also increased due to
reduced costs for road transport and inland waterway
transport resulting from the significant drop in diesel prices.
Against the backdrop of these developments, the volume
produced also declined. Counteractive measures were used
to broadly stabilize capacity utilization, despite lower trans­
­port volume.
Due to the development of volume, revenues also de­­
clined, notwithstanding a slightly positive price trend.
Other operating income (–15.0%) declined as a result
of lower income from the sale and recovery of locomotives
and freight cars.

14 3

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

had a negative impact on development. Transport services
won in the European network only partially offset the negative effects.
Within this context, DB Cargo reported a downturn in
the volume of freight carried, the volume sold and the vol­
­ume produced. Capacity utilization decreased despite measures implemented to increase efficiency.
As a consequence of performance, revenues also de­
clined. Positive factors were exchange rate effects and the
development of the region East and additional busi­­ness in
the European network, including in Spain.
Other operating income (–20.7%) declined, partly due to
lower income from scrap proceeds and the sale of vehicles.
Cost of materials (–2.3%) declined as a result of performance. This was demonstrated in part by lower ex­­­penses
for purchased transport services and lower energy ex­­pens­­es.
Lower diesel prices were also a factor of influence.
Despite a smaller workforce, personnel expenses (+ 6.2%)
increased as compared with the previous year due to collective bargaining agreements and exchange rates.
The other operating expenses (+ 5.2%) increased mainly
due to exchange rates and to higher expenses for IT projects.
Declining income and additional burdens on the expense
side overall (particularly personnel expenses) resulted in a
significant reduction in the EBITDA and EBIT operating
profit figures, as well as a declining EBIT margin.
Gross capital expenditures
† Measures 2015
were mainly influenced by
μμIntroduction of the PeopleDB Cargo UKʼs assumption
Soft International HR system
of ownership of locomoto ensure a uniform working
tives which had previously
and process environment.
been leased.
μμStandardization of processes and
procedures for third-country
The number of em­­
shipments.
ployees as of Decem­­ber
31, 2015 was below the previous yearʼs level due in part to turnover and to internal
DB Group personnel changes.
The follow-up workshop implementation rate as part
of the 2014 employee survey was at a good level.
The share of women increased slightly as a result of
targeted measures.
The health rate dropped due to above-average influenza
intensity and strikes.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Cost of materials remained at the previous yearʼs level
(– 0.2%). Higher purchased transport services were offset
by lower expenditures for the use of local facilities and the
decline in energy expenses due to performance.
Despite a decline in the number of employees, personnel
expenses (+ 0.6%) increased mainly as a result of collective
wage increases.
As a result of the completion of facilities in the year under
review, such as the installation of the ETCS, depreciation
(+2.7%) was above the previous yearʼs level.
Other operating expenses (+3.6%) increased, due in part
to higher expenses for vehicle rentals and IT services related
to LOGISTICS 4.0 [PAGE 071 F.].
The difficult development with revenue losses and higher
expenditures resulted in a significant decline in profit in the
region Central in the year under review. Adjusted EBITDA and
adjusted EBIT decreased.
Gross capital expenditures were significantly higher year
on year. This was primarily due to capital expenditures for
the modernization of the freight car fleet (especially doublepocket cars for combined transport) and from the refitting
of locomotives to the ETCS.
The number of employees was below the level at the end
of the previous year, due in part to turnover.
REGION WEST
Drop in coal and steel transport in Great Britain.
Offsetting effects of exchange rates.
High capital expenditures for vehicle acquisitions.

μμ
μμ
μμ

REGION EAST

μμPositive development especially in South-East Europe.
μμPortfolio measures as a reaction to the market environ-

Æ†
Region West
Selected key figures [€ million]

|

ment.

Change
2015

2014 Absolute

Freight carried (million t)

77.3

94.0

–16.7

Volume sold (million tkm)

%
–17.8

16,034

17,349

–1,315

–7.6

Volume produced (million train-path km)

33.3

33.8

– 0.5

–1.5

Total revenues

914

921

–7

– 0.8

External revenues

789

799

–10

–1.3

32

124

– 92

–74.2

EBIT adjusted

–31

66

– 97

–

Gross capital expenditures

272

37

+235

–

5,355

5,613

–258

– 4.6

EBITDA adjusted

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

In revenues development, the negative volume performance
in Great Britain could not be compensated by exchange
rate effects and the positive impact of new transport services in Spain. Overall, a slight decline was recorded.
Other operating income (–1.2%) was slightly below the
previous yearʼs level.
Exchange rate effects had a negative impact on expense
development. Higher expenses of purchased transport services and maintenance also resulted in increased cost of
materials (+2.6%). Train-path utilization and energy expenditures moved in the opposite direction as a result of the
decline in volume development. Lower diesel prices also had
an effect. Despite a reduction in the workforce, personnel
expenses (+25.6%) increased significantly due to pension
adjustments in the previous year, collective bargaining
agreements and exchange rate effects.
Depreciation (+ 8.6%) rose as a result of higher capital
expenditures activities.
The decline in revenues coupled with an increase in ex­­
penses resulted in a significant decline in adjusted EBITDA
and adjusted EBIT.
Gross capital expenditures were significantly higher
year on year. This resulted primarily from the acquisition of
locomotives from an existing lease in Great Britain.
The number of employees was lower than the previous
year, due mainly to adjustments in Great Britain.

Performance development in region West was weak. The
volume of freight carried, the volume sold as well as the
volume produced recorded considerable losses in some
cases. This was mainly due to lower coal and steel transport
in Great Britain. In addition to a statutory change (CO₂ tax­
­ation) the development of coal transport services resulted
primarily from lower gas prices, leading to combined-cycle
power plants switching from coal operation to gas firing.
Positive impetus came from France.

μμDifficult geopolitical environment.
Æ†
Region East
Selected key figures[€ million]

2015

2014

absolute

%

Freight carried (million t)

16.6

15.9

+ 0.7

+ 4.4

Volume sold (million tkm)

4,526

4,181

+345

+ 8.3

8.1

7.3

+ 0.8

+11.0

Total revenues

266

250

+16

+ 6.4

External revenues

185

183

+2

+1.1

29

26

+3

+11.5
+ 87.5

Volume produced (million train-path km)

EBITDA adjusted

|

14 4

Change

EBIT adjusted

15

8

+7

Gross capital expenditures

37

37

–

–

4,176

4,246

–70

–1.6

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D eve l opment of business units

μ μDB SCHENKER BUSINESS UNIT
μμBusiness model
DB Schenker serves established markets and emerging

national economies with a global network as an integrated
transport and logistics service provider. In land transport,
the dense network combines the most important economic
regions in Europe. Services include time and cost-optimized
services for general cargo, partial and full load transport
along with door-to-door solutions across Europe. As a global
leader in air and ocean freight, DB Schenker offers the entire
range of services in this segment. In contract logistics, the
services offered cover all stages of the value chain from the
supplier to the producer/trade, to the end customer and
spare parts service. The core area of expertise is the planning and handling of complex global supply chains.

DB Schenker has a global customer base in a wide range of

industries and a focus on industrial customers. The verticalmarket approach pursues the target of developing industryspecific solutions. As a global accounts, major customers
are provided with tailored solutions.
In air and ocean freight, we act solely as freight forwarder
without our own aircraft and ships. In parts of land transport,
we use our own vehicles and containers. Transshipment
terminals and warehouses are generally our own property
or are leased over the longer term.
Motivated and well-trained employees are key resources
for a service provider. Close customer relationships and
industrial expertise are highly important. Efficient IT is also
essential for high product and service quality.
In addition to airlines and shipping companies in air and
ocean freight, our major partners include land transport subcontractors for the supply of transport services.
Measurement of performance depends on the line of
business: for European land transport, the number of shipments is the key indicator; for air freight, it is the freight
carried measured in tons, while in ocean freight, it is the
freight volume measured in TEU. There is no comparable
volume measured in the contract logistics segment. Market
comparisons are usually performed here on the basis of
revenues. DB Schenker has a relatively low capital intensity
and real net output ratio. About 70% of revenues in the
transport business line come from procured intermediate
input services. Therefore, optimizing these purchase relationships and balancing various influential success factors
such as transport relations, volume, weight and mode of
transport represent an important factor for success and are
value drivers. The same applies to managing fluctuations
in freight rates and the specific surcharges to these freight
rates. In particular, an efficient use of personnel resources,
that proves to be effective, is a key driver below gross profit.
This is of particular importance in contract logistics. Here,
expertise and experience relevant to the industry are an
essential success factor in the optimal design of intra-company logistics processes. Effective IT support is also especially important.
The most important sources of revenues are transport
and logistics services, including added value services such
as assembly of modules or assemblies in the automobile
industry or putting together special sales packaging for the
retail sector.

14 5

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

The volume of freight carried as well as volume sold and
volume produced increased significantly. This was due
mainly to higher volumes in the intermodal and automotive
area as well as the positive development in South-East
Europe.
Accordingly, revenue development was also positive.
Losses in important East-West transport services due to the
Ukraine crisis had a dampening effect.
Other operating income (– 5.9%) fell, mainly as a result of
lower effects from the sale of property, plant and equipment.
Cost of materials remained at the previous yearʼs level.
Lower energy expenses due to lower diesel prices and de­
clin­ing maintenance expenses were offset by an in­­crease in
purchased transport services.
Despite a reduction in the workforce, personnel expenses
(+3.2%) increased as a result of the tarif effects.
Other operating expenses (+ 9.3%) also increased. This
was primarily due to higher operating lease expenses in
Romania.
As a result of restructuring measures and the related
dis­­posal of property, plant and equipment at the end of the
previous year in Poland, depreciation (–17.6%) decreased
significantly.
Based on the positive revenues development, adjusted
EBIT and EBITDA also improved.
Gross capital expenditures were at the same level as in
the previous year. Due to higher investment grants from the
EU, especially for our business in Poland, net capital expenditures fell.
The number of employees declined due in particular to
optimization measures in Poland. This was offset by the
business expansion in South-East Europe.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

D B S CHENK ER BU S INE S S M O D EL
CUSTOMER SEGMENTS

VALUE PROPOSITIONS

μμBusiness customers with focus on

μμDB Schenker offers customer-focused,

automotive, chemicals, consumer,
electronics, healthcare, industrials,
retail and semiconductors/solar

reliable and environmentally friendly
integrated global transport and warehouse solutions

CUSTOMER ACCESS/AFFILIATION

μμOffices with traditional sales
μμKey account management
μμE-services

RESOURCES/INPUTS

OUTCOMES

μμEmployees: around 66,000
μμVehicles: around 29,000 trucks (including external)
μμInfrastructure/networks: more than 2,000 sites in

μμEBIT adjusted: € 395 million
μμCustomer satisfaction: SI of 71
μμEmployee satisfaction: 3.9 (2014)
μμCO₂ emissions: – 50.3% (ocean freight),

over 130 countries, thereof 730 offices in European
land transport and 800 offices worldwide in air/
ocean freight, 7.7 million m² of warehouse surface
area in contract logistics globally

–2.9% (air freight) and –20.1%
(European land transport) compared
to 2006 (specific)

SERVICES/OUTPUTS

μμShipments in European land transport:
102 million

μμAir freight volume (export): 1 million t
μμOcean freight volume (export):
2 million TEU

KEY ACTIVITIES

μμPlan and operate global networks
μμImplement/organize transport and
warehousing services

μμPurchase freight capacity
μμProvide additional logistics services

μμMarkets and strategy
DB Schenker holds a leading market position in every market

segment – European land transport, global air and ocean
freight, as well as contract logistics. Our vision is to be the
leading integrated transport and logistics service provider
with a global reach. We want to strengthen and expand our
leading market position.
ECONOMIC ≈ dimension: The central challenge is to be
able to respond more quickly to market demand. We
rely on processes for this, which are characterized both
through standardization as well as through industrialization. By adapting the supply chains consistently, we
fulfill customer requests and also deepen the customer
relationship at the same time. The focus will also be on
further expansion of integrated and innovative solutions for the entire logistics chain. Our target is to grow

μμ

μμ

14 6

profitably and increase the EBIT margin on a sustainable
basis. In the medium term, we strive towards growing
more strongly than the market in all segments and main­
­t aining our leading market positions. In pursuing this
goal, we are further enlarging and concentrating our
global network. There is a particular focus on the ex­­
pansion and harmonization of our global IT landscape.
SOCIAL † dimension: We aim to be the top employer in
logistics. Satisfied employees are a requirement to satisfied customers. In order to achieve our targets, we are
strengthening our corporate culture and expanding our
individual and international career development programs. Moreover, we offer a modern and family-friendly
working environment and diversity.

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D eve l opment of business units

μμIn May 2015, Intertec Beteiligungs-GmbH and System-

our extensive expertise in green logistics. We use our
eco-operations to record, assess and increase the energy
and material efficiency of our internal processes. With
eco-procurement, we focus on the purchase of CO ₂friendly services from our carriers and sub-providers. Our
preferred carrier portfolio is among the tools we use in
this effort. Eco-transparency includes instruments that
can be used to calculate our carbon footprint even more
precisely. Through eco-consulting we offer our customers premium consultation services through which
they can improve their carbon footprint.

Partner GmbH&Co. consolidated their activities into
MarkenTechnikService GmbH&Co. KG (MTS). DB ML AG
holds a 69% share in the joint venture. The joint venture
has been included in the DB consolidated financial state­
­ments since June 2015.
NEW R AIL-AIR FREIGHT SERVICE FROM CHINA
DB Schenker is the first company to have dedicated container trains moving goods along the southern route from
China via Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus to Central Europe.
With this service, DB Schenker now also offers transport by
rail from China to Germany and the subsequent onward
transport by air to North and South America.

μμEvents in 2015
F5
P. 142
P. 147
GRI
G4-EN27

EXPANSION OF THE GLOBAL NET WORK
Opening of new logistics centers
‡ DB Schenker has opened a new logistics terminal in
Finland. The facility near Helsinki has an area of ​​nearly
51,000 m², making it possible to consolidate four locations and bring together different products under one
roof. We expect this to result in increases in efficiency
and productivity, as well as bundling freight goods
flows between different modes of transport. International environmental standards were taken into account
during construction, and environmental measures such
as a solar power system for charging electric forklifts
were implemented. The volume of capital expenditures
amounted to around € 60 million.
In Houston (Texas/USA), a new 130,000 m² terminal for
the oil and gas industry was opened.
In Bergkamen, DB Schenker has opened a new 40,000 m²
logistics center for the WMF Group.
In Lower Austria DB Schenker has opened a new 34,000 m²
logistics center that meets the latest requirements for
energy efficiency and environmental protection.

IMPROVING CUSTOMER AND
TR ANSPORT INFORMATION
Both new terminal processes and structures in European
land transport and the new digital customer portal Next
Generation eServices contribute to continuous improvement in the quality of customer and transport information.
The portal provides our customers, for all modes of transport, with global shipment tracking, a fast and efficient
booking system and the ability to retrieve the complete
timetables for all cross-border shipping services in Europe.
In air freight, real time information is provided using
hand-held scanners and the projects FLAME (First and Last
Mile Event) and GXD (Global x-Docking) along the entire
supply chain. For ocean freight, measurement is carried out
via direct connections to the shipownersʼ broadcast systems.

μμ

μμ
μμ

ONGOING LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
With its decision of July 15, 2015, the EU Commission
imposed a fine on Schenker&Co. AG, Vienna/Austria,
and Schenker A .E., Athens/Greece, as well as on DB AG
and Schenker AG as the respective parent companies,
for alleged anticompetitive collusion on rail forwarding
services on block trains to South-East Europe. The decision relates to the period between 2004 and 2012. DB
Group cooperated fully with the EU Commission in the
analysis of the facts. The employees involved in the
case no longer work for DB Schenker.
DB Group is pursuing damages against the airlines that
were part of the so-called air freight monopoly, which,
according to the findings of various competition authorities around the world, agreed on kerosene and security
surcharges from 1999 to at least 2006 at the expense of

μμ

GRI
DB 03

μμ

New partnership with GLS at the European level
DB Schenker and the GLS Group have entered into a strategic partnership at the European level. The companies will
sup­­­­port each other in the provision of transport services:
the Europe-wide parcel service GLS will deliver packages
for DB Schenker. At the same time, under this non-exclusive
cooperation agreement DB Schenker will handle general
cargo (pallets) for GLS.

μμ

Investments
DB Schenker has established a 50%/50% joint venture
with Shenyang Jinbei Automotive Co. Ltd, Shenyang/
China. The joint venture has been included in the DB
consolidated financial statements since April 2015.

μμ

14 7

F5
P. 147
P. 153

GRI
DB 01

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμENVIRONMENTAL ¥ dimension: We will actively build upon

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμ

freight forwarders such as DB Schenker. Claims for damages were instituted against several airlines in Germany
and the USA in 2014. In the USA, out-of-court settlements
were reached with several airlines in 2015; the suit
continues.
The Cologne public prosecutorʼs office is conducting in­­
vestigations in connection with DB Schenkerʼs business
in Russia. The office is investigating current and former
employees and, as joint interested parties, Schenker AG
and Schenker Deutschland AG, among others, on suspicion of making facilitation payments to foreign border
and customs officials and their settlement through a
clearing account in Germany. Immediately after learning
of these suspicions, DB Group initiated an extensive
investigation of the matter and took both employment
law and compliance-related measures. It is cooperating
with the authorities.

OTHER EVENTS
To strengthen the area of e-commerce logistics, DB
Schen­­ker has been using an automated warehouse
system in Stockholm since 2015. At the center of the
warehouse are self-propelled carrying robots that carry
mobile shelving units for stationary order picking. The
system is supported by integrated package delivery.

μμ

μμDB Schenker and TÜV Rheinland have developed a new
μμ
μμ

system for quality control in the transport of photovoltaic
modules.
In January 2016, the 36 European country organizations
were grouped into ten clusters and the four management regions are to be merged into the region Europe.
DB Schenker and Hyundai Merchant Marine have signed
a strategic agreement to reduce carbon emissions from
the ocean freight.

μμDevelopment in the year under review
μμIntense competitive environment.
μμStrong influence of exchange rate effects.
μμContract logistics/SCM remains the line of business with
the strongest growth.
A customer satisfaction
¿ Measures 2015
survey is conducted every
μμRollout of customer plat­­form
two years. In the year under
Next Generation eServices.
review, around 13,900 cusμμIntroduction of PDC
tomers were surveyed in
marketing and sales app
(mobile sales solution)
two waves about their satμμProject tWINs CRM: continued
isfaction. Overall customer
rollout of the CRM system.
satisfaction in the areas of
land transport and air and
ocean freight has deteriorated slightly. The reasons for this
‡

≈†¥

√
Change

DB Schenker

Customer satisfaction

(SI)

Shipments in European land transport (thousand)

2014

absolute

%

71

–

–

–

2013
74

101,703

98,867

+2,836

+2.9

95,543
1,092

Air freight volume (export) (thousand t)

1,128

1,112

+16

+1.4

Ocean freight volume (export) (thousand TEU)

1,942

1,983

– 41

–2.1

1,891

15,451

14,943

+ 508

+3.4

14,857

Total revenues (€ million)

15,390

14,894

+ 496

+3.3

14,814

Gross profit margin (%)

34.4

33.1

–

–

32.2

EBITDA adjusted (€ million)

589

520

+ 69

+13.3

518

EBIT adjusted (€ million)

395

332

+ 63

+19.0

335

2.6

2.2

–

–

2.3

238

240

–2

– 0.8

335

66,327

64,810

+1,517

+2.3

64,051

–

3.9

–

–

–

94.7

–

–

–

95.2

External revenues

(€ million)

EBIT margin (adjusted)

(%)

Gross capital expenditures (€ million)
Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)
Employee satisfaction

– index

Employee satisfaction

– follow-up workshop implementation rate (%)

Share of women in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

Health rate in Germany (%)
Specific CO ₂ emissions (European land transport) compared to 2006
(related to tkm) (%)

32.1

32.6

–

–

33.1

95.4

95.8

–

–

95.7

–20.1

–14.6

–

–

–11.0

–2.9

– 0.8

–

–

+ 0.6

– 50.3

– 45.6

–

–

– 42.4

1)

Specific CO ₂ emissions (air freight) compared to 2006
(related to tkm) (%)
Specific CO ₂ emissions (ocean freight) compared to 2006
(related to tkm) (%)
1)

2015

Change in method from 2015 onward.

14 8

GRI
G4-PR5

GRI
G4-PR5

are the effects of the strike by US dock workers and the
generally difficult customer market conditions, which,
despite consistent quality, were ultimately reflected in customer satisfaction.
With the exception of ocean freight, the volume develop­
­ment was positive in the year under review.
Revenues development was significantly influenced by
ex­­change rate effects. Adjusted for the exchange rate effects,
revenues were up slightly over the previous year. The most
dynamic development was seen in contract logistics and in
the region South-East (especially Slovakia, Turkey and Bulgaria) and region West (especially Spain and France).
Cost of materials (+1.4%) was negatively influenced by
exchange rate effects, and increased in comparison to the
pre­­vious year. When adjusted for exchange rate effects, de­­
vel­­opment was negative particularly in air and ocean freight.
The gross profit increased, even when adjusted for ex­­
change rate effects. The main driver for this was the perfor­
­mance of contract logistics. The average gross profit margin
improved accordingly.
Personnel expenses increased (+ 6.9%). In addition to
cur­­rency effects and effects from collective bargaining agree­
­ments, this is mainly due to a higher number of employees.
Based on the positive development in all segments,
adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBIT improved noticeably.
Gross capital expenditures were slightly below the previous yearʼs level. Most of the decline was seen in the regions
North/East, Asia/Pacific and Central America. During the
year under review we invested in new construction and ex­­
pansion measures in freight forwarding facilities and terminals in Germany, China, Finland, Sweden, Spain, Singapore
and Austria. In addition, we invested in projects for the intro­
­duction of new IT systems. Capital expenditure priorities
continue to be in the region Europe.
The rise in business activity in the contract logistics
sector was also reflected in a slight increase in the number
of employees as of Decem­
† Measures 2015
­ber 31, 2015.
μμProject to harmonize interThe follow-up workshop
national employment condiimplementation rate as part
tions and implement uniform
of the 2014 employee survey
processes and procedures
for third-country shipments.
was at a satisfactory level.
μμOptimization of internal and
The decline in the share
external employer brand.
of women in Germany is
mainly due to the business
changes at Schenker Deutschland AG, which led to the hiring
mainly of new commercial employees.
The health rate dropped due to above-average influenza
intensity.

The majority of DB Schenkerʼs emissions are the Scope 3
emissions of our subcontractors. We are therefore set to
agree on binding reduction
¥ Measures 2015
targets with our largest
μ
μAgreements with shipping
carriers to reduce total CO₂
companies and airlines to
emissions. During the year
reduce carbon emissions by
under review the CO₂ emis2020 by around 200,000
sions in ocean freight were
tons of CO ₂ in ocean freight
and up to 500,000 tons of
further reduced through
CO ₂ in air freight.
the use of slow steaming.
μμAt the headquarters, the worldʼs
The figures in air freight
first green warehouse lighting
were also lower. In road
system with interactive, energyefficient lighting management,
trans­­port, we continue to
which is wireless and controlled
work on improved utilizavia motion detectors.
tion, the reduction of de­­
tours and the use of larger
trucks classes to keep CO₂ emissions as low as possible.
EUROPEAN LAND TR ANSPORT LINE OF BUSINESS

μμExtension and optimization of the network. Within the
μμ
μμ

system and direct transport areas, there was a greater
focus on international transport services.
Market environment remained very competitive, resulting
in significant price pressure; price measures could only
be implemented in some areas.
Additional optimization of the IT landscape.

Æ†
European land transport
Selected key figures [€ million]
Shipments in European land transport
(thousand)

2015

2014

absolute

%

101,703

98,867

+2,836

+2.9

Total revenues

6,317

6,362

– 45

– 0.7

External revenues

6,264

6,319

– 55

– 0.9

195

190

+5

+2.6

99

96

+3

+3.1

24,315

24,485

–170

– 0.7

EBITDA adjusted
EBIT adjusted
|

Change

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

In a market environment with relatively muted demand, the
shipment volume recorded an increase over the previous
year due to positive developments both in the area of general cargo (+3.5%) and in the parcel business (+3.2%). In
contrast, direct transport (– 4.1%) declined.
Despite the increased shipment volume, revenue development was weaker than in the previous year due to the
intense price competition, falling average shipment weights
and declining diesel floaters. However, adjusted for exchange
rate effects, revenues were up slightly over the previous year.

14 9

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D eve l opment of business units

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Cost of materials remained below the previous yearʼs level.
Adjusted for exchange rate effects, the increase in the cost
of materials in direct transport was offset by lower expenses
in system transport services.
Due to exchange rate effects, personnel expenses re­­
mained stable. However, adjusted for exchange rate effects
there was an increase as a result of wage adjustments.
The slight decrease in revenues was offset by the decline
in expenses, consisting mainly of a decrease in rental ex­­
penses and the cost of purchased services. The development of operating profits improved accordingly. Adjusted
EBITDA and adjusted EBIT increased.
The number of employees has decreased slightly as of
December 31, 2015.
AIR AND OCEAN FREIGHT LINE OF BUSINESS
Measures were introduced in order to increase productivity and optimize costs, as well as for the purpose of
optimizing the container capacity utilization in ocean
freight and further improving the freight mix in air freight
(consolidation area).
Differing developments on individual routes.

Revenues development was positive due to exchange rate
effects. Both air and ocean freight recorded a currency-adjusted decline in revenues.
In contrast, the exchange rate effects had a negative im­­
pact on expenses, since these effects increased overall
costs for purchased transport services in particular. Ad­­justed
for exchange rate effects, the cost of materials in air and
ocean freight declined.
Personnel expenses also increased, due mainly to ex­­
change rate effects. Adjusted for exchange rate effects, a
slight increase was recorded due to wage adjustments.
The development of operating profits was positive in
both air and ocean freight, and adjusted EBITDA , and ad­­
justed EBIT rose.
The number of employees declined slightly compared
with the previous year.

μμ

μμ

Æ†
Air and ocean freight
Selected key figures [€ million]

μμ
μμ
μμ

Change

Æ†

2015

2014

absolute

%

Air freight volume (export)
(thousand t)

1,128

1,112

+16

+1.4

Ocean freight volume (export)
(thousand TEU)

Contract logistics/SCM
Selected key figures [€ million]

1,942

1,983

– 41

–2.1

|

Total revenues

6,753

6,550

+203

+3.1

External revenues

6,747

6,546

+201

+3.1

286

233

+ 53

+22.7

EBITDA adjusted
EBIT adjusted
|

CONTR ACT LOGISTICS/SCM LINE OF BUSINESS
The momentum in the development in contract logistics
was sustained.
Line of business with highest growth at DB Schenker
once again.
A focus on capacity expansion: global commissioning of
new logistics centers and expansion of existing centers.

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

255

202

+ 53

+26.2

20,286

20,474

–188

– 0.9

Performance varied in the year under review:

μμVolumes increased in air freight. This was primarily due

μμ

to transatlantic transport services, the routes between
Europe and Asia, transport services within Asia and trans­
­port services from and to Latin America. By contrast,
volume development on the transpacific routes, as well
as transport services in the Middle East, declined.
The ocean freight volume declined. Here, the declines
had an effect on the routes between Asia and Europe
as a result of weak development in Chinese exports, as
well as transport services within Europe as a result of
the Russia-related sanctions. Volumes in transpacific
transport services and transport services from and to
Latin America also declined. Positive development of
transport services in Asia and in transatlantic transport
services had a compensating effect.

Warehouse space (million m²)

2015

2014 absolute

%

7.7

7.1

+ 0.6

+ 8.5

Total revenues

2 ,381

2,030

+351

+17.3

External revenues

2,380

2,029

+351

+17.3

163

133

+30

+22.6

EBITDA adjusted
EBIT adjusted
|

Change

Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)

106

79

+27

+34.2

20,740

19,078

+1,662

+ 8.7

The revenues development in the contract logistics/SCM line
of business remained very positive in the year under review.
Good business development in both existing and new cus­t­o­­mer business was recorded. Exchange rate effects also
had a positive impact.
Cost of materials increased due to business expansion,
as did personnel expenses due to the higher number of
employees and wage adjustments.
The development of operating profits was positive, and the
adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBIT increased significantly.
The ongoing dynamic business development is reflected
in a further increase in the number of employees.

150

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D eve l opment of business units

REDESIGN OF ELECTRIC MULTIPLE UNITS
IN THE NEUMUNSTER FACILITY
The Neumunster facility has been commissioned with modernization of 111 Hamburg S-Bahn (metro) series 474 electric
multiple units, following the successful conversion of a
sample. Around € 70 million will be invested in modernization of the vehicles. The train unit, consisting of three cars,
will be made universally accessible. The modernization
measures comprise, among other aspects, the installation
of a new passenger information system as well as monitors
for passenger televisions.

μ μDB SERVICES BUSINESS UNIT
μμEvents in 2015
DAIMLER AND DB GROUP LINK
RENTAL CAR BUSINESS
DB Group (Flinkster) and Daimler (moovel/car2go) linked
their mobility offers in June 2015. Customers now have
access to more than 7,000 rental vehicles via the Flinkster
app and via moovel, Daimlerʼs mobility app. The combination of station-based, as with Flinkster, and station-independent car sharing, as with car2go, offers customers greater
benefits.
GRI
DB 03

DB CLOUD ENTERPRISE
DB Systel offers cloud services in partnership with Amazon.
Demand for flexible data center services is rising steadily.
IT resources and complex applications are made available
to customers in the form of cloud services, which are provided by Amazon Web Services and integrated into the IT
landscape of DB Group by DB Systel.

S - BAHN (METRO) TR AINS EQUIPPED WITH
ASSISTANCE SYSTEM
By the end of the year under review, we had equipped all
650 vehicles of the Berlin S-Bahn (metro) with a total of 720
cabs with FASSI. The system contributes to energy savings
of up to 7%. It also aids in improvements to punctuality and
passenger information and helps simplify operational processes. The introduction of FASSI also changes and
improves the crewʼs work processes: extensive timetable
documents are available to the driver in electronic format
and constantly updated. This means that some four million
pages of printed paper are no longer required. Any changes
required to time­­tables in the event of a disruption can be
promptly electronically transferred.

OTHER EVENTS
Call a Bike came out on top in an ADAC (German Automobile Club) test that compared 15 bike rental systems
in 12 cities in Germany. In four cities where it is offered,
Call a Bike received the highest grade of “very good”
and in three other cities it received a grade of “good.”
Flinkster car sharing was rated number one in a review
by Stiftung Warentest (the German consumer interest
publication). The review compared 11 of the largest carsharing companies in Germany. Flinkster car sharing
received the top score of 1.7.

μμ

μμ

≈†¥

√
Change

DB Services

| Customer satisfaction

(SI)

Total revenues (€ million)
External revenues

(€ million)

EBITDA adjusted (€ million)
EBIT adjusted (€ million)

Gross capital expenditures (€ million)
Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)
Employee satisfaction

– index

Employee satisfaction

– follow-up workshop implementation rate (%)

Share of women in Germany
Health rate in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

as of Dec 31 (%)

Percentage staffing needs covered in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

Average CO ₂ emissions for new cars long-term lease

1) (g/km)

Specific heat consumption at DB Vehicle Maintenance compared to 2006
(related to m 3) (%)
Improvement in energy efficiency in data centers compared to 2010
(Power Usage Effectiveness; PUE)
1)

Vehicles procured by DB Fleet Management leased within DB Group with terms of
more than two years.

151

2015

2014

absolute

%

61

61

–

–

2013
64

3,192

3,172

+20

+ 0.6

3,184

269

259

+10

+3.9

283

274

270

+4

+1.5

211

70

82

–12

–14.6

29

276

262

+14

+ 5.3

248

24,771

25,476

–705

–2.8

26,319

–

3.5

–

–

–

100

–

–

–

100

19.0

19.0

–

–

18.5

92.9

93.3

–

–

93.2

98.0

–

–

–

–

116.5

121.7

– 5.2

– 4.3

126.4

–25.5

–20.9

–

–

–21.1

1.63

1.66

–

–

1.62

GRI
DB 01

F4
P. 131
P. 159

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμServices

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμDevelopment in the year under review

Capital expenditures increased due to higher vehicle acquisitions at DB Fleet Management and higher acquisitions of
low-value assets in the IT
† Measures 2015
area.

μμProductivity gains at DB Communication Technology.
μμBook profits at DB Fleet Management by taking advanμμ
μμ
μμ
GRI
G4-PR5

tage of the favorable market conditions.
Delay in future-proofing technical facility management.
Drops in performance for DB Vehicle Maintenance.
Strains due to factor cost increases.

μμTo attract the interest of
The number of em­ploy­
young people, the program
­ees decreased as a conse“Young people look ahead”
quence of adjustment to
was introduced to tenthgraders.
the decline in order intake.
μμIntroduction of the programs
The follow-up workshop
“Healthy driving” and “Workplace­­
implementation rate as part
ergonomics.”
of the 2014 employee sur­­
vey was at a very satisfactory level.
The share of women remained stable compared to the
previous year.
An above-average influenza wave led to a deterioration
of the health rate.
Percentage of staffing needs covered was at a high level.
We are reducing the CO₂
¥ Measures 2015
emissions of our fleet
μ
μExpansion of the bicycle
through the regular use of
fleets to promote CO ₂-free
modern passenger cars. We
connection mobility.
are also increasing energy
μμOpening of pedelec stations
at the station of the future: Berlin
efficiency in our facilities
Südkreuz with five electric Call
and data centers, thus con­
a Bike bicycles.
­tributing to a reduction in
their environmental impact.

Each year at DB Services around 2,000 customers are
surveyed with regard to customer satisfaction with DB Com­
­m unication Technology,
¿ Measures 2015
DB Systel, DB Vehicle MainμμLinking mobility platforms
tenance, DB Security and
moovel and Flinkster.
DB Fleet Management as
well as DB Services. The
cus­­tomer satisfaction figures remained stable in the year under review.
The development of DB Services mainly reflects the
supportive nature of the business unit for customers within
DB Group. Internal revenues (€ 2,923 million) continue to
account for the majority of total revenues. This was slightly
above the level of the previous year (+ 0.3%). Price effects
and higher demand in the area of telecommunication and
IT services were almost completely offset by the decline in
demand and the structural effects of maintaining rolling
stock.
Cost of materials (–2.5%) declined slightly. The negative effects due to the increased use of external services at
DB Services and DB Security were weakened by the reduction in performance as well as structural effects due to the
product mix in rolling-stock maintenance, the insourcing of
IT services, and the price effects due to lower fuel costs at
DB Fleet Management.
Personnel expenses (+2.9%) rose as a result of wage in­­
creases and the increased staff levels at DB Systel. This in­­
crease was dampened slightly by adjustments to personnel
levels as a result of declining orders.
Depreciation (+ 8.0%) was significantly higher than in
the previous year as a result of the increased acquisition of
low-value assets in the IT area as well as the expansion of
our own vehicle fleet at DB Fleet Management.
Overall, driven by the increased personnel expenses,
the decline in commissioning at DB Vehicle Maintenance and
factor cost increases, in particular at DB Services, a decline
in adjusted EBIT was recorded in the year under review.
‡

μμInfrastructure
μ μTHE STUTTGART–ULM PROJECT
The Stuttgart–Ulm project successfully progressed in all
areas in the year under review. All planning approvals have
now been received for the Wendlingen–Ulm new construction line. Of the total construction of about 62 km, more
than 25 km are provided for boring and excavation of the
tunnels. In Stuttgart city center, the project company is
continuing to perform construction work at the central station and on its four tunnel feed lines. In the Stuttgart 21
project, 11.5 km of the tunnel for the new Stuttgart railway
hub have been dug. The use of one of the unique chalice
supports as load-bearing elements of the new central station was successful. Current costs for the entire project are
within the forecast range. The project partners have resolved
to construct a third track in the terminal station at the air­
­port in order to improve the connection with the airport.
For the expanded airport connection, a special agreement
was concluded among the project partners. The commissioning of the overall project is scheduled for the end of
2021. The connection of the Gäubahn from the south to the
airport will take place two years later.

152

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

F5
P. 147
P. 154

μ μCOMMISSIONING OF THE VDE

which are used to describe and assess in detail the state
and development of the existing track infrastructure. In the
year under review we met most of the agreed contractual
targets and will document this with the Infrastructure State
and Development Report (Infrastrukturzustands- und -entwicklungsbericht; IZB) as agreed in the contract. The contracted targets were not met in full only for “theoretical lost
travel time in the full network” and “number of infrastructure
deficiencies.” This results in recovery claims by the Federal
Government in the amount of € 30 million.

(GERMAN UNIFICATION
TRANSPORT PROJECT) 8.2
The new Erfurt – Halle (Saale)/Leipzig high-speed line went
into operation in December 2015. With a total length of
123 km, it is part of the German unification transport proj­
­ect (Verkehrsprojekts Deutsche Einheit; VDE) no. 8 and
means significantly shorter travel times for passengers from
Erfurt, Leipzig, Dresden, Halle (Saale), Frankfurt and Berlin.
Major portions of the work on the VDE 8 will be completed by 2017.

μ μDB NETZE TRACK BUSINESS UNIT
μμBusiness model

Ω MORE DETAILS PAGE 026

μ μLUFV QUALITY TARGETS LARGELY MET

DB Netze Track is Europe’s number one rail infrastructure

For the proof of infrastructure quality that must be provided annually under service and financing agreement
(Leistungs- und Finanzierungsvereinbarung; LuFV) II, a
total of seven key quality indicators subject to sanctions as
well as other assessment parameters were established

provider. More than one billion train kilometers are traveled
each year on the tracks in Germany.
The most important sources of income are revenues from
train-path products, which constitute over 90% of total revenues. Train-path prices are established on a transparent

F3 ∫
P. 072
P. 154

F3

D B NE T ZE T R ACK BU S INE S S M O D EL
CUSTOMER SEGMENTS

VALUE PROPOSITIONS

μμAbout 410 business cus­­to­­

μμDB Netze Track offers discrimina-

mers (of which 390 are
non-DB Group customers)

tion-free access to a safe, reliable
and needs-based rail network

CUSTOMER ACCESS/
AFFILIATION

μμKey account management
μμRegional sales
μμE-services

RESOURCES/INPUTS

OUTCOMES

μμEmployees: around 46,000
μμVehicles: around 900 maintenance vehicles
μμInfrastructure/networks: around 33,000 km

μμEBIT adjusted: € 578 million
μμCustomer satisfaction: SI of 68
μμPunctuality: 93.7%
μμEmployee satisfaction: 3.7 (2014)
μμNoise-remediated lines: 1,500 km

of rail network and facilities required for operations (tracks, switches, bridges, tunnels)

SERVICES/OUTPUTS

μμVolume produced: 1.1 billion
train-path km

KEY ACTIVITIES

μμProvide safe, reliable and needsbased infrastructure

μμPlan and operate networks
μμCarry out train operations

153

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

GRI
DB 01

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

F5
P. 153
P. 154

basis by a train-path pricing system regulated by the Federal
Network Agency for Electricity, Gas, Telecommunications,
Post and Railway (Bundesnetzagentur; BNetzA).
DB Netze Track is also responsible for managing infrastructure operations, as well as for securing long-term infra­
­structure quality and availability and non-discriminatory
access to train-paths and service facilities. This includes
preparing timetables in close cooperation with customers,
operations management, construction management and
maintenance.
The cost structure is determined by fixed costs. The rail
network is one of the most important cost drivers. The use
of resources for operation and maintenance of infrastructure
is very much influenced by specific facility characteristics,
requirements relating to operational opening hours, and
the degree of rationalization in operating business activities. As the dimensions of the infrastructure only change in
the long term due to new or expansion construction projects
or targeted dismantling, optimal capacity utilization of the
existing infrastructure is of major importance for economic
success. A high level of quality and availability for the train
operating companies also calls for a forward-looking integrated capital expenditures and maintenance strategy. Ca­­
pa­­c­­ity utilization is measured by the train kilometers on track
infrastructure. In terms of relative network capacity utilization, this figure can be compared to length of line operated.
∫ For the long-term development of track infrastructure,
it is essential that new and expansion construction projects
concentrate on removing bottlenecks and on the creation
of additional capacities for growth in transport in the main
corridors and metropolitan areas. The budgetary resources
of public authorities, in particular the Federal Government,
are of considerable importance for the financing of replacement capital expenditures in the existing network, as well
as for the financing of new and expansion construction
projects. In this respect, integration of an entrepreneurial
infrastructure into the Group structure is essential for
enabling DB Group to continue making a high contribution
to the co-financing of these infrastructure measures.

μμMarkets and strategy
The contributions made by the Federal Government to
the infrastructure financing are of material importance to
secure the competitiveness of rail as a mode of transport.
A central instrument for this is the LUFV [PAGE 2 49 F.] .
ECONOMIC ≈ dimension: In addition to creating additional
capacity, we want to modernize and maintain the ex­­
isting network efficiently and in line with requirements.
Integrating capital expenditures and maintenance plan-

F3 ∫
P. 153
P. 154

μμ

μμ

μμ

ning as well as concentrating construction sites into corridors and integrating them into the timetable will
ensure the most efficient use of resources. At the same
time, we strive to minimize the effects for our customers.
	
∫ We attempt to guarantee high availability and
quality of infrastructure in spite of ever-increasing transport volume. By developing infrastructure in line with
cus­­tomer and market requirements, we enable the entire
rail transport sector to take advantage of opportunities
for growth. We are incorporating a network development
strategy created on the basis of customer requirements
into the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan. We have
established an additional infrastructure financing instrument in the form of the network fund.
SOCIAL † dimension: The personnel structure of DB Netze
Track is defined by a high average age; successful recruit­
­ment and timely training for our employees is therefore
crucial. In addition, we also take advantage of the oppor­
­tunities presented in the collective bargaining agreement designed to address demographic change. Furthermore, we rely on such methods as flexible working
time models to improve work-life balance. In order to
sustainably improve employee satisfaction, we are continuing with the cultural development processes and
promoting a more transformational leadership style.
ENVIRONMENTAL ¥ dimension: By implementing both conventional and innovative noise reduction measures and
a NOISE-BASED TR AIN-PATH PRICING SYSTEM [PAGE 1 55], we are
making an important contribution to the reduction of
noise pollution caused by rail transport. Furthermore, we
are also reducing our CO₂ emissions, for example through
the energy-focused renovation of our workshops and a
network-wide energy efficiency program and are increasing the efficient use of materials and resources by
recycling tracks, ties and ballast.

F3

F5
P. 154
P. 159

μμEvents in 2015
EXISTING NETWORK MODERNIZATION
WITH LUFV II STARTED
∫ On the basis of the LUFV II [PAGE 250] that came into effect
on January 1, 2015, we continued the comprehensive modernization of the existing network in the year under review.
Within this process, around 4,000 km of track, nearly 1,800
switches, 2.5 million railway ties and around 4 million t of
ballast as well as over 140 bridges were updated.
Measures successfully implemented include those on
tunnel systems on the North-South link in the Berlin S-Bahn
(metro) network, on the Cologne – Rhine/Main high-speed
line and on the Mannheim – Stuttgart high-speed line.

154

F3
P. 154
P. 157

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

NEW HUB FOR COMBINED TR ANSPORT
According to the forecasts of the BMVI, rail transport services
will continue to grow significantly through 2030. DB Netz AG
as the owner of the transshipment terminals and Deutsche
Um­­­schlaggesellschaft Straße-Schiene as the op­­erator of the
current 24 terminals are preparing jointly for that and provide the additional handling capacities. For example, the
extensions of Regens­­burg-East and Ulm/Dornstadt are
registered for the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan
(Bundesverkehrswegeplan). The newly built DuisburgMeiderich combined transport hub will go into oper­­ation in
mid-2016. The highest increases are expected in seaport
hinterland transport.
GRI
DB 10

GRI
G4-EN27

Half-way point in the new Hanau – Nantenbach line
The Hanau – Nantenbach expansion line is a part of the
Main-Spessart line between Hanau and Würzburg, and with
over 200 trains per day, it is one of the most frequently used
train paths. Work on various tunnels pressed forward in 2015.
When the first tube of the 2.6 km Falkenberg tunnel officially
broke through on December 4, 2015, another major milestone
in the project was reached.

NOISE- BA SED TR AIN - PATH PRICING SYSTEM
The noise-based train-path pricing system of DB Netz AG
currently provides for a surcharge of 2.5% on the regular
train-path price for loud freight trains. Freight trains consisting of 90% cars with quiet braking technology are exempt
from the surcharge. In the working timetable period of
2015, DB Netz AG generated a total of at least € 9.5 million,
which supports the financing of bonus payments for train
operating companies that have equipped their freight cars
with quiet braking technology, such as K brake shoes or
especially LL brake shoes. In September 2015, we approved
around 5,388 applications for the funding year 2014 (2013:
146 applications) and paid out around € 1.47 million (2013:
€ 0.04 million). The program will run for eight years. To avoid
a rapid climb in extra premiums, the income at the start of
the program exceeded the expenses to the degree to which
they are balanced out by increasing refitting activities of
the train operating companies at the end of the program.

Expansion of the Emmerich – Oberhausen line
During the year under review, the EBA issued their plan
approval decision for the first of 12 plan sections of the
project and construction activity was initiated early. This
included the elimination of level crossings and construction
of new road and railway bridges. Construction work on the
border with the Netherlands for the conversion of the traction current system was started and is on schedule. In the
future there will be only one power system change for
freight transport between Germany and the Netherlands
on the way to the port of Rotterdam, which will simplify
cross-border traffic.
Expansion and new construction
on the Karlsruhe – Basel line
Work on the Rastatt tunnel south of Karlsruhe is on schedule.
The initial tunneling excavation is currently underway in the
area of the future north entrance to the tunnel. In the
southern part, the work on the southern groundwater basin
has begun. The first machine is expected to drive through
the project, which is about 4.3 km long, from the north in the
spring of 2016. In addition, the EBA approved the plans
for the Müllheim – Auggen section, which is about 6 km
long, in August.

DB NETZ AG COLLECTS ECO - POINTS
With holdings of around 20,000 hectares, DB Group is among
the largest private owners of forest in Germany. The around
20-hectare forest in Elm near Fulda, which has remained
undisturbed for over 40 years, is the first for which DB Netz
AG received eco-points in the year under review. Eco-points
may be used as compensation for new construction measures
involving intrusions into natural areas.

155

GRI
DB 01

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

PROGRESS WITH REGARD TO NEW CONSTRUCTION
AND EXPANSION MEA SURES
Open-ended Schiene Nord dialog forum conducted
The dialog forum organized by the Lower-Saxony Ministry of
Economics on the subject of the Hamburg/Bremen–Hanover
(Y-train path) expansion and new construction line concluded
in November 2015. A majority of participants spoke in favor
of implementing the alpha version. This version includes
the delayed implementation of several expansion projects
in the region. This result is conveyed to the Federal Transport
Infrastructure Plan of the Federal Government. DB Group
will provide further information about the project and, in
close coordination with the Federal Government, involve
especially those directly affected by the measures.

GREATER CAPACITY ON THE MAINZ R AILWAY HUB
In January 2015, we started operation of the northern end of
Mainz central station with a total length of 680 m, meaning
that trains are now able to pass the station on different levels.
The capital expenditures amounted to around € 50 million.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Railway hub Frankfurt am Main
Frankfurt is one of the busiest transport hubs and there­­fore
has special significance for train transport. The implementation of the following measures ensures that the site is fit
for the future:
The four-track expansion of the heavily trafficked MainWeser railway will give S-Bahn (metro) transport between
Frankfurt-West and Friedberg its own tracks, which will
increase the frequency and punctuality of the trains.
The 19.4-km-long north Main S-Bahn (metro) will connect the western areas of the city of Hanau, the city of
Maintal and the eastern parts of the city of Frankfurt to
the S-Bahn network.
The new Gateway Gardens district will receive its own
S -Bahn connection by the end of 2019 with the completion of a 4-km-long route between Frankfurt Stadium
and the Frankfurt Airport regional station.
The relay interlocking, which controls S-Bahn (metro)
transport on the tunnel trunk line will be replaced by
electronic interlocking by 2018. The total cost of the
project is € 95 million.

μμDevelopment in the year under review
μμPositive effects resulted from higher demand and priceμμ
μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

related measures.
Negative impact of GDL strikes.
Noticeable negative effects from the increase in the
number of employees and wage adjustments.
Transfer of the project management function of DB Netze
Projects with around 2,100 employees.

The punctuality of train
¿ Measures 2015
op­­e rating companies in
μμDB Live Maps allows train
Germany has deteriorated
operating companies to view
in particular due to the
their trains in real time and
GDL strikes and the impact
as a graphic application.
of the high volume of
μμOptimizing combined transport
map/loading station map.
construction.
‡ To assess customer
satisfaction at DB Netze Track, about 240 customers are
asked each year about their satisfaction with all of the
services offered to them. The overall satisfaction declined
slightly.

≈†¥

√
Change

DB Netze Track

2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

93.6

94.3

–

–

94.0

93.7

94.2

–

–

93.8

(SI)

68

71

–

–

72

Length of line operated (km)

33,193

33,281

– 88

– 0.3

33,295

Punctuality DB Group (rail) in Germany

(%)

Punctuality in Germany 1) (%)
Customer satisfaction

Train kilometers on track infrastructure (million train-path km)

1,053

1,043

+10

+1.0

1,033

		thereof non-Group customers

289.9

260.9

+29.0

+11.1

247.1

27.5

25.0

–

–

23.9

5,110

4,951

+159

+3.2

4,769

1,275

1,118

+157

+14.0

1,024

25.0

22.6

–

–

21.5

1,513

1,503

+10

+ 0.7

1,556

		Share of non-Group customers (%)
Total revenues

(€ million)

External revenues (€ million)
		Share of total revenues (%)
EBITDA adjusted (€ million)
EBIT adjusted

(€ million)

578

562

+16

+2.8

665

Operating income after interest (€ million)

306

207

+ 99

+ 47.8

266

3.2

3.1

–

–

3.7

Capital employed as of Dec 31 (€ million)

18,109

18,065

+ 44

+ 0.2

17,929

Net financial debt as of Dec 31 (€ million)

10,693

10,698

–5

–

10,556

11.6

10.7

–

–

10.9

5,837

5,261

+ 576

+10.9

5,333

ROCE

(%)

Redemption coverage (%)
Gross capital expenditures (€ million)
Net capital expenditures (€ million)
Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)
Employee satisfaction

– index

Employee satisfaction

– follow-up workshop implementation rate (%)

Share of women in Germany
Health rate in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

(%)

Percentage of staffing needs covered in Germany
|

Track kilometers noise remediated in total

as of Dec 31 (%)

2) as of Dec 31 (km)

1)

Non- DB Group and DB Group train operating companies.

2)

2014 and 2013 rounded.

156

928

1,113

–185

–16.6

1,080

45,972

43,382

+2,590

+ 6.0

42,206

‒

3.7

‒

‒

‒

99.0

‒

‒

‒

98.9

17.7

16.8

–

–

16.5

94.6

95.0

–

–

94.8

97.2

–

–

–

–

1,495

1,400

+ 95

+ 6.8

1,300

GRI
G4-PR5

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

F3
P. 154
P. 160

measures along railway lines such as Stuttgart 21, VDE 8.1
Nuremberg – Erfurt and VDE 8.2 Erfurt – Halle/Leipzig.
Higher grants due to LUFV II [PAGE 250] led to a reduction in
the use of own resources. This caused net capital ex­­
penditures to decline.
† Measures 2015
The higher number of
μμControl report on HR key
employees is attributable
figures established for HR
to new hires in operations
and departments across
and in maintenance as well
the business unit.
as the addition of DB Netze
Projects employees.
The follow-up workshop implementation rate as part of
the 2014 employee survey was at a very good level.
The increase in the share of women is mainly due to the
relatively high number of female employees transferred
from DB Netze Projects.
The strong wave of influenza at the start of the year led
to a deterioration of the health rate, which could not be com­
­pensated for later in the year.
Percentage of staffing needs covered was at a stable
level. Significant additions of personnel to fill new jobs and
to compensate for age-related departures were successfully made. Additional measures have been initiated to
meet demand, particularly in main­­tenance.
During the year under
¥ Measures 2015
review we carried out noise
μ
μ€ 1.5 million paid as a bonus
remediation measures on
to train operating companies
about 100 km of lines as
for the refitting of some
part of the ongoing noise
5,400 freight cars with LL
brake shoes.
m ent program. We
abate­­
Energy audit performed with 94
μ
μ
continue to work on implefield operations.
mentation of additional
noise protection measures
each year.

μ μDB NETZE STATIONS BUSINESS UNIT
μμBusiness model
DB Netze Stations is the largest station operator in Europe.

In addition to the core business – the development and
operation of stations – the business unit offers a variety of
mobility-oriented services in and around stations. With
around one million m² of leasing area, we are among Germany’s largest commercial landlords.
Each day, more than 400,000 trains from 113 train operating companies with more than eight million passengers
use our stations. We set priorities in the areas of safety,
service and cleanliness to ensure a high degree of quality.

157

F3

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

The train kilometers on track infrastructure increased due to
higher demand from non-DB Group customers in passenger
and freight transport. The decline from DB Group customers,
in particular in passenger transport, had a dampening effect
due to the GDL strikes among other factors.
Total revenues increased due to positive price and vol­­
ume effects. The development of external revenues, along
with price effects, reflects the increase in demand from
non-DB Group railways, which resulted from newly won
transport contracts in regional transport as well as from
growth in rail freight transport.
Other operating income (+ 8.4%) increased significantly,
mainly as a result of effects from the sale of real estate.
The cost of materials (+2.7%) also grew substantially in
the year under review due to higher expenses for maintenance and production, energy and winter services.
Personnel expenses (+ 8.2%) increased due to the higher
number of employees and as a result of the collective bargaining agreement.
The increase in other operating expenses (+11.8%) is
due, among other factors, to higher costs for personnel ex­­
penses, IT services and rents.
Depreciation (– 0.6%) was slightly below the level of
the previous year due to lower scheduled depreciation and
higher write-ups. This was partly offset by higher expenses
from impairments.
In total, the increases in income exceeded the expenses,
meaning that the adjusted EBITDA and the adjusted EBIT
increased.
Lower interest expenses led primarily to an improvement
in net operating interest income. Accordingly, the decrease
in operating income after interest was even more significant.
The increase in adjusted EBIT resulted in an improvement
in ROCE, dampened by a slight increase in capital employed.
Declining net capital expenditures and a rise in profit
development led to nearly unchanged net financial debt.
Adjusted net financial debt declined slightly. With a slight
profit-related increase in operating cash flow, redemption
coverage also improved somewhat.
∫ Gross capital expenditures increased as a result of the
higher project volume for measures in the existing network,
such as superstructure and bridge renovation or renewing
command and control technology, as well as other structural engineering works. Further capital expenditures were
made for new and expanded lines and noise abatement

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

D B NE T ZE S TAT IO N S BU S INE S S M O D EL
CUSTOMER SEGMENTS
VALUE PROPOSITIONS

μμPrivate customers
μμBusiness customers with a focus

μμDB Netze Stations offers attractive

on train operating companies,
tenants and mobility providers
Contracting organizations

stations and concourse buildings
with a variety of mobility services
and retail space

μμ

CUSTOMER ACCESS/
AFFILIATION

μμKey account management
μμRegional sales
OUTCOMES

RESOURCES/INPUTS

μμEBIT adjusted: € 254 million
μμCustomer satisfaction: station (passengers/visi-

μμEmployees: around 5,000
μμInfrastructure/networks: about 5,400

tors) SI of 69, station (train operating companies
and transport authorities) SI of 65, tenants SI of 77
Facilities quality: 2.9
Employee satisfaction: 3.7 (2014)
Primary energy consumption –16.6% compared
to 2010

stations, around 1,000 stations with
marketing, about 9,600 platforms, 6,400
passenger information systems, about
6,600 digital visual displays, about 300
parking garages and parking spaces

μμ
μμ
μμ

SERVICES/OUTPUTS

μμStation stops: 148 million
μμSpace leased: about one million m²
KEY ACTIVITIES

μμOperate transport stations
μμLease commercial space
μμProvide reliable infrastructure

Railway operations are coordinated via the operations control centers. The station management on-site takes care of
the facility management and services for passengers. Operational facility management services are performed primarily by service providers within DB Group.
Infrastructure is characterized by high fixed costs. The
number of stopping points is one of the most important
cost drivers. The use of resources for operation and maintenance is very much influenced by specific facility characteristics, requirements relating to operational opening
hours, and the degree of rationalization in operating business activities.
Sources of income are revenues from station stops (regulated) and from leasing out commercial space (not regulated). Revenues from station stops make up about 70% of
total revenues.

Key resources include attractive stations and concourse
buildings. Our most important regulatory partners are the
BNetz A and the EBA .

μμMarkets and strategy
Passenger stations are increasingly becoming meeting places
in today’s mobile society and forming the hub of intermodal
transport systems. With its about 5,400 stations, DB Netze
Stations contributes greatly to this development.
Our vision of stations as hubs for people and mobility is
clearly seen in our “Stations 2020” strategy.
ECONOMIC ≈ dimension: The connection to additional
transport services at the station is fundamental to the
intermodal design of the transport systems of the future.

μμ

158

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

μμ

μμ

EXPANDING INFORMATION FOR PA SSENGER S
∫ With increasing mobility and digitalization, the expectations for quality and availability of passenger information
also increased. On July 22, 2015, the stations control center
opened in the Berlin operations center. The station control
center serves as a communications hub between the on-site
operators and the internal service providers and system
manufacturers. In the future, the control center will ensure
that functions are restored in an orderly manner and as
quickly and as possible in the event of disruptions.
DIGITALIZATION IN FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
In the year under review the installation of intelligent communication modules in elevators and escalators began in
stations in Germany. The facilities automatically send fault
reports to the appropriate control center, shortening the
time until repairs are started.
OTHER EVENTS

μμInnovations continue to be tested at the station of the

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμEvents in 2015
GRI
DB 01

F5
P. 154
P. 171

EXTENSION OF STATIONS
We have reviewed potential sites for the construction of new
stations and have identified 350 sites throughout Germany
where stations would make sense economically and in
terms of traffic. The first framework agreement relating to
the station offensive for Bavaria was signed in March 2015.
20 new stops with barrier-free access will be set up. The
country and DB Group each bear half of the capital expenditures of more than € 40 million. Negotiations on similar
projects have been initiated with almost all German Federal
states.

future: Berlin-Südkreuz. In August 2015, an inductive
charging plate for electric buses which enables buses to
be supplied with power wirelessly was put into operation.
In September 2015, a new long-distance bus station was
opened in the Göttingen railway station where around
80 long-distance buses will stop daily. Commissioned by
the city of Göttingen, the station is operated for all longdistance bus companies.
The Station Advisory Board is an independent advisory
body with representatives of associations, transport
authorities and train operating companies. The Board is
tasked with providing advice in the area of development,
expansion and the preservation of stations. It also serves
the purpose of intensifying the exchange of information
in order to make rail passenger transport more attractive.
On April 16, 2015, the second Next Station start-up competition of DB Station&Service was held with the theme
of Future Shopping. The two winners of the competition
tested their business concept for one month each with
a pop-up store at Berlin main station.

μμDevelopment in the year under review
μμIncreased demand from non-Group railways.
μμExpanding the lease of land and rising rental income.
μμBurdens due to higher personnel expenses.

159

GRI
DB 01

F4
P. 159
P. 159

F4
P. 159
P. 171

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

F4
P. 151
P. 159

Long-distance bus stops, taxi stops and charging infrastructure for electric cars and e-bikes make the station
an indispensable part of the urban infrastructure. Free
WiFi access at major stations allows passengers to
spend their waiting time in a meaningful way, in comfortable waiting areas in the concourse buildings and on
the platform. The expansion of accessibility involving a
reliable and extended mobility service, the continued
development of our DB information and the successive
equipping of our stations with weather protection and
dynamic passenger information further contributes to
increasing the satisfaction of our customers.
 ∫ Our profitable growth is based on new marketing
concepts, a variety of digital approaches, consistent
cost management and working together with numerous
partners such as start-up companies.
SOCIAL † dimension: Key priorities for us are employee
satisfaction and employer attractiveness. We address
these topics in the context of areas for action identified
in the course of employee surveys. A program based on
training and dialog formats that build on each other
strengthens a leadership approach that is both em­ploy­­eeand performance-oriented. We promote continuing education through a training fund and our company working
time projects shows our commitment to improving worklife balance.
ENVIRONMENTAL ¥ dimension: By 2020, we want to have
reduced absolute primary energy consumption by 18%
compared to 2010. We are promoting the use of environmentally friendly facilities and building technologies as
an operator of a complex portfolio of facilities. When
modernizing old buildings or constructing new ones, for
example, we investigate the use of innovative lighting
technologies, geothermal energy production, combined
heat and power generation, or photovoltaic systems at
all sites.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

F3
P. 157
P. 161

GRI
G4-PR5

The number of station stops increased in the year under
review. This was mainly due to a higher demand from nonDB Group railways and growth in transport as a result of
increased schedule frequencies in some areas.
∫ The quality of facilities is reviewed locally and determined using a detailed calculation and weighting algorithm.
The method for making this
¿ Measures 2015
determination was adjusted
μμTablets for service
in coordination with the
employees.
Federal Government after
μμIntroduction of station portal.
conclusion of the LUF V II
μμAge simulation suits to
[PAGE 250]. The good quality
raise awareness among service
employees.
level of facilities was further improved.
‡ To assess customer satisfaction, about 29,000 passengers are asked each year, in two waves, about their satisfaction with the stations, and annually about 60 tenants
and about 90 public transport authorities are surveyed
about their satisfaction. Satisfaction figures were stable.
The increase in total revenues is due to higher station
revenues resulting from volume and price factors as well as
higher rental and leasing revenues. Here, the expansions in
the rental business and the focus on profitable rental proj­­

ects had a positive impact. The increase in external revenues reflect the increase in demand from non-DB Group
railways and higher station revenues related to prices.
Other operating income (+1.3%) increased mainly as a
result of higher income from payments for damages.
Cost of materials also increased (+2.0%). This was due
to higher maintenance expenses, higher expenses for
win­ter services, and an increase in the price for passenger
information for the Berlin S -Bahn (metro). In contrast,
energy expenses were lower due to energy savings and
changes in energy prices.
Personnel expenses increased due to a larger workforce
(+ 6.3%) and, to a large extent, to collective bargaining
agreements.
Depreciation was slightly higher than in the previous
year (+1.5%).
Overall, income increased more significantly than ex­­
penses, which means that the operating profit figures
improved. The positive development of operating profits
coupled with a decline in capital employed led to an im­­
provement in ROCE. Lower fixed assets were decisive for the
decline in capital employed.

≈†¥

√
Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

Number of stations

5,382

5,383

–1

–

5,373

Station stops (million)

147.8

145.4

+2.4

+1.7

143.2

31.4

28.5

+2.9

+10.2

27.1

2.94

3.00

–

–

3.03

69

69

–

–

67

65

65

–

–

65

DB Netze Stations

		thereof non-Group customers
Facilities quality

1), 2) (grade)

Customer satisfaction station (passengers/visitors)

(SI)

Customer satisfaction station (TOC and transport authorities)

(SI)

77

77

–

–

74

1,199

1,172

+27

+2.3

1,119

		thereof station revenues (€ million)

807

782

+25

+3.2

756

(€ million)

326

325

+1

+ 0.3

312

480

464

+16

+3.4

428

Customer satisfaction tenants

(SI)

Total revenues (€ million)
		thereof leasing income
External revenues (€ million)
EBITDA adjusted (€ million)

391

375

+16

+ 4.3

363

EBIT adjusted

254

240

+14

+ 5.8

229

(€ million)

9.0

8.4

–

–

7.8

Capital employed as of Dec 31 (€ million)

2,811

2,861

– 50

–1.7

2,936

Net financial debt as of Dec 31 (€ million)

ROCE

(%)

1,294

1,352

– 58

– 4.3

1,429

Redemption coverage (%)

25.7

23.1

–

–

20.7

Gross capital expenditures (€ million)

533

559

–26

– 4.7

617

88

129

– 41

–31.8

157

4,982

4,867

+115

+2.4

4,835

–

3.7

–

–

–

99.1

–

–

–

100

Net capital expenditures (€ million)
Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)
Employee satisfaction

– index

Employee satisfaction

– follow-up workshop implementation rate (%)

Share of women in Germany
Health rate in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

(%)

Percentage of staffing needs covered in Germany
|

as of Dec 31 (%)

Absolute primary energy consumption (stations) compared to 2010

1)

Preliminary figures.

2)

Change in methods from 2015 onward.

(%)

16 0

47.6

47.7

–

–

46.9

93.8

93.9

–

–

93.5

96.7

–

–

–

–

–16.6

–11.1

–

–

– 8.9

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

The technical backbone of traction current supply in Germany is DB Netze Energy’s traction current grid, which
offers a high level of supply reliability. Traction current
plants, converters and transformers feed the required electricity into the traction current network. A second important pillar is the Germany-wide network of refueling stations, some of which can also be used by road vehicles. In
addition, DB Netze Energy operates 50 Hz medium-voltage
networks for energy supply to stations. DB Netze Energy
also offers a charging infrastructure for electric vehicles.
The infrastructure operated by DB Netze Energy is to a
high degree and in varying forms subject to regulation by
the BNetzA .

μμMarkets and strategy
The main tasks of DB Netze Energy are the economical
and environmentally efficient procurement of energy and
the reliable supply of energy for train operating companies.
Structured energy procurement and the effective control
of auxiliary energy cost compensate to the greatest degree
possible for the risks of volatile commodity prices as well
as changes in taxes and fees. The business unit has a highperformance infrastructure for the provision of electricity
and diesel to mobile and stationary consumers.
ECONOMIC ≈ dimension: Our excellent level of supply reliability is the central component of our strategic direction customer and quality. Thus far, we have exceeded
the supply reliability target agreed for each year with
the Federal Government in the LuFV. This quality is also
reflected in the high level of customer satisfaction. DB
Netze Energy strives to maintain this high quality and
to continue offering our customers attractive products
in the future.
	 As a profitable market leader in the railway energy
industry, DB Netze Energy uses the know-how available
to it in order to provide market-oriented services to meet
the demand from external industrial and commercial
enterprises for qualified assistance in the procurement
of electricity and gas.
SOCIAL † dimension: DB Netze Energy wants to ensure
a high level of employee satisfaction. DB Netze Energy
values transparent information and communication as
a basis for the cultural development process. In addition, measures have been developed to respond to the
challenges of demographic change, such as initiatives
to ensure the employability of workers or the balance
of private and professional life.
∫

μμ

μ μD B NETZE ENERGY BUSINESS UNIT
μμBusiness model
DB Netze Energy offers all of the conventional industry

energy products in Germany in the fields of traction energy
and stationary energy. These include traction current and
diesel for rail transport, as well as electricity, gas and heat
to stations and other DB Group properties. Furthermore,
DB Netze Energy supplies industrial customers throughout
Germany with a broad array of electricity and gas products.
The service portfolio is rounded out with energy economics
related consulting and technical services. The core competencies of DB Netze Energy are its experience in energy
economics related issues and its position as an integrated
provider of energy.

μμ

16 1

F3
P. 160
P. 164

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

Net financial debt declined as a result of a profit-related
increase in operating cash flow and reduced liabilities from
Group financing. This had a positive effect on the redemption coverage.
Net capital expenditures decreased significantly due to
the reduction in own funds as a result of the LUFV II [PAGE 250].
The number of employees
¿ Measures 2015
was higher than at the preμμSuccessful launch of the
vious year’s end due to the
“Teamwork for success”
trans­­fer of employees from
game at DB Station&Ser­­
DB Netze Projects and due
vice; this game is used
to playfully clarify expectations
to new hires – mainly in con­
that employees and executives
struction and project manhave for each other.
agement.
The follow-up workshop
im­­plementation rate as part of the 2014 employee survey
was at a very good level.
The decline of the share of women is due primarily to
structural effects from the transfer of employees of DB
Netze Projects.
Due to influenza, the health rate was slightly below the
previous year’s level.
Percentage of staffing needs covered was at a high level.
With the continuous energy-related improvements to
existing facilities and build­
¥ Measures 2015
­ings and the use of innovaμμConstruction of the second
tive energy-saving technolclimate-neutral station
ogies in the area of lightin Lutherstadt Wittenberg
ing,
escalators and elevastarted.
New
energy
management
team
tors,
we further re­­duced the
μμ
implements the Energy Efficiency
absolute primary energy
Directive.
con­­sumption of our stations
in the year under review.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

D B NE T ZE ENERG Y BU S INE S S M O D EL
VALUE PROPOSITIONS

μμDB Netze Energy offers customerCUSTOMER SEGMENTS

μμBusiness customers

oriented and environmentally friendly
access to products in the fields of
traction current and diesel as well as
stationary energy

CUSTOMER ACCESS/
AFFILIATION

μμKey account management
μμRegional sales

RESOURCES/INPUTS
OUTCOMES

μμEmployees: around 1,700
μμInfrastructure/networks:

μμEBIT adjusted: € 66 million
μμCustomer satisfaction: SI of 78
μμSupply reliability: 99.99%
μμEmployee satisfaction: 3.8 (2014)
μμShare of renewable energy

around 7,900 km traction current
network, 1,813 transformer
stations, 189 refueling stations
51 power facilities/converters/
transformers

μμ

in the traction current mix: 42%

SERVICES/OUTPUTS

μμ(16.7 Hz and direct current):
8,600 GW h

μμStationary energy
(50 Hz and 16.7 Hz): 14,900 GW h

μμDiesel fuel: 430 million l

KEY ACTIVITIES

μμProvide reliable infrastructure
μμProcure energy
μμSell energy
μμEnergy economics related and technical services

μμENVIRONMENTAL ¥ dimension: DB Netze Energy plays an
active role in protecting the environment. DB Netze
Energy continues to pursue its vision of meeting 100%
of our traction current requirements with renewable
energies by 2050. Customers today are already able to
take advantage of green products based entirely on
renewable energies. In order to meet demand for ecopower, supply agreements have been concluded for
electricity from hydroelectric and wind power sources.
In addition, DB Netze Energy is also committed to
increasing energy efficiency throughout DB Group and
is the driving force behind innovative energy solutions
such as electromobility. Comprehensive services for
efficiency measures and CO₂ reduction are offered not
only for train operating companies but also for customers from industry and commerce.

μμEvents in 2015
FURTHER OPENING OF THE TR ACTION CURRENT GRID
In 2014, DB Netze Energy, as the first rail infrastructure
company (RIC) in Europe, fully liberalized traction current
supply, thereby creating the opportunity for train operating
companies to select alternative energy suppliers. The
number of supplier changes increased significantly in the
year under review. We are currently working on further
developing the IT systems in order to largely automate the
change and invoicing processes in accordance with energy
economics related regulations and taking into account the
special requirements of railway power supply.

16 2

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — D e v e l opment o f b u s i ne s s un i t s

√

≈†¥

DB Netze Energy

Supply reliability

1) (%)

%

2013

–

–

99.99

78

–

–

78

78

77

–

–

77

Customer satisfaction electricity and gas plus (DB Group customers) (SI)
		

77

76

–

–

75

Customer satisfaction electricity and gas plus (non-DB Group customers) (SI)
		

83

80

–

–

81

Traction current(16.7 Hz and direct current) (GW h)

8,644

9,887

–1,243

–12.6

10,194

		 Traction energy pass-through (16.7 Hz) (GW h)

1,181

116

+1,065

–

–

14,865

11,487

+3,378

+29.4

9,698

Diesel fuel (million l)

427.1

436.7

– 9.6

–2.2

459.0

Total revenues

2,812

2,797

+15

+ 0.5

2,775

1,128

1,073

+ 55

+ 5.1

928

133

123

+10

+ 8.1

161

66

55

+11

+20.0

71

7.0

5.9

–

–

7.8

Capital employed as of Dec 31 (€ million)

937

938

–1

– 0.1

909

Net financial debt as of Dec 31 (€ million)

255

226

+29

+12.8

179

25.9

24.1

–

–

38.8

167

169

–2

–1.2

156

68

76

–8

–10.5

83

1,726

1,770

– 44

–2.5

1,753

–

3.8

–

–

–

100

–

–

–

100

(€ million)

External revenues (€ million)
EBITDA adjusted (€ million)
EBIT adjusted (€ million)
ROCE

(%)

Redemption coverage (%)
Gross capital expenditures (€ million)
Net capital expenditures (€ million)
Employees as of Dec 31 (FTE)
Employee satisfaction

– index

Employee satisfaction

– follow-up workshop implementation rate (%)

Share of women in Germany
Health rate in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

(%)

Percentage of staffing needs covered in Germany

1)

absolute

78

Stationary energy (50 Hz and 16.7 Hz) (GW h)

|

2014
99.99

Customer satisfaction traction current and diesel (SI)
		

Customer satisfaction

(SI)

2015
99.99

as of Dec 31 (%)

Share of renewable energy in the traction current mix

(%)

13.2

12.9

–

–

12.0

95.6

95.9

–

–

95.8

95.3

–

–

–

–

42.0

39.6

–

–

35.2

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

Change

Preliminary figures.

LEGAL SUITS DUE TO THE TR ACTION
CURRENT PRICING SYSTEM
DB Netze Energy was taken to court by several train operating companies for damages due to improper traction current pricing in the past. This relates to the years 2009 to 2014.
The Frankfurt am Main Regional Court largely upheld the
initial claims in early June 2015. These rulings were appealed
and the proceedings continue.
OTHER EVENTS

μμWe installed an inductive charging station for electric
buses at the station of the future, Berlin-Südkreuz.

μμSeven quick-charging stations for electric cars were
installed for IKEA . By 2020, further refueling stations
will follow for all 50 markets in Germany.

μμDevelopment in the year under review
μμIncreasing competition resulting in further margin
μμ
μμ
μμ

decline in traction power supply.
Decline in demand resulting from energy efficiency mea­
­sures in rail transport.
Significant drop in prices for petroleum products.
Increasing energy charges as a result of the 2014 EEG
amendment.

The high level of supply reliability was again retained.
‡ We survey about 230 customers a year regarding
customer satisfaction. The high level of satisfaction was
confirmed.
The development of
¿ Measures 2015
demand for traction current
μμImprovement of processes
and diesel was shaped in­­
initiated to deal with comparticular by non-DB Group
plaints.
customers switching from
μμOptimization of clarity and
comprehensibility in invoicing.
full energy supply to passthrough as a result of the
traction current network opening, as well as lower consumption within DB Group in rail passenger and freight
transport. In addition to increases in efficiency, the lower
volume produced, due in part to the GDL STRIKES [PAGE 11 4],
contributed to the lower traction energy consumption.
In the area of stationary energy, sales volumes to nonDB Group customers increased significantly. A slightly lower
energy requirement at DB Group customers had a counteracting dampening effect.
The increased volume of sales to non- DB Group customers in the area of stationary energy also dominated
revenues development. In total revenues, the drop in demand

16 3

GRI
G4-PR5

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

F3
P. 161
P. 172

from DB Group customers in the areas of traction power
and stationary energy and the switch by non- DB Group
custo­­mers from the full energy supply to pass-through had
an opposite effect.
Other operating income (– 4.1%) decreased due to lower
income from services for third parties.
Cost of materials (– 0.4%) declined as a result of declining
expenses related to both price and volume for the purchase
of mineral oil products. The expansion of business through
stationary energies had the opposite effect.
Personnel expenses (+3.6%) rose, driven by an increase
as a result of the collective bargaining agreement.
Other operating expenses (+ 8.6%) increased due to
higher expenses for communications and IT services, as a
result of adjustments made to invoicing systems in order to
meet regulatory requirements.
Depreciation was at the previous year’s level.
Overall, the increase in income more than compensated
for the rise in expenses. As a result, both adjusted EBITDA
and adjusted EBIT increased. With capital employed un­­
changed from the previous year, the development of profits
led to a significantly improved ROCE.
Net financial debt increased as a result of the reduction
in the equity reserve with the profit transfers to DB AG .
Redemption coverage improved due to higher operating
cash flow.
∫ The gross capital expen¿ Measures 2015
ditures in the renewal and
μμNew direction for employee
expansion of energy supply
information events.
systems was slightly below
μμImplementing internal facilithe previous year’s level.
tators for topics related to
The significant decrease in
change.
net capital expenditures
primarily reflects increased Federal grants from the LUFV II
[PAGE 250].

The number of employees remained at the previous year’s
level.
The follow-up workshop im­­
¥ Measures 2015
plementation rate as part
μμ700 DB Group companies
of the 2014 employee sur­­
worked on the creation of an
vey was at a very good
energy management system
level.
for the Energy Efficiency
Directive.
The steady increase in
μμBusiness partners supported in
the share of women in re­­
development of e-service stations
cent years was successfully
for recharging electric vehicles.
continued.

The health rate declined due to the above-average influenza intensity.
Percentage of staffing needs covered is at a good level.
The share of renewable energy in the traction current
mix has been further increased mainly through allocations
from the EEG.

μμOther/consolidation
μ μDB ENGINEERING & CONSULTING
ESTABLISHED
The business entity DB E&C was established on July 1, 2015.
The merger of DB Projektbau GmbH (DB Netze Projects)
and DB International GmbH and their renaming as DB Engi­
­neering&Consulting GmbH is expected to take effect as of
January 1, 2016. Part of the operations of DB Netze Projects
with around 2,100 employees was transferred to DB Netz AG
in the year under review, and another part with around 100
employees was transferred to DB Station&Service AG.

μ μINVESTMENTS
In September 2015, DB ML AG acquired a minority stake of
18.8% in FLINC GMBH [PAGE 092]. Flinc is accounted for using
the equity method and has been included in the DB consolidated financial statements since September 2015.

μ μBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The item Other primarily includes the holding companies
DB AG and DB ML AG along with other companies that cannot
be assigned to any specific business unit.
The decrease in total revenue (€ –236 million or –13.4%)
was mainly due to the transfer of activities of DB Netze
Projects to DB Netz AG. This was offset by the expansion
of business of DB International and increased internal services relating to the Stuttgart–Ulm project company. Due
in particular to the restructuring of DB Netze Projects, its
total revenues and therefore its consolidation impact
decreased (€ +243 million and –2.2% respectively).
Adjusted EBITDA was at the previous year’s level. Ad­­
justed EBIT was slightly less negative than in the previous
year (€ + 4 million or – 0.8% to € – 524 million). Increases at
DB Sales among other businesses were largely canceled out
by expenses, including those resulting from wage increases
at Group headquarters.

16 4

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT — DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINE S S UNITS
A dditional information

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
165

μμAdditional issues

167
related to operations
and business operations

μμPurchasing volume

μ μSIGNIFICANT CONTRACT AWARDS
μμInfrastructure

Purchasing volume was € 25.4 billion in the year under
review (previous year: € 23.2 billion). The increase is chiefly
due to inclusion of DB Arriva for the first time (€ +2.4 billion).
The volume of freight and freight-forwarding services
rose slightly from € 9.7 billion to € 9.8 billion.
Industrial products posted an increase from € 4.3 bil­lion
to € 4.5 billion.
In construction and engineering services, the volume
rose to € 4.0 billion (previous year: € 3.8 billion).
Third-party services increased to € 4.3 billion (previous
year: € 3.0 billion), mainly due to inclusion of DB Arriva
for the first time.
This also had an effect on cable-and-pipe-bound power
and fuel, which went up from € 2.4 billion to € 2.8 billion.

μμWe concluded framework contracts (total volume over

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ
μμ
μμ
GRI
G4-12

μμ
μμ

Æ‡
Structure of purchasing volume [%]
Freight and freight-forwarding services

Industrial products

38.6

μμ
41.8

17.7
18.5

μμ

Construction and engineering services
15.7
16.4
Third-party services
12.9

μμ

16.9

Cable-and-pipe-bound power and fuel
11.0
10.3
2015

μμ

2014

The proportion of local purchasing volume in Germany has
remained stable in comparison with the previous year.
[€ million]
DB Group purchasing volume 1)

		 Local purchasing volume (%)
1)

2015

2014

2013

10,668

11,083

12,565

91

91

84

μμ

μμ

Not including DB Schenker, DB Arriva and foreign companies of DB Cargo,
change in method from 2014 onward.

16 5

four years about € 482 million) in the area of superstructure repair.
We awarded framework contracts (total volume: € 408
million) for the production, delivery and assembly of new
rails, including transport.
Construction work worth € 378 million was commissioned for the newly built Wendlingen – Ulm line, Albvorland tunnel section of line (including Small Wendlinger Curve).
For the production and delivery of steel rails, we awarded
framework contracts (total volume: € 187 million).
Framework agreements for rail transport services associated with the supplying of track construction sites and
their waste disposal, freight car leasing and traction
(total volume: € 150 million).
For the large VDE 8 project in the Hallstadt -Ebensfeld – Erfurt segment, a contract was awarded for the
removal of a two-track line and construction of a fourtrack line (total volume: € 145 million).
We awarded several rail track contract packages in
the area of large-scale machinery (total volume:
€ 117 million).
In the context of the ETCS (European Train Control Sys­
tem) Project, we concluded framework contracts for a
term of two years, including an extension option (vol­
ume: € 115 million).
For modernization of the train radio network, we concluded framework contracts with a term until 2024 (total
volume: € 111 million).
The framework agreement for LST assembly work (at
signal boxes and external railway crossing facilities of
DB Netz AG) was concluded with several suppliers
(total volume: around € 102 million).
For full renovation of the Knappenrode – Horka line (34
km), contracts were awarded for superstructure construction work (total volume: € 97 million).

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμPurchasing volume

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμIn the overhead lines sector, framework agreements
μμ
μμ

for small contracts were concluded (total volume:
€ 93 million).
We awarded several contracts for the production and
delivery of prefabricated prestressed concrete track
(total volume: € 85 million).
We signed framework contracts relating to waste management services for the collection, intermediate transport and disposal of the tunnel excavation and soil
material resulting from the construction projects (total
volume: € 74 million).

μμVehicles and vehicle spare parts
μμAn order for the manufacture of new S-Bahn (metro)
trains was placed for S-Bahn (metro) Berlin at the end
of December 2015. The capital expenditures volume
in the 21 quarter-trains and 85 half-trains amounts
to € 825 million. The new trains for the S-Bahn (metro)
Ring sub-network and the south-eastern feeder lines
are scheduled to enter into service starting from 2021.

To support the target of becoming a TOP EMPLOYER † , a
model for the quality assurance functions of procurement
was added to the existing professional career models. As
a result, all holders of the various procurement functions
now obtain transparency about the demands made on
them and their development opportunities. In addition, the
basic qualification program for buyers was structured in a
modular way, with training provided.
Within the groups of goods, measures are being developed on a cross-functional basis and integrated within the
scope of contract awards in order to achieve the environmental objectives of DB Group as an ECO -PIONEER ¥ .
In the year under review, Group procurement underwent a performance check by an external consulting firm
with the objective of benchmarking the services in comparison with “World Class” organizations. It was rated as “Professional Procurement” in the benchmark. Steps have been
taken to optimize Procurementʼs performance in the direction of a “World Class” organization.

μμCSR industry initiative founded
μμGeneral requirements and services
μμ Conclusion of mobile services agreements for voice and
μμ

μμ

machine-to-machine (M2M), each with an initial term of
five years and a contract value of € 107 million.
Framework agreements with a term up to September
30, 2020 were concluded for security services provided
by DB Sicherheit GmbH, South-West Regional Area. The
contract volume is € 54 million.
In order to prevent and/or eliminate growth on tracks,
framework agreements for chemical vegetation control
were concluded (term until end of 2019, contract vol­
ume: € 49 million).

Together with other companies in the rail industry, Group
procurement founded the industry initiative “Railsponsible” in March 2015. The target is to promote sustainable
purchasing strategies along the entire supply chain. Railsponsible stands for a rail industry in which suppliers pledge
to uphold high ethical, social, environmental and commercial standards. The initiative aims to ensure that the objectives and measures relating to sustainability are continuously questioned and improved. In addition, shared tools
are used to structure assessment procedures for suppliers
more efficiently in relation to sustainability criteria.

GRI
G4-12
G4-16

μμProcurement as a building block

μ μPROCUREMENT CONTRIBUTES
TO GROUP OBJECTIVES
The achievement of purchasing potential makes a contribution to the Group target of PROFITABLE MARKET LEADER Æ .
Possible leverage for making monetary savings is identified
and agreed on a cross-functional basis within the framework of commodity group strategies. In the year under
review, a purchasing program was set up with the objective
of delivering an increasing contribution to profits over the
next few years. The trend for comparatively high wage
agreements in Germany continued in the year under review.
Together with the introduction of the statutory minimum
wage in Germany, this continues to lead to high pressure on
prices. This applies in particular to the service sector. In
contrast, however, price savings were made in some cases
due to falls in the cost of raw materials.

for sustainable development
When implementing the DB2020 strategy, we place greater
focus on sustainable criteria and concentrate on future
requirements. In order to do so, we have defined policies
for corporate social responsibility (CSR) and integrated
them into the code of conduct for business partners and
into the purchasing guidelines. ‡ We also want to ensure
that environmental and social standards are observed and
maintained in the supply chain together with suppliers,
above and beyond our own added value.
In the year under review, a system was developed for
managing risky suppliers. The concept includes “risk coun­
­try” and “risk sector” as selection criteria, as well as the
importance for Group procurement. The suppliers select­­­ed in this way undergo a CSR assessment procedure with
regard to environmental and social standards. In addition,

16 6

GRI
G4-12

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — A dditional information

GRI
G4-12

μ μOTHER LEGAL ISSUES
μμAntitrust proceedings relating to ticket sales

supply chain analyses were carried out with the aim of
developing a practical understanding of the supply chain
structure and the existing social risks. The objective is to
work out methods for exerting an influence on identified
risk areas and supply chain stages that do not add value.
Supplier management at DB Group made progress in the
year under review. A major change is the distinction
between proactive “supplier development” to enable participation in competitions when contracts are being awarded,
and corrective “supplier stabilization” to ensure performance after the contract has been signed.
In addition, our quality assurance section has again conducted audits on site at suppliersʼ premises in the year
under review. During the assessment of the systems, processes and products at suppliers of quality-controlled products or of products with a manufacturer-related product
qualification, these audits did not result in any findings
with regard to violations of human rights, the freedom of
collective bargaining, child labor or forced labor.

The proceedings against DB AG initiated in January 2014 by
the German Federal Cartel Office on suspicion of the abuse
of market dominance with regard to the distribution of
tickets are still underway. In October 2015, the German Federal Cartel Office notified DB AG of preliminary antitrustrelated concerns with regard to certain conduct. Despite
this, DB AG maintains its view that it does not have a mar­
ket-­dominant position on the relevant markets, respectively
that the conduct in question does not contravene regulations under competition law. In December 2015, the company nonetheless made an offer to the Federal Cartel
Office to undertake certain binding commitments in order
to dispel the preliminary concerns held by the Federal
Cartel Office. By making these commitments, DB AG would
also like to make a contribution towards developing the
framework conditions applicable to German local rail passenger transport, bearing in mind that these conditions are
progressive compared to other European countries. With
regard to the commitments offered by DB AG, the German
Federal Cartel Office initiated a comprehensive consultation among some 70 market participants and industry
experts in January 2016.

μμExpansion in internationalization
The supplier structure is becoming increasingly global as a
result of the ongoing internationalization. For example,
international procurement teams as a tool in this respect
are attracting more and more attention. The primary objectives are the sustainable development and qualification of
suppliers in the Asian market and intensification of com­
petition and innovation transfer. Two steps were taken in
this regard in the year under review: firstly, visits were
made to Chinese suppliers on-site; secondly, in November
we opened our own International Procurement Office in
Shanghai.

μμInvestigations concluded at DB International
In early 2015, the investigation proceedings against DB
Inter­­national were concluded with a fine. This was due to
improper payments made by former employees of DB International to decision makers in Greece, Libya and Thailand
from 2003 to 2008. When fixing the amount of the fine, the
District Court of Frankfurt am Main took into account the
efforts of the current management in conducting a comprehensive investigation even before becoming aware of the
investigation proceedings, cooperating with the public
authorities and implementing interim measures to prevent
further incidents of corruption. Along with extensive structural modifications, DB International has created a compliance management system with its own Compliance department since 2010.

μμAdditional issues related

to operations and business
operations

μ μNEW ORDERS FOR DB INTERNATIONAL
In Saudi Arabia, DB INTERNATIONAL Œ is continuing its commitment to the construction of the first high-speed line.
Overhead power cables were fitted and the command and
control technology installed by the end of the year under
review. In April 2015, DB International was awarded the contract to provide advice and support in the role of “shadow
operator” in Qatar during the preparations for operation
of the proposed long-distance and freight transport network, Qatar Rail.

μμProceedings by the Spanish cartel
authorities and others against Transfesa
The Spanish cartel authority is investigating Transfesa and
other companies in DB Group concerning conduct that is
alleged to be in breach of competition law. In August 2015,
the cartel authority sent us the grounds for complaint in
this matter, on which we commented within the stipulated
period. We are currently negotiating with the cartel author­
­ity about closure of the proceedings without a fine being
imposed, although with commitments being made.

16 7

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

GRI
G4-12

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

OPPORTUNITY AND RISK REPORT
μμOpportunity and 

168

μμMajor170

risk management
within DB Group

μμKey actions

176

opportunities
and risks

μμAssessment of risk position
by category
Æ	

Æ	

Opportunity and risk portfolio 2016 financial year as of Dec 31, 2015 [€ billion]

Risk portfolio 2015 financial year as of Dec 31, 2014 [€ billion]

Economic climate, market and competition
0.1

Personnel
0.6 

0.0

Production and technology
0.1
Law and contracts

Risks
Opportunities

0.0
very likely
very likely

Economic climate, market and competition
0.1

0.0

0.1

Miscellaneous

Production and technology
0.2

0.1

Miscellaneous
0.2

0.0

likely
likely

Risks

very likely

likely

Ω	MORE DETAILS PAGE 170 FF.

μμOpportunity and risk

management within DB Group

Opportunity and risk management in DB Group comprises
the systematic identification, assessment and management
of opportunities and risks. The primary objective of opportunity and risk management is to ensure the long-term existence of DB Group.
The principles of opportunity and risk management are
laid down by the Group headquarters and implemented
Group-wide. As part of our early-warning system, quarterly
reports are submitted to the Management Board and the
Supervisory Board of DB AG. Major risks occurring outside of
this reporting cycle must be reported immediately. Planned
acquisitions are subject to additional specific monitoring.
Our risk management system (RMS) maps all of the op­­
por­­tunities and risks in an opportunity and risk portfolio and
also individually in detail, factoring in materiality thresholds.
The opportunities and risks considered within the risk management report are categorized and classified according to
probability. Together with possible consequences, the analysis also takes into account the starting position and the cost
of countermeasures. In organizational terms, Group control­
l­­ing is the central coordination point for our opportunity
and risk management.

In conjunction with Group financing, with its strict focus
on the operating business, Group Treasury is responsible
for limiting and monitoring the resulting credit, market and
liq­­uidity risks. The centralized handling of the relevant
transactions (money market, securities, foreign exchange
and derivative transactions) means that potential risks can
be managed and limited centrally. Group Treasury is organized in line with the minimum requirements for risk management formulated for banks (Mindestanforderungen an
das Risikomanagement; MaRisk), which means that it complies with the resulting criteria of German law on Corporate
Gov­­ernance and Transparency (Gesetz zur Kontrolle und
Transparenz im Unternehmensbereich; KonTraG).
Our strategic opportunity and risk management efforts
are mainly derived from the targets and strategies of our
business units. Operational management personnel in the
business units are directly responsible primarily for the early
and regular identification, analysis and management of
strategic opportunities and risks. These activities are an
integral element of the Group-wide planning and controlling
systems. We focus intensely on detailed analyses of our
markets and competitors, market scenarios, relevant cost
drivers and critical factors for success, including those within
our political and regulatory environment. Concrete opportunities for specific business units are identified and analyzed from these.

16 8

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — O pportunit y and ris k report

μ μKEY CHARACTERISTICS OF IKS

μ μMANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT
OF THE RISK SITUATION

Our RMS is complemented by a Group-wide internal control
system (internes Kontrollsystem; IKS) that also includes
the accounting process. To the extent that compliance is
deemed to be appropriate, the components of our IKS take
into account the principles of the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) publication: “Internal Control – Integrated Framework” in its
revised version of 2013. Based on this, our accounting-related
IKS is a continuous process, based on fundamental mechanisms such as system-technical and manual coordination,
separate and clear definition of functions and monitoring of
compliance and further development of guidelines and specific operating procedures that are applicable Group-wide.
In addition to the instruments listed above, the accounting-related control mechanisms include a Group-wide, uniform reporting system based on standard Oracle Hyperion
Financial Management (HFM) software and regular up­dating
of the relevant accounting directives and accounting systems.
Subject to a binding schedule, business transactions of
the accounting-relevant units are processed in line with IFRS
principles and in compliance with Group-wide, uniform procedures. These are then transmitted to the centralized HFM
system.
The auditing activities of the intra-Group auditors, which
represent a key element of our control mechanisms, are
focused on evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of
our IKS. Audits are also conducted during the stocktaking
of property, plant and equipment as well as inventories. In
addition to these measures, the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Supervisory Board monitor the accounting
process and the effectiveness of the IKS.
The management of the companies included in the
scope of fully consolidated companies and of the individual business units of DB Group verifies the completeness
and accuracy of data relevant to the financial statements
among other aspects, using a quarterly internal reporting
process. Confirmation is also given that the executives
responsible have implemented the centrally defined IKS
minimum standards for reporting and, where appropriate,
have supplemented these with their own documented control and monitoring tools.

The current risk situation is assessed on the basis of our RMS.
The system is based on the requirements of the KonTraG
and is continually evolving. During the year under review
there were no major methodological changes to that system.
During the year under review, the key risks of DB Group
were in the areas of economic climate, market and competition, and production and technology. Compared to the
previous year, the overall risk position in relation to the
forecast for the respective following year declined in the
year under review (€ – 0.6 billion). One of the reasons for this
was that risks with a high probability of occurrence were
already taken into account almost fully in the forecast.
For the forecast of DEVELOPMENT IN THE 2016 FINANCIAL YEAR
[PAGE 181 FF.] risks amounting to € 0.3 billion exist (thereof
very likely (vl): € 0.0 billion), including countermeasures.
These risks arise primarily in the areas of economic climate,
market and competition (€ 0.1 billion) and production and
technology (€ 0.1 billion).
Opportunities in relation to the forecast of development
in the 2016 financial year exist in the amount of € 0.2 billion
(thereof vl: € 0.0 billion). These opportunities exist primarily
in production and technology (€ 0.1 billion).
∫ We have addressed current quality deficiencies, e.g.
in relation to punctuality and comfort and convenience
on rail transport in Germany, through the comprehensive
R AILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] program.
Third-party evaluation is also an important indicator for
overall risk assessment. In addition to internal risk assessment, DB Group’s credit standing and its aggregated default
risk is also assessed by the two R ATING AGENCIES [PAGE 100]
Moody’s and S&P. Their external assessments of DB Group’s
overall risk position are reflected in the good ratings. Nevertheless, the decline in profits and the debt situation have
been reflected in the assessments of the rating agencies.
In terms of organization, we have created all of the conditions necessary to enable the early identification of possible risks. Our continuous risk management system and
the active management of key risk categories help limit
risks within DB Group. Key strategic opportunities and risks
were identified at the business unit level and stored in the
course of the SMP for operationalization with measures.
Our analyses of opportunities and risks, countermeasures, hedging and precautionary measures, together with
the opinion of the Group Management Board based on the

16 9

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

AND RMS WITH REGARD TO GROUP
ACCOUNTING PROCESS

F2
P. 141
P. 175

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

OV ERV IE W O F O PP O RT U NI T IE S A ND R I S K S
DIGITALIZATION

ONLINE PORTALS/
APPS

Improvement of
digital services for
internal processes
and customer offers.
LIBER ALIZATION

Ω PAGE 176

Loss of interface with
customer, greater
price transparency.
WORKING
ENVIRONMENT

COMPETITION

Market liberalization
in Europe offers
growth opportunities.

HR policy geared

to life phases.

Changed price
perception for
mobility services.

Ω PAGE 172

Ω PAGE 176

Ω PAGE 171

OPPORTUNITIES

LINK AGE

Ω PAGE 171

LACK OF SKILLED
EMPLOYEES

Competition for
well-trained
young staff.
Ω PAGE 173

RISKS
MARKET CHANGES

IMPROVEMENT IN
PRODUCT QUALITY

Increasing linkage
between modes
of transport.

Ω PAGE 171

Shift and change
of importance
of industries and
markets.

Increase in
customer approval.
GREEN PRODUCTS

Ω PAGE 172

Ω PAGE 171 F.

Positive perception
through environ­­
mental unique selling
points.
Ω PAGE 176

INNOVATIVE
TECHNOLOGIES

Decrease in
transport flows.
CLIMATE CHANGE

Ω PAGE 171

Damage to infra­
structure through
more frequent
extreme weather
events.
Ω PAGE 176

current risk assessment and our medium-term planning
(MTP), indicate that there are no risks that, individually or
jointly, could have an impact on the asset, financial and profit
situation of DB Group that would pose a threat to the Group
as a going concern.

μμThe development of key economic factors (such as disposable income or number of persons in active employment) is particularly important for passenger transport.
Risks arising from the sovereign debt crisis could have
adverse effects (particularly in the form of spending
cuts), especially on our DB Arriva activities.
Developments in the competitive environment are of particular importance for DB Group:
In long-distance transport, we are exposed to heavy interand intramodal competition, particularly with motorized
individual transport as the dominant competitor, but in­­
creasingly also with long-distance bus services. In­creased
competition has a negative impact on price perception.
This can lead to planned price measures only being partially implemented or even not at all.
There is intense competition in regional transport
through­­out Europe for securing long-term contracts. The
market volume here is greatly determined by the financial situation of the contracting organizations. Agreement in principle has been reached between the Federal
and state Governments on the future financing of re­­
gional rail passenger transport beyond the year 2015.

μμ

μμMajor opportunities and risks
μ μECONOMIC CLIMATE, MARKET

μμ

AND COMPETITION
Key topics: Development of macroeconomic fundamentals/
the economic environment, inter- and intramodal competition,
ordered services market for regional transport services, service
offerings, penalties in regional transport
Demand for our mobility services and, in particular, for our
transport and logistics services is dependent on overall
economic development, among other things:
Economic growth fuels the trends underlying our strategy
in our operating markets.
Macroeconomic shocks such as economic and financial
crises and economic fluctuations may adversely affect
our business.

μμ

μμ

μμ

	

170

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — O pportunit y and ris k report

We are responding to opportunities and risks arising from
changing demand patterns and from shifts in traffic patterns throughout the Group with intensive market observation and by continuously upgrading our portfolio and our
products:
∫ The growth of the sharing economy may provide an
opportunity to increase customer loyalty to public trans­
­p ort, particularly among young people. Car sharing
allows a mobile life without owning a car. By offering
services to this group, DB Group can exploit this change
in mobility behavior.
Digital innovations are opening up the possibility of
enhancing existing products with value-added services
or developing completely new logistics services. 3- D
printing, for example, has potential in this regard. However, this will also eliminate the need for some transport
in the future, which will lead to a fall in transport volume.
Structural changes to our customers’ production structures, as our customers are frequently faced with international competition.
Change in customers’ willingness to pay. Traction (especially block trains and combined transport), for example,
will become a commodity with low margins.
Relocation and fluctuations in the importance of industries and markets requires that the current portfolio and
its direction be continuously reviewed and developed.
This leads to risks and opportunities, primarily in the
logistics field.
The demand for our products and services is partly dependent on the development of our customers’ sales markets:
Our customersʼ economic development dictates their
need for storage and transport services, which in turn
affects our freight forwarding and logistics businesses.
Our activities are affected in particular by the very competitive nature of the market. We are responding to this
by further expanding our networks and improving our
cost structures, services and IT infrastructure.
Rail freight transport is partly dependent on industries
that are stagnating. The decline of coal as an energy
source in Germany, for example, is having an effect.
The development of demand in rail infrastructure is de­­
pendent on rail transport’s ability to compete on the
upstream transport markets.
Opportunities arise from new prospects due to change in
our markets:

There is the risk of losing tenders. To be able to succeed
in this market, we are constantly working to optimize
our tender management and our cost structure. What is
more, depending on the contract type, there is also the
risk of a loss of passengers without the possibility of
being able to adapt the operating schedules.
There is fierce intramodal and considerable intermodal
competitive pressure in rail freight transport. Risks arise
from the fact that competitors can operate with less ex­­
pensive cost structures while enjoying greater flexibility.
To address factor cost increases and business challenges
in Germany, the ACTION PLAN FOR GERMANY [PAGE 141] will be
continued and supplemented by additional structural
measures.
∫ A key component in facing the competition is improvement
in quality of service. Significant opportunities arise from the
trend towards digitalization:
We can use this to make processes in passenger transport more efficient and customer-focused.
Customers can be offered new and improved digital services, for example in the field of passenger information.
Online portals and apps facilitate access for customers,
but also alter the price perception of mobility services.
Key sales market opportunities and risks also result from
foreseeable changes in the competitive situation:
With the rise of the sharing economy, more mobility ser­
­vice providers and rising cost transparency, price perceptions of mobility services is changing. Digital platforms are increasing cost transparency across all modes
of transport. This offers the opportunity that public trans­
­port usage will become more intensive compared with
a private car. However, higher quality mobility services
are feeling the squeeze, for example, from low-priced
carpooling and the online cost comparisons.
∫ New online portals may result in the loss of the customer interface.
Pure brokerage of transport capacity by freight forwarders could be taken over gradually by online services, such as online booking platforms. In addition, it
would be possible to exploit the high volume levels on
booking platforms for grouping purchasing.

μμ

μμ

P. 159
P. 171

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

F4

P. 171
P. 172

P. 159
P. 172

μμ

μμ
μμ

μμ
μμ

171

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

F4

F5

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμThe increasing linkage of different modes of transport

In regional transport, a risk can arise from the redundancy
of vehicles following the expiry or re-tendering of a transport contract. As a countermeasure, alternative possible
uses are checked continuously.
∫ “Digitalization” refers to a phenomenon in which IT is
making its way into more and more areas of working and
professional life, where it is becoming increasingly indispensable. For DB Group this means that dependence on
secure IT that is available around the clock will continue to
increase in future. This dependence also entails potential
risks, such as a break in the availability of IT systems or
hacking of customers’ data. DB Group must respond sys­­
tematically and appropriately to these threats and risks.
Our forward-looking IT security management ensures
that the necessary security measures are in place for our
IT-based business processes. A key tool in this respect is
risk management for IT applications and IT infrastructure/
services. The relevant risks are systematically identified,
analyzed, evaluated and reduced. Residual risks are documented, reported to the competent department as applicable, and monitored. The IT risk management of DB Group
follows the internationally accepted standard as defined in
ISO 27001/27002:2013 and applies regardless of the IT service provider that is contracted.
In order to avoid critical gaps in security, appropriate
counter­­measures (such as firewalls, encryption and reserved
areas of servers) have been implemented, as well as prompt
updating of software. In order to ensure high availability of
IT operations, we use redundant systems distributed across
different locations. Data backup is carried out at a separate
location from actual operations. Operational management
is performed by trained personnel and there is clear separation of responsibilities. Our wide area network (WAN) is
redundantly designed wherever IT security and business
continuity require this. Penetration tests are conducted
systematically and regularly for the most important IT
applications, with the aim of detecting weak points at an
early stage and eliminating them. These measures reduce
the risk of IT system failures and avoid large-scale disruptions, ensuring that mission-critical business processes are
operational at all times.
Sufficient availability of our VEHICLE FLEET [PAGE 1 31] is
essential for our operations. Significant reductions in
vehicle availability pose a threat to operating schedules.
We try to minimize this risk by taking preventative actions
and also by minimizing the consequences should it happen,
such as by providing replacement vehicles or by organizing
replacement transport services.

affords an opportunity to develop stations into central
mobility hubs between different transport networks.
New market segments are being created along the trans­
­port chain by new competitors such as long-distance
bus services (by expanding long-distance bus stations
at railway stations, for example).
∫ The liberalization of the value chain for rail freight
transport has created new market segments (such as
rental of locomotives, cars and personnel as well as main­
­tenance). Here we can record additional growth from
existing resources (for example car fleet and workshops)
and economies of scale.
Opportunities and risks arise throughout DB Group from
the potential exploitation of big data:
Big data analytics offers the chance to better understand our customer portfolio and optimize the way we
approach customers through, inter alia, customer segmentation based on big data analytics (“predictive selling”)
and adjustment of our portfolio of services through im­­
proved transparency when it comes to customer data.
∫ New, efficient competitors from outside the transport
sector with a thorough understanding of the digital
economy could establish themselves as independent
players in the transport market. With a high capacity to
innovate and sizable financial resources, it is mainly
com­­panies from the ICT sector which pose a risk for
incumbents.

μμ

F5
P. 171
P. 176

μμ

μμ

F4
P. 171
P. 172

μμ

μ μPRODUCTION AND TECHNOLOGY
Key topics: technical malfunctions, technology risks (vehicles,
infrastructure, IT and telecommunications), increased maintenance requirements, risk of customs offenses and thefts,
noise abatement, technical progress, efficiency increases,
rent­­al and sale of real estate

F3
P. 164
P. 175

If the quality of long-distance transport services suffers,
this has an impact on production and service quality and can
lead to the loss of customers. The postponement of delivery
of new rolling stock causes revenue losses and additional
costs.
∫ The availability and the condition of rail infrastructure
are a key prerequisite for the performance capabilities of
rail transport. Construction work on the network affects
schedules and the production quality of carriers, part of
which cannot be compensated.

172

F4
P. 172
P. 176

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — O pportunit y and ris k report

Our life-phase-oriented HR policy gives us the opportunity
to promote loyalty among employees. Flexible working
time models and jobs designed specifically for the age of
the employee contribute to this, as do the job security we
offer and our intensive work on our corporate culture.
Diversity in the workforce can lead to more creativity
and productivity. Young employees bring new ideas and
concepts into the working routine. Older employees have
varied and extensive experience, and pass on their knowledge to new groups of employees. In addition, in mixed
teams, new perspectives and viewpoints are contributed to
the solution-finding process. In the long term, and in an
appropriate corporate culture, this can have an impact on
the innovation capacity and performance of DB Group.

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

In regional transport, there is the additional risk of penalties
imposed by the relevant contracting organizations if trains
are canceled or punctuality targets are missed.
PUNCTUALITY [PAGE 142] is a key factor for rail freight transport customers when selecting a mode of transport. In ad­­
dition to this, irregularities can occur during operations,
such as customs offenses and theft. We combat these risks
with measures such as employing qualified customs coordinators and using a system of immediate reporting for tax
assessment notices.
The range and quality of our services depend to a significant extent on the availability and reliability of the production resources used, intermediate services procured and
the quality of our partners’ services. We therefore keep up
an intense dialog with our suppliers and business partners
on the subject of quality. This is of particular importance in
the vehicle industry.
The technical production resources used in rail transport
must comply with applicable standards and requirements,
which are subject to change. As a result, we may receive
technical complaints concerning our vehicles. This leads to
the risk that we may only be permitted to use individual
series or rail car types under certain conditions, such as
limited speeds, shorter intervals between maintenance or
reduced wheel set loads. In addition, we cannot accept
newly purchased vehicles that have flaws or for which the
necessary vehicle certification has not been granted.

μ μREGULATION
Key topics: government intervention or changes in the regulatory environment (access, pricing and the unbundling
require­­ments relating to railway-specific infrastructure)
Regulation to the detriment of rail, for example due to
additional legislative requirements, endangers intermodal
competitiveness. Changes to the legal framework at national
or European level could pose risks to our business. This general regulatory risk could result in tangible negative effects
on revenues and profit.
DB Group provides rail transport services in a regulated
market. These regulations govern the individual components
of the pricing systems, and general terms and conditions
applied by our rail infrastructure companies. Risks in this
regard are com­­­­­­plaints and intervention. Measures that
threaten or even prevent DB Group from attaining reasonable returns in our infrastructure business units (such as
intervention in pricing systems) make it more difficult to
control these activities from a business perspective and can
therefore threaten financing contributions by DB Group to
infrastructure capital expenditures.
Political risks concern particularly a tightening of existing
standards and regulations affecting the railways. The structure of DB Group may also expose it to regulatory risks.
These could arise on a national or a European level.
In order to respond to risks resulting from changing legal
framework conditions on either a national or international
level, we take an active part in the discussions and debates
that take place ahead of this type of change.

μ μPERSONNEL
Key topics: collective bargaining agreements, Group-wide
labor market, pension commitments
To be able to hold our own against the competition, our
personnel cost structure plays an important role. Our target
is always to conclude competitive collective bargaining
agreements in terms of the labor market and the transport
market.
Due to demographic changes and the associated lack of
skilled employees, it is becoming increasingly difficult to
fill vacancies with qualified personnel. This in turn leads to
risks such as lack of know-how transfer and the restriction
of opportunities for career development.

173

GRI
DB 05

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μPROCUREMENT/ENERGY MARKET

To prevent the counterparty default risk from financial and
energy derivatives, we conclude credit support agreements
(CSA) for all hedges.
Due to the long-term capital employed, we also use longterm financial instruments. As a result, only new issues are
exposed to the risk of rising interest rates. We apply a conser­
­vative planning approach to deal with risks arising from capital market performance or a deterioration in credit ratings.
Pensions and similar retirement benefit obligations are
partially covered by plan assets from stocks, real estate,
fixed-income securities and other investments. Value losses
in these assets directly reduce the cover of pension obli­
gations by plan assets, potentially resulting in DB Group
having to provide additional cover.
In addition, there are potential risks from back-tax payments from tax audits that are in progress.

Key topics: price trends for external procurement markets,
full auctioning of CO ₂ certificates
Rising energy prices are threatening the intermodal competitive advantage of rail. Purchase prices for raw materials,
energy and transport services vary according to market
conditions. This means that depending on the market conditions and our competitive situation, it may not be possible or may only be possible to a very limited extent to pass
increased costs on to the customer in the short term. This
in turn has a negative impact on margins.
We respond to the risk of increasing energy prices by
using appropriate DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS [PAGE 222 FF.]
and entering into long-term procurement contracts. However, these safeguards also limit opportunities arising from
trends in energy prices. In the event of falling energy prices,
we do not benefit from the market trend and could lose
intramodal competitiveness.
Due to the heavily electricity-biased energy mix of
DB Group, changes in oil prices have no significant effects.
However, changes in electricity prices, for example due to
the EEG levy, can have a significant impact on profits.
Further potential for procurement prices can be leveraged by bundling requirements and optimizing the pro­­
curement strategy.
Noticeable train-path price increases by national infrastructure operators outside of Germany (for example in
France) result in costs for the use of infrastructure rising
significantly. Due to the intensity of competition, it is not
always possible to pass on cost increases.

μ μLAW AND CONTRACTS
Key topics: compensation claims, lawsuits, active and passive claims
As a result of delayed vehicle deliveries and vehicle defects,
operating difficulties and breaches of contract or non-compliances arise with respect to contracting organizations.
Higher expenses and penalty payments combined with
lower fares are the result. Damages claims against the manufacturers were therefore initiated or are in preparation.
Provisions have been made for legal and contractual risks
based on an assessment of their probability of occurrence.
Opportunities arise from the discovery of cartels that
operated in the past and the enforcement of claims for
damages against cartel members.
Compliance with current laws, company guidelines and
recognized regulatory standards is the task and duty of
every DB Group employee. It is the mission of our COMPLIANCE DEPARTMENT [PAGE 0 49 F.] to ensure compliance with
such criteria.
Large-scale capital expenditures mean that the Infrastructure business units are exposed to a significant risk
of becoming the target and victim of corruption, cartel
agreements or fraud. As a third-party provider of financing, the Federal Government is placing high demands on
DB Group with its anti-corruption guidelines.

μ μCAPITAL MARKETS AND TAXES
Key topics: Interest and currency risks
The expansion of our international business entails currency
risks. This risk, however, is largely limited to the so-called
translation risk, since usually there is a high regional congruence between the production and sales markets. We use
original and derivative financial instruments as one means
of countering interest rate, currency and energy price risks
from our operating business. These instruments are discussed in the notes. Within DB Group, they may only be used
for hedging purposes. There is a risk that these hedging
measures will not pay off, or not in the way expected.

174

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — O pportunit y and ris k report

Also price increases in bought-in services or for construction can have negative consequences and may lead, for
example, to liquidity risks. We keep up to date with this by
closely monitoring projects. This applies in particular to
large, centrally managed projects.
∫ Realization of the extensive measures required for the
Railway of the Future program is subject to uncertainty.
These measures are required for eliminating deficiencies in
the railway in Germany.

Key topics: Disasters and accidents, sabotage, extortion
Our activities as a train operating company are based on a
technologically complex, networked production system. In
general, we try to combat the risk of potential operational
disruptions through regular maintenance and by taking on
qualified employees, coupled with continuous quality as­­
surance and improvement of our processes. The nature of
rail transport as an open system means that certain factors
(such as natural disasters, accidents, sabotage and theft)
over which we have only limited influence could have a
negative impact on operations. Our efforts in such cases
focus on minimizing the potential effects. However, this
could also result in cost risks from countermeasures.
Increasing damage to infrastructure by the accumulation of extreme weather events due to climate change lead,
inter alia, to loss of income due to reduced services due to
weather-related breakdowns and increased need for expenditures on preventive measures.
In order to adapt the means of production to extreme
weather phenomena and to avoid restricted operating
quality due to weather damage, DB Group is working with
national and international experts on the adaptation of
external technical regulations to altered climatic conditions.
In addition, DB Group is reviewing its own rules bearing in
mind the impact of a changing climate.

μ μOTHER ISSUES
μμPROJECT RISKS
Our measures involve not only in part huge capital expenditure volumes, but also a large number of highly complex
projects. Changes in the legal framework, delays in implementation (including due to ever-more comprehensive public
consultation), necessary adjustments during the frequent
multi-year project periods or deviations from the ramp-up
curves agreed with the Federal Government for the capital
expenditures funds available can lead to project risks. The
net­­worked production structure means that these can often
affect a number of business units. For example, in such cases
planned modal shifts from road to rail will not be feasible.
Due to the budget carry-forward principle agreed with the
Federal Government, no funding was lost due to procedural
delays.

P. 169
P. 176

μμINFRASTRUCTURE FINANCING

GRI

As a key element of the German Rail Reform the Federal
Government has enacted a constitutional obligation to
finance the capital expenditures in rail infrastructure. The
main criterion is the provision of sufficient amounts of
funding, but also the ability to plan the financing available
in the future. In addition to the risk of a lack of available
funds for financing capital expenditures, there is also a risk
of insufficient funds for the adequate maintenance of the
existing network. The economic sustainability of capital
expenditures or financial contributions to capital expenditure projects funded with DB funds is essential if we are to
ensure DB Group’s ability to invest in the long term.
We have an agreement with the Federal Government
that sets out the financing of the existing network until
2019. The higher funding of the LuFV II and the associated
long-term safeguarding of infrastructure quality and availability increase the attractiveness of rail as a mode of transport. Positive effects from this could be felt in higher revenues from the infrastructure companies. The profits of
infrastructure companies in turn are plowed back into the
infrastructure via the funding cycle. Risks arise from a possible failure to achieve the quality targets set out in LuFV II.
However, to ensure the long-term competitiveness of
rail as a mode of transport, sufficient financial means must
be available to ensure systematic new construction and ex­­
pansion as well as to eliminate bottlenecks (requirement
plan capital expenditures).
There is also the risk that the Federal Government could
reclaim its funding on the basis of an audit of exactly how
the Federal funds were used.

G4-EC7

μμPOLITICAL RISKS
EUROFIMA has made loans to state-owned railways that

now have poor credit ratings. If these state-owned railways
should fail to meet their financial obligations to EUROFIMA,

175

F2

F3
P. 172

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μ μSIGNIFICANT EVENTS

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μDEMOGRAPHY

this could have repercussions for the book value of the
participating interest, and under certain circumstances
trigger further financial obligations.

The trends of demographic change, diverse lifestyles, our
achievement-oriented society and the battle for talent all
put their special mark on our HR management. With our
HR 2020 strategy we give answers on how to make HR management fit for the future.
For example, we counter demographic changes by giving
employees the opportunity to design their working time
and working conditions flexibly, such as with long-term
work accounts and sabbaticals. We also have numerous
innovative pilot projects that offer our employees custom-fit ways to transition to flexible working hours.
We meet the diverse lifestyles and the trend to an achieve­
­ment-oriented society by offering ways to make family
and personal life more compatible with part-time management and much more. In addition, we have been work­
­ing continuously on further developing our corporate
culture.
In order to stay ahead in the battle for talent we work
intensively on our image and our attractiveness as an em­­
ployer. To identify possible bottlenecks early enough so
as to react in the appropriate manner, we rely on strategic
personnel planning which gives a ten-year forecast.

μμKey actions
F2
P. 175
P. 181

μ μRAILWAY OF THE FUTURE PROGRAM

GRI
DB 08

μμ

In August 2015 the RAILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] program
was set up with the objective of developing measures across
all business units in order to strengthen railway operations
in Germany and in particular to improve product quality
significantly.

μμ
F4
P. 172
P. 181

F5
P. 172
P. 177

μ μDIGITALIZATION
Digitalization affects almost every aspect of life. Information and communication technologies are having ever-increasing influence. For mobility and logistics providers, it
is increasingly important to digitalize products. Digitalization can be used to leverage internal cost-cutting. The
expansion of automated solutions and processes is of major
importance in this respect. We are responding with SIX INITIATIVES [PAGE 071 F.], through which we intend to drive the
digital transformation of the DB Group forward.

μμ

μ μMARKET DEVELOPMENT

μ μCLIMATE PROTECTION

DB Group is active in attractive markets with good growth
prospects:
With DB Arriva, we have positioned ourselves in such a
way that we are well prepared to take advantage of the
opportunities posed by open and opening markets. As
a result of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, we see
opportunities in increased tender procedure activities
for bus and rail transport in countries where their governments are forced to implement austerity measures.
In addition, there is the possibility that new markets or
market segments will be opened for competition.
Different patterns of growth are apparent in logistics
markets worldwide. For example, emerging markets and
certain vertical markets, such as healthcare, are experiencing growth at an above-average level. By focusing
more closely on particular verticals and geographic markets, DB Schenker can increase its proximity to customers and exploit existing opportunities for growth.
A sustained high level of growth is expected for the
European parcels market in the next few years, driven
by the robust e-commerce business. This provides an
opportunity for DB Schenker to grow significantly in this
promising segment by introducing a European package
product.

Environmental unique selling points improve customers’
positive opinions and thus improve external perception.
Such activities not only have a positive effect on shrinking
our carbon footprint, they can also have a positive influence
on customer satisfaction and our market position.
To generate an environmental unique selling point based
on CO₂-free transport we offer our customers green prod­
­ucts based on renewable energy.
In order to increase efficiency in the area of traction cur­
­rent we regularly offer training courses on energysaving driving style and in future will also continuously
invest in the renewal of our vehicle fleet.
In the area of stationary facilities we intend to gradually
establish a professional energy management and an
innovative stationary power supply through numerous
activities as well as already implemented “beacons of
light,” such as climate-neutral station buildings and
intelligent mobility stations.

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

μμ

176

GRI
DB 09

GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT — OPPORTUNIT Y AND RISK REPORT
E v ents a f ter the balance sheet date

EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
177
for the implementation
of Directive 2012/34/EU
adopted

GRI
DB 05

μμLawsuit by the

177
Federal state of
Saxony-Anhalt claiming
compensation for
cartel damages

μμDB Schenker
acquires majority of
British firm Redhead
	

μμGovernment draft for

177

μμTrain accident 

177

near Bad Aibling

transport-related contractual claims against the Federal
state of Saxony-Anhalt for reimbursement of increased
infra­­structure usage costs for the years 2008 to 2015. DB
Regio AG will also assert these claims through due legal
process.

the implement of Directive
2012/34/EU adopted

The German Federal Cabinet adopted the draft for the LAW
TO STRENGTHEN COMPETITION IN THE R AILWAY SECTOR [PAGE 087] on
January 13, 2016. The key element is the Railway Regulation
Act (ERegG). Changes are also to be made to the General
Railway Act (Allgemeines Eisenbahngesetz). The purpose
of the draft bill is to implement the Directive 2012/34/EU
(Recast). The decision by the Federal Government will now
be followed by the legislative procedure in the two houses
of the German parliament (Bundestag and Bundesrat).
DB Group advocates a one-to-one transposition of the
EU Directive into German law in order that the single European railway area can be established. In some places, the
draft went far beyond the specifications laid out in the
recast version. All in all, it results in a considerable tightening of the regulatory framework. Among other items
foreseen were a tightening of the provisions for the regulation of fees as well as a significant expansion of the competencies of the BNetzA . As far as we are concerned, it is
essential that the regulatory framework be reliable and
compatible with entrepreneurial management and the
required capital expenditures. It must also be ensured that
the intermodal competitiveness of rail is not further ad­­
versely affected.

μμDB Schenker acquires majority
of British firm Redhead

Following approval by the competent authorities, Schenker
AG acquired 75% of Redhead Holdings Ltd., Bradford/UK,
at the end of January 2016. The contract provides for acquisition of the remaining 25% after four years. The seller was
also granted the right to sell the shares it still holds to
DB Group. A total purchase price of € 13 million was agreed
for 100% of the shares.
This acquisition underscores our strategy of further
strengthening our pan-European network. The new land
transport organization of DB Schenker in Great Britain now
has a network of five locations, serving the entire British
market. As part of the acquisition, DB Schenker is also gaining
access to the national pallet network PALLETFORCE Œ. With
more than 100 strategically located depots, it is one of the
largest and most efficient national pallet networks in Great
Britain. For DB Schenker this represents a significant ex­­
pansion of its own land transport network.

μμTrain accident near Bad Aibling

μμLawsuit by the Federal state

At the beginning of February 2016, a serious train accident
occurred on the line between Bad Aibling and Kolbermoor
in Bavaria. The casualties included several fatalities and
numerous injuries. DB Group is working closely with the in­­
vestigating authorities to establish the cause of the accident.

of Saxony-Anhalt claiming
compensation for cartel damages

The Federal state of Saxony-Anhalt has brought a lawsuit
against DB Netz AG, DB Regio AG and DB AG, claiming compensation for cartel damages. The lawsuit is based on
allegedly illegal train-path pricing by DB Netz AG through
the levying of regional factors in the years 2003 to 2011.
The accused DB companies will defend themselves against
the lawsuit. Conversely, DB Regio AG still has outstanding

177

F5
P. 176

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμGovernment draft 

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

OUTLOOK
μμFuture direction 

178

μμEconomic outlook

178

μμAnticipated179

of DB Group

μμAnticipated 
development of
important
business conditions

180

μμAnticipated 

181

F1

development of the
procurement and
financial markets

μμOverall statement 

184
of the Management
Board regarding
the economic development of DB Group

development of
DB Group

μμFuture direction of DB Group
P. 097

μμAnticipated180

development of the
relevant markets

In the area of rail freight transport, our focus continues to
be on the European market. We are well positioned in all of
the central European corridors and can offer service connections to locations as far afield as China.
We also do not expect significant changes in the freight
forwarding and logistics area in 2016. DB Schenker is
already very well represented in all key markets and regions.

μ μFUTURE BUSINESS POLICY
We want to assert our market positions in 2016 and stimulate organic growth in our business units. In our DB2020
strategy we have defined the strategic directions for the
coming years and we have been pursuing these consistently.
In the 2016 financial year, the focus of our activities will be
on implementing the Group restructuring and, as part of
these efforts, the RAILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] program.

μμEconomic outlook
μμ Forecasts for development in 2016 are based
on the assumption of no further deterioration

μ μFUTURE STRATEGIC FOCUS

of the geopolitical situation.

In our DB2020 strategy we have defined the strategic directions for the coming years and we have been pursuing these
consistently. A particular focus will be on the ECONOMIC ≈
dimension, given the challenges in this area. In the year
under review, we initiated a far-reaching Group restructuring, which places special emphasis on increasing the
competitiveness of the railway in Germany through the
RAILWAY OF THE FUTURE [PAGE 069 FF.] program. This restructuring
takes advantage of the potential offered by DIGITALIZATION

Anticipated development [%]

2015

2016

GDP World

+2.5

~ +2.5

Global trade 1)

+1.0

~ +3.0

GDP Eurozone

+1.5

~ +1.5

GDP Germany

+1.4

~ +1.5

1)

Trade in goods only.

The data for 2015, adjusted for price and calendar effects, is based on
the information and estimates available as of February 2016. Expectations
for 2016 are rounded off to the nearest half percentage point.
Source: Oxford Economics.

[PAGE 071 F.].

In 2016, we expect global economic growth to remain at ap­­
proximately the same level as the year under review. While
many industrialized countries, including in the Eurozone,
are seeing a slight acceleration of economic growth, developments in China, in particular, continue to trend negative.
Global trade is likely to increase slightly more than in the
previous year, although it will remain at a below-average
level. A key prerequisite for this is the recovery of Chinese
foreign trade.
Growth in the USA is expected to be slightly below the
previous yearʼs level in 2016. The recovery in the labor
market is reflected in rising wages, which have a positive effect on real incomes and private consumption.
The strong US dollar and rising interest rates will have
a dampening effect.

μ μFUTURE SALES MARKETS
Our opportunities for growth in the German passenger trans­
­port market are limited due to the high level of competition
and restrictions imposed by antitrust laws. As a result, we
are primarily focused on defending our strong market position and strengthening the competitive position of the railways in an intermodal context. Our potential for growth in
the area of passenger transport services lies in other European countries and in cross-border long-distance rail passenger transport services.

μμ

178

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — O ut l oo k

μμIn China, growth rates are expected to decline further.

μμ

This is related to the growing significance of private
consumer demand and of the service and technology
sectors for overall economic growth. The reduction in
construction investment and falling exports will have a
negative impact.
In 2016, Europe should grow at the previous yearʼs level.
The Eurozone will see a slight increase in growth due to
the continued recovery of the labor market and the low
euro. Great Britain, Sweden and Poland are expected to
record stronger growth than the Eurozone; Russia will
be weaker due to the development of oil prices.
A moderate acceleration of growth is also expected for
Germany. The good employment situation and rising
incomes will provide a boost here. The influx of migrants
will present a positive stimulus in the short term.

μ μFREIGHT TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Æ
Anticipated market development [%]
German freight transport (based on tkm)

μ μPASSENGER TRANSPORT
Æ
German passenger transport market (based on pkm)

European rail freight transport (based on tkm)

~ 0.0

~ +2.0

European land transport (based on revenues)

~ +1.3

~ +1.5–+2.0

Global air freight (based on t)

~ +1.3

~ +2.5

Global ocean freight (based on TEU)

~ +1.2

~ +3.0

Global contract logistics (based on revenues)

~ + 5.4

~ + 6.0

In the German freight transport market in 2016, we expect
growth to remain at the previous year’s level, and we therefore expect steady recovery. The market will continue to be
characterized by a high level of intermodal and intramodal
competitive pressure.
Rail freight transport in Germany is likely to be somewhat stronger in 2016 than in the previous year given
the overall stable economic environment supported by
a positive base effect following the strike-related losses.
However, structural measures at DB Cargo are likely to
limit the increase in volume.
Road freight traffic should also continue to benefit from
the robust development of foreign trade and in the do­­
mestic market, and should see a slightly above-average
increase in volume sold.
Inland waterway transport is expected to record a very
large increase in volume, supported by a positive base
effect due to the severe restrictions caused by low water
levels in 2015.
Positive developments are expected for the European rail
freight transport market in 2016. Growth will be based mainly
on intermodal transport and industries that are key to rail
freight transport, such as automobiles, building materials
and chemicals.
The European land transport market is expected to record
revenue growth slightly above the previous yearʼs level. We
can only expect prices to recover if there is stable long-term
growth in volume due to continuing strong margin pressure.
Expectations for air freight growth in 2016 are significantly above the year under review. This growth will be
driven mainly by the emerging markets. Capacity in the
market is also expected to increase further, as the airlines

of the relevant markets

Anticipated market development [%]

2016
~ +2.0–+2.5

The data for 2015 is based on the information and estimates available as of February
2016. Expectations for 2016 are rounded off to the nearest half percentage point.

μμAnticipated development

|

2015
~ +1.4

2015

2016

+1.3

+1.5

μμ

The data for 2015 is based on the information and estimates available as of February
2016. Expectations for 2016 are rounded off to the nearest half percentage point.

In the German passenger transport market, we expect growth
in volume sold in 2016 to be at the level of the year under
review. The socioeconomic and general economic conditions
remain positive. Although population and employment
figures will rise only slightly, real disposable income will
again increase noticeably. Fuel prices are also expected to
decline further on average for the year.
The competition among modes of transport will remain
tense for the foreseeable future:
Gains in volume for motorized individual transport due
to positive income growth and low fuel prices.
Robust increase in volume of rail passenger transport,
supported by the expansion in services for long-distance
rail passenger transport.
Public road passenger transport with further slight de­­
clines in regional bus services due to the declining numbers of school students and vocational trainees, but
with strong growth in long-distance bus services due to
the continued expansion of service.
Air traffic within Germany up significantly due to growing
supply and falling prices resulting from more intense
competition between airlines.

μμ

μμ

μμ
μμ
μμ

μμ

179

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

μμ

As in previous years, volume developments in the European
passenger transport market are expected to vary from one
region to another. In many Eurozone countries there are
signs of a continued slight improvement in economic conditions. In some countries outside the Eurozone, such as
Great Britain, Sweden, Poland and the Czech Republic, developments are expected to be significantly positive.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

are investing in their networks and adding additional routes
to their flight plans. The increasing capacity, combined with
the expected low oil price, will also keep rates at a low level.
Global ocean freight is also expected to record higher
growth in 2016 than in the year under review, as demand
for transport should recover slightly with the renewed rise
in global trade. However, rates are also expected to be at
a low level, driven by the low oil price and the continued
excess supply. Shipping companies may attempt to raise
rates by decommissioning or scrapping ships to correct
excess capacity.
We are assuming slightly accelerated market growth for
contract logistics/SCM in 2016. The core industries automotive, healthcare and industrial will continue to be the main
drivers of expected growth. The region with the strongest
growth is likely to continue to be Asia/Pacific, with China
continuing to play a prominent role.

μ μINFRASTRUCTURE
Overall, we expect demand to remain stable in 2016. For
example, in long-distance passenger transport we expect
a slightly positive development due to the expansion of
service (including the Sylt Shuttle and COMMISSIONING OF THE
VDE 8. 2 [PAGE 1 53]). In contrast, the optimization of circulation and construction site-related restrictions may result in
a slight drop in train-path demand in local rail passenger
transport. In rail freight transport, however, we are assum­
­ing slight growth.
Due to the ongoing construction activity, we expect the
development of station stops to be constant. The share of
train stops by non-DB Group train operating companies will
continue to increase.
Slightly positive developments are being forecast for real
retail sales (excluding cars and gas stations) in Germany in
2016. Leasing income in stations will also show stable
development and be just over the level of the previous year.

μμAnticipated development
of the procurement
and financial markets

μ μPROCUREMENT MARKETS
We continue to expect no bottlenecks in procurement. Due
to the oversupply in the oil market, no significant increase
in the oil price is expected in the foreseeable future. Geopolitical risks have moved to the background. In Germany
there will continue to be struggles over the design of the new
electricity market (Electricity Market 2.0). The wholesale
price might fall even further without political intervention.

μ μFINANCIAL MARKETS
The global financial markets are likely to continue their
positive trend under challenging conditions. However, share
price turbulence, as seen in 2015, cannot be ruled out. The
monetary policies of the largest global central banks will
have a significant influence. Although the Fedʼs exit from
its low interest rate policy is presumed to be largely priced
in, there are uncertainties about the global impact of this
move, especially in the emerging markets. In this context,
concerns about developments in China will remain in focus.
The ECBʼs monetary policy, with an expected expansion
of its monthly bond purchases, also determines yield levels,
particularly in the Eurozone. Accordingly, continued support
for the bond markets can be assumed.
Looking at the currency markets, the euro–dollar ex­­
change rate can be expected to stabilize compared to 2015.

μμAnticipated development of

important business conditions

In the context of transport policy and the regulatory environ­
­ment, it cannot be ruled out that the legislative proposals
to implement Directive 2012/34/EU (ERegG) may have
noticeable effects on our business activities in the future.
In view of the current plans, however, we do not expect any
implementation to have a significant impact during the
2016 financial year.

180

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — O ut l oo k

μμAnticipated development

μμDB Long-Distance
μμThe booking options in DB Navigator are being adapted

≈
Anticipated development of DB Group

2015

2016

Volume sold rail passenger transport
(Germany) (million pkm)

79,434 ~ + 0.5%

–

Volume sold rail freight transport (million tkm)

98,445 ~ +1.0%

–

1,053 ~ + 0.5%

–

Train kilometers on track infrastructure
(million train-path km)
Shipments in European land transport (thousand)

101,703

+1 – 2%

–

Air freight volume (export) (thousand t)

1,128

+3 – 4%

–

Ocean freight volume (thousand TEU)

1,942

+3 – 4%

–

Customer satisfaction, passengers
Punctuality DB Group (rail)
Revenues

(SI)

in Germany (%)

(€ billion)

EBIT adjusted (€ billion)
ROCE

(%)

Redemption coverage

(%)

μμ

2020

76.4

~77

≥ 79

93.6

~ 94.5

> 95

40.5

> 41.5

> 50

1.8

>1.8

–

5.3

> 5.3

≥ 9.0

18.5

~17

≥ 30

μμ
μμ
μμ
μμ

μμDB Regional

Volume sold at DB Long-Distance should increase in the 2016
financial year due to improved quality of performance. By
contrast, volume development of DB Regional will be negative due to lost tenders. Train-path demand is likely to rise
slightly again in the 2016 financial year, due mainly to an
expected in­­crease in demand in rail freight transport. This
means that the trend of continuous increase in train-path
demand from non-DB Group customers will continue.
Further improvements in economic and market expectations are also reflected in the expectation of improved
performance by DB Schenker. We expect all lines of business
to experience growth roughly in line with the market.

μμThe DB Streckenagent (route agent) app is being con-

μμ
μμ

μ μCUSTOMER AND QUALITY

F2
P. 176
P. 183

specifically for mobile devices.
The customer-generated question/answer pairs in the
DB BAHN SERVICE COMMUNITY Œ will be integrated into the
bahn.de search and content pages. The community is
also integrated with DB Navigator.
The ICE portal will be expanded to include entertainment programming and value-added services.
The introduction of WiFi in 2nd class and the installation of new repeaters will primarily take place in 2016.
The new wall designs with different motifs and special
scents should make ICE toilets more pleasant and more
attractive.
DB THINK TANK Œ gives customers a platform to participate in the (further) development of our products.

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

of DB Group

We expect a slight improvement in customer satisfaction
due to the variety of measures initiated in the year under
review in the private customer area.
∫ Punctuality in rail transport should rise in 2016
based on the measures in the Railway of the Future
program.
Several campaigns have been planned or are already in
implementation for the stabilization and sustainable im­prove­
­ment of customer satisfaction and product quality in 2016:

μμ
μμ

μμ
μμ

181

tinuously upgraded. In 2016, it will be introduced in
Bavaria followed by rollout in other Federal states. Disruption notifications will then be communicated in real
time via push. In addition, travel alternatives can be
retrieved, the route view can be replaced by the start/
destination view, and local rail passenger transport maps
can be viewed.
∫ As part of the transport association sales digitalization
program, DB Navigator and bahn.de will provide more
information and booking options for regional services.
Seat reservations for the SÜWEX will be extended to the
entire SÜWEX network.
The fellow passenger app will be rolled out in further
Federal states in the coming year.
Close cooperation with transport authorities, mobile
operators and technical partners will make it possible
to begin WiFi service on the first regional transport
lines in 2016.
Wall stickers and fragrance will make train toilets more
attractive and their use more pleasant.
Work will continue on the marketing of FLINC Œ in order
to improve connections in rural areas. In addition, we
intend to ensure linkage with taxi, rental car and health
mobility services, retail logistics, and private ride
sharing.

F4
P. 176
P. 182

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμDB Arriva

modular structure allows customers to efficiently control and manage consumption and costs. The platform
will be available at all sites as well as via smartphones
and tablets.

μμ∫ The first smartphone-based ticketing in the British

μμ

μμ

railway industry will be implemented by March 2016.
The new technology enables DB Arriva employees to provide passengers with information about their trip and to
buy tickets.
The Northern Rail transport contract adds 5,000 new
employees to DB Arriva. Extensive capital expenditures
are planned in ticketing and in the area of travel centers – including staffing 45 currently unoccupied stations.
By the end of 2016, Chiltern will improve cell phone re­­
ception and WiFi availability on the Birmingham–London
line through its partnership with the telephone company EE.

μμDB Cargo

μ μPROFITABLE GROWTH
μμ Following the weak development recorded in the
year under review, we anticipate that the financial
position will record slightly positive development
in the 2016 financial year.

μμ The development is based on our expectations
regarding market, competition and environmental
developments, as well as the successful imple­m en­­
tation of planned measures.

μμThe main drivers of revenue growth will be DB Arriva,

μμIn order to increase reliability and predictability in the
execution of transports, introduction of the capacitychecked network is planned as part of the network rail.
In the future, customers will order their transport in two
steps, taking into account order deadlines. After the
order is placed, DB Cargo verifies that there is adequate
free capacity in the network and calculates an expected
time of receipt. In 2016, all DB Cargo customers will be
able to benefit from two-step electronic ordering, and
obtain a receipt time for their individual rail car shipments.

DB Schenker and DB Netze Track.

μμIn terms of profits, we do not expect revenue gains to

μμ

μμ

be fully mirrored in the development of profits. The costs
associated with factors such as the wage increase are
becoming noticeable, as are the costs for our programs
to improve product quality and punctuality.
The ROCE is expected to improve as a result of the
slightly positive development of adjusted EBIT in conjunction with a proportionately smaller increase in capital
employed.
Redemption coverage is set to decrease on the basis of
the increase in net financial debt.

μμDB Schenker
μμAs part of the cooperation agreement with GLS, which
begins in 2016, shipment of B2C packages, which GLS will
deliver, will be increasingly offered to B2B customers
across Europe. At the same time, DB Schenker will process general cargo for the new partner.

μμBusiness units
Æ
Revenues adjusted

μμThe introduction of a complaint management tool to
F4
P. 182

μμ

detect faults and defects in the infrastructure is planned
for 2016.
∫ A Web service for customers will be introduced based
on the algorithm developed at neXt to assess train-path
suitability. This will enable customers to find route options
themselves based on their own preferences (price, duration, distance). It simplifies transport planning and provides an additional way of ordering.

μμDB Netze Energy
μμIn 2016, a Web-based and easy-to-use platform to intelligently link price and volume-related energy data for
our customers will be created and expanded. The portalʼs

2015

2016

2015

DB Long-Distance

3,951

q

164

q

DB Regional

8,670

e

669

e

DB Arriva

4,843

q

270

q

DB Cargo

4,767

q

–183

q

15,451

q

395

q

DB Netze Track

5,110

q

578

e

DB Netze Stations

1,199

q

254

w

DB Netze Energy

2,812

w

66

q

Anticipated development [€ million]

μμDB Netze Track

EBIT adjusted

DB Schenker

2016

q above previous yearʼs figures
e at previous yearʼs level
w below previous yearʼs figures

DB LONG - DISTANCE
We expect another slight increase in revenues at DB LongDistance in the 2016 financial year probably due to volume
effects, which should more than offset the rising level of
expenses, with the result that the adjusted EBIT figure
should slightly exceed the level of the previous year.

182

G R O U P M A N A G E M E N T R E P O R T — O ut l oo k

DB ARRIVA
In the 2016 financial year, the positive effects resulting
from new transport services and acquisitions as well as ex­­
change rate effects will be noticeable at DB Arriva. We therefore expect revenue and operating profit developments
above the previous yearʼs level.
DB CARGO
We expect a slight increase in volume sold at DB Cargo in
the 2016 financial year. This should also result in slightly
positive revenues development. We expect to be able to
compensate for negative effects of the increase in personnel
costs and train-path usage fees, among other factors, with
countermeasures and one-off effects, so profits should be
above the level of the previous year.
DB SCHENKER
We expect further growth at DB Schenker in the 2016 financial year, based both on volume and price effects. This development should also have a positive impact on adjusted EBIT.
DB NETZE TR ACK
We expect volume- and price-based positive revenues development at DB Netze Track in the 2016 financial year. However, we expect adjusted EBIT to remain at the same level,
primarily due to the negative impact of collective bargaining
agreements.
F2
P. 181

DB NETZE STATIONS
Revenues at DB Netze Stations in 2016 should be slightly
above the previous yearʼs level, mainly due to pricing. Negative effects from factors including wage increases and
measures related to the Railway of the Future program will
contribute to an overall negative profit development.
DB NETZE ENERGY
At DB Netze Energy, revenues development is likely to be
negative due to a decline in demand, especially for the
product stationary energy. Nevertheless, countermeasures
that have been introduced should result in the positive
development of profits.

μ μTOP EMPLOYER
†
Anticipated development
Employee satisfaction

– index
– rank

Employer attractiveness

Share of women in Germany
Health rate in Germany

as of Dec 31 (%)

(%)

Percentage of staffing needs covered
in Germany as of Dec 31 (%)

2015

2016

–

3.8

2020
4.0

24

18

≤ 10

22.8

23.2

25.0

93.6

94.3

94.3

97.3

95.0

95.0

In 2016, we will again conduct a Group-wide employee survey
in order to recognize trends and changes and to find out
where measures are already having an impact and where
there is still need for action. The 2016 employee survey will
also be influenced by the effects of the Group restructuring.
Our aim for 2016 is to get employer attractiveness back on
the DB2020 track. The top priority is thus improving our em­­
ployer image, for example, by continuing our far-reaching
employer branding campaign.
We have gradually increased our share of women in recent
years, which is an important component of our demographic
preparedness. We are expecting a slight increase in 2016.
We expect to reach 25% overall by 2020. Various measures
have been implemented to achieve this. We expect the full
effect of these measures to unfold in the coming years.
It is also our target to maintain stability in terms of health
rate and percentage of staffing needs covered against a
background of demographic change.

μ μECO-PIONEER
¥
Anticipated development
Share of renewable energy in the
traction current mix (%)
Track kilometers noise remediated
in total as of Dec 31 (km)
Freight cars refitted with
whisper brakes in total as of Dec 31
Recycling rate
1)

(%)

2015

2016

2020

42

42

35 1)

1,495

~1,600

≥ 2,000

12,703

~23,700

60,000

97.2

94

≥ 95

Target in revision.

In the environmental dimension, we have already achieved
significant targets for CO₂ reduction and for the share of
renewable energy in the traction current mix. For this
reason, we are currently working on establishing a new
target for the share of renewable energy. In noise protection, we are well on our way to achieving our targets. We
intend to keep the recycling rate at a high level.

183

GRO UP M A N AGEMENT R EP O RT

DB REGIONAL
We expect DB Regional to record stable revenues and profit
development in the 2016 financial year, despite a decline in
volume.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μANTICIPATED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Æ
Anticipated development [€ billion]

2015

2016

Gross capital expenditures

9.3

~ 9.9

Net capital expenditures

3.9

~3.5

We will continue on our course of modernization with high
levels of capital expenditures. This will likely once more be
above the level of the year under review in the 2016 financial year. We will continue to focus our capital expenditures
activities on rail infrastructure. In the 2016 financial year,
we intend to invest a total of over € 5 billion, including investment grants, in the renovation and renewal of existing lines,
facilities and technology. This is even more than the capital
expenditures in the year under review. Net capital expenditures will probably decline somewhat. This is the result
of developments at DB Long-Distance and DB Cargo, both
of which recorded significant increases in the year under
review.

μ μANTICIPATED FINANCIAL SITUATION
Æ
Anticipated development [€ billion]

2015

2016

Maturities

1.1

2.3

Bond issues

2.5

≤ 3.0

Cash and cash equivalents as of Dec 31

4.5

>3.0

Net financial debt as of Dec 31

17.5

>19.0

Efficient liquidity management is once again a top priority
for us in the 2016 financial year. We are focusing on continually forecasting the cash flow from our operating activities,
as this is our main source of cash and cash equivalents. We
produce liquidity forecasts every month on the basis of a
12-month liquidity plan. In the 2016 financial year, we must
redeem financial liabilities (excluding commercial paper
and current bank liabilities) amounting to about € 2.3 billion. Funding needs are met by the issue of public and nonpublic bonds. Roadshows are planned in Europe and Asia
in conjunction with the bond issues.
We anticipate that the structure of the equity and liabilities side of the balance sheet will remain essentially un­­
changed despite the financing measures, as these will primarily serve to refinance expiring financial debt.
We continue to have adequate financing scope for our
capital markets activities based on our DEBT-ISSUANCE AND
COMMERCIAL PAPER PROGRAM [PAGE 099 F.]. The GUARANTEED CREDIT
FACILITIES [PAGE 099 F.] serve as a fallback in the event of an
interruption in access to the capital market. Our short and
medium-term liquidity supply is therefore also secure in the
2016 financial year.

The majority of our gross capital expenditures in the 2016
financial year will again be covered by investment grants.
The net capital expenditures to be financed by DB Group
will remain at a high level in the 2016 financial year. DB Group
assumes that it will not be able to fully fund net capital
expenditures and the dividend payment to the Federal Government from internal sources of financing. Net financial
debt as of December 31, 2016 is therefore likely to be higher
than at the end of the year under review.
We will continue our M&A activities in a selective and
focused manner in the 2016 financial year. We do not expect
these activities to have any significant impact on our financial situation in the 2016 financial year.

μμOverall statement of the

Management Board regarding
the economic development
of DB Group

Following the weak development in the year under review,
the Management Board of DB AG anticipates that DB Group
will develop in an overall slightly positive manner in the 2016
financial year. Given negative impacts from factors such as
wage increases, the increase in revenues will probably not
result in noticeably higher profits.
We expect to continue to have excellent access to the
capital market in the second half of the 2016 financial year.
Our activities are subject to various risks, as elucidated
in the OPPORTUNITY AND RISK REPORT [PAGE 168 FF]. For the 2016
financial year, we see risks above all in the areas of the
economic climate, market and competition as well as production and technology.
The Management Board believes that DB Group has
taken all necessary measures to protect itself against ex­­
isting risks and to be able to take advantage of possible
opportunities. We want to further expand our market position
and implement our strategy. On the whole our assessment
of DB Groupʼs medium-term prospects is therefore positive.
Forward-looking statements
This management report contains statements and forecasts pertaining to the future
development of DB Group, its business units and individual companies. These forecasts
are estimates made based on information that was available at the current time. Actual
developments and profits may diverge from the current expectations as a result of the
non-materialization of the assumptions upon which our forecasts are based or the
materialization of risks such as those presented in the Risk report.
DB Group does not assume any obligation to update the statements made within

this management report.

184

Consolidated
financial
statements
μμConsolidated186

μμConsolidated187

μμConsolidated188

μμConsolidated189

μμNotes to the 

μμAuditor’s report

statement of changes
in equity

balance sheet

consolidated financial
statements

190

statement of cash flows

266

FIN ANCIAL S TATEMENT S

statement of income

185

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
Æ

√

Jan 1 through Dec 31 [€ million]

Note

2015

2014

Revenues

(1)

40,403

39,728

Inventory changes and internally produced and capitalized assets

(2)

2,699

2,694

43,102

42,422

Overall performance
Other operating income

(3)

2,772

2,824

Cost of materials

(4)

–20,208

–20,250

Personnel expenses

(5)

–15,599

–14,919

Depreciation

(6)

– 4,471

–3,190

Other operating expenses

(7)

– 5,750

– 5,057

–154

1,830

Operating profit (EBIT)
Result from investments accounted for using the equity method

(8)

22

8

Net interest income

(9)

– 800

– 898

Other financial result

(10)

Financial result
Profits before taxes on income
Taxes on income

(11)

0

–3

–778

– 893

– 932

937

–379

51

–1,311

988

–1,325

966

14

22

		undiluted

–3.08

2.25

		diluted

–3.08

2.25

2015

2014

–1,311

988

Net profit for the year
Net profit attributable to
		 Shareholder of Deutsche Bahn AG
		 Minority interests
Earnings per share (€ per share)

(12)

μμReconciliation of consolidated comprehensive income
Æ

√

Jan 1 through Dec 31 [€ million]
Net profit for the year
		 Changes due to the revaluation of defined benefit plans

777

–1,107

Change in items recognized directly in equity which are not reclassified to the income statement

777

–1,107

		 Changes resulting from currency translation

126

143

		 Changes resulting from market valuation of securities

–1

1

		 Changes resulting from market valuation of cash flow hedges

63

–313

		 Share of profit items not recognized in the income statement due to investments accounted for using the equity method

–3

–

185

–169

Balance of profit items covered directly in equity (before taxes)

962

–1,276

		 Revaluation of defined benefit plans

– 68

83

Changes in deferred taxes on profit items recognized directly in equity, which are not reclassified to the income statement

– 68

83

Change in items recognized directly in equity which are reclassified to the income statement

		 Deferred taxes relating to the change in the market valuation of securities

0

0

		 Deferred taxes relating to the change in the market valuation of cash flow hedges

3

32

Changes in deferred taxes on profit items receivables directly in equity, which are reclassified to the income statement
Balance of profit items recognized directly in equity (after taxes)
Comprehensive income

3

32

897

–1,161

– 414

–173

– 431

–195

17

22

Comprehensive income attributable to
		 Shareholder of Deutsche Bahn AG
		 Minority interests

186

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — C O N S O L I D AT E D S TAT E M E N T O F I N C O M E
C O N S O L I D AT E D B A L A N C E S H E E T

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

μμAssets
Æ
[€ million]

Note

Dec 31, 2015

Dec 31, 2014

NON- CURRENT ASSETS

Property, plant and equipment

(13)

39,059

39,022

Intangible assets

(14)

3,762

4,195

Investments accounted for using the equity method

(15)

518

478

Available-for-sale financial assets

(17)

11

10

Receivables and other assets

(19)

175

126

Derivative financial instruments

(21)

339

95

Deferred tax assets

(16)

1,335

1,604

45,199

45,530
959

CURRENT ASSETS

Inventories

(18)

1,018

Available-for-sale financial assets

(17)

1

5

Trade receivables

(19)

4,018

4,146

Other receivables and other assets

(19)

1,159

1,121

Income tax receivables

(20)

56

84

Derivative financial instruments

(21)

59

7

Cash and cash equivalents

(22)

4,549

4,031

Held-for-sale assets

(23)

Total assets

0

0

10,860

10,353

56,059

55,883

Dec 31, 2015

Dec 31, 2014

μμEquity and liabilities
Æ
[€ million]

Note

Subscribed capital

(24)

2,150

2,150

Reserves

(25)

3,924

3,029

Retained earnings

(26)

Equity attributable to shareholder of Deutsche Bahn AG
Minority interests

(27)

7,185

9,203

13,259

14,382

186

143

13,445

14,525

NON- CURRENT LIABILITIES

Financial debt

(28)

19,753

19,173

Other liabilities

(29)

334

241

Derivative financial instruments

(21)

450

555

Pension obligations

(32)

3,688

4,357

Other provisions

(33)

2,597

2,828

Deferred items

(34)

1,104

1,265

Deferred tax liabilities

(16)

165

108

28,091

28,527

CURRENT LIABILITIES

Financial debt

(28)

2,675

1,161

Trade liabilities

(29)

4,679

4,949

Other liabilities

(29)

3,338

3,412

Income tax liabilities

(30)

163

170

Derivative financial instruments

(21)

205

125

Other provisions

(33)

2,714

2,216

Deferred items

(34)

Total assets

187

749

798

14,523

12,831

56,059

55,883

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

EQUITY

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Æ

√

Jan 1 through Dec 31 [€ million]

Note

2015

2014

Profit before taxes on income

– 932

937

Depreciation on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

4,471

3,190

Write-ups/write-downs on non-current financial assets
Result on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Result on disposal of financial assets

0

6

–74

–226

–3

–1

0

–37

Interest and dividend income

– 49

– 68

Interest expense

848

965

–7

–15

Result on sale of consolidated companies

Foreign currency result
Result of investments accounted for using the equity method
Other non-cash expenses and income
Changes in inventories, receivables and other assets
Changes in liabilities, provisions and deferred items
Cash generated from operating activities

–22

–8

1,426

999

–319

– 479

–1,135

– 664

4,204

4,599

Interest received

32

43

Received/paid (–) dividends and capital distribution

–9

–7

Interest paid

– 620

– 653

Paid (–)/reimbursed (+) taxes on income

–118

– 86

3,489

3,896

Cash flow from operating activities
Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

340

460

– 9,525

– 8,492

Proceeds from investment grants

5,478

4,687

Payments for repaid investment grants

–187

–30

Payments for capital expenditures in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Proceeds from sale of financial assets

5

2

Proceeds from sale of shares in consolidated companies less net cash and cash equivalents sold

0

65

–25

–2

Payments for acquisition of shares in consolidated companies less net cash and cash equivalents acquired
Proceeds from disposal of investments accounted for using the equity method

0

36

Payments for additions of investments accounted for using the equity method

–2

–2

Cash flow from investing activities

–3,916

–3,276

Distribution of profits to shareholder

–700

–200

Distribution of profits to minority interests
Payments for finance lease transactions

–10

–8

–159

–78

Proceeds from issue of bonds

2,475

1,948

Payments for redemption of bonds

–700

– 430

Payments for the redemption and repayment of interest-free loans

–220

–220

Proceeds from borrowings and commercial paper

251

22

Payments for the redemption of borrowings and commercial paper

–26

– 520

Cash flow from financing activities

911

514

Net changes in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents as of Jan 1

(22)

Changes in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in scope of consolidation
Changes in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in exchange rates
Cash and cash equivalents as of Dec 31

(22)

188

484

1,134

4,031

2,861

0

–1

34

37

4,549

4,031

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — C O N S O L I D AT E D S TAT E M E N T O F C A S H F L O W S
C O N S O L I D AT E D S TAT E M E N T O F C H A N G E S I N EQ U I T Y

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Æ

Fair value
Fair value valuation
Currency valuation
of cash
trans- of securiflow
1)
lation
ties
hedges 1)

Subscribed
capital

Capital
reserves

2,150

5,310

– 66

3

+ Capital increase

–

–

–

– Capital decrease

–

–

–

[€ million]
As of Jan 1, 2014

Equity
attributable
to shareholder of
Retained Deutsche
earnings Bahn AG

Revaluation of
pensions

Other
movements

Total

–181

– 864

–12

4,190

8,446

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Minority
interests

Equity

14,786

126

14,912

–

–

5

5

–

–

–2

–2

– Reduction of capital reserve

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

– Dividend payment

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–200

–200

–8

–208

± Other changes

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–9

–9

–

–9

± Comprehensive income

–

–

141

1

–281

–1,022

–

–1,161

966

–195

22

–173

		 thereof net profit for the year

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

966

966

22

988

		thereof currency effects

–

–

141

–

–

–

–

141

–

141

2

143

		 thereof deferred taxes

–

–

–

–

32

83

–

115

–

115

–

115

		 thereof market valuation

–

–

–

1

–313

–

–

–312

–

–312

–

–312

		thereof revaluation of
defined benefit plans

–

–

–

–

–

–1,105

–

–1,105

–

–1,105

–2

–1,107

		thereof share of items not
recognized in the income
statement from investments
accounted for using the
equity method
As of Dec 31, 2014

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,150

5,310

75

4

– 462

–1,886

–12

3,029

9,203

14,382

143

14,525

Æ‡
Reserves
Fair value
Fair value valuation
of cash
Currency valuation
flow
trans- of securi1)
hedges 1)
lation
ties

Subscribed
capital

Capital
reserves

2,150

5,310

75

4

+ Capital increase

–

–

–

– Capital decrease

–

–

–

[€ million]
As of Jan 1, 2015

Equity
attributable to
shareholder of
Retained Deutsche Minority
earnings Bahn AG interests

GRI
G4–EC1

Revaluation of
pensions

Other
movements

Total

– 462

–1,886

–12

3,029

9,203

14,382

143

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

34

34

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–1

–1

Equity
14,525

– Reduction of capital reserve

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

– Dividend payment

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–700

–700

–10

–710

± Other changes

–

–

–1

–

–

2

–

1

7

8

3

11

± Comprehensive income

–

–

125

–4

66

707

–

894

–1,325

– 431

17

– 414
–1,311

		 thereof net profit for the year

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–1,325

–1,325

14

		thereof currency effects

–

–

125

–

–

–

–

125

–

125

1

126

		 thereof deferred taxes

–

–

–

–

3

– 68

–

– 65

–

– 65

–

– 65

		 thereof market valuation

–

–

–

–1

63

–

–

62

–

62

–

62

		thereof revaluation of
defined benefit plans

–

–

–

–

–

775

–

775

–

775

2

777

		thereof share of items not
recognized in the income
statement from investments
accounted for using the
equity method
As of Dec 31, 2015
1)

–

–

–

–3

–

–

–

–3

–

–3

–

–3

2,150

5,310

199

0

–396

–1,177

–12

3,924

7,185

13,259

186

13,445

Equity capital includes deferred taxes.

189

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Reserves

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

μμSegment information according to segments
Æ
DB Long-Distance

DB Regional

DB Arriva

DB Cargo

DB Schenker

Jan 1 through Dec 31 or respectively as of Dec 31 [€ million]

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

External revenues

3,801

3,885

8,568

8,721

4,836

4,485

4,417

4,517

15,390

14,894

Internal revenues

150

149

102

110

7

6

350

346

61

49

3,951

4,034

8,670

8,831

4,843

4,491

4,767

4,863

15,451

14,943

Other external income

140

156

421

269

183

177

207

272

215

205

Other internal income

53

43

132

121

3

3

42

42

9

8

6

5

68

68

6

4

39

22

9

8

5,199

Total revenues

Changes in inventories and other capitalized own work
Total income

4,150

4,238

9,291

9,289

5,035

4,675

5,055

15,684

15,164

–2,322

–2,329

– 5,411

– 5,375

–1,399

–1,451

–2,462

–2,520 –10,265

–10,126

Personnel expenses

– 897

– 888

–1,914

–1,893

–2,042

–1,887

–1,683

–1,585

–2,930

–2,740

Other operating expenses

– 494

– 475

– 650

– 569

–1,069

– 839

–790

–751

–1,900

–1,778

437

546

1,316

1,452

525

498

120

343

589

520

–272

–328

– 645

– 599

–255

–233

–304

–298

–190

–185

Cost of materials

EBITDA

Scheduled depreciation 2)
Impairment losses recognized/reversed 2)
EBIT (operating profit)

Net operating interest income 3)
Operating income after interest 3)
Property, plant and equipment

–1

–6

–2

–10

0

0

1

1

–4

–3

164

212

669

843

270

265

–183

46

395

332

–2

0

– 52

– 49

–37

–35

–71

– 87

– 42

– 43

162

212

617

794

233

230

–254

– 41

353

289

1,847

1,463

6,782

6,588

2,173

2,079

2,334

2,965

1,466

1,456

0

0

18

16

1,991

1,956

0

506

1,478

1,404
1,133

+ Intangible assets
		thereof goodwill
+ Inventories
+ Trade receivables
+ Receivables and other assets

0

0

6

6

1,560

1,485

0

461

1,188

72

68

152

142

82

69

91

99

63

48

261

139

478

479

267

261

562

517

2,259

2,413

1,281

1,839

313

171

488

614

343

445

1,311

952

–1,274

–1,827

–169

– 44

–196

–372

–257

–365

– 880

– 548

+ Income tax receivables

–

–

0

0

23

18

2

1

23

22

+ Available-for-sale assets

–

–

–

–

–

0

0

–

–

–

– Trade liabilities

–355

–253

–789

–1,272

– 447

– 462

– 503

– 500

–1,790

–1,772

– Miscellaneous and other liabilities

–218

–270

– 510

–391

– 405

–350

–380

– 421

–773

–718

0

0

0

0

–79

– 90

–4

–7

– 68

– 53

–76

– 64

–1,210

–1,082

–193

–185

–189

–168

– 485

–382

– Deferred items

–330

–326

–150

–142

–119

–185

–10

–12

–15

–11

Capital employed 4)

1,208

769

4,915

4,465

3,585

3,353

1,989

3,060

2,589

2,811

–1,049

–1,531

2,708

2,328

569

539

1,391

1,352

–28

454

Investments accounted for using the equity method

0

0

4

4

122

126

27

22

15

14

Result from investments accounted for using the equity method

0

0

0

0

8

–3

5

2

2

3

Gross capital expenditures

673

235

881

1,927

276

296

451

195

238

240

Investment grants received

–3

0

–15

–13

0

–3

–6

–

–

–

670

235

866

1,914

276

293

445

195

238

240

–

–

–

–

81

2

–

–

12

1

16,217

16,461

36,494

36,605

46,484

45,712

30,303

30,842

66,327

64,810

– Receivables from financing

– Income tax liabilities
– Other provisions

Net financial debt

Net capital expenditures
Additions due to changes in the scope of consolidation
Employees 5)
1)

Relating to special items and reclassification PPA amortization of customer contracts.

2)

The non-cash items are included in the segment result shown.

3)

Key figure from internal reporting, no external figures.

4)

Profit transfer agreements were not assigned to segment assets or liabilities.

5)

The number of employees comprises the workforce, excluding trainees, at the end of the reporting period (part-time employees have been converted to full-time equivalents).

19 0

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

√
DB Netze

Track

DB Services

Stations

Subsidiaries/Other

Sum of
segments

DB Group

Consolidation

adjusted

Reconciliation 1)

DB Group

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

269

259

1,275

1,118

480

464

1,432

1,377

40,468

39,720

–

–

40,468

39,720

– 65

8

40,403

39,728

2,923

2,913

3,835

3,833

719

708

2,909

3,185

11,056

11,299 –11,056

–11,299

–

–

–

–

–

–

3,192

3,172

5,110

4,951

1,199

1,172

4,341

4,562

51,524

51,019 –11,056

–11,299

40,468

39,720

– 65

8

40,403

39,728

87

89

850

764

119

126

541

487

2,763

2,545

–

–

2,763

2,545

9

279

2,772

2,824

55

51

226

229

37

27

1,447

1,252

2,004

1,776

–2,004

–1,776

–

–

–

–

–

–

629

624

895

766

29

23

14

8

1,695

1,528

1,004

1,156

2,699

2,684

–

10

2,699

2,694

6,309

57,986

56,868 –12,056

–11,919

3,963

3,936

7,081

6,710

1,384

1,348

6,343

–1,903

–1,952

–1,897

–1,848

– 520

– 509

–3,177

–1,397

–1,358

–2,563

–2,368

–272

–256

–1,764

–1,715 –15,462 –14,690

–389

–356

–1,108

– 991

–201

–208

–1,735

–1,541

– 8,336

–7,508

2,811

2,584

– 5,525

274

270

1,513

1,503

391

375

–333

–326

4,832

5,181

– 54

–71

–203

–187

– 926

– 937

–137

–135

–112

–117

–3,044

–3,019

44

42

–3,379 –29,356 –29,489

9,191
0

45,930

44,949

– 56

297

45,874

45,246

9,268 –20,165

–20,221

– 43

–29 –20,208

–20,250

– 4 –15,462

–14,694

–137

–225 –15,599

–14,919

– 4,924

–225

–133

– 5,750

4,778

5,110

– 461

– 90

4,317

5,020

–3,000

–2,977

–117

– 95

–3,117

–3,072

– 5,057

–1

–1

–9

–4

0

0

–3

–1

–19

–24

–

–

–19

–24

–1,335

– 94

–1,354

–118

70

82

578

562

254

240

– 448

– 444

1,769

2,138

–10

–29

1,759

2,109

–1,913

–279

–154

1,830

–10

–11

–272

–355

–39

– 45

–234

–199

–759

– 824

–

–

–759

– 824

–

–

–

–

60

71

306

207

215

195

– 682

– 643

1,010

1,314

–10

–29

1,000

1,285

–

–

–

–

695

681

20,072

20,089

3,202

3,234

1,217

1,189

39,788

39,744

–729

–722

39,059

39,022

–

–

39,059

39,022

37

38

146

171

3

3

89

101

3,762

4,195

–

–

3,762

4,195

–

–

3,762

4,195

0

0

0

0

0

0

13

13

2,767

3,098

–

–

2,767

3,098

–

–

2,767

3,098

298

300

188

181

–

0

72

52

1,018

959

–

–

1,018

959

–

–

1,018

959

212

209

369

444

37

36

816

775

5,261

5,273

–1,243

–1,127

4,018

4,146

–

–

4,018

4,146

3

19,967

19,555

24,176

23,995 –22,842

338

323

104

93

31

–262

–235

–1

0

–30

–22,748

1,334

1,247

–

–

1,334

1,247

–22,275

22,330

22,184

–110

– 91

–

–

–110

0

0

0

0

–

–

8

43

– 91

56

84

–

–

56

84

–

–

56

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

84

–

0

0

–

–

0

0

–

–

0

–228

–216

– 679

– 680

–135

–116

0

– 996

– 805

– 5,922

– 6,076

1,243

1,127

– 4,679

– 4,949

–

–

– 4,679

– 4,949

–147

–153

–752

– 878

– 96

0

0

0

0

0

– 93

– 901

– 941

– 4,182

– 4,215

510

562

–3,672

–3,653

–

–

–3,672

–3,653

0

–29

– 45

–180

–195

17

25

–163

–170

–

–

–163

–107

– 98

–386

–264

– 55

–170

– 55

–2,572

–2,710

– 5,273

– 5,008

–38

–36

– 5,311

– 5,044

–

–

– 5,311

– 5,044

–29

–31

– 952

–1,091

–146

–151

–105

807

818

18,109

18,065

2,811

2,861

–1,805

–116

–1,856

–2,065

3

2

–1,853

–2,063

–

–

–1,853

–2,063

–1,786

34,208

34,416

–749

–733

33,459

33,683

–

–

33,459

33,683

355

187

10,693

10,698

1,294

1,352

1,558

833

17,491

16,212

–

–

17,491

16,212

–

–

17,491

16,212

–

–

1

1

–

–

–

–

1

0

–

–

349

311

518

478

–

–

518

478

–

–

518

478

6

6

22

8

–

–

22

8

–

–

22

8

276

262

5,837

5,261

533

559

218

215

0

0

– 4,909

– 4,148

– 445

– 430

–100

– 93

9,383

9,190

–39

– 61

9,344

9,129

–

–

9,344

9,129

– 5,478

– 4,687

–

–

– 5,478

– 4,687

–

–

– 5,478

– 4,687

276

262

928

1,113

88

129

118

122

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

5

3,905

4,503

–39

– 61

3,866

4,442

–

–

3,866

4,442

93

8

–

–

93

8

–

–

93

8

24,771

25,476

45,972

43,382

4,982

4,867

25,652

27,608 297,202

295,763

–

– 297,202

295,763

–

– 297,202

295,763

– –19,371

–18,884 –22,440

19 1

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

DB Netze

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμSegment 

190
information according
to segments

μμNotes to the 

215

balance sheet

μμOther disclosures

μμInformation192

μμBasic principles 

by regions

192

μμNotes to the

and methods

μμNotes to the 

240
statement of cash flows

210

statement of income

μμNotes to the

241

μμRisk management

242
and derivative
financial instruments

segment information

247

μμInformation by regions
√

Æ
External
revenues
Jan 1 to Dec 31 [€ million]

Non-current
assets 1)

Capital
employed 1)

Gross capital
expenditures

Net capital
expenditures

Employees 1)

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

Germany

22,886

22,921

36,094

36,443

27,330

27,566

8,619

8,629

3,144

3,945

187,420

187,882

Europe (excluding Germany)

12,756

12,348

6,429

6,524

5,852

5,831

718

503

715

500

84,496

83,858

Asia/Pacific

2,612

2,466

804

767

739

751

28

38

28

38

14,232

13,917

North America

1,708

1,479

223

207

280

251

14

15

14

15

8,515

7,585

506

506

24

29

23

43

4

5

4

5

2,539

2,521

Rest of world
Consolidation
DB Group adjusted

Reconciliation
Total
1)

–

–

–725

–721

–765

–759

–39

– 61

–39

– 61

–

–

40,468

39,720

42,849

43,249

33,459

33,683

9,344

9,129

3,866

4,442

297,202

295,763

–

–

–

4,442 297,202

295,763

– 65

8

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

40,403

39,728

42,849

43,249

33,459

33,683

9,344

9,129

3,866

As of December 31.

μμBasic principles and methods

μ μPRINCIPLES OF PREPARING

μ μFUNDAMENTAL INFORMATION

The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the basis of sec-

Deutsche Bahn AG (DB AG) and its subsidiaries (together “DB Group”)

tion 315a German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch; HGB) and in

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

provide services in the fields of passenger transport as well as freight

accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

transport and logistics, and operate an extensive rail infrastructure

as applied in the EU and their interpretation by the IFRS Interpretation

which is also available to non-DB Group users on a non-discriminatory

Committee (IFRIC). The accounting standards have been consistently

basis. Whereas rail infrastructure activities are conducted primarily in

applied throughout the entire reporting period with no changes com-

the company’s domestic market of Germany, business activities in pas-

pared with the previous year.

senger transport are conducted on a Europe-wide basis and freight transport and logistics activities are conducted on a worldwide basis.

The financial year of DB AG and its incorporated subsidiaries is the
same as the calendar year. The consolidated financial statements are

DB AG , Potsdamer Platz 2, 10785 Berlin is a joint stock corporation

(Aktiengesellschaft); its shares are held entirely by the Federal Republic

prepared in euros. Unless otherwise specified, all figures are stated in
million euros (€ million).

of Germany (Federal Government). The company is maintained under the
number HRB 50000 in the commercial register of the local court Berlin-

μμ a) Standards, revisions of standards and
interpretations which are the subject
of mandatory first-time adoption for reporting
periods from January 1, 2015 onwards

Charlotten­­burg. DB Group has issued securities in accordance with section 2 (1) clause 1 of the Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz;
WpHG); these securities are traded on organized markets in accordance

with section 2 (5) WpHG .

In the year under review, the consolidated financial statements took

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the

account of all new and revised standards and interpretations which are

Management Board, and were submitted to the Supervisory Board for

the subject of initial binding adoption starting January 1, 2015, which are

the Supervisory Board meeting on March 15, 2016.

also relevant for DB Group and which have not been the subject of early
adoption in previous periods. The changes to the standards have been

19 2

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

recognized in accordance with the transitional regulations. Initial adop-

μμ IFRIC 21: “Levies” (published May 2013; applicable for reporting

tion of these new regulations has not had any material impact on the

periods starting January 1, 2015)

consolidated financial statements. They are set out in the following:

IFRIC 21 specifies the time at which a company has to recognize an

μμ Improvements to IFRS 2011 – 2013: “Improvements to IFRS” (pub-

obligation to pay a public levy as a liability. The amendments do not

lished December 2013; applicable for reporting periods starting

have any material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

January 1, 2015)
“Improvements to IFRS 2011 – 2013” is a sixth collective standard for

μμ b) Standards, revisions of standards and interpreta-

various amendments with regard to four existing IFRS. This mainly

tions which had been adopted as of the reporting
date but which are not yet the subject of mandatory
adoption and early adoption

comprises the clarification of unclear formulations and definitions.
The amendments do not have any material impact on the consoli-

Standard

Subject

Published

Applicable
starting

Effects

IAS 1

Initiative for Improving Disclosure Obligations

December 2014

2016

Not material

IAS 7

Statement of cash flows

January 2016

January 2017

Not material

IAS 16/IAS 38

Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortization

May 2014

2016

N.a.

IAS 16/IAS 41

Agriculture: Bearer Plants

June 2014

2016

N.a.

IAS 19

Employee Contributions to Defined Benefit Plans

November 2013

2016

Not material

IAS 27

Separate Financial Statements (Equity Method)

August 2014

2016

Not material

IFRS 9

Financial Instruments

July 2014

2018

Effects on the recognition of
financial instruments

IFRS 10, IFRS 12
and IAS 28

Investment Entities:
Applying the Consolidation Exception

December 2014

2016

N.a.

IFRS 10 and IAS 28

Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor
and its Associate or Joint Venture

September 2014

Not known 1)

N.a.

IFRS 11

Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations

May 2014

2016

N.a.

IFRS 14

Regulatory Deferral Accounts

January 2014

Not known 2)

N.a.

IFRS 15

Revenue from Contracts with Customers

May 2014

2018 3)

Effects on the consolidated
financial statements

IFRS 16

Leases

January 2016

2019

Effects on the consolidated
financial statements

Improvements to
IFRS 2010 – 2012

Fifth collective standard relating to various
changes to seven existing IFRS

December 2013

2016

Not material

Improvements to
IFRS 2012 – 2014

Seventh collective standard relating to various
changes to four existing IFRS

September 2014

2016

Not material

1)

In December 2015, the IASB announced that the time of initial adoption will be postponed indefinitely.

2)

The EU endorsement process was suspended until the publication of a final standard.

3)

In April 2015, the IASB postponed the earliest date at which IFRS 15 would come into force.

μ μSTRUCTURE OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND

directly comparable with that of the previous period. Detailed informa-

THE INCOME STATEMENT

tion relating to these acquisitions as well as explanations concerning the

Assets and liabilities are stated in the balance sheet either as current or

other transactions are set out in the section “Changes in DB Group.”

non-current items. Assets and liabilities are classified as current if they
are realized or due within 12 months after the end of the reporting

CHANGE IN THE PRESENTATION OF NET FINANCIAL DEBT

period. The structure of the balance sheet takes account of the require-

Since the 2015 financial year, the presentation of the net financial debt has

ments of the ordinance relating to the structure of the financial state-

also included the effects of currency hedging on bonds shown under the

ments of transport companies. The income statement uses the structure

derivative financial instruments disclosed under assets and liabilities.

of the cost summary method.

The net financial debt has since been shown at the hedging rate. The previous year figure has not been adjusted, as the change was not material.

μ μPRINCIPLES UNDERLYING THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

CHANGE IN NAMES OF SEGMENT S

μμ Comparability with the previous year

In line with the new management structure which has been introduced

After due consideration is given to the following issues, the financial

and also the changed brand architecture, the names of the following

information presented for the year under review is comparable with the

segments have also been changed:

financial information for the previous year:
Segment name old

Segment name new

CHANGE S IN THE SCOPE OF CON SOLIDATION

DB Bahn Long-Distance

DB Long-Distance

The changes in the scope of consolidation which are not material have

DB Bahn Regional

DB Regional

resulted in financial information in the balance sheet, the income state-

DB Schenker Rail

DB Cargo

ment, the cash flow statement as well as segment reporting which is not

DB Schenker Logistics

DB Schenker

19 3

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

dated financial statements.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

CHANGE IN DB NETZE AND SUB SIDIARIES/OTHER

B) BUSINES S COMBINATION S

In the year under review, and as part of a transition of operations (sec-

All subsidiaries acquired after December 31, 2002 have been consolidated

tion 613a German Civil Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch; BGB), DB Projekt­

using the acquisition method under IFRS 3. Accordingly, the acquirer

­Bau GmbH transferred various organization entities as well as all project

shall measure the cost of a business combination as the aggregate of the

management functions, including the corresponding assets and liabili-

fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred

ties, to DB Netz AG or DB Station&Service AG. For this reason, there was

or assumed. The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent

a considerable increase in personnel expenses, the number of employees,

obligations are valued under IFRS 3 with their fair value at the date of

the purchased services and capitalized own work in the segments

acquisition, irrespective of any minority interests. Alternatively, acquired

DB Netze Track and DB Netze Stations. There was an opposite develop-

non-current assets or groups of assets which are classified as “held-for-

ment in these figures in the segment Subsidiaries/Other.

sale” in accordance with IFRS 5 are shown with their fair value less costs
to sell.

μμ Consolidation methods

Any difference between the purchase costs of the business combina-

A) CON SOLIDATION PRINCIPLES

tion and the acquired assets valued at fair value is shown as goodwill. If

DB AG and all companies (subsidiaries) whose financial and business

the purchase price is lower than the fair value of the acquired assets, the

policy can be determined by DB AG are fully consolidated in the consoli-

difference, following a further assessment, is shown immediately in the

dated financial statements of DB AG . They are incorporated in the con-

income statement.

solidated financial statements at the point at which DB AG acquires the
possibility of control in accordance with IFRS 10. In this connection,

Minority interests are calculated on a pro rata basis from the assets,
liabilities and contingent obligations valued with their fair value.

control is based on the assumption of power of disposition, exposure to

The acquisition and sale of shares in an already fully consolidated

risk due to fluctuating yields or rights in relation to fluctuating yields as

company which does not result in a change of control is shown directly

defined as the current possibility of managing the relevant activities of

in equity. There have accordingly been no changes to the carrying

the company by way of a majority of voting rights and/or other contrac-

amounts of the assets and liabilities recognized from such transactions.

tual rights or de facto. Even if a majority of voting rights does not exist,
the control by DB AG is given, if for example DB AG is able to control more

C)	JOINT VENTURES, JOINT OPER ATION S
AND A S SOCIATED COMPANIE S

than half of the voting rights as a result of a voting right agreement, to
determine the financial and business policy of the subsidiary in accor-

Joint ventures are defined as companies which are managed by DB AG

dance with the articles of incorporation or an agreement, to nominate

jointly with another party either directly or indirectly, and in which the

or dismiss a majority of the members of management and/or supervisory

partners own rights to the net assets of the company.

bodies or control a majority of votes on the occasion of meetings of the

A joint operation is defined as agreements which are managed by

management and/or supervisory bodies. On the other hand, no control

DB AG jointly with another party either directly or indirectly, and in which

can exist in cases in which this majority is indeed present but in which

the parties involved in the joint operation have rights relating to the

the previously described possibilities can be excluded as a result of con-

assets and obligations of their liabilities attributable to the agreement.

tractual agreements. These investments are recognized as associates,

Associated companies are defined as equity participations for which

joint ventures or other investments. The reference date for determining

DB Group is able to exercise a major influence on the financial and busi-

the point at which a company is taken out of the group of fully consoli-

ness policy. Major influence is normally defined as a situation in which

dated companies is established on the basis of the time at which the

DB AG directly or indirectly holds 20 to 50% of the voting rights in these

possibility of control terminates.

companies and the related assumption of association is not refuted.

For the purpose of uniform accounting, the affiliated companies
have applied the accounting guidelines of the parent company.

In exceptional cases, companies in which DB Group holds fewer than
20% of the voting rights are also classified as associates. Despite such a

Capital is consolidated in accordance with the acquisition method in
line with IFRS 3.4.

low shareholding, a major influence is deemed to exist in such cases, for
instance as a result of various rights of co-determination in major issues

Minority interests in the shareholders’ equity of subsidiaries are
shown separately from the shareholders’ equity of the Group share-

of business policy or because members of management are appointed
by DB Group.

holders. The extent of the minority interests is calculated as the minority

Joint ventures and associated companies are accounted for using the

interests applicable at the point at which the subsidiary was acquired

equity method. Alternatively, they are valued in accordance with IFRS 5

and also that proportion of the change in the shareholders’ equity of the

if the shares are classified as held-for-sale.

subsidiary since the acquisition attributable to the third party.

As part of the process of accounting for participations using the

Group-internal liabilities as well as expenses and income and inter-

equity method, shares in associated companies and joint ventures are

company results between fully consolidated companies are completely

shown at cost in the consolidated financial statements, adjusted for the

eliminated.

related changes in the net assets of the associated companies and joint
ventures and any impairments resulting from the impairment test. Any
pro rata losses attributable to DB Group which exceed the total investment in the associated company or joint venture, consisting of the amortized equity figure as well as other long-term receivables, are not recognized, unless DB Group has taken on corresponding obligations or made
payments.

19 4

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

Any positive difference between the cost of the purchased shares and

μμ With the agreement of April 13, 2015 (closing June 19, 2015), ARRIVA

the pro rata assets acquired at the point of purchase and valued at fair

Slovakia a.s., Nitra/Slovakia, acquired 100% of shares in Liorbus. Via

value constitutes goodwill, which is contained in the amortized equity

the operating company SAD Liorbus a.s., Ruzomberok/Slovakia, the

figure and is thus also subject to the impairment test. If the purchase

company operates regional and municipal bus services in the north

price is lower than the fair value of the pro rata assets which have been

of Slovakia with about 230 buses. Since July 1, 2015, the company has

acquired, the difference is taken immediately to the income statement.

been included in segment reporting in the DB Arriva segment.

Intercompany results attributable to transactions with associated

μμ With the agreement of March 27, 2015 (closing July 23, 2015), ARRIVA

companies or joint ventures are eliminated on a pro rata basis.

Slovakia a.s. acquired 100% of shares in Bus Partners. The company

In the case of joint operations, the assets, liabilities, income and

operates regional and municipal bus services in the west of Slovakia

expenditures have to be recognized on a pro rata basis.

with approximately 280 buses. Since August 1, 2015, the company
has been included in segment reporting in the DB Arriva segment.

G4–13

μμ Changes in DB Group

μμ With the agreement of October 14, 2015 (closing October 14, 2015),

A) SUB SIDIARIE S

Locomotive 6667 Ltd, Doncaster/Great Britain, acquired 95% of

Movements in the group of fully consolidated companies of DB Group are

shares in LOLP. Since October 1, 2015, the company has been included

detailed in the following:

in segment reporting in the DB Cargo segment. No business opera-

Æ

tion exists as defined by IFRS 3; a business combination in the sense
of IFRS 3 does not exist in this case.

German
2015

Foreign
2015

Total
2015

Total
2014

As of Jan 1

130

502

632

661

Koper/Slovenia, acquired 97.87% of shares in Alpetour. Alpetour is

Additions

5

20

25

11

Additions due to changes in type
of incorporation

one of the major transport companies in Slovenia, and provides

0

1

1

0

Disposals

8

17

25

38

[Number]

μμ With the agreement of April 3/7, 2015 (closing November 26, 2015),
Arriva Dolenjska in Primorska, druzba za prevoz potnikov, d.o.o.,

FULLY CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

Disposals due to changes in type
of incorporation
As of Dec 31

1

0

1

2

126

506

632

632

municipal, regional and national passenger transport services by bus
as well as transport services upon request and for various institutions. Since November 1, 2015, the company has been included in
segment reporting in the DB Arriva segment.

μμ With the agreement of December 22, 2015 (closing December 22,
2015), S.A .B. AUTOSERVIZI S.R .L., Bergamo/Italy, acquired the remain­

As was the case in the previous year, all subsidiaries are consolidated.

­ing 51% of shares in KM. KM is a municipal transport company which
operates in Lombardy, the municipal region of Cremona and in the

Additions of companies and parts of companies

south-eastern province. Since December 31, 2015, the company has

Overall, a total of € 65 million was spent on company acquisitions

been included in segment reporting in the DB Arriva segment.

according to IFRS 3 in the year under review (previous year: € 1 million).

The costs of purchase and the fair value of the acquired net assets are

The additions to the scope of consolidation consist of seven companies

shown in the following (cumulative) for all changes in the scope of con-

which were established in the year under review, the addition of 69.0% of

solidation if these are covered by the scope of IFRS 3. All purchase price

the shares in SPA SystemPartner GmbH&Co. KG (SPA), the acquisition of

allocations for acquisitions in the year under review are consistent with

100% of the shares in GOTFRI spol. s.r.o. (Liorbus), Bratislava/Slovakia,

IFRS 3. Goodwill is to a large extent substantiated by the synergy effects

the acquisition of 100% of the shares in BUS PARTNERS SERVICES s.r.o.

expected for the period after the acquisition. In addition, a considerable

(Bus Partners), Bratislava/Slovakia, the acquisition of 95% of the shares

proportion of goodwill is attributable to assets which are not eligible for

in Locomotive Operating Leasing Partnership (LOLP), Doncaster/Great

recognition under IFRS 3, and in particular the employee base, market

Britain, and the acquisition of 97.87% of the shares in Alpetour-Potovalna

access and the future revenue potential.

Agencija d.d. (Alpetour), Kranj/Slovenia.

The goodwill is calculated as follows:

The addition resulting from the change in the type of incorporation

Æ

relates to the acquisition of the remaining 51% of shares in KM S .P.A .
(KM), Cremona/Italy, which previously had been accounted for using the
equity method.

[€ million]

The transactions are detailed in the following:

SPA

there- thereof of Bus
LiorPartbus
ners

thereof
Alpetour

thereof
KM

PURCHASE PRICE

μμ With the shareholder agreement of January 27, 2015 (closing May 20,
2015), 69.0% of the shares in SPA were acquired by the contribution
of all shares in Intertec Beteiligungs-GmbH. SPA operates as a wholesale company in the field of car accessories and car care, and carries
a full range of well-known brands and low-price alternatives. The
activities have been pooled in one company which now trades under
the name MTS MarkenTechnikService GmbH&Co. KG (MTS). In segment reporting, the company has been shown in the DB Schenker
segment since June 1, 2015.

2015

thereof

Payments
+	Shares in a subsidiary issued
by the buyer to the vendor
+	Outstanding payments
Total compensation
+	Fair value of share in equity
capital held before acquisition
–	Fair value of net assets
acquired
Goodwill

49

–

9

11

24

5

16
–
65

16
–
16

–
–
9

–
0
11

–
–
24

–
–
5

2

–

–

–

–

2

49

9

7

6

21

6

18

7

2

5

3

1

In the case of the above-mentioned acquisitions, we do not expect that
part of the goodwill is allowable for income tax purposes.

19 5

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

GRI

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

PURCHA SE PRICE ALLOCATION SPA

The fair value of the trade receivables is € 0 million, including impair-

The acquired net assets are broken down as follows:

ments of € 0 million.
If Liorbus had been included in the DB consolidated financial state-

Æ
Carrying
amount

Adjustment

Fair
value

0
2
18
0
15
2
0
4
41
12
12
5
0
0
29

–
2
–
–
–
–
–
–
2
–
–
–
–
1
1

0
4
18
0
15
2
0
4
43
12
12
5
0
1
30

–
4

–
–

–
4

Net assets acquired
Purchase price paid in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents acquired

8
0
4

1
–
–

9
0
4

Inflow of cash and cash equivalents
through transactions

4

–

4

[€ million]
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Inventories
Receivables from financing
Trade receivables
Other receivables and other assets
Derivative financial instruments
Cash and cash equivalents
Assets
Financial debt
Liabilities
Other provisions
Deferred items
Deferred tax liabilities
Debt
		thereof recognized contingent liabilities
in accordance with IFRS 3
Share of third parties

ments as of January 1, 2015, DB Group would have reported additional
revenues of € 6 million and an additional net profit of € 2 million.
After being initially consolidated, Liorbus has generated revenues
of € 9 million and a net profit of € 1 million.
PURCHA SE PRICE ALLOCATION BUS PARTNER S

The acquired net assets are broken down as follows:
Æ
Carrying
amount

Adjustment

Fair
value

Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Inventories
Receivables from financing
Trade receivables
Other receivables and other assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Deferred tax assets
Assets
Financial debt
Liabilities
Other provisions
Deferred items
Deferred tax liabilities
Debt
		thereof recognized contingent liabilities
in accordance with IFRS 3
Share of third parties

13
0
0
0
4
1
8
0
26
10
2
0
0
2
14

–2
5
0
–
–1
–
–
1
3
–
–
1
–
2
3

11
5
0
0
3
1
8
1
29
10
2
1
0
4
17

–
6

–
0

–
6

Net assets acquired
Purchase price paid in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents acquired

6
11
8

–
–
–

6
11
8

3

–

3

[€ million]

The purchase price was paid by DB Mobility Logistics AG (DB ML AG)
spinning off the shares of Intertec Beteiligungs-GmbH to SPA in return
for the granting of a limited partnership share.
The fair value of the trade receivables is € 15 million, including
impairments of € 1 million.
If SPA had been included in the DB consolidated financial statements
as of January 1, 2015, DB Group would have reported additional revenues

Outflow of cash and cash equivalents
through transactions

of € 34 million and an additional net profit of € 2 million.
After being initially consolidated, SPA has generated revenues of

The fair value of the trade receivables is € 4 million, including impair-

€ 54 million and a net profit of € 8 million.

ments of € 1 million.

PURCHA SE PRICE ALLOCATION LIORBUS

statements as of January 1, 2015, DB Group would have reported addi-

The acquired net assets are broken down as follows:

tional revenues of € 12 million and an additional net profit of € 2 million.

If Bus Partners had been included in the DB consolidated financial

After being initially consolidated, Bus Partners has generated rev-

Æ
Carrying
amount

Adjustment

Fair
value

14
0
0
0
2
3
0
19
7
1
0
1
9

–2
6
0
–
–
–
1
5
–
–
2
2
4

12
6
0
0
2
3
1
24
7
1
2
3
13

–
4

–
0

–
4

Net assets acquired
Purchase price paid in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents acquired

6
9
3

1
–
–

7
9
3

Outflow of cash and cash equivalents
through transactions

6

–

6

[€ million]
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Inventories
Trade receivables
Other receivables and other assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Deferred tax assets
Assets
Financial debt
Liabilities
Other provisions
Deferred tax liabilities
Debt
		thereof recognized contingent liabilities
in accordance with IFRS 3
Share of third parties

enues of € 7 million and a net profit of € 0 million.

19 6

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

PURCHA SE PRICE ALLOCATION ALPETOUR

The fair value of the trade receivables is € 2 million, including impair-

The acquired net assets are broken down as follows:

ments of € 0 million.
If KM had been included in the DB consolidated financial statements

Æ

as of January 1, 2015, DB Group would have reported additional revenues

Carrying
amount

Adjustment

Fair
value

23

–2

21

Intangible assets

0

6

6

Available-for-sale financial assets

1

–

1

Inventories

1

0

1

Trade receivables

3

0

3

Other receivables and other assets

1

–

1

Cash and cash equivalents

6

–

6

Deferred tax assets

0

2

2

35

6

41

Financial debt

0

–

0

The disposal resulting from the change in the type of incorpora-

Liabilities

4

1

5

Other provisions

4

8

12

tion relates to one company which has been recognized at equity since

Deferred items

1

–

1

Deferred tax liabilities

0

1

1

Debt

9

10

19

		thereof recognized contingent liabilities
in accordance with IFRS 3

–

–

–

Share of third parties

1

0

1

Net assets acquired

25

–4

21

solidation which have taken place compared with the previous year:

Purchase price paid in cash and cash equivalents

24

–

24

Æ

6

–

6

18

–

18

Assets

Cash and cash equivalents acquired
Outflow of cash and cash equivalents
through transactions

of € 11 million and an additional net profit of € 1 million.
Revaluation of the equity held before the acquisition has resulted in
a positive effect on profits of € 1 million.

Disposals of companies and parts of companies
The disposals from the scope of consolidation comprise 11 mergers and
12 liquidations, one sale, one disposal resulting from the change to the
type of incorporation of the parent company as well as one other disposal. The sale has generated a cash inflow of € 0.3 million.

April 2015.
In the year under review, there were no major effects on profits due
to the loss of control (previous year: € 31 million).
The results are shown in the other operating expenses or income.
The following table shows a summary of the effects on the consolidated income statement resulting from the changes in the scope of con-

Jan 1
to Dec 31,
2015

thereof
due to
additions
to scope
of consolidation

Amounts
due to
disposals
from scope
of consolidation

40,403

79

–26

DB Group

The fair value of the trade receivables is € 3 million, including impairments

[€ million]

of € 0 million.

Revenues

If Alpetour had been included in the DB consolidated financial state-

Inventory changes and internally produced
and capitalized assets

ments as of January 1, 2015, DB Group would have reported additional
revenues of € 29 million and an additional net profit of € 4 million.

Overall performance

After being initially consolidated, Alpetour has generated revenues

Other operating income

of € 5 million and a net profit of € 0 million.

2,699

–

–

43,102

79

–26
–1

2,772

2

Cost of materials

–20,208

– 52

3

Personnel expenses

–15,599

–13

11

PURCHA SE PRICE ALLOCATION KM

Depreciation

– 4,471

–2

1

The acquired net assets are broken down as follows:

Other operating expenses

– 5,750

–8

6

Æ

Operating profit (EBIT)

–154

6

–6

[€ million]

Result from investments accounted
for using the equity method

0

Carrying
amount

Adjustment

Fair
value

Property, plant and equipment

4

–1

3

Intangible assets

0

5

5

Available-for-sale financial assets

0

0

–

Inventories

0

–

0

Trade receivables

2

–1

1

Other receivables and other assets

3

–

3

Cash and cash equivalents

3

–

3

Deferred tax assets

0

1

1

Net interest income
Other financial result

22

–

– 800

–1

0

0

6

–9

Financial result

–778

5

–9

Profits before taxes on income

– 932

11

–15

–379

–2

2

–1,311

9

–13

Taxes on income
Net profit for the year

Of the revenues of € 79 million resulting from additions to the scope of

12

4

16

consolidation, the acquired SPA accounts for € 54 million, the acquired

Financial debt

0

–

0

Liorbus accounts for € 9 million, the acquired Bus Partners accounts for

Liabilities

4

1

5

Other provisions

2

1

3

€ 7 million, the acquired Alpetour accounts for € 5 million and Bochimar

Deferred items

1

–

1

Deferred tax liabilities

0

1

1

Debt

7

3

10

		thereof recognized contingent liabilities
in accordance with IFRS 3

–

–

–

Share of third parties

–

–

–

Net assets acquired

5

1

6

Purchase price paid in cash and cash equivalents

4

–

4

Cash and cash equivalents acquired

3

–

3

Outflow of cash and cash equivalents
through transactions

1

–

1

Assets

Assistencia à Tripulacao de Navios Lda. (Bochimar; now trading as
Schenker Angola Limitada), Luanda/Angola which was acquired in the
course of the previous year accounts for € 4 million.
Of the figures shown for disposals from the scope of consolidation,
revenues of € 22 million relate to The Original London Sightseeing Tour
Ltd. which was sold in the course of the previous year.
Details of subsidiaries in which the company owns significant noncontrolling interests:

19 7

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

[€ million]
Property, plant and equipment

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ

Interest and share of
voting rights of non-controlling
shares (%)

Minority holdings
(€ million)

[Name]

Head office

Business unit

Dec 31, 2015

Dec 31, 2014

Dec 31, 2015

Autoservizi F.V.G . S.P.A . – SAF (SAF)

Udine/Italy

DB Arriva

40.00

40.00

28

Dec 31, 2014
25

DB Schenker Rail Scandinavia A/S (Scandinavia)

Taastrup/Denmark

DB Cargo

49.00

49.00

21

22

Transportes Ferroviarios Especiales S.A . (Transfesa)

Madrid/Spain

DB Cargo

22.67

22.67

20

28

Schenker-Seino Co. Ltd. (Seino)

Tokyo/Japan

DB Schenker

40.00

40.00

15

12

MTS MarkenTechnikService G mbH&Co. KG (MTS)

Karlsruhe/Germany

DB Schenker

31.00

0.00

14

0

5.00

0.00

10

0

Locomotive Operating Leasing Partnership (Locomotive) Doncaster/Great Britain

DB Cargo

Individual minor subsidiaries with
non-controlling interests
Total non-controlling interests

78

56

186

143

Financial information of the subsidiaries is summarized in the following.
Internal transactions within DB Group have not been eliminated from the
specified amounts.
Æ

Scandinavia

SAF

[€ million]

2015

2014

2015

Transfesa

2014

2015

Seino

2014

2015

Locomotive

MTS

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

CURRENT NET ASSETS

		 Assets as of Dec 31
		 Debt as of Dec 31

33

20

30

35

42

44

64

51

53

–

8

–

–26

–17

–18

–20

– 45

– 44

–36

–31

–35

–

–2

–

7

3

12

15

–3

0

28

20

18

–

6

–

NON- CURRENT NET ASSETS

		 Assets as of Dec 31
		 Debt as of Dec 31

Revenues

80

76

65

69

104

183

21

21

34

–

220

–

–15

–17

–34

–38

–1

–1

–5

–5

–1

–

–22

–

65

59

31

31

103

182

16

16

33

–

198

–

59

58

59

59

136

124

274

257

52

–

–

–

Profit before taxes on income

12

10

–2

–

– 97

–10

13

9

9

–

5

–

Taxes on income

–1

–3

0

–

–14

5

–5

–4

–1

–

1

–

Net profit from continued operations

11

7

–2

1

– 84

–5

8

5

8

–

6

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

11

7

–2

1

– 84

–5

8

5

8

–

6

–

–

–

–

0

0

–

0

0

–

–

–

–

After tax result of discontinued operations
Net profit for the year
Other result

11

7

–2

1

– 84

–5

8

5

8

–

6

–

		thereof attributable to shares without a controlling influence

Comprehensive income

4

3

–1

0

–19

–1

3

2

2

–

0

–

Dividend paid to holders of shares without a controlling interest

1

1

–

–

–

–

2

2

–

–

–

–

Cash flow from operating activities

23

8

–2

8

11

15

17

–4

16

–

–2

–

Cash flow from investing activities

–11

–7

–2

0

–11

–7

–1

–1

–13

–

2

–

Cash flow from financing activities

–12

0

3

–24

1

–7

–5

–5

5

–

–

–

0

1

–1

–16

1

1

11

–10

8

–

0

–

Net changes in cash and cash equivalents

19 8

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

B)	JOINT VENTURES AND A S SOCIATED COMPANIES

Æ

Æ

VT-Arriva

Foreign
2015

Total
2015

Total
2014

[€ million]
Non-current assets as of Dec 31

JOINT VENTURES ACCOUNTED FOR
USING THE EQUITY METHOD

Trieste

2015

2014

2015

2014

81

41

67

63

CURRENT ASSETS

As of Jan 1

13

18

31

23

Additions

0

0

0

1

Other current assets as of Dec 31

Additions due to changes in type
of incorporation

1

0

1

9

Disposals

1

0

1

2

NON- CURRENT LIABILITIES

Disposals due to changes in type
of incorporation

0

0

0

0

13

18

31

31

As of Jan 1

52

43

95

110

Additions

2

1

3

0

As of Dec 31
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES ACCOUNTED
FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD

Liquid assets as of Dec 31

Financial liabilities as of Dec 31
Non-financial liabilities as of Dec 31

0

0

0

0

Disposals

1

1

2

8

Disposals due to changes in type
of incorporation
As of Dec 31

0

1

1

7

53

42

95

95

The additions comprise the newly established associated company Ostalb­
Mobil GmbH as well as the acquisition of the shares in flinc GmbH and
OFP -Sud Quest SAS, Bayonne/France.

Details of major joint ventures of DB Group are shown in the following
tables:
Æ
Voting rights/capital
holding (%)

[Name]

Registered
offices

VT-Arriva Szémelyszállító és
Szolgéltató Kft. (VT-Arriva)

Székesfehérvár/
Hungary DB Arriva

Trieste Trasporti S.P.A . (Trieste)

Trieste/
Italy

Business
unit

DB Arriva

Dec 31,
2015

27

21

26

28

16

13

53

49

– 57

–28

–

–

–1

–1

–18

–17

– 58

–29

–18

–17

Non-financial liabilities as of Dec 31
Net assets as of Dec 31

–10

–5

–

–

–7

–5

– 50

– 45

–17

–10

– 50

– 45

22

15

52

50

Revenues

55

52

77

75

Depreciation

–5

–4

–6

–5

Interest income

0

0

0

1

Interest expense

–2

–3

–

–

Taxes on income

–2

–2

–3

–8

Net profit from continued operations

7

5

11

9

After tax result of discontinued
operations

–

–

–

–

Net profit for the year

7

5

11

9

Other result

–

–

–

–

Comprehensive income

7

5

11

9

Reconciliation of the combined financial information with the carrying

Dec 31,
2014

amount of the investments:
Æ
VT-Arriva

49.91
39.94

49.91
39.94

The relations with the joint ventures are of an operational nature.
All companies detailed above are shown in the consolidated financial
statements of DB Group using the at-equity method. There are no listed
market prices.
The combined financial information of the major joint ventures of
DB Group are shown in the following. The disclosed financial information

corresponds to the amounts shown in the financial statements of the
joint ventures prepared in accordance with IFRS.

4
9

CURRENT LIABILITIES

Financial liabilities as of Dec 31

Additions due to changes in type
of incorporation

2
14

[€ million]

Trieste

2015

2014

2015

2014

15

11

50

44

Net profit/loss for the year

7

5

11

9

Other result

–

–

–

–

Capital increase (+)/dividends (–)

–

–

–9

–3

Foreign currency differences

0

–1

–

–

Net assets of the joint venture as of Jan 1

Net assets of the joint venture
as of Dec 31
Holding of DB Group (%)
Share in net assets of the associated
company

22

15

52

50

49.91

49.91

39.94

39.94
20

11

7

21

Goodwill

3

3

6

6

Other adjustments

–

–

–

–

14

10

27

26

Carrying amount of the investment
as of Dec 31

The summarized financial information of the individual minor joint ventures of DB Group is shown in the following table:

19 9

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

[Number]

German
2015

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Reconciliation of the combined financial information with the carrying

Æ
[€ million]

2015

2014

Interest of DB Group in the profit/loss of continued operations
Interest of DB Group in after-tax result of discontinued operations
Interest of DB Group in other result

9
–
–

1
–
0

Interest of DB Group in comprehensive income

9

1

The carrying amounts of the individual minor joint ventures of DB Group
are stated as € 28 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 25 million).
the year under review or in the previous year.
following tables:
Æ

Barraqueiro SGPS SA (Barraqueiro)

[€ million]

2015

2014

Net assets of the associated company
as of Jan 1

1,318

1,259

142

175

27

27

–14

–33

Net profit for the year

Head
office

Business
unit

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

Basel,
Switzerland
Lisbon/
Portugal

Sub­sidiaries/
Other

22.60

22.60

DB Arriva

31.50

31.50

2015

2014

–15

5

–

–

–

–

–

–

144

27

–

–

Capital increase (+)/dividends (–)
Net assets of the associated company
as of Dec 31

1,474

1,318

128

142

Holding (%)

22.60

22.60

31.50

31.50

Share in net assets of the associated
company

Voting rights/
capital holding (%)

Barraqueiro

EUROFIMA

Foreign currency differences

Details of major associated companies of DB Group are shown in the

EUROFIMA European Company for
the Financing of Railroad Rolling Stock
(EUROFIMA)

Æ

Other result

There were no losses not recognized in relation to joint ventures in

[Name]

amount of the investments:

333

298

40

45

Goodwill

–

–

33

33

Other adjustments

–

–

–

–

333

298

73

78

Carrying amount of the investment
as of Dec 31

The combined financial information of the individual minor associated
companies of DB Group is shown in the following table:

The relations with the associated companies are of an operational nature.
All companies detailed above are shown in the consolidated financial
statements using the at-equity method. There are no listed market prices.

[€ million]

2015

2014

Interest of DB Group in the profit/loss of continued operations

5

6

Interest of DB Group in after-tax result of discontinued operations

–

–

nies of DB Group are shown in the following. The disclosed financial

Interest of DB Group in other result

0

0

information corresponds to the amounts shown in the financial state-

Interest of DB Group in comprehensive income

5

6

The combined financial information of the major associated compa-

ments of the associated companies prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The carrying amounts of the individual minor associated companies of

Æ

[€ million]
Non-current assets

DB Group are stated as € 43 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 37 million).

Barraqueiro

EUROFIMA

2015

2014

2015

2014

16,349

17,216

314

341

CURRENT ASSETS

Cash and cash equivalents
Other current assets

938

1,003

91

85

3,757

3,478

101

106

4,695

4,481

192

191

–16,038

–17,320

–143

–136

NON- CURRENT LIABILITIES

Financial liabilities
Non-financial liabilities

–3

–4

–79

– 82

–16,041

–17,324

–222

–218

because it does not have any obligation in relation to the losses.

μμ Foreign currency
A) FUNC TIONAL CURRENC Y AND REPORTING CURRENC Y
Currency translation uses the concept of the functional currency. The
functional currency of all subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements of DB AG is the relevant local currency.
The DB consolidated financial statements are prepared in euros
(reporting currency).

CURRENT LIABILITIES

Financial liabilities

DB Group has not recognized losses totaling € 8.5 million (previous

year: € 0.4 million) in relation to its shares in associated companies,

–3,516

–3,044

–26

–30

–13

–11

–130

–142

B) TR AN SAC TION S AND BALANCES

–3,529

–3,055

–156

–172

Transactions which are not carried out in the functional currency of a

1,474

1,318

128

142

company included in the scope of consolidation (foreign currency trans-

–

–

313

336

–1

–1

– 42

–23

755

802

–

–

Interest expense

–723

–769

–9

–10

Taxes on income

–

–

–5

–2

27

27

–14

–33

Non-financial liabilities
Net assets as of Dec 31
Revenues
Depreciation
Interest income

Net profit from continued operations
After tax result of discontinued operations
Net profit for the year
Other result
Comprehensive income

–

–

–

–

27

27

–14

–33

–15

5

–

–

12

32

–14

–33

actions) are translated into the functional currency of the corresponding
entity using the rate applicable at the time of the transaction. Exchange
rate gains and losses resulting from processing such transactions and
valuing monetary assets and liabilities at the rate applicable on the balance sheet date in the financial statements are recognized in the income
statement.

200

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

C) SUB SIDIARIE S

The services provided by DB Group are normally completed within a few

Subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro translate their

hours/days. Exceptions in this respect are the segments DB Regional and

financial statements which are prepared in local currency into the

DB Arriva, where order processing in the form of long-term transport

reporting currency (euro) for the purpose of being included in the con-

contracts concluded with the ordering organizations of the Federal

solidated financial statements of DB AG as follows: assets and liabilities

states in Germany and the franchisors in other European countries are

are translated using the exchange rate applicable on the balance sheet

very important for the development of overall business. Contractual

date, income and expenditures are translated using the average rate.

relations with customers covering several years also exist in contract

Differences resulting from currency translation are shown separately

logistics/supply chain management in the DB Schenker segment, which

under shareholders’ equity.

accounts for about 6% of overall Group revenues. Revenues resulting

The shareholders’ equity which has to be initially consolidated as

from the provision of services are therefore recognized as soon as the

part of an acquisition of foreign subsidiaries is translated as of the rele-

service has been provided, the extent of the revenues and the costs is

vant balance sheet date using the historical rate applicable at the time

reliably measurable and the economic benefit will probably accrue to

of the acquisition. Any differences resulting from the currency translation

DB Group.

are shown separately under shareholders’ equity.

Dividend income is recognized at the point at which the right to

As long as the subsidiary is included in the scope of consolidation,

receive the payment arises. Interest income is recognized in the income

the translation differences continue to be shown under consolidated

statement using the effective interest method in the period in which the

shareholders’ equity. If subsidiaries are no longer included in the scope

income arises.

of consolidation, the corresponding translation differences are eliminated and recognized in the income statement.

All expense and income items are normally recognized without being
netted, unless the accounting principles under IFRS permit or require

Goodwill and adjustments to the fair values of assets and liabilities

netting.

due to acquisitions of foreign subsidiaries are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign companies and are translated using the exchange rate

Expenses are recognized in the income statement at the point at which
the service is used or at the point at which the expenses are incurred.

applicable on the balance sheet date.

μμ Accounting and valuation policies
A) PROPERT Y, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

No major subsidiary was domiciled in a hyperinflationary economy in the

Property, plant and equipment is recognized at cost of purchase and cost

reporting and comparison period.

of production less cumulative depreciation, and also with due consider-

Currency translation differences resulting from the translation of

ation being given to impairments and recoveries in value. Costs of pur-

shares in a foreign subsidiary and also resulting from loans which are

chase comprise the purchase price plus ancillary purchase costs less

part of the net investment in such foreign subsidiaries are shown under

purchase price reductions. Purchase price reductions for previous years

shareholders’ equity. When the foreign subsidiary is no longer included

are also netted with the additions of the current financial year. If there

in the scope of consolidation, the currency translation differences are

are any closure or restoration obligations, they are recognized in the

eliminated via the income statement.

costs of purchase and production of the property, plant and equipment,

The following exchange rates are some of the rates used for currency
translation purposes:

and a provision is shown at the same time. Cost of production comprises
individual costs as well as overhead costs which are directly allocatable.
If at least two years are required for manufacturing an asset in order

As of Dec 31
€ 1 equivalent to

to place it in its intended state in which it is capable of being used or

Average rates

2015

2014

2015

2014

Australian Dollar (AUD)

1.48970

1.48290

1.47766

1.47188

Canadian Dollar (AUD)

1.51160

1.40630

1.41856

1.46614

Swiss Franc (CHF)

1.08350

1.20240

1.06786

1.21462

Renminbi Yuan (CNY)

7.06080

7.53580

6.97333

8.18575

Danish Krone (DKK)

7.46260

7.44530

7.45870

7.45482

Pound Sterling (GBP)

0.73395

0.77890

0.72584

0.80612

Hong Kong Dollar (HKD)

8.43760

9.41700

8.60141

10.30246

131.07000

145.23000

134.31402

140.30612

Japanese Yen (JPY)

sold, any directly attributable borrowing costs are capitalized as costs
of production of the asset. If a direct link cannot be established, the
average borrowing cost rate of the year under review is used. Turnover
tax incurred in connection with the purchase or production of property,
plant and equipment is only capitalized if input tax is not permitted to
be deducted.
Subsequent costs are capitalized if the expenses enhance the economic benefit of the property, plant and equipment and if the costs can
be reliably measured. On the other hand, all other repairs or maintenance are expensed.

Norwegian Krone (NOK)

9.60300

9.04200

8.94963

8.35438

Polish Zloty (PLN)

4.26390

4.27320

4.18412

4.18426

Components of property, plant and equipment which are significant

Swedish Krona (SEK)

9.18950

9.39300

9.35346

9.09852

in relation to the total costs of purchase and costs of production are

Singapore Dollar (SGD)

1.54170

1.60580

1.52549

1.68232

recognized separately and written down over their useful lives using the

US Dollar (USD)

1.08870

1.21410

1.10951

1.32850

straight-line method.
Depreciation is taken to the income statement on a straight-line

μμ Recognition of income and expenses

basis over the expected service life of the asset. The following useful

The revenues generated in DB Group relate to the provision of passenger

service lives for the main groups of property, plant and equipment are

transport, transport and logistics services, the provision of rail infra-

taken as a basis:

structure, the sale of goods and other services related particularly to rail
operations, less turnover tax, discounts and any price deductions. They
are recognized with their fair value.

201

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

The annual financial statements of subsidiaries which are domiciled
in hyperinflationary economies are translated in accordance with IAS 29.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

The following useful service lives are used as the basis for depreciation
Years

on intangible assets:

Permanent way structures, tunnels, bridges, railway crossings

15 – 90

Track infrastructure

13 – 26

Buildings, halls, roofs

10 – 75

Franchises, rights, etc.

8 – 60

Trademarks

Economic life

10 – 40

Brand names

Economic life

Customer base

Economic life

Other structures
Signaling equipment
Telecommunications equipment

5 – 20

Years

Traction current installations

10 – 40

Purchased software

Rolling stock

10 – 30

Software produced in-house

Other technical equipment, machinery and vehicles

5 – 40

Fixtures and fittings

3 – 15

Duration of contract

3–5
3

Goodwill arises as a positive difference between the costs of purchasing
the shares and the fair values of the individually acquired assets,

The appropriateness of the chosen depreciation method and the service

absorbed liabilities and contingent liabilities. It is not depreciated;

lives is subject to an annual review. Our expectations regarding the

instead, it is subject to an annual impairment test. Impairment losses in

residual value are also updated annually.

relation to goodwill are not reversed.

Investment grants are deducted directly from the cost of purchase
or cost of production of the assets for which the grants have been given.

D) IMPAIR MENT S OF A S SET S
IAS 36 governs the impairment test for property, plant and equipment

B) FINANCE LEA SE A S SET S

and intangible assets with a certain economic life, which is carried out

Rented and leased assets where the underlying leases are classified as

using a so-called indicator-based asset impairment test. Such an asset

finance leases under IAS 17 are capitalized with the lower of fair value or

impairment test has to be carried out when indicators (so-called trig-

the present value of minimum lease payments at the start of the lease,

gering events) indicate a possible loss of value. In addition, according

and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the financial

to IAS 36, goodwill as well as intangible assets with an indefinite service

service life of the asset or the shorter duration of the lease.

life have to be subjected at least once a year to an impairment test in the
form of a goodwill impairment test.

C) INTANGIBLE A S SET S AND GOODWILL
Intangible assets acquired for a monetary consideration are recognized

Definition of cash-generating units

at cost of purchase. Intangible assets manufactured in-house are recog-

Goodwill impairment tests have to be carried out at the level of indi-

nized with their cost of production, and consist mainly of software. The

vidual assets as part of the asset impairment test. If it is not possible to

costs of the development phase are capitalized if a future economic

determine future cash flows, which are to a large extent independent,

benefit accrues to DB Group and if the other capitalization criteria are

for an individual asset, so-called cash-generating units (CGUs) have to

satisfied. The costs of production comprise all costs which can be

be formed as an aggregation of assets whose future cash flows depend

directly allocated and those costs which are incurred in order to prepare

on each other. In DB Group, the CGUs are to a large extent identified at

the asset for its envisaged use.

the level of the operating segments, whereby a further differentiation

Processes involving international invitations to tender may result in

can also be made within the DB Services segment as a result of different

order and mobilization costs which are associated with future operations

service content. Due to the congruence between management structure

within the framework of a transport contract. If it is very likely that the

and legal structure, the identified CGUs also always consist of at least one

contract will indeed come into being, and if the costs are capable of

legal unit. This means that the data necessary for the asset impairment

being invoiced, such costs are capitalized and written down over the

test can be derived from annual financial statements and planning data.

probable life of the contract.

The impairment test for goodwill is carried out at the level of the

Costs of production comprise mainly costs for materials and services, wage and salary costs as well as relevant overhead costs.

CGU to which the goodwill has been allocated. Significant goodwill cur-

rently exists in the CGUs DB Arriva and DB Schenker. In the course of this

If a considerable period is required for manufacturing an asset in

yearʼs impairment test, the goodwill of the CGU DB Cargo which had still

order to place it in its intended state in which it is capable of being used

been recognized in the previous year was completely written down (see

or sold, directly attributable borrowing costs are capitalized as costs of

section “ASSET IMPAIRMENT TEST” [PAGE 203 F.] With regard to the rec-

production of the asset. If a direct link cannot be established, the

ognition of goodwill for each CGU, please also refer to the segment

average borrowing cost rate of the year under review is used.

information according to business segments.

Turnover tax incurred in connection with the purchase and production of intangible assets is only capitalized if input tax is not deductible.

Method

Intangible assets (excluding goodwill and the Arriva brand) are sub-

In the impairment test in accordance with IAS 36, the carrying amount

sequently valued at cost of purchase or cost of production less depre-

of an asset, a CGU or a group of CGUs has to be compared with the cor-

ciation and impairments plus any recoveries in value. Depreciation is

responding recoverable amount. If the positive carrying amount is no

calculated using the straight-line method. The adequacy of the depre-

longer covered by the recoverable amount, this results in a corresponding

ciation method and the service life are subject to an annual review.

impairment requirement.

202

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

The carrying amount of a CGU is established by adding the carrying

Asset impairment test

amounts of the assets less the liabilities which are related to the relevant

Processes which comply with the specific requirements of IAS 36 have

assets (net position). In addition, for determining the carrying amount

been implemented in order to carry out the asset impairment test. The

of a CGU, it is also necessary to recognize corporate assets and corporate

service lives of the individual CGUs used for the asset impairment test

liabilities jointly used by several CGUs, and the working capital necessary

are based on the service life of the asset or a group of homogenous

for the corresponding CGU must also be taken into consideration.

assets which is (are) most significant for the particular CGU.

The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the fair value less

In addition, the process of establishing the service life disregards

costs of disposal and the value in use. In the impairment tests carried

assets or future cash flows which result from major structural changes,

out in DB Group, the recoverable amount is represented by the value in

disinvestment measures or extension capital expenditures. Resultant

use. The value in use is established as the present value of the free cash

adjustments to the original plans relate mainly to the major new and

flows before interest and after tax attributable to the continuation of a

expansion infrastructure projects, where it is assumed that the construc-

CGU or a group of CGUs. A global tax rate of 30.5% has again been used

tion process will be completed beyond the medium-term (beyond 2020)

in relation to EBIT (unchanged compared with the previous year). The

and for which most of the company's planned own resources have not

forecast of cash flows reflects previous experience, and takes account

yet been invested. Accordingly, the project Stuttgart 21 also did not have

of management expectations with regard to future market develop-

to be taken into consideration for calculating the value in use (in accor-

ments. These cash flow forecasts are based on the medium-term plan-

dance with IAS 36.44) because a major part of the capital expenditures

ning adopted by the Group Management Board of DB AG and which

had not been realized as of the balance sheet date and because the

covers a planning horizon of five years. If cash flow forecasts are neces-

project is to be completed beyond the medium-term period. The cash

sary beyond the five-year planning horizon, a sustainable free cash flow

flow forecasts take account of internal transfer prices within DB Group

is derived from the forecast and is extrapolated on the basis of a growth

on the basis of arm’s length assessments of the companies involved. The

rate related to the specific market development. As in the previous year,

published infrastructure prices are applicable for goods and services

an average growth rate of 1% p. a. has been assumed, and an average

exchanged between transport and infrastructure segments; price

growth rate of 2% p. a. has been assumed for the CGU DB Arriva.

increases in the period covered by the forecast have also been taken into
consideration.

cash flows; this reflects the expectation of return on the capital market

After the medium-term planning has been completed, a regular

for providing debt capital and shareholders’ equity to DB Group. Because

check is carried out to determine whether impairments are necessary at

free cash flow after taxes has been calculated, a cost-of-capital rate after

the CGU level. In addition to this annual cycle, a test is also performed if

tax has also been used. Risks of free cash flows are recognized by a risk-

current issues arising from the development in business or changes in

equivalent capitalization rate.

assumptions indicate that there has been a major deterioration in the

Compared with the previous year, the cost of capital of DB Group

value in use.

has declined from 5.8% to 5.4%. Taking account of the typical tax rate

The impairment tests carried out voluntarily in the period under

of 30.5% in relation to EBIT, this is equivalent to a corresponding capi-

review showed surplus cover for all CGU s, with the exception of DB

talization rate before tax of 7.7% (previous year: 8.4%).

Cargo. The considerably reduced profit and cash flow planning in the DB

For the 2015 financial statements, the previously uniform WACC for

Cargo segment meant that carrying amounts of the net assets capital-

the CGUs of DB ML Group was discontinued, and specific cost-of-capital

ized in the balance sheet were no longer covered by the future surpluses

rates were determined for passenger transport as well as freight trans-

which are derived from medium-term planning (value in use). This

port and logistics.

resulted in corresponding impairment requirements of € 1,300 million in

The WACC s for the CGUs of passenger transport, freight transport

the 2015 financial statements, of which almost € 500 million alone was

and logistics as well as infrastructure applicable for 2014 and 2015 finan-

attributable to the complete write-down of the goodwill from previous

cial statements are shown in the following table:

acquisitions which had previously been recognized by DB Cargo.
DB Cargo is currently facing major challenges from the market and

Æ
2015

the competition. It reported an operating loss of approximately

2014

€ –180 million in the year under review; this figure includes exceptional

Before
taxes

After
taxes

Before
taxes

After
taxes

Passenger transport

7.4

5.1

9.0

6.2

Freight transport and logistics

9.9

6..9

9.0

6.2

Infrastructure

7.3

5.1

7.7

5.,4

result planning of DB Cargo has been considerably reduced, as there are

DB Group

7.7

5.4

8.4

5.8

in particular revenue risks with a high degree of probability (including

A uniform capitalization rate of 5.4% after taxes or 7.7% before taxes is

years 2014 and 2015), and delays have also occurred with regard to the

now used for all other CGUs of DB Group. The changes in the WACC s

implementation of the planned measures. These challenges will be faced

compared with the previous year are attributable to current expectations

not only in the CGU DB Cargo but also on an enterprise-wide basis with

of medium- to long-term developments of the capital market.

the Group program Railway of the Future, whereby the additional ex­­­

[%]

storm- and strike-related effects. Irrespective of the exceptional effects,
there will also not be any significant improvement in the profit situation
in 2016 and 2017. In this context, the existing medium-term revenue and

the risks of potential long-term consequences of the GDL strikes in the

pens­­es of the Railway of the Future program will initially have an impact
on profits in the vicinity of the medium-term planning. It is assumed that
there will be a sustainable stabilization of the profit situation starting
in 2018.

203

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

A weighted average cost of capital is used for discounting the free

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Independently of the voluntary impairment tests carried out in relation

Available-for-sale long- or short-term securities are recognized with their

to the CGUs, impairments are recognized in relation to individual assets

market values as of the balance sheet date – where such values exist.

which are no longer capable of being used fully. These impairments are

Changes in fair value are recognized with no impact on the income state-

shown under the disclosures for the respective balance sheet item.

ment in the reserve attributable to the marking-to-market of securities.

Goodwill impairment test

Receivables and other financial assets

A goodwill impairment test must be carried out annually for all CGUs or

Receivables and other financial assets are initially measured at fair value.

groups of CGUs to which goodwill can be allocated. Because the goodwill

In general, this is equivalent to the costs of purchase. Long-term interest-

which arises in DB Group as a result of acquisitions is always clearly

free or low-interest receivables (receivables due after more than one

allocated to a CGU, this goodwill impairment test is an integral part

year) are discounted to the present value of future cash flows. Dis-

of the asset impairment test which is always carried out annually for

counted receivables are adjusted for cumulative interest in subsequent

all CGUs.

periods with the effective interest fixed for initial valuation.

The goodwill impairment tests carried out for the affected CGU s

Receivables for which there are substantial objective indications of

DB Arriva, DB Schenker and DB Regional have not identified any impair-

an impairment are adjusted appropriately. Portfolio-based allowances

ment requirement. The goodwill of the CGU DB Cargo which existed in

are also recognized in relation to groups of assets; in particular, histor-

the 2014 financial statements was completely written down in the course

ical default rates are taken into consideration.

of the impairment test carried out for 2015 financial statements (see
above), as the value in use and also the fair value were lower than the

Cash and cash equivalents

carrying amount of the assets.

This item comprises cash in hand and checks, deposits at banks which

The respective recoverable amount is represented by the value in use

are due on sight, as well as cash and cash equivalents. Cash at bank

of the CGU, which in turn has been derived from the medium-term plan-

comprises overnight money as well as time deposits due within three

ning of the four segments. The details relating to methods presented

months.

above are thus applicable correspondingly. At DB Arriva, DB Cargo and

Liquid assets are recognized with their nominal value.

DB Schenker it also has to be borne in mind that separate assumptions

relating to the development of the economy, market and competition as

G) INVENTORIES

well as currency relations have been made for the relevant international

All costs which are directly related to the procurement process are cap-

markets. These assumptions have been based on the external and

italized as the costs of purchase of the inventories. The average method

internal expert assessments available at the time of the planning.

is used as the basis for establishing the cost of purchase of fungible and
homogeneous raw materials and supplies. The costs of production com-

E)	SHARE S IN COMPANIES ACCOUNTED

prise the individual costs and also the directly attributable overheads;

FOR USING THE EQUIT Y METHOD

borrowing costs and idle costs are not capitalized, and instead are rec-

Shares in associated companies and joint ventures are measured at

ognized as expense in the period in which they are incurred.

equity in accordance with IAS 28 (Investments in Associates and Joint
Ventures). Based on the Group costs of purchase at the time of the

As of the balance sheet date, inventories are measured with the
lower of cost or net realizable value.

purchase, the figure for the change in shareholders’ equity at the company accounted for using the equity method attributable to the shares

H)	HELD - FOR-SALE

of DB Group is extrapolated.

Under IFRS 5, non-current assets are classified as held-for-sale non-current assets if their carrying amount is to be realized by way of sale and

F) FINANCIAL A S SET S

not by way of continued use. This can be an individual asset, a disposal

Arm’s length purchases or sales of financial assets are recognized or

group or part of a company. Non-current held-for-sale assets are stated

eliminated on the settlement date. At present, there are the following

with the lower of carrying amount or market value less costs which are

categories in DB Group in accordance with IAS 39:

incurred.

Available-for-sale financial assets

I) DEFERRED TA XES

Available-for-sale financial assets are normally recognized with their fair

Deferred taxes are calculated in accordance with IAS 12 (Income Taxes).

value. For financial instruments traded on an active market, the fair

The theoretical income tax rate for corporations for domestic com-

value is derived from the market price as of the balance sheet date. If

panies used as the basis for calculating deferred taxes was 30.5%.

the fair value of equity instruments is not reliably measurable, the avail-

The income tax rate comprises the corporation tax rate plus solidarity

able-for-sale financial assets are recognized at cost of purchase less any

surcharge and an average trade tax rate. Foreign subsidiaries use their

impairment.

relevant local tax rates for calculating deferred taxes.

Shares in non-consolidated subsidiaries and other equity invest-

A deferred tax asset is recognized in accordance with IAS 12.24 or

ments are also considered to be available-for-sale financial assets. They

IAS 12.34 if, after corresponding deferred tax liabilities have been

are normally shown with their amortized cost of purchase because the

deducted, it is likely that adequate taxable income is available. The

future cash flows for determining the market value of the shares cannot

medium-term planning with additional estimates is used as the basis of

be reliably established.

this process. Deferred tax assets relating to income which can be generated after the medium-term period are not recognized, on the grounds
that they cannot be reliably determined.

204

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

Deferred taxes are established on the basis of the tax rates which can

In the case of defined contribution retirement pension systems, DB Group

be expected for the period in which the deferred tax is realized on the

pays contributions to public sector or private retirement pension schemes,

basis of existing laws or laws which have in essence been adopted.

either voluntarily or as a result of a contractual or statutory obligation.

J) FINANCIAL DEBT AND LIABILITIES

having to pay the contributions. The contributions are recognized in

Current liabilities are normally recognized with their nominal amount,

personnel expenses when due. Advance payments of contributions are

which corresponds to the fair value at the point at which the liability is

recognized as assets to the extent that there is a right for a repayment

initially recognized and the amortized costs of purchase up to the date

or reduction of future payment.

DB Group does not have any additional payment obligations beyond

at which the liability is settled. Financial debt and other non-current lia-

The discount rate for measuring pension obligations was determined

bilities, when initially recognized, are stated with the amount which cor-

on the basis of the yields obtained on the market on the balance sheet

responds to the fair value of the received assets, where appropriate less

date for prime fixed-income corporate bonds. These are defined as

transaction costs. Subsequently, they are stated using amortized costs

bonds with an AA rating.

of purchase using the effective interest method. The differences between

Employees who are covered by the collective bargaining agreement

the amount paid out less transaction costs and the amount repaid are

for employer-financed payments to the company retirement benefit

recognized in the income statement over the life of the liability.

scheme for the employees of various companies of DB Group (Tarif­vertrag

Interest-free loans which are related to infrastructure capital expen-

über arbeitgeberfinanzierte Leistungen zur betrieblichen Altersvorsorge

ditures are recognized with the present value of the amounts to be

für die Arbeitnehmer verschiedener Unternehmen des DB -Konzerns;

repaid, and are adjusted to their nominal repayment amount over their

bAV-TV) as well as the corresponding regulations in other collective bar-

life. The difference between the nominal amount of the loan and the

gaining agreements of the companies of DB Group or the collective bar-

present value is recognized as an interest benefit under accruals. The

gaining agreement for engine drivers of rail transport companies of the

income from pro rata reversal of these accruals is shown as other oper-

Agv MoVe (Tarifvertrag für Lokomotivführer von Schienenverkehrsunter­

ating income.

­nehmen des Agv MoVe; LfTV) receive an employer-financed payment into

Liabilities arising from leases which are classified as finance leases

the company retirement benefit scheme.

in accordance with the allocation criteria of IAS 17 are recognized at the

The funding vehicle for this employer-financed payment into the

lower of fair value and the present value of minimum leasing payments

company retirement benefit scheme is the pension fund of DEVK Pen-

at the beginning of the lease, and are subsequently stated under finan-

sionsfonds-AG which has already been offered to employees for salary

cial debt in the amount of amortized cost of purchase. The leasing install-

conversion. Defined contribution pension plans were set up for the

ments are broken down into an interest component and a repayment

employer-financed payment. As a funding vehicle, the pension fund is

component. The interest component of the leasing installment is recog-

not relevant for provisions.

nized in the income statement.

Payments on the occasion of termination of employment
BARGAINING AGREEMENT S AND EMPLOYEES

Severance packages become payable if an employee is released from

NOT COVERED BY WAGE BARGAINING AGREEMENT S)

his/her duties under the terms of an early-retirement or semi-retirement

Pension obligations and similar commitments

scheme before reaching normal pensionable age (which would not

In DB Group, there are defined benefit as well as defined contribution

involve any reduction of retirement benefits) or if an employee volun-

retirement pension schemes.

tarily terminates his/her employment contract in return for a severance

The provision for defined benefit pension schemes shown in the

package. Severance payments are recognized if there is a demonstrable

balance sheet corresponds to the present value of the pension obligation

obligation either to terminate the employment agreements of current

(defined benefit obligation; DBO) less the present value of the plan

employees in accordance with a detailed formal plan which cannot be

assets on the balance sheet date adjusted by effects of cost-spreading

reversed or to pay severance payments if the employment contract is

and franchise agreements. The pension obligation is calculated annually

voluntarily terminated by employees within the framework of employ-

by independent actuarial appraisals using the projected unit credit

ment contract termination agreements.

method. Actuarial profits or losses are recognized as revaluation in other
income.

Severance package obligations for agreements agreed as of the balance sheet date are recognized as other liabilities and – if they are not

Past service cost is recognized immediately in the income statement.

yet included in individual agreements and if they are part of a restruc-

The discount rate underlying the calculation of the pension obligation is

turing obligation in accordance with IAS 37 (Provisions, Contingent

used for calculating the income from the plan assets. This income and

Liabilities and Contingent Assets) – are stated as other provisions.

the costs of compounding the pension obligations are shown in financial
result. The difference between the theoretical income from the plan
assets and the actual development is also shown as revaluation under
other comprehensive income.

205

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

contracts (severance packages)

K)	EMPLOYEE BENEFIT S (EMPLOYEES COVERED BY WAGE

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Other benefits due in the long term

for the rehabilitation of existing ecological legacy issues are discounted

Employees who are covered by the regulations of the collective bar-

on the basis of real interest rates, which are adjusted to reflect the risk

gaining agreement with regard to maintaining long-term accounts for

and the period until fulfillment. The difference between the nominal

the employees of various companies of DB Group (Tarifvertrag zur Füh-

value of the expected outflows and the present value recognized for the

rung von Langzeitkonten für die Arbeitnehmer verschiedener Unterneh-

environmental protection provisions of DB AG for transferred liabilities

men des DB -Konzerns; Lzk-TV), are able to convert their overtime which

for the elimination of legacy issues from the time previous to the founda-

they have worked or are able to pay single or regular amounts into a

tion of DB AG is stated under deferred items, and represents the interest

long-term account which is managed in cash equivalents to cover the

benefit resulting from the longer-term release of the provision. The

possibility of being exempted from duties in the future. The relevant

cumulative interest expense attributable to other provisions is recog-

companies of DB Group are obliged under the terms of collective bar-

nized in financial result. Provisions for potential losses are measured as

gaining agreements to pay the compensation for the additional overtime

the lower of the amount of the expected costs for fulfilling the agree-

or make the contributions to the employee's long-term account on the

ment and the expected costs for terminating the agreement.

basis of a separate contribution agreement plus the related employer’s
contributions to social insurance into the Fonds zur Sicherung von Wert-

M) DEFERRED ITEM S

guthaben e. V. (credit fund) every month at the point at which the salary

Deferred public sector grants

payment becomes due. The credit fund has been established in the legal

DB Group receives various public-sector grants, which are provided in

form of a registered association as a joint institution of the wage-

relation to specific assets or on the basis of a specific performance. The

bargaining parties in accordance with the Wage Bargaining Act (Tarif­

grants are recognized in the balance sheet as soon as it is certain that they

vertragsgesetz). It is responsible for managing and administering the

will be provided and as soon as the conditions necessary for receiving the

credits.

grants have been satisfied. The grants related to assets, and in particular

The compensation paid to the employees during a phase during

investment grants, are deducted directly from the assets for which grants

which the employees are exempted from their duties is financed out of

have been received. The interest benefit (difference between nominal

the credit fund. The duration of the phase during which the employees

value and present value) of interest-free loans is deferred on the basis of

are exempted from their duties is determined by the amount of the credit

the contractual grant conditions. The income from pro rata reversal of

which has been built up by the employees.

these accruals is shown as other operating income.

With regard to the credits, no further financial risks are retained in

Deferred profits from sale-and-lease-back agreements

DB Group when the funds are paid out.

Semi-retirement agreements are based on the so-called block model.

If capital gains are realized in conjunction with sale-and-lease-back

The top-up amounts paid in addition to salary by DB Group during the

agreements and if the subsequent lease is classified as a finance lease,

semi-retirement period as well as additional contributions to the statu-

these are deferred and released with an impact on the income statement

tory pension insurance scheme are collected in installments up to the

over the life of the relevant agreements.

end of the active phase of the semi-retirement period and are recognized
as provisions. The compensation backlog (plus the employer’s contribu-

N) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL IN STRUMENT S

tions to social insurance) for the additional work performed during the

Recognition of derivative financial instruments

employment phase is also shown with the present pro rata value as

At the point at which the contract is concluded, derivative financial

another non-current employee benefit.

instruments are recognized as a financial asset or a financial liability in

If certain conditions are satisfied, DB Group offers its employees the

the balance sheet. Derivative financial instruments are initially and sub-

opportunity to reduce their working hours to a level below their regular

sequently measured at fair value. The treatment of changes in the fair

working hours (special semi-retirement arrangement).

value depends on the type of the hedged underlying. At the point at
which the contract is taken out, derivative financial instruments are gen-

L) OTHER PROVI SION S

erally classified as a hedging instrument (a) for hedging the fair value

Other provisions are set aside if there is a legal or constructive obligation

of certain assets or liabilities recognized in the balance sheet (fair value

resulting from a past event which is more than 50% likely to result in an

hedge) or (b) for hedging the cash flows arising from a contractual

outflow of resources and if the extent of the obligation can be reliably

obligation or an expected transaction (cash flow hedge).

estimated. If it is likely that a provision will be refunded, for instance as
a result of an insurance policy, the refund is recognized as a separate

FAIR VALUE HEDGES

asset only if it is as good as certain. The income from refunds is not

The purpose of fair value hedges is to provide protection against changes

netted with the expenses.

in the value of balance sheet items. In these cases, the hedge as well as

Non-current provisions are discounted using market interest rates.

the hedged risk content of the underlying are recognized with their

The probable fulfillment amount which is used as the basis for dis-

present value. Changes in value are recognized in the income statement.

counting purposes also comprises the future events which have to be
taken into consideration on the balance sheet date. The provision is then

DB Group does not have any fair value hedges as of the balance

sheet date.

recognized with its present value. Environmental protection provisions

206

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

CA SH FLOW HEDGES

The aim is to achieve gearing of 100% and thus parity between debt and

Cash flow hedges are used to provide protection against fluctuations in

equity. This objective is unchanged compared with last year. Gearing has

the cash flows of financial assets or liabilities or anticipated transactions.

developed as follows:

When future cash flows are hedged, the hedging instruments are also

Æ

recognized with their fair value. Changes in value are initially recognized
in shareholders’ equity with no impact on the income statement, and are
only recognized in the income statement at the point at which the corresponding losses or profits from the underlying have an impact on the
income statement or the transactions expire.

[€ million]
Financial debt

REQUIREMENTS FOR RECOGNIZING HEDGES IN ACCORDANCE WITH IA S 39

If hedges which in economic terms are used for interest, currency or
price hedging do not satisfy the restrictive requirements of IAS 39 for
being recognized as a hedge, the changes in value are immediately rec-

Dec 31,
2014

absolute

%

22,428

20,334

+2,094

+10.3

– Effects of currency hedging 1)

–278

–

–278

–

– Receivables from financing

–110

– 91

–19

+20.9

– Cash and cash equivalents

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WHICH DO NOT SATISFY THE

Change

Dec 31,
2015

– 4,549

– 4,031

– 518

+12.9

Net financial debt

17,491

16,212

+1,279

+7.9

÷ Equity

13,445

14,525

–1,080

–7.4

130

112

–

–

Gearing (%)
1)

ognized in the income statement.

Starting in the 2015 financial year, the effects of currency hedging have been taken
into consideration for establishing net financial debt.

Gearing has deteriorated compared with the previous year as a result of
CALCUL ATION OF THE FAIR VALUE

the decline in equity and the increase in net financial debt. The net

The fair value of financial instruments which are traded in an active

financial debt increased because bond issues were higher than redemp-

market is derived from the market price applicable on the balance sheet

tions. Equity declined with the negative net profit for the year (see

date. Common valuation methods such as option price or present value

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY [PAGE 189] and NOTE

models are used for determining the fair value of financial instruments

(28) [PAGE 225 FF.]).

which are not traded in an active market. If valuation-relevant parame-

Based on adjusted EBIT, return on capital employed (ROCE) is cal-

ters are not directly observable on the market, forecasts are used based

culated as a key component of the value management concept. The

on comparable financial instruments which are traded in an active

capital employed represents the use of capital provided by shareholders

market; these forecasts are then adjusted by premiums or discounts on

and providers of debt which is tied up in DB Group and which is associ-

the basis of historical data. The mean values of bid and offer rates are

ated with yield expectations. The parameter is derived on the basis of

used. Trades for which no premium has been paid have a fair value of

the closing balance sheet for the year under review. The following table

zero upon conclusion. DB AG operates with long-dated financial deriva-

shows the process of calculating capital employed, using the asset and
liability items shown in the balance sheet.

for the present value for hedged transactions. For considerations of

Æ

materiality, no credit risk adjustment is used for short-term derivatives.
If credit risk adjustment is used, the relevant discounts are derived from
the credit default swap (CDS) figures observable on the market.
All derivatives used in DB Group are measured using common
methods such as option price or present value models, because their fair

[€ million]
Property, plant and equipment
+	Intangible assets/goodwill

Change

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

39,059

39,022

+37

+ 0.1

3,762

4,195

– 433

–10.3
+ 6.2

absolute

%

+ Inventories

1,018

959

+ 59

+	Trade accounts receivable

4,018

4,146

–128

–3.1

+	Receivables and other financial assets

1,334

1,247

+ 87

+7.0

–	Receivables from financing

–110

– 91

–19

+20.9

56

84

–28

–33.3

0

0

–

–

–	Trade liabilities

– 4,679

– 4,949

+270

– 5.5

sustainable growth in the enterprise value but also to comply with a

–	Miscellaneous/other liabilities

–3,672

–3,653

–19

+ 0.5

capital structure which is adequate for maintaining a very good rating.

– Income tax liabilities

–163

–170

+7

– 4.1

– 5,311

– 5,044

–267

+ 5.3

values are not traded on an active market. No parameters from nonobservable markets are used for measurement purposes.

μμ Capital management in DB Group

+	Income tax receivables

(in accordance with IAS 1)
The purpose of financial management of DB Group is to not only achieve

The capital structure is managed on the basis of the gearing figure.

+	A ssets held for sale

–	Other provisions

Gearing is defined as the ratio between net financial debt (financial

– Deferred items

–1,853

–2,063

+210

–10.2

debt less receivables from financing and cash and cash equivalents)

Capital employed

33,459

33,683

–224

– 0.7

and shareholders’ equity. The main instruments for managing the capital structure are: scheduled repayment of financial debt as well as

For further calculation, the adjusted EBIT and EBITDA in the following

strengthening of the capital base by way of retained earnings.

table is derived from the operating result (EBIT) shown in the income
statement. The corresponding details at the segment level have been
calculated using the same method.

207

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

tives on a hedged basis, and does not perform any credit risk adjustment

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμ Critical assessments and appraisals

Æ

The consolidated financial statements are based on assessments and

Change
[€ million]

2015

2014

absolute

%

Operating profit (EBIT)

–154

1,830

–1,984

–

–5

– 61

+ 56

– 91.8

2

23

–21

– 91.3

Income from the disposal of financial
instruments
Expenses from the disposal of financial
instruments
CGU impairment DB Cargo in accordance
with IAS 36 1)

assumptions relating to the future. Based on past experience and reasonable expectations of future events, the estimates and assessments
which are derived are continuously reviewed and adjusted where appropriate. Nevertheless, the assessments will not always correspond to
subsequent actual circumstances.
The assessments and assumptions which may involve a significant risk
during the next reporting year in the form of major adjustments to the

1,300

–

+1,300

–

Restructuring 1)

370

340

+30

+ 8.8

Impairment and provision
in superstructure (DB Netz AG)

129

–

+129

–

A)	IMPAIR MENT OF C A SH - GENER ATING UNIT S (CGUS)

–

–192

+192

–

Every year, and on the basis of the updated mid-term planning, DB Group

18

74

– 56

–75.7

carries out a test to establish whether there is an impairment require-

1,660

2,014

–354

–17.6

(depreciation)

99

95

+4

+ 4.2

EBIT adjusted

1,759

2,109

–350

–16.6

Depreciation

4,471

3,190

+1,281

+ 40.2

– 99

– 95

–4

+ 4.2

–1,353

– 94

–1,259

–

4,778

5,110

–332

– 6.5

Property sale Great Britain
Other
Operating profit (EBIT) adjusted
for special items
PPA amortization customer contracts

PPA amortization customer contracts

(depreciation)

Impairments and depreciation
EBITDA adjusted
1)

Effects on profits in the year under review in connection with the Group restructuring.

carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed in the following.

ment for a cash-generating unit. This assessment is also reviewed in the
course of a year if there are any major events or changes to assumptions,
and is updated where necessary. Fundamental principles and assumptions of the impairment procedure used in DB Group in accordance with
IAS 36 (Impairment of Assets) are detailed in the section “Accounting

and valuation methods” under the heading “Impairments of assets.” The
main assumptions which have an impact on the value of a CGU are
reviewed in the form of standard sensitivity analyses.
The infrastructure CGU s are still exposed to risks relating to the
extent of long-term construction grants for replacement capital expenditures in the existing network and the related extent of own funds at

Special items totaling € 1,814 million were adjusted in EBIT in the year

the infrastructure companies. The construction grants included in mid-

under review. This includes a figure of € 1,300 million for impairments at

term planning are based on the new performance and financing agree-

DB Cargo which were carried out as a result of the annual impairment

ment (Leistungs- und Finanzierungsvereinbarung; LuFV) II which has

test in accordance with IAS 36. Details of the impairment test are

been signed by BMVI and DB (LuFV II).

described in the section “A SSET IMPAIRMENT TEST ” [PAGE 203 F.] In

In order to assure the quality and availability of the existing network

addition, the amortization of customer and franchise agreements has

in the long term, the cash flow forecasts underlying the impairment pro-

been reclassified from EBIT; these will be written down over the

cedure take account of all necessary maintenance costs and replacement

remaining term of the respective agreements as a result of being capital-

capital expenditures.

ized as intangible assets as part of the process of purchase price allo­
cation (PPA) (€ 99 million). This amount is mainly attributable to DB

EBIT margin

Arriva.

The risk of an EBIT margin reduced by 10% has been considered for

The capital employed and the adjusted EBIT have resulted in the
following figures for return on capital employed (ROCE):

This model calculation has identified an additional impairment requirement at DB Cargo of € 418 million; this means that the value-in-use for

Æ

[€ million]
EBIT adjusted

÷ Capital employed
ROCE (%)

analyzing a scenario in which results fail to perform in line with budget.

Dec 31,
2015

these CGUs no longer provides adequate cover for the carrying amount

Change

Dec 31,
2014

absolute

%

1,759

2,109

–350

–16.6

33,459

33,683

–224

– 0.7

5.3

6.3

–

–

of the essential capital employed. In scenarios in which the EBIT margin
is reduced, the CGU DB Cargo is robust up to 1.7%. All other CGUs report
stable surplus coverage even if the EBIT margin is reduced by 10%.

Average real growth rate of cash flows
A reduction of 10% in the long-term growth rate has been simulated in

order to assess the sensitivity of the impairment test result in relation
to the assumed long-term growth of cash flow (DB Arriva 2%, all other
CGUs 1%). As was the case in the previous year, no impairment require-

ment has been identified for any of the CGUs considered in this scenario.

208

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N O T E S T O T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S

Weighted average cost of capital

If major legal conditions or official covenants result in implementation

Risks relating to the assumptions of the capitalization rate, which is nor-

times of rehabilitation measures which differ considerably from the esti-

mally used for calculating the present value of value in use, have been

mated time corridor, this might result in a changed time horizon for the

analyzed by simulating the value of each CGU in conjunction with a cap-

expected cash outflows, and also to a changed provision. In addition,

ital cost mark-up of 10%. The currently used weighted costs of capital

price increases may also result in a higher provision.

(after tax) have been used as the basis of this simulation: DB Group 5.4%,
passenger transport 5.1%, freight transport and logistics 6.9%, infra-

D)	TR ADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLE S

structure 5.1%. In this scenario, the CGU DB Cargo has identified an

The impairment of doubtful receivables to a considerable extent com-

additional impairment requirement of € 158 million. The CGU DB Cargo

prises assessments and appraisals of individual receivables which are

will be able to withstand an increase in weighted costs of capital of up

based on the creditworthiness of the particular customer, current eco-

to 3.3%. All other CGUs also report stable surplus cover in conjunction

nomic developments as well as an analysis of historical bad debts at the

with an increase of 10% in the weighted costs of capital.

portfolio level. If the impairment is derived on the basis of historical
default rates at the portfolio level, any decline in the overall volume of

Useful life and residual value

receivables results in a corresponding reduction of such provisions (and

With regard to the assumptions relating to useful life and residual value,

vice versa).

the effect of a 10% reduction in the residual value at the end of useful
life (= terminal value) was analyzed. All CGU s also showed a surplus

E) PEN SION S AND SIMILAR OBLIGATION S

cover in this scenario.

Actuarial methods have been used for measuring defined benefit pension commitments as well as benefit commitments which are similar to

B) DEFERRED TA XES

pensions and the resultant costs and income. The valuations are based

The calculation of deferred tax assets is generally based on the medium-

on actuarial assumptions. These include in particular discount factors,

term planning. If the sum of net profits planned for the medium-term

salary and pension trends as well as biometrical calculation bases. The

planning period were to decline by 10% in conjunction with otherwise

discount factors which are used reflect the interest rates (giving due

unchanged tax parameters, deferred tax assets would have to be

consideration to the duration of the underlying obligation) which are

adjusted by € 98 million (previous year: € 122 million).

achieved on the balance sheet date for high-quality fixed-income bonds
plans, the values of the corresponding plan assets or the refund claims

The environmental protection provisions relate primarily to the obliga-

are based on the market values as of the balance sheet date. Key assump-

tion of DB AG to remedy the ecological legacy issues which arose before

tions for expenses and income attributable to pension commitments and

January 1, 1994 on the land of Deutsche Bundesbahn and the former

benefit commitments similar to pensions are to some extent based on

Deutsche Reichsbahn. The ecological legacy issues comprise mainly con-

current market conditions. Expenses and income attributable to pension

tamination of soil and groundwater as a result of using the properties.

commitments and benefit commitments similar to pensions may change

The obligation to rehabilitate the property is derived from the Federal

as a result of changes to these underlying key assumptions (see sensi-

Soil Protection Act (Bundesbodenschutzgesetz; BodSchG), the Water

tivity analyses in section “PENSION OBLIGATIONS” [PAGE 23 4 FF.] under

Management Act (Wasserhaushaltsgesetz; WHG), the Landfill Site Ordi-

NOTE (32)).

nance (Deponieverordnung; DepV) as well as other additional acts and

F) PROVISION S

ordinances.
The provision has been calculated on the basis of a discounting
method using the present value, where rehabilitation measures are prob-

The process of determining all types of provisions is associated with
estimates regarding the extent and/or timing of obligations.

able, the rehabilitation costs can be reliably estimated and no future
benefit is expected to be derived from these measures.
The estimation of future rehabilitation costs is subject to various
uncertainties. In addition to technical developments in the rehabilitation
field and the intensity of innovation, changes in the legal background
can also have a substantial impact on rehabilitation costs. For the valuation of provisions as of the balance sheet reference date, the rehabilitation obligations which are currently physically known or identifiable have
been used as the basis for estimating the expected costs in relation to
the current price level.
The provision is discounted on the basis of expected cash outflows,
using a risk-adjusted rate of 0.73% (previous year: 0.72%).

209

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

with a corresponding term. In the case of externally financed pension

C) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTEC TION PROVI SION S

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμNotes to the statement of income

The revenues include a figure of € 768 million for positive currency effects.

The special effects detailed at this point are issues which are considered

the euro compared with sterling and the US dollar. This has resulted in

to be unusual either in terms of the amount involved or the actual reason

positive currency effects mainly at the segments DB Arriva, DB Cargo

behind the issue. Irrespective of the amount involved, this item is used

and DB Schenker.

The positive currency effects are mainly attributable to the weakness of

for disclosing book profits and losses arising from transactions with
subsidiaries/financial investments as well as depreciation on long-term

Movements in revenues broken down according to business segments
and regions are set out in segment reporting.

customer contracts, which have been capitalized as part of the purchase
price allocation process in connection with company acquisitions. In

μ μ(2) INVENTORY CHANGES AND INTERNALLY
PRODUCED AND CAPITALIZED ASSETS

addition, the special effects recognize individual issues if they are of an
exceptional nature, if they are definable for accounting purposes, if they

Æ

can be measured and if the amount involved is material. In addition to

[€ million]

the special effects, scope of consolidation and currency effects are also

Inventory changes

disclosed separately. The item “Total – comparable” does not involve

2015

2014

1

–1

Other internally produced and capitalized assets

2,698

2,695

IFRS figures; instead, it involves additional disclosures in accordance

Total

2,699

2,694

with internal reporting.

– Special items

–

–10

– Effects from changes in scope of consolidation

–

0

–3

0

2,696

2,684

μ μ(1) REVENUES

– Effects from changes in exchange rates

Æ

Total – comparable

[€ million]
Revenues from services and sale of goods
		 thereof concession fees for rail transport
Total
– Special items
– Effects from changes in scope of consolidation
– Effects from changes in exchange rates
Total – comparable

2015

2014

40,403

39,728

Own investments relate mainly to construction and project business in

4,511

4,773

rail infrastructure and also the modernization of rolling stock as well as

40,403

39,728

65

–8

–79

–26

–768

–

39,621

39,694

the processing of appropriate spare parts.

μ μ(3) OTHER OPERATING INCOME
Æ
[€ million]

2015

2014

SERVICES FOR THIRD PARTIES AND SALE OF MATERIALS

In the year under review, revenues increased by € 675 million (+1.7%) to

Income from maintenance and repair

€ 40,403 million. This revenue growth compared with the previous year is

Sale of materials and energy

mainly attributable to DB Arriva, DB Schenker and the group companies

Other services for third parties

in Infrastructure. This is opposed by lower revenues at DB Long-Distance,
DB Regional and DB Cargo. At DB Arriva, mainly currency effects and

new transport contracts which had been started are having a positive
effect. DB Schenker is also benefiting from positive currency effects. In
particular, the fact that the euro is weak against the US dollar is having
a positive impact on revenues. In addition, DB Schenker has reported
growth in output in most segments. At DB Netze Track, a slight increase
in revenues has been due to various factors, including price factors as well
as the increased train-path demand, whereby in this case the increase is
due to services rendered for non-Group train operating companies

195

203
230

–

0

84

79

Income from creating fixed assets
INCOME FROM FEDER AL GR ANTS

Federal compensation payments
Other investment grants
Income from release of deferred items
Other Federal grants

Income from disposal of non-current financial instruments

segment, the competition posed by the long-distance bus market and

Income from reversal of provisions

the changed price/performance perception of customers have had a

Income from the reversal of negative differences

negative impact on the development in revenues. Adjusted by special

OTHER INCOME

Whereas the concession fees at DB Arriva increased compared with
the previous year (+ 4.4%), DB Regional was not able to repeat the previous
year performance (–7.0%). The decline in concession fees at DB Regional
is mainly attributable to failure to achieve success in invitations to tender
and strikes of the GDL carried out in 2015.

464
600

287

opment in revenues in the year under review; in the DB Long-Distance

(€ –73 million).

467
583

Income from claims for damages and cost refunds

Income from the disposal of property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets

revenues are roughly in line with the corresponding previous year figure

4
132

Leasing and rental income

(TOC s). The strikes of the GDL has had a negative impact on the devel-

items, changes in the scope of consolidation and currency effects, the

5
111

4

1

144

144

147

151

379

375

252

396

5

61

343

231

–

1

Income from third-party fees

46

32

Income from remediation of ecological burdens

62

63

99

121

Utilization of provisions for potential losses
Miscellaneous other income
Total

521

511

728

727

2,772

2,824

– Special items

–9

–279

– Effects from changes in scope of consolidation

–2

–1

– Effects from changes in exchange rates
Total – comparable

210

–16

–

2,745

2,544

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to the consolidated financial statements

Other operating income fell slightly by € 52 million compared with the

μ μ(5) PERSONNEL EXPENSES AND EMPLOYEES

previous year. The decline is mainly attributable to the decline in the

Æ

income from the disposal of property, plant and equipment, which in

[€ million]

turn can be explained by a property sale in Great Britain which was car-

WAGES AND SALARIES

ried out in 2014. Property sales of DB Netz AG in the year under review

		Employees

partially compensated for this decline. The higher income from claims for

		 Civil servants assigned

damages and refunds of costs as well as higher income from the reversal

2015

2014

11,431

10,805

1,134

1,172

12,565

11,977

2,116

2,003

of provisions also had a positive impact.

SOCIAL SECURITY EXPENSES

μ μ(4) COST OF MATERIALS

		 Civil servants assigned

254

255

Costs for adjusting staffing levels

286

343

		Employees
Æ
2015

Retirement benefit expenses

2014

COST OF R AW MATERIALS AND
SUPPLIES AND PURCHASED GOODS

Total

Energy costs

– Special items

		Electricity

1,663

1,634

155

165

1,110

1,320

		Other energies

231

233

		 Energy price derivatives

164

43

3,323

3,395

		Electricity tax
		 Diesel, other fuel

Other supplies and purchased goods
Price and value adjustment for materials

– Effects from changes in scope of consolidation
– Effects from changes in exchange rates
Total – comparable

378

341

3,034

2,942

15,599

14,919

–137

–225

–13

–11

–236

–

15,213

14,683

The figure stated for personnel expenses (social security contributions)
includes expenses of € 1,034 million for defined contribution plans (previous year: € 936 million).

535

472

–117

–119

3,741

3,748

of severance payment agreements and semi-retirement agreements and

The amount shown for adjusting staffing levels mainly comprises costs
restructuring costs. This mainly relates to costs of planned changes in

COSTS OF PURCHASED SERVICES

10,929

10,858

management structures at DB Schenker as well as costs incurred within

Cleaning, security, disposal, winter service

335

308

the framework of the Group program Railway of the Future at DB Cargo.

Commissions

152

153

Purchased transport services

The retirement benefit expenses relate to active persons as well as
persons who are no longer employed in DB Group or their surviving

Costs in connection with utilization of infrastructure
		Train-path usage

306

353

dependants. They are attributable primarily to service costs, employers’

33

34

339

387

contributions to the company top-up benefit scheme as well as the con-

768

787

12,523

12,493

3,944

4,009

20,208

20,250

– Special items

– 43

–29

– Effects from changes in scope of consolidation

– 52

–3

		Station usage
Other purchased services
Costs of maintenance and production
Total

– Effects from changes in exchange rates
Total – comparable

–355

–

19,758

20,218

tributions to Pensions-Sicherungs-Verein aG (pension backing association).
The interest expense resulting from compounding the pension obligations
and the expected income from plan assets is shown in financial result.
For detailed explanations regarding the development of pension obligations, please refer to NOTE (32) [PAGE 23 4 FF.] .
The activities of civil servants in DB Group are based on statutory
allocation within the framework of the German Rail Restructuring Act
(Eisenbahnneuordnungsgesetz; ENeuOG), Art. 2 section 12. For the work
of the assigned civil servants, DB AG reimburses to the BEV those costs

The impairments on inventories recognized in cost of materials amount

which would be incurred if an employee covered by collective bargaining

to € 12 million in the year under review (previous year: € 6 million).

arrangements were to be employed instead of the assigned civil servants

Compared with the previous year, the cost of materials has declined

(pro forma calculation).

slightly by € 42 million (– 0.2%).

The increase in wages and salaries mainly reflects the impact of col-

The costs of energy have declined mainly as a result of the lower

lective bargaining agreements in the year under review. Currency effects

costs of diesel, which is attributable to the fall in the price of crude oil.

and the higher average workforce have also had a further impact in this

The costs of purchased services have increased slightly compared

respect.

with the previous year (+ 0.2%). The higher currency effects at DB Schenker
in particular have resulted in higher costs of purchased transport services. This is opposed by a decline in costs at DB Long-Distance.
The costs of train path usage have declined compared with the
previous year as a result of modifications to transport contracts of Arriva
UK Trains.

211

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

[€ million]

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

The development in the number of employees in DB Group, converted

μ μ(7) OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES

to full-time employees (FTE) in each case, is shown in the following:

Æ

†

[€ million]
As of Dec 31

[FTE]
Employees
Civil servants
Employees
Trainees and dual degree students
Total

Annual average

2015

2014

2015

2014

271,615

268,731

270,824

267,860

25,587

27,032

26,346

28,234

297,202

295,763

297,170

296,094

11,511

11,790

10,456

10,733

308,713

307,553

307,626

306,827

2015

2014

1,616

1,537

RENTAL AND LEASING EXPENSES

Operating lease expenses
Conditional leasing expenses

3

4

1,619

1,541

Legal, consultancy and audit fees

265

231

Fees and contributions

250

242

Insurance expenses

169

163

Costs of advertising and sales promotion

161

159

Printing and stationery costs
Travel and representation expenses

In the event of changes in the scope of consolidation, the employees are

IT services

As of December 31, 2015, the number of persons employed in DB Group
was higher than at the end of the previous year. At the level of the segments, there was an increase in the number of employees at DB Schenker
as a result of the continued growth in the field of contract logistics and

293

50

47

Other services

711

616

1,089

956

125

130

66

28

178

170

2

23

75

65

Losses from disposal of property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets

development of output.
The development in the number of employees, based on the number

Expenses from disposal of non-current financial instruments

of natural persons (NP), is shown in the following:

Other operating taxes

†

OTHER EXPENSES

As of Dec 31
[NP]

Total

328

Impairments recognized in relation to receivables
and other assets 1)

headcount at DB Services and DB Cargo as a result of a decline in the

Trainees and dual degree students

12

Other communication services

Damages payable

at DB Arriva as a result of growth projects, and there was a decline in the

Employees

21

OTHER PURCHASED SERVICES

the date of initial consolidation.

Civil servants

74
285

Research and non-capitalized development costs

included on a pro rata basis up to the time of deconsolidation or after

Employees

74
298

Grants for third-party facilities

2015

2014

278,650

279,166

29,723

27,800

308,373

306,966

11,511

11,790

319,884

318,756

83

70

381

246

Other personnel-related expenses

197

220

Miscellaneous other expenses

698

442

Concession fees for passenger transport

Net of expenses and income consolidation
Total
– Special items

–1

0

1,358

978

5,750

5,057

–225

–133

–8

–6

– Effects from changes in scope of consolidation

μ μ(6) DEPRECIATION

– Effects from changes in exchange rates

In the year under review, depreciation was slightly lower than the previous

Total – comparable

year figure, and relates mainly to the property, plant and equipment

1)

–153

–

5,364

4,918

Including payments for receivables written down in the previous year.

used as rail infrastructure as well as the rolling stock. It is shown in the
income statement less any recovery in value written down in the report­

The other operating expenses have increased by € 693 million (+13.7%)

­ing period.

compared with the previous year.

For further explanations, please refer to the details concerning the

The increase compared with the previous year is due to various fac-

development in property, plant and equipment or intangible assets

tors, including higher operating lease expenses. The increase is mainly

under NOTES (1 3) [PAGE 21 5 FF.] and (1 4) [PAGE 218 F.] .

due to the segments DB Arriva and DB Schenker. Currency effects have

Depreciation includes special items arising from adjustments

also had a certain impact in this respect. At DB Arriva, there is also an in­­

(€ 1,452 million; previous year: € 189 million) as well as effects attribut-

crease in business at UK Trains. The increase in operating lease expenses

able to changes in the scope of consolidation (€ 2 million; previous year:

at DB Schenker is attributable to currency effects and also mainly to the

€ 1 million) and changes in exchange rates (€ 39 million). The deprecia-

expansion of storage capacities.

tion of the year under review includes a CGU impairment of € 1.3 billion
for the segment DB Cargo.

212

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to the consolidated financial statements

The increase in other expenses is due to much higher franchise payments

The decline in other interest and similar income is mainly due to tax refund

for transport contracts in Great Britain.

interest received in the previous year.

Higher payments into the provisions for potential losses have had

The other interest and similar expenses have declined despite an

an impact on the other miscellaneous expenses.

increase in financial debt, due to lower interest rates for new financing

The legal, consultancy and audit fees comprise fees of € 33.5 million

arrangements.

for the auditor of the consolidated financial statements (previous year:

The decline in the compounding of long-term provisions and liabilities

€ 25.1 million); this figure comprises auditing services of € 10.5 million

is due to various factors, including the decline in present values resulting

(previous year: € 10.4 million), other certification services of € 5.2 million

from higher discount rates.

(previous year: € 3.6 million), tax advice services of € 0.2 million (pre-

The interest income and expenses from the financial assets and lia­

vious year: € 0.2 million) as well as other services of € 17.6 million (pre-

­bilities not measured at fair value through profit or loss amount to € 34 mil-

vious year: € 10.9 million).

lion (previous year: € 48 million) and € 710 million respectively (previous
year: € –777 million).

μ μ(8) RESULT FROM INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED
FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD

μ μ(10) OTHER FINANCIAL RESULT

The following contributions to profits are recognized in the income state­

Æ

­ment as a result of shares in companies over which significant influence

[€ million]

can be exercised or which are managed as joint ventures.

Result from equity investments

Æ

Result from exchange rate effects

[€ million]

2015

2014

JOINT VENTURES

Other

Result from currency-related derivatives

2015

2014

1

1

–264

– 93

271

108

Result from other derivatives

4

–2

Result from disposal of financial instruments

0

0

Impairments on financial instruments

0

–6

16

7

16

7

EUROFIMA

6

6

Other

0

–5

6

1

22

8

2015

2014

7

10

The result from exchange rate effects has to be netted with the result

31

44

0

0

from currency-related derivatives. Both factors have changed compared

Operating interest income

38

54

Interest income from the reversal of deferred items
and other interest income

10

13

48

67

– 672

–736

Net interest expenses for pension provisions

– 88

–103

Interest expenses from finance leases

–37

–39

–797

– 878

The impairments recognized in relation to financial instruments in

– 51

– 87

the previous year related mainly to impairments for the investments in

ASSOCIATED COMPANIES

Total

–12

–11

Total

Other financial result

0

–3

– Special items

–

–

– Effects from changes in scope of consolidation

–6

–9

– Effects from changes in exchange rates

12

–

6

–12

Total – comparable

μ μ(9) NET INTEREST INCOME
Æ

The result from exchange rate effects is attributable to the conversion of
foreign currency liabilities and receivables with an impact on the income
statement using the spot rate applicable on the reference date (IAS 21).

INTEREST INCOME

Net interest income from pension provisions
Other interest and similar income
Income from securities

with the previous year as a result of significant fluctuations in the rate
of the euro against most currencies and in particular against the Swiss
franc and the Japanese yen. The result from currency-related derivatives
comprises the reclassification of currency-related changes in the market
value of cash flow hedges recognized under shareholders’ equity with

INTEREST EXPENSES

Other interest and similar expenses

Operating interest expenses
Compounding of long-term provisions and liabilities
Total
– Special items

relates to the development in the market value of derivatives which are
not classified as effective hedges in accordance with IAS 39.

– 848

– 965

Prometro S.A ., Porto/Portugal, as well as Autoterminal Śląsk Logistic Sp.

– 800

– 898

z.o.o., Sosnowiec/Poland.

–

0

– Effects from changes in scope of consolidation

1

0

– Effects from changes in exchange rates

6

–

–793

– 898

–759

– 824

Total – comparable

no impact on the income statement. The result from other derivatives

For information only:
Net operating interest income

213

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

[€ million]

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μ(11) TAXES ON INCOME

μ μ(12) EARNINGS PER SHARE
Under IAS 33 (Earnings per Share), undiluted earnings per share are

Æ
[€ million]

2015

2014

calculated by dividing the net profit for the year of DB Group attributable

Actual tax expense

–155

–155

to the shareholders of DB AG by the weighted average number of shares

18

19

in issue during the year under review. Undiluted earnings per share cor-

Actual taxes on income

–137

–136

Deferred tax expense

–242

187

Taxes on income

–379

51

Income due to lapsing of tax obligations

respond to diluted earnings per share.
Æ
[€ million]
Net profit for the year

The actual taxes on income have been incurred mainly at foreign Group

		 thereof attributable to minority interests

companies. A cost was recognized in the year under review in relation to

		 thereof due to shareholders of DB AG

deferred taxes, whereas income was recorded in the previous year. The

Number of issued shares

change is due to an adjustment of the expected future use of tax loss

Earnings per share (€ per share)

carry-forwards as well as new temporary differences which have arisen
and tax loss carry-forwards.

937

Group tax rate (%)

30.5

30.5

Expected tax expense (–)

284

–286

Adjustment of the expected future use of loss
carry-forwards and new temporary differences
which have arisen and loss carry-forwards

– 452

135

43

40

Tax effects related to IAS 12.33

79

83

–30

–22

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
CGU impairment DB Cargo

Differences in tax rates for foreign companies
Other effects

–273

0

–18

55

–12

46

Taxes on income as reported

–379

51

Effective tax rate (%)

– 40.7

– 5.4

966

430,000,000

430,000,000
2.25
2.25

2014

Income not subject to tax

22

–1,325

–3.08

Æ
2015

988

14

–3.08

following reconciles the calculated taxes with the actual taxes on income:

– 932

–1,311

		Diluted

Starting with the profit before taxes on income and the theoretical

Profits before taxes on income

2014

		Undiluted

taxes on income calculated using a theoretical tax rate of 30.5%, the

[€ million]

2015

The reconciliation amount as detailed in IAS 12.33 relates exclusively to
additional tax write-downs resulting from the fact that tax-free grants
in the IFRS financial statements have been deducted directly from the
costs of purchasing the assets. It is not permissible for deferred taxes to
be created in relation to these temporary differences.
In the year under review, the other effects include in particular
effects attributable to the difference in the assessment bases of different
income tax bases, deferred taxes attributable to other periods and the
effects of permanent differences. In the year under review, income from
taxes attributable to other periods amounted to € 2 million (previous year:
€ 12 million).

214

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

μμNotes to the balance sheet
μ μ(13) PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Æ

Property, plant and equipment [€ million]

Land

Commercial,
operating Permanent
and other
way
buildings structures

Track infraRolling
structure,
stock for
signaling passenger
and control and freight
equipment
transport

Other
Technical equipment,
equipment operational
and
and office
machinery equipment

Advance
payments
and assets
under construction

Total

COST OF PURCHASE AND COST OF PRODUCTION

As of Jan 1, 2015

4,282

6,929

14,900

16,702

28,275

1,683

4,598

3,160

80,529

Changes in the scope of consolidation

6

22

–

–

127

3

7

0

165

thereof additions

6

22

–

–

127

3

7

0

165

thereof disposals

–

–

–

–

0

–

0

–

0

40

250

533

1,496

1,906

54

441

4,524

9,244

Additions
Addition borrowing costs

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

37

37

Investment grants

0

–103

– 440

–1,349

–16

–14

– 56

–3,499

– 5,477

Transfers

4

144

–324

173

266

39

96

– 416

–18

Transfers related to available-for-sale assets

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Changes with no impact on the income statement

–

3

–

–

–

–

–

–

3

– 83

– 88

–20

–179

– 595

–31

–268

–213

–1,477

Disposals
Currency translation differences
As of Dec 31, 2015

16

27

3

0

106

9

26

3

190

4,265

7,184

14,652

16,843

30,069

1,743

4,844

3,596

83,196
– 41,507

– 836

–2,969

– 4,615

–11,246

–17,229

–1,165

–3,171

–276

Changes in the scope of consolidation

As of Jan 1, 2015

0

–13

–

–

– 98

–3

–5

–

–119

thereof additions

0

–13

–

–

– 98

–3

–5

–

–119

–

–

–

–

0

–

0

–

0

Depreciation

thereof disposals

–9

–225

–216

– 610

–1,379

– 87

–389

0

–2,915

Impairments

–18

–15

–15

– 47

–721

–12

–6

–11

– 845

Recoveries in value

–

0

–

15

0

1

0

–

16

Transfers

–

–2

–1

1

–1

1

0

2

0

Transfers related to available-for-sale assets

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

27

73

15

156

529

30

226

273

1,329

Disposals

–3

–8

–2

0

– 59

–7

–17

0

– 96

As of Dec 31, 2015

Currency translation differences

– 839

–3,159

– 4,834

–11,731

–18,958

–1,242

–3,362

–12

– 44,137

Carrying amount as of Dec 31, 2015

3,426

4,025

9,818

5,112

11,111

501

1,482

3,584

39,059

Carrying amount as of December 31, 2014

3,446

3,960

10,285

5,456

11,046

518

1,427

2,884

39,022

215

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ

Property, plant and equipment [€ million]

Commercial,
operating Permanent
and other
way
Land
buildings structures

Track infrastructure,
signaling
and control
equipment

Rolling
stock for
passenger
and freight
transport

Technical
equipment
and
machinery

Other
equipment,
operational
and office
equipment

Advance
payments
and assets
under construction

Total

COST OF PURCHASE AND COST OF PRODUCTION

As of Jan 1, 2014

4,318

6,661

13,858

16,353

26,474

1,774

4,320

3,594

77,352

–1

–8

–

–

–29

–1

–4

0

– 43

thereof additions

–

0

–

–

1

–

0

–

1

thereof disposals

–1

–8

–

–

–30

–1

–4

0

– 44

Additions

9,004

Changes in the scope of consolidation

35

223

568

1,417

2,230

69

411

4,051

Addition borrowing costs

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

20

20

Investment grants

0

– 85

– 417

–1,159

–10

–18

– 54

–2,943

– 4,686

–9

200

907

282

183

– 99

234

–1,701

–3

Transfers related to available-for-sale assets

Transfers

–

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

0

Changes with no impact on the income statement

–

1

–

–

–

–

–

–

1

–74

– 65

–19

–191

– 656

– 50

–332

136

–1,251

Disposals
Currency translation differences
As of Dec 31, 2014

13

2

3

0

83

8

23

3

135

4,282

6,929

14,900

16,702

28,275

1,683

4,598

3,160

80,529
–39,656

ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

– 854

–2,792

– 4,411

–10,798

–16,341

–1,251

–2,933

–276

Changes in the scope of consolidation

As of Jan 1, 2014

–

3

–

–

20

1

4

–

28

thereof additions

–

0

–

–

–1

–

0

–

–1

–

3

–

–

21

1

4

–

29

Depreciation

thereof disposals

–9

–215

–211

– 625

–1,358

– 86

–376

0

–2,880

Impairments

–7

–17

0

–9

– 87

–4

–7

0

–131

2

0

–

13

0

1

0

–

16

–1

0

–5

1

1

133

–129

0

0

–

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

0

Disposals

37

48

14

172

583

48

286

0

1,188

Currency translation differences

–4

4

–2

0

– 47

–7

–16

0

–72

As of Dec 31, 2014

– 836

–2,969

– 4,615

–11,246

–17,229

–1,165

–3,171

–276

– 41,507

Carrying amount as of Dec 31, 2014

3,446

3,960

10,285

5,456

11,046

518

1,427

2,884

39,022

Carrying amount as of Dec 31, 2013

3,464

3,869

9,447

5,555

10,133

523

1,387

3,318

37,696

Recoveries in value
Transfers
Transfers related to available-for-sale assets

The additions to the borrowing costs include an average borrowing cost

Financial debt was backed by property, plant and equipment with car­

rate of 3.26% (previous year: 3.55%).

rying amounts of € 6 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 6 million). This is

Of the figure of € 845 million shown for the impairments (previous

mainly applicable to rolling stock and buses which are used as collateral

year: € 131 million), € 775 million (previous year: no impairments) relates

for loans and which are in use at the operating companies in the segments

to impairments identified in the CGU impairment test and mainly relate

DB Arriva and DB Long Distance. Restrictions to rights of disposal in

to rolling stock of DB Schenker Rail AG (€ 623 million) and DB Schenker

relation to property, plant and equipment existed to the extent of € 52 mil­

Rail UK (€ 45 million). Of the remaining amount (€ 70 million, previous

lion (as of December 31, 2014: € 51 million) mainly at SüdbadenBus

year: € 131 million), € 46 mil­­lion is attributable to track and signaling

GmbH, S.A .B. Autoservizi S.R .L., Bergamo/Italy and S.I.A . Societa Italiana

installations of DB Netz AG .

Autoservizi S.P.A ., Brescia/Italy.

Recoveries in value of € 16 million (previous year: € 16 million) related
mainly to track of DB Netze Track.

Property, plant and equipment include rented assets which are shown
separately in the following overview. The rented property, plant and

In the year under review, the carrying amount disposals for assets

equipment comprises assets which are substantially but not legally

under construction included carrying amount disposals of € 67 million

owned by DB Group, so that the underlying lease agreements have to be

(previous year: € 139 million). These are attributable to the repayment

classified as finance leases.

of investment grants which had been received in previous years and
deducted from assets.

216

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

Æ
Commercial,
operating
and other
Land
buildings

Leased assets [€ million]

Rolling
stock for
passenger
and freight
transport

Technical
equipment
and
machinery

Other
equipment,
operational
and office
equipment

Total

ASSETS LEASED FROM THIRD PARTIES UNDER FINANCE LEASE

Cost of purchase and cost of production

20

374

422

0

0

816

Accumulated depreciation

–4

–168

–283

0

0

– 455

Carrying amount as of Dec 31, 2015

16

206

139

0

0

361

Cost of purchase and cost of production

20

376

677

2

0

1,075

Accumulated depreciation

–3

–154

– 465

–1

0

– 623

Carrying amount as of Dec 31, 2014

17

222

212

1

0

452

The figure shown for the commercial, operating and other buildings under

case of mobile assets (mainly rolling stock), the residual carrying amount

leased assets also relates to concourse buildings of DB Station&Ser­­

was € 1,150 million and the accumulated depreciation was € 3,662 million

vice AG and energy installations of DB Energie GmbH. The decline is attrib­

as of December 31, 2015 (compared with a residual carrying amount of

utable to the repurchase of leased vehicles in the year under review. The

€ 1,973 million and accumulated depreciation of € 3,654 million as of De­­

figure shown under rolling stock for passenger and freight transport re­­lates

cember 31, 2014). The residual carrying amount and accumulated de­pre­

mainly to rail vehicles used by the transport companies of DB Group (loco­

­ciation for land and buildings are roughly in line with the corresponding

­motives, freight cars). The additions in the year under review amounted

previous year level. The decline in the residual carrying amounts of

to costs of purchase of € 6 million and depreciation of € 49 million.

mobile assets is mainly attributable to the downturn in the leasing volume.

The assets which are leased by way of an operating lease and which

Impairments recognized in relation to rolling stock also had a negative

have in certain cases been calculated on the basis of retrospective calcu­

impact on carrying amounts. Both aspects have opposite effects on the

lations and also on the basis of our own analyses are shown with a residual

development of accumulated depreciation, which is thus roughly in line

carrying amount of € 1,113 million and accumulated depreciation of

with the corresponding previous year level. Rental and leasing income

€ 493 million in the case of land and buildings as of December 31, 2015

resulting from the rental and leasing of these assets are expected to be

(compared with a residual carrying amount of € 1,143 1) million and accu­

received in future years as detailed in the following:

mulated depreciation of € 456 1) million as of December 31, 2014). In the
Æ

Expected rental and leasing payments
(nominal values) [€ million]

Less than
1 year

1 to 2 years

2 to 3 years

3 to 4 years

4 to 5 years

More than
5 years

Total more
than 1 year

Total

395

234

181

158

135

450

1,158

1,553

390

231

186

163

138

492

1,210

1,600

DEC 31, 201 5

Minimum lease payments
DEC 31, 201 4

Minimum lease payments

1)

Figure adjusted.

217

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Residual maturity

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μ(14) INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Æ
Capitalized
development
costs –
products in use
Intangible assets [€ million]

Capitalized
development
costs –
products under
development

Purchased
intangible
assets

Intangible
assets
with indefinite
useful life

Goodwill

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

Advance
payments

2015

2014

2015

Total

2014

2015

2014
5,282

COST OF PURCHASE AND COST OF PRODUCTION

23

39

173

140

2,163

2,120

3,117

2,982

5

0

1

1

5,482

Changes in the scope of consolidation

As of Jan 1

–

–

–

–

33

2

18

1

–

5

–

–

51

8

		thereof additions

–

–

–

–

33

2

18

1

–

5

–

–

51

8

		thereof disposals

–

–

–

–

0

0

–

–

–

–

–

–

0

0

Additions

6

2

47

66

47

57

15

–

0

–

0

0

115

125
–1

Investment grants

–

–

–

–

–1

–1

–

–

–

–

–

–

–1

25

–

–37

–26

30

29

0

–

–

–

0

0

18

3

Transfers related to available-for-sale assets

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Changes with no impact on the income statement

–

–

–

–

5

1

–

–

–

–

–

–

5

1

Disposals

0

–18

–12

–4

– 93

– 81

–1

–

–

0

–

0

–106

–103

Transfers

Currency translation differences
As of Dec 31

0

0

1

–3

39

36

117

134

0

0

–

0

157

167

54

23

172

173

2,223

2,163

3,266

3,117

5

5

1

1

5,721

5,482

– –1,245

–1,167

ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

–21

–34

–2

–1,114

–19

–19

0

0

–

– –1,287

Changes in the scope of consolidation

As of Jan 1

–

–

–

–

–4

0

–

–

–

0

–

–

–4

0

		thereof additions

–

–

–

–

–4

0

–

–

–

0

–

–

–4

0

–

–

–

–

0

0

–

–

–

–

–

–

0

0

Depreciation

		thereof disposals

–3

–3

–

–

–199

–189

–

–

–

0

–

–

–202

–192

Impairments

–

–

–2

–2

– 40

–1

– 483

–

–

–

–

–

– 525

–3

Recoveries in value

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Transfers

–

–

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

–

–

–

0

0

Transfers related to available-for-sale assets

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Disposals

0

16

2

–

76

80

–

–

–

0

–

–

78

96

–

–22

–21

3

0

0

0

–

–

–19

–21

–2 –1,434

–1,245

– 499

–19

0

0

–

– –1,959

–1,287

Currency translation differences
As of Dec 31
Carrying amount as of Dec 31
Carrying amount as of Dec 31 of previous year

0

0

0

–24

–21

–2

30

2

170

171

789

918

2,767

3,098

5

5

1

1

3,762

4,195

2

5

171

140

918

1,006

3,098

2,963

5

0

1

1

4,195

4,115

The acquired intangible assets mainly comprise acquired customer and

μ μ(15) INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED
FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD

franchise agreements (about € 338 million carrying amount), franchises
and rights (about € 207 million carrying amount) and software (about

Æ

€ 166 million carrying amount).

[€ million]

There are no other legal, regulatory, contractual, competition-related,
economic or other factors which limit the useful life of the acquired
Arriva brand (carrying amount € 36 million).
Impairments of € 525 million as a result of the CGU impairment tests
mainly relate to DB Schenker Rail Polska S.A ., Zabrze/Poland, DB Schen­­ker
Rail AG (Europe) as well as DB Schenker Rail (UK) Holdings Limited.
Segment reporting shows the allocation of reported goodwill to the
various segments.

2015

2014

As of Jan 1

478

511

Additions

2

2

Disposals

–3

–36

Interest of the Group in profits

22

8

Capital increase
Dividends received
Impairments

0

2

–11

–7

0

–4

Currency translation differences

33

6

Other valuation

–3

–4

518

478

As of Dec 31

218

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

The figure shown in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 is mainly

Æ

attributable to the shares held in the associated companies EUROFIMA ,

Deferred tax
assets

Deferred tax
liabilities

2015

2014

2015

2014

159

111

155

165

2

6

86

113

Investments accounted for
using the equity method

1

1

1

4

Other financial assets

2

1

15

8
2

Basel/Switzerland and Barraqueiro SGPS SA , Lisbon/Portugal. The shares
in EUROFIMA are not fully negotiable. The disposals relate almost exclu­

As of Dec 31 [€ million]

sively to the shares in KM which since this year has been included as a

NON- CURRENT ASSETS

subsidiary.

Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets

μ μ(16) DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
Æ
Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

Deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences

786

728

Deferred tax assets in respect of losses carried forward

549

876

1,335

1,604

[€ million]

Total

No deferred tax assets have been created in relation to the following losses
carried forward and temporary differences:
Æ
[€ million]
Tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred
tax asset has been created
Temporary differences for which no deferred
tax asset has been created
Temporary differences which are not permitted
to be recognized in accordance with IAS 12.24b in
conjunction with 12.33
Total

Dec 31,
2015
13,904
4,729

Dec 31,
2014
13,301
5,031

2,964

3,226

21,597

21,558

CURRENT ASSETS

Inventories

1

3

1

16

21

1

1

Other financial assets

4

7

6

8

Assets held for sale

0

0

0

1

Financial debt

117

125

0

18

Other liabilities

57

47

4

4

Derivative financial instruments

48

41

0

1

Pension obligations

133

218

5

4

Other provisions

231

209

1

1

Trade receivables

NON- CURRENT LIABILITIES

CURRENT LIABILITIES

Financial debt

9

51

3

5

Other liabilities

38

37

15

12
16

Other provisions

103

105

7

Losses carried forward

549

876

0

0

1,470

1,859

300

363

–135

–255

–135

–255

1,335

1,604

165

108

Total
Offsetting 1)
Amount stated in the balance sheet

The losses carried forward are mainly attributable to the tax law treatment

1)

To the extent permitted by IAS 12 (Income Taxes).

with section 21 (5) and section 22 (1) Deutsche Bahn Establishment Act

Tax assets and liabilities are netted if they exist in relation to the same

(Deutsche Bahn Gründungsgesetz; DBGr G) as a contribution.

tax authority, if they are of identical maturity and if they relate to the

On the basis of current law, the domestic losses carried forward are

same tax subject.

fully allowable in accordance with current legislation (in terms of the actual
amount and justification).

Of the deferred tax assets of € 1,470 million (as of December 31,
2014: € 1,859 million), a figure of € 186 million (as of December 31, 2014:

The temporary differences which are not permitted to be recognized

€ 254 million) will probably be realized in the course of the next 12

in accordance with IAS 12.33 relate exclusively to additional tax deprecia­

months. Of the deferred tax liabilities of € 300 million (as of December 31,

tion from previously received tax-free investment grants.

2014: € 363 million), a figure of € 33 million (as of December 31, 2014:

The following deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities shown

€ 45 million) will probably be realized in the course of the next 12 months.

in the balance sheet are not applicable in relation to statement and

Deferred tax assets of € 115 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 200 mil­

valuation differences for the individual balance sheet items and tax

lion) shown directly in equity and deferred tax liabilities of € 0 million

losses carried forward:

(as of December 31, 2014: € 9 million) are included in the deferred taxes
shown in the balance sheet.

219

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

of Federal Government grants paid in the past to DB AG in accordance

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μ(17) AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS
Æ
Investments
in subsidiaries
[€ million]

Other
subsidiaries

Securities

Total

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

As of Jan 1

0

0

8

9

7

7

15

16

Currency translation differences

–

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

Changes in scope of consolidation

–

0

1

0

–

0

1

0

Additions

–

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

Disposals through sale

–

–

0

0

–5

0

–5

0

Other disposals

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Fair value changes

–

–

–

–

0

–

0

–

Reclassifications

–

–

–

–

1

0

1

0

Impairment losses

–

–

–

–1

–

–

0

–1

Other

0

0

–

0

–

–

0

0

As of Dec 31

–

0

9

8

3

7

12

15

Non-current portion

–

–

9

8

2

2

11

10

Current portion

–

–

0

0

1

5

1

5

μ μ(18) INVENTORIES

A factoring agreement was concluded with a bank at the end of 2015;

according to the terms of this agreement, the bank is obliged to purchase

Æ
Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

Raw materials, consumables and supplies

1,109

1,070

Unfinished products, unfinished services

153

159

79

56

9

9

–332

–335

1,018

959

[€ million]

Finished products and goods
Advance payments
Impairments
Total

on a revolving basis short-term euro-denominated trade accounts receiv­
able up to a maximum volume of € 200 million. The agreement has been
concluded for an indefinite period of time. DB Group will continue to be
responsible for sales ledger accounting and the dunning system on behalf
of the bank until further notice. The risks relating to the receivables which
are sold and which are relevant for the risk assessment are the credit risk
and the risk of late payment (late-payment risk). The purchase price is
equivalent to the nominal amount. DB Group bears bad debt related to
credit risks from the various tranches as well as late-payment risks up to

μ μ(19) RECEIVABLES AND OTHER ASSETS

a maximum amount of € 48 million. The other bad debts related to the

Æ

credit risk are borne by the bank. Virtually none of the opportunities and
ReceivTrade
ables
receivfrom Advance
ables financing payments

Other
assets

Total

Gross value

4,248

114

205

1,053

5,620

­ber 31, 2015, receivables with a volume of € 192 million had been sold and

Impairments

–219

–4

–

– 45

–268

completely derecognized (thereof outstanding € 130 million). As a result of

4,029

110

205

1,008

5,352

its exposure, DB Group recognized a total of € 380 thousand in the income

36

14

0

115

165

5,636

[€ million]

risks associated with the receivables have been transferred or retained
(breakdown of major risks between DB Group and bank). The control over

Net value
		thereof due from
related parties

the receivables which have been sold has been transferred to the bank
as the bank has the actual ability to sell on the receivables. As of De­­cem­

DEC 31, 201 5

statement in the year under review. Purchase price payments received
by the bank are included in the cash flow from operating activities.

DEC 31, 201 4

Gross value

4,344

93

215

984

Impairments

–191

–2

–

– 50

–243

4,153

91

215

934

5,393

39

16

0

95

150

Net value
		thereof due from
related parties

220

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

The impairments for the financial instruments classified in accordance

Individual allowances are created in relation to receivables if there are

with IFRS 7 have developed as follows (IFRS 7.16):

objective indications of an impairment. In the case of identical receivables

Æ

(portfolios of receivables) which cannot be identified as impaired indi­

[€ million]

vidually, global allowances (based on experience) are recognized on the

Receivables
Trade
from
receivables
financing Other assets

basis of the age structure of such receivables. Any impairments which
Total

are recognized are deducted from financial assets on the assets side of
the balance sheet. Previous impairments are reversed if the reasons for

As of Jan 1, 2015

–191

–2

– 50

–243

Additions

– 44

–2

–3

– 49

Reversals

14

0

8

22

The total amount of allocations to impairments of € 49 million (pre­

4

0

0

4

vious year: € 25 million) consists of individual allowances of € 36 million

–2

0

0

–2

Amounts used
Changes in the scope
of consolidation
Currency translation
differences

0

0

0

0

As of Dec 31, 2015

–219

–4

– 45

–268

–214

–2

– 50

–266

As of Jan 1, 2014

the original impairments are no longer applicable.

(previous year: € 11 million) and global individual allowances of € 13 mil­
lion (previous year: € 14 million).
The reversals have recognized reductions of individual allowances
of € 16 million (previous year: € 22 million) and reductions of global indi­
vidual allowances of € 6 million (previous year: € 7 million).
Expenses of € 47 million were incurred for the complete derecognition
of receivables and other assets (previous year: € 39 million).

Additions

–20

0

–5

–25

Reversals

24

0

5

29

Income of € 6 million was reported for amounts received in relation

Amounts used

17

0

0

17

to previously derecognized receivables and other assets (previous year:

Changes in the scope
of consolidation

3

0

0

3

Currency translation
differences

–1

0

0

–1

As of Dec 31, 2014

–191

–2

– 50

–243

€ 7 million).
The following overview shows the maturity structure of the receiv­
ables for the financial instruments classified in accordance with IFRS 7
and the advanced payments which have been made:

Æ
Residual maturity
[€ million]

Less than
1 year

4 to 5 years

More than
5 years

1

1

1

1

1 to 2 years

2 to 3 years

3 to 4 years

4,018

6

3

91

11

1

176

29

–

–

Total more
than 1 year

Total

0

11

4,029

5

19

110

–

–

29

205

Trade receivables
Receivables from financing
Advance payments
Other assets
Total
		 thereof non-financial assets

892

16

16

16

2

66

116

1,008

5,177

62

20

18

4

71

175

5,352

377

29

–

–

–

64

93

470

4,146

4

1

1

1

0

7

4,153

72

2

9

1

1

6

19

91

183

32

–

–

–

–

32

215

DEC 31, 201 4

Trade receivables
Receivables from financing
Advance payments
Other assets
Total
		 thereof non-financial assets

866

4

1

3

1

59

68

934

5,267

42

11

5

3

65

126

5,393

420

32

–

–

–

53

85

505

The slight decline in trade receivables mainly relates to declines in the

The fair values of the receivables and other assets are to a large extent

segments DB Schenker and DB Netze Track; opposite developments were

equivalent to the carrying amounts.

reported for the segments DB Cargo and Subsidiaries/Other. The current

The maximum default risk is essentially equivalent to the carrying

other assets also comprise the customs receivables of the DB Schenker

amount in each case. No collateral is normally held.

segment.
As a result of the large number of customers in the various operating
segments, there is no evidence of any concentration of credit risks with
trade receivables.

221

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

DEC 31, 201 5

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

The gross amounts of the individually adjusted receivables as well as the
age structure in accordance with IFRS 7.37a are shown in the following:
Æ

[€ million]

Not impaired but overdue within the
following period of time (days)

Neither
Gross figure impaired nor
adjusted
overdue

Less than
29

30 to 59

60 to 89

90 to 179

180 to 359

More than
359
45

DEC 31, 201 5

Trade receivables
Receivables from financing
Other assets
Total

219

3,019

664

125

76

59

41

7

90

10

0

0

3

4

0

43

599

90

7

4

7

8

18

269

3,708

764

132

80

69

53

63

188

2,892

860

172

85

62

38

47

4

79

10

0

0

0

0

0

50

510

76

7

3

10

22

16

242

3,481

946

179

88

72

60

63

DEC 31, 201 4

Trade receivables
Receivables from financing
Other assets
Total

As of the balance sheet date, there are no indications that debtors of the

The volume of diesel hedging declined by 0.4 million t to 1.1 million t as

receivables which are neither impaired nor overdue will not meet their

the new transactions only compensated for some of the volume of the

pay­­ment obligations.

expiring transactions. The volume of coal hedging has declined by about
0.7 million t to 0.7 million t; the heavy fuel oil hedging declined by 0.1 mil­

μ μ(20) INCOME TAX RECEIVABLES

lion t to 0.1 million t because no new coal and heavy fuel oil hedges were

The income tax receivables mainly relate to allowable withholding taxes.

concluded in the year under review.

μ μ(21) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

ance sheet date. The following overview shows the structure of the item

The volume of hedges which have been taken out is shown in the following

stated in the balance sheet depending on the type of underlying hedge:

All derivative financial instruments are marked-to-market on the bal­

overview of nominal values:
Æ

Æ

[€ million]

2015

2014

173

179

173

179

INTEREST-BASED CONTR ACTS

Interest swaps
CURRENCY-BASED CONTR ACTS

Currency swaps
Currency forwards
Cross-currency swaps

792

850

975

932

5,246

4,828

7,013

6,610

2015

2014

Assets
[€ million]

Volumes [in designated units of volume]
OTHER CONTR ACTS

Diesel (1,000 tons)
Heavy fuel oil (1,000 tons)
Hard coal (1,000 tons of coal equivalent)

1,131

1,535

96

192

660

1,394

The volume of interest rate swaps declined slightly to € 173 million; no
new business was transacted. The nominal value of the cross-currency
swaps increased by € 418 million to € 5,246 million as an increased volume
of foreign currency bonds was issued and as the related cash flows were
exchanged for euros.
The portfolio of foreign currency swaps has declined by € 58 million
to € 792 million. As a result of higher hedging activities of the subsid­

2014

2015

2014
30

INTEREST-BASED CONTR ACTS

Interest swaps

–

–

25

Interest forwards

0

–

–

–

0

0

25

30

Currency swaps

4

4

3

5

Currency forwards

5

4

4

6

CURRENCY-BASED CONTR ACTS

Other currency derivatives

Æ

2015

Liabilities

0

0

0

0

Cross-currency swaps

389

89

289

322

including effects of currency hedging 1)

440

–

162

–

398

97

296

333

OTHER CONTR ACTS

Energy price derivatives
Total
Interest-based contracts
Currency-based contracts
Other contracts
Non-current portion
Current portion
1)

iaries, the volume of currency forwards has increased by € 43 million to
€ 975 million.

222

0

5

334

317

0

5

334

317

398

102

655

680

–

–

24

30

339

90

191

315

0

5

235

210

339

95

450

555

59

7

205

125

The effects of currency hedging relating to bonds have been shown
separately since the 2015 financial year.

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

Æ

μμ Cash flow hedges
In order to minimize the interest rate and exchange rate risk, foreign cur­
rency issues as well as intra-Group foreign currency loans are translated
into euros, and floating-rate financial liabilities are converted into fixedincome financial liabilities. Energy price hedging was intended to reduce
price fluctuations attributable to energy sourcing.
The negative valuation of the interest rate swaps is due to a contin­
uous decline in the level of interest rates since the transactions were
concluded. The development in the value of the cross-currency swaps is
mainly attributable to the strength of the Swiss franc as well as the

Due in
Nominal value [million]

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020 2021 ff.

REDEMPTION

EUR

–

–

–

–

–

–

USD

426

–

–

250

3

–

GBP

528

20

6

6

3

429

CHF

–

525

–

–

750

1,050

JPY

–

–

–

7,500

47,100

–

AUD

–

–

–

–

–

270

strengthening of the Japanese yen, the US dollar, sterling and the weak­

HKD

686

–

–

–

–

–

ening of the Norwegian krone against the euro.

NOK

2,120

–

–

–

–

4,900

The very negative value market valuation of the energy price deriv­

SEK

607

117

877

107

357

2,055

DKK

156

115

321

47

8

–

SGD

62

–

177

–

–

–

under assets and liabilities:

NZD

1

10

–

–

–

–

Æ

MXN

193

–

–

–

–

–

PLN

79

70

82

76

70

31

CZK

406

34

29

27

27

340

HUF

420

170

1,970

170

170

127

RON

24

–

–

–

–

–

atives is due to the collapse in prices on the energy markets.
The market values of the cash flow hedges are shown as follows

Assets
2015

2014

2015

2014

INTEREST-BASED CONTR ACTS

Interest swaps

–

–

25

30

HRK

3

3

3

3

3

5

0

0

25

30

SAR

–

–

13

–

–

–

Currency swaps

4

4

3

5

EUR

1

–

–

–

1

–

Currency forwards

–

0

–

–

USD

14

3

4

1

–

–

389

89

289

322

GBP

16

14

14

14

14

80

393

93

292

327

CHF

33

33

26

26

26

44

658

658

658

658

532

–

12

12

12

12

12

51

CURRENCY-BASED CONTR ACTS

Cross-currency swaps

INTEREST PAYMENTS

OTHER CONTR ACTS

Energy price derivatives
Total
Interest-based contracts
Currency-based contracts
Other contracts
Non-current portion
Current portion

JPY

0

5

334

317

AUD

0

5

334

317

HKD

10

–

–

–

–

–

393

98

651

674

NOK

224

153

153

153

153

1,230

–

–

24

30

SEK

109

100

98

77

75

77

339

89

191

315

DKK

17

14

13

1

–

–

0

5

235

210

SGD

6

6

3

–

–

–

339

94

450

555

NZD

1

1

–

–

–

–

54

4

201

119

MXN

–

–

–

–

–

–

PLN

12

9

8

5

3

2

CZK

11

10

9

9

8

21

HUF

157

139

123

38

22

6

RON

0

0

–

–

–

–

The following tables show the periods within which the hedged cash
flows of the underlyings (interest and redemption payments as well as
energy payments) will occur:

HRK

1

1

–

–

–

–

SAR

0

0

–

–

–

–

ENERGY [€ MILLION]

Diesel

273

198

132

56

33

63

Heavy fuel oil

23

20

2

–

–

–

Hard coal

30

24

2

–

–

–

The interest payments are normally reflected in the income statement in
the above-mentioned periods. The period during which interest is recog­
nized in the income statement may differ from the maturities of the
interest payments.
The payments from energy derivatives are recognized in the income
statement in the periods in which they fall due.

223

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

[€ million]

Liabilities

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

In the case of interest and cross-currency hedges, the effectiveness of

With regard to cash and cash equivalents, please refer to section “NOTES

the hedge is assessed prospectively using the Critical Terms Match meth­

TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS” [PAGE 2 40 F.].

­od. This method is used because the major valuation parameters of the
underlying and hedges are identical. The effectiveness is measured retro­

μ μ(23) ASSETS HELD FOR SALE

­spectively as of each balance sheet date by using the dollar-offset method

There were only insignificant items.

or the hypothetical derivatives method. In this method, the development
in value of the hedge which is actually taken out is compared with the

μ μ(24) SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL

development in value of a theoretical hedge in which all valuation-rele­

The share capital of DB AG is € 2,150 million. It consists of 430,000,000

vant parameters are identical to those of the underlying. In the case of

no-par-value bearer shares. All shares are held by the Federal Republic

energy price derivatives, the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed pro­

of Germany.

spectively using the linear regression. The retrospective effectiveness
linear regression. The ineffectiveness is also calculated using the dollar-

μ μ(25) RESERVES
μμ a) Capital reserves

offset method. Under this method, the changes in the market values of

Capital reserves comprise reserves which have not been part of profits.

measurement is carried out as of every balance sheet date by means of

the underlying are compared with the changes in the market value of the
hedging instrument. The resultant quotient determines the inefficiency.

μμ b) Reserve resulting from valuation
with no impact on profit or loss

The inefficiencies of cash flow hedges of the energy price derivatives
recognized in the income statement amounted to € 0 million in the year

RESERVE FOR CURRENCY TR ANSLATION DIFFERENCES

under review (previous year: € 0 million).

The currency translation differences resulting from the method of func­
tional currency (IAS 21) are shown separately as part of consolidated

μμ Non-hedge derivatives

shareholders’ equity.

Currency forwards taken out to hedge operations are normally classified

RESERVE FOR MARKET VALUATION OF SECURITIE S

as non-hedge derivatives.
The market values of the non-hedge derivatives are shown under
assets and liabilities as follows:

which have been classified as “available-for-sale financial assets” and
which have to be recognized with no impact on profit or loss. The reserve

Æ
Assets
[€ million]

has to be reversed to the income statement or eliminated when a finan­

Liabilities

2015

2014

2015

2014

0

–

–

–

0

0

0

0

INTEREST-BASED CONTR ACTS

Interest forwards

The reserve includes the market value changes of financial instruments

CURRENCY-BASED CONTR ACTS

cial instrument is sold or in the event of a permanent reduction in the
market value of a financial instrument.
The measurement of financial instruments directly in equity has
resulted in the creation of deferred tax assets of € 0 million in the year
under review (as of December 31, 2014: deferred tax assets € 0 million).

Currency forwards

5

4

4

6

Other currency derivatives

0

0

0

0

Cross-currency swaps

–

–

–

0

5

4

4

6

0

0

–

–

[€ million]

2015

0

0

0

0

As of Jan 1

– 462

–181

Total

5

4

4

6

Change in market value

144

–291

Currency-based contracts

0

1

0

0

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Non-current portion

0

1

0

0

Financial result

–271

–108

Current portion

5

3

4

6

Net interest income

26

43

164

43

VALUATION OF C A SH FLOW HEDGES
The development in the reserve is shown in the following:
Æ

OTHER CONTR ACTS

Energy price derivatives

RESERVE AT TRIBUTABLE TO THE MARKET

Cost of materials
Changes in deferred taxes

μ μ(22) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

As of Dec 31

Æ
[€ million]
Cash at banks and in hand
Cash equivalents
Total
Effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits (%)
Average term of short-term bank deposits (months)

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

4,547

4,029

2

2

4,549

4,031

0.08

0.12

0.2

0.1

2014

3

32

–396

– 462

Reclassification effects relate exclusively to this reserve.

RESERVE FOR THE REVALUATION OF PEN SION S
The effects resulting from the revaluation of defined benefit plans in
accordance with IAS 19 are recognized directly in equity.

The interest rates for current bank deposits were in a range of between
– 0.34% and 0.44% (previous year: 0.0% to 0.7%) and result from invest­
ments in euros.

224

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

OTHER CHANGE S IN THE RESERVES

μ μ(27) MINORITY INTERESTS

This item mainly shows amounts resulting from transactions in relation

Minorities comprise the share of third parties in the net assets of con­

to reductions or increases in minority interests between the shareholders

solidated subsidiaries. Third-party interests in the currency reserve

of DB AG and the minority shareholders.

amount to € 3 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 1 million).

μ μ(26) RETAINED EARNINGS

μ μ(28) FINANCIAL DEBT

The generated shareholders’ equity comprises the entire net profits gen­

This item shows all interest-bearing liabilities including the interest-free

erated since January 1, 1994 less the goodwill offset under HGB up to

loans stated with their present values. The maturity structure of financial

December 31, 2002 as well as the dividends paid to the shareholder.

debt is as follows:

This item also shows the impact on shareholders’ equity attributable
to the first-time adoption of IFRS if they are not included in the reserves
attributable to valuation with no impact on the income statement.
Æ
Residual maturity
Less than
1 year

[€ million]

1 to 2 years

2 to 3 years

3 to 4 years

4 to 5 years

More than
5 years

Total more
than 1 year

Total

DEC 31, 201 5

Interest-free loans
Bonds

215

193

183

153

134

459

1,122

1,337

1,550

1,891

1,897

1,963

2,142

9,864

17,757

19,307

Bank borrowings

723

0

0

0

–

402

402

1,125

–

–

–

–

–

200

200

200

Finance lease liabilities

156

20

61

16

15

158

270

426

Other financial liabilities

31

0

0

0

0

2

2

33

2,675

2,104

2,141

2,132

2,291

11,085

19,753

22,428

220

193

183

153

134

659

1,322

1,542

EUROFIMA loan

Total
		 thereof due to related companies

Interest-free loans

215

206

184

175

146

568

1,279

1,494

Bonds

699

1,533

1,818

1,895

1,929

9,288

16,463

17,162

55

404

1

0

0

402

807

862

–

–

–

–

–

200

200

200

Finance lease liabilities

169

155

19

60

15

175

424

593

Other financial liabilities

23

0

0

0

0

0

0

23

1,161

2,298

2,022

2,130

2,090

10,633

19,173

20,334

222

206

184

175

146

768

1,479

1,701

Bank borrowings
EUROFIMA loan

Total
		 thereof due to related companies

The following fair values are summarized compared with the carrying

Interest-free loans are attributable almost exclusively to financing pro­

amounts:

vided by the Federal Republic of Germany for capital expenditures in
expanding and replacing track. This is based on the responsibility for the

Æ

[€ million]
Interest-free loans
Bonds
Bank borrowings

Carrying
amount
2015

Fair
value
2015

1,337

1,532

1,494

1,745

19,307

20,955

17,162

19,157

Carrying
amount Fair value
2014
2014

1,125

1,126

862

863

EUROFIMA loan

200

241

200

243

Finance lease liabilities

426

572

593

771

Other financial liabilities

33

33

23

23

22,428

24,459

20,334

22,802

Total

transport needs of the public which is anchored in section 87e (4) of the
Basic Law (Grundgesetz) and specified in the Federal Track Expansion
Act (Bundesschienenwegeausbaugesetz; BSWAG).
The arrangements for repaying the loans are detailed in individual
and collective financing agreements. In general, the loans are repaid in
equal annual installments, which are based on the corresponding annual
depreciation applicable for the financed assets.
Interest-free loans have developed as follows:
Æ
[€ million]

2015

2014

The differences between the carrying amounts and the fair values of the

As of Jan 1

1,494

1,644

financial debt are due to the usually changed market interest rates for

Redemption

–220

–220

financial debt with a comparable risk profile. In view of the short matur­

Reclassifications

ities involved and also in view of the fact that interest charged is closely

Compounding

linked to market rates, there are no significant differences between the

As of Dec 31

carrying amounts and the fair values of other financial liabilities.

225

–

–

63

70

1,337

1,494

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

DEC 31, 201 4

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

The issued bonds consist of the following transactions:
Æ

Bonds [€ million]

Issue
volume

Issue
currency

Residual
Effective
maturity interest rate
(years)
(%)

304

JPY, EUR

0.9 – 10.9

Carrying
amount
2015

Fair value
2015

Carrying
amount
2014

Fair value
2014

UNLISTED BONDS

DB Finance

307

350

301

348

307

350

301

348
1,142

LISTED BONDS OF DB FINANCE

Bond 2003 – 2018

1,000

EUR

2.2

5.000

997

1,102

995

Bond 2003 – 2015

700

EUR

0.0

4.600

–

–

699

715

Bond 2004 – 2018

300

EUR

2.2

4.850

299

331

299

343

Bond 2004 – 2016

500

EUR

0.9

4.300

500

519

500

537

Bond 2006 – 2018

300

EUR

2.2

4.510

301

331

302

343

Bond 2006 – 2017

500

EUR

1.0

4.116

499

520

499

539

Bond 200 7– 2019

600

EUR

3.6

5.110

598

700

597

723

Bond 2009 – 2019

1,000

EUR

3.2

4.923

997

1,147

997

1,189

Bond 2009 – 2021

600

EUR

5.8

4.445

598

729

598

742

Bond 2009 – 2017

500

EUR

1.8

3.774

499

531

498

546

Bond 2010 – 2020

500

EUR

4.5

3.572

499

569

498

580

Bond 2010 – 2025

500

EUR

9.5

3.870

495

610

495

622

Bond 2010 – 2020

410

JPY

4.8

1.150

359

373

324

338

Bond 2010 – 2022

500

EUR

6.8

3.464

497

587

497

593

Bond 2010 – 2020

567

CHF

4.4

1.924

687

752

619

676

Bond 2011 – 2021

700

EUR

5.4

3.797

698

818

698

837

Bond 2011 – 2016

500

EUR

0.5

3.003

500

507

499

520

Bond 2011 – 2017

323

CHF

2.0

1.566

346

360

311

324

Bond 2011 – 2016

160

NOK

0.7

3.551

130

132

138

143

Bond 2011 – 2016

78

HKD

0.8

2.021

99

100

89

89

Bond 2011 – 2016

146

USD

0.9

FRN

184

184

165

167

Bond 2012 – 2016

97

NOK

0.7

3.179

78

79

83

86

Bond 2012 – 2017

124

CHF

1.6

0.799

138

141

125

127
389

Bond 2012 – 2017

368

GBP

1.8

1.456

408

410

384

Bond 2012 – 2022

495

GBP

6.5

2.821

543

563

511

537

Bond 2012 – 2023

400

EUR

7.1

2.116

397

430

397

439

Bond 2012 – 2024

83

CHF

8.1

1.586

92

102

83

91

Bond 2012 – 2024

500

EUR

8.2

3.119

496

575

495

585

Bond 2012 – 2072

75

GBP

56.9

4.524

81

107

77

101

Bond 2013 – 2018

300

EUR

2.1

FRN

300

300

299

300

Bond 2013 – 2028

50

EUR

12.1

2.707

50

58

50

58

Bond 2013 – 2025

202

NOK

9.2

4.017

156

179

165

191

Bond 2013 – 2023

386

CHF

7.6

1.425

437

480

394

427

Bond 2013 – 2026

497

GBP

10.6

3.351

568

601

534

579
569

Bond 2013 – 2023

500

EUR

7.7

2.578

497

558

497

Bond 2013 – 2020

300

EUR

4.9

1.899

298

319

298

323

Bond 2013 – 2019

186

USD

3.2

FRN

230

229

206

206

Bond 2014 – 2024

59

AUD

8.1

5.395

60

66

61

64

Bond 2014 – 2021

142

SEK

5.1

2.940

136

146

133

145

Bond 2014 – 2021

40

SEK

5.1

FRN

38

38

37

37

Bond 2014 – 2019

73

SGD

3.1

2.338

81

81

78

78

Bond 2014 – 2024

246

CHF

8.6

1.522

277

304

249

273

Bond 2014 – 2029

500

EUR

13.2

2.886

493

569

491

593

Bond 2014 – 2020

300

EUR

4.6

FRN

300

300

299

302

Bond 2014 – 2022

300

EUR

6.1

FRN

299

299

299

300

Bond 2014 – 2022

300

EUR

6.7

FRN

299

298

299

301

Bond 2015 – 2023

600

EUR

7.8

FRN

597

604

–

–

Bond 2015 – 2025

600

EUR

9.8

1.391

592

603

–

–

Bond 2015 – 2030

366

NOK

14.8

2.760

353

352

–

–

Bond 2015 – 2025

115

AUD

9.8

3.864

120

118

–

–

Bond 2015 – 2030

650

EUR

14.9

1.707

643

635

–

–

Bond 2015 – 2025

161

CHF

9.9

0.143

161

159

–

–

19,000

20,605

16,861

18,809

0

0

0

0

19,307

20,955

17,162

19,157

Adjustments from derivatives
Total

226

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

In the year under review, one listed bond (€ 700 million) of Deutsche

DB Finance has also issued six new bonds and has increased one existing

Bahn Finance B.V. (DB Finance), Amsterdam/the Netherlands was repaid

bond. This comprises two listed bonds of € 600 million each, and further

on schedule.

listed bonds of NOK 3,400 (€ 366 million), AUD 180 million (€ 115 mil­
lion), € 650 million and CHF 175 million (€ 161 million).
Bank borrowings are detailed in the following table:

Æ

Bank borrowings [€ million]

Currency

Residual
Nominal
maturity interest rate
(years)
(%)

Carrying
amount
2015

Fair value
2015

Carrying
amount
2014

Fair value
2014

Bank loan 2002 – 2016

EUR

0.7

FRN

200

200

200

200

Bank loan 2002 – 2022

EUR

6.7

FRN

200

200

200

200

Bank loan 2003 – 2016

EUR

0.7

FRN

200

200

200

200

Bank loan 2003 – 2016

EUR

6.7

FRN

200

200

200

200

Other

325

326

62

63

Total

1,125

1,126

862

863

The increase in other bank borrowings is mainly attributable to short-term

lion commercial paper program of DB AG and DB Finance. None of these

collateral (€ 232 million; previous year none) resulting from collateral agree­

back-up lines had been drawn down as of December 31, 2015. Global credit

ments within the framework of derivative transactions.

facilities totaling € 2,153 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 1,719 million)

Liabilities are not secured in DB Group.

are used for working capital and surety for payment financing of subsid­

As of December 31, 2015, guaranteed credit facilities with a total

iaries with worldwide operations, primarily in the segments DB Schenker

volume of € 4,133 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 3,799 million) were

and DB Arriva.
The liabilities due to EUROFIMA are detailed in the following:

available to DB Group. Of this figure, € 1,980 million (as of December 31,
2014: € 2,080 million) was attributable to back-up lines for the € 2.0 bil­

Liabilities due to EUROFIMA [€ million]

Currency

Residual
Nominal
maturity interest rate
(years)
(%)

Carrying
amount
2015

Fair value
2015

Carrying
amount
2014

Fair value
2014
–

Loan 2000 – 2014

EUR

0.0

5.970

–

–

–

Loan 2001 – 2014

EUR

0.0

5.410

–

–

–

–

Loan 2010 – 2021

EUR

5.8

4.050

200

241

200

243

200

241

200

243

Total

No new EUROFIMA loans were raised. The liabilities due to EUROFIMA are

and € 181 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 301 million) relate to leasing

secured by way of transfer of ownership of rail material (rolling stock)

agreements for various rolling stock (multiple units, locomotives, freight

in view of the statutes of EUROFIMA .

cars) as well as buses. These agreements have been concluded mainly

Of the figure stated for liabilities attributable to finance leases,

as sale-and-leaseback transactions for achieving advantageous financing

€ 25 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 29 million) relate to a real estate

conditions with German lessors.

leasing agreement for a concourse building of DB Station&Service AG

227

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Æ

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

The following table provides information concerning the main finance
leases:
Æ

[€ million]

Nominal
volume

Currency

Residual
Nominal
maturity interest rate
(years)
(%)

Carrying
amount
2015

Fair value
2015

Carrying
amount
2014

Fair value
2014

FINANCE LEASES MOBILE ASSETS

Freight locomotives (2000)

101

DEM

0.0

5.35

0

0

51

54

Freight locomotives (2000)

154

EUR

1.0

5.40

83

87

92

100

Locomotives (2001)

178

EUR

0.5 –1.0

4.87

51

53

110

116

55

EUR

3.0

8.34

47

57

48

62

181

197

301

332

Diesel rail cars for regional transport (2009)
FINANCE LEASES REAL ESTATE

Logistics center (1986)
Concourse buildings (1998)

24

DEM

0.0

8.50

0

0

2

2

497

DEM

6.0

5.550

25

31

27

34

25

31

29

36

Other

220

344

263

403

Total

426

572

593

771

The above finance leases for locomotives and multiple units cannot be

In addition, liabilities attributable to finance leases (see NOTE (1 3) [PAGE

terminated during a fixed basic lease term, and have a maximum remaining

21 5 FF.]) are secured by rights of the lessors in relation to the leased

term of three years. Most of the contracts contain a clause enabling the

assets. The leased assets have a carrying amount of € 361 million (as of

lessee to purchase the assets for the residual value or the higher market

December 31, 2014: € 452 million).

value after the end of the lease, whereby the difference between the

The position “Other” comprises numerous Europe-wide leases for

residual value and the market value at the end of the lease is shared

buses and trains at DB Arriva and the carrying amount of a power pro­

between the lessor (25%) and the lessee (75%).

curement agreement of DB Energie GmbH worth € 86 million (as of De­­

The decline in finance leases for mobile assets and real estate is due

cember 31, 2014: € 93 million) as well as the carrying amount of an inverter

to scheduled repayments and mainly to the termination of finance lease

agreement of DB Energie GmbH in the amount of € 40 million (as of De­­­­

agreements for freight and passenger transport locomotives in Germany.

cember 31, 2014: € 43 million). Both agreements are classified as embedded

The finance leases for the concourse building of DB Station&Service

financial leases as a result of the fact that the power is procured primarily

AG have a remaining term of six years, and cannot be terminated during

by DB Energie GmbH and also in view of the underlying agreement dura­

the fixed lease. At the end of the lease, the lessee is able to buy the

tion in accordance with IFRIC 4 in conjunction with IAS 17.

assets for a fixed price. If this option is not exercised, the lease is ex­­
tended for a second period, at the end of which the lessor has a put

In the subsequent years, the following payments have to be made
in connection with finance leases:

option for the real estate with regard to DB Station&Service AG .
Æ
Residual maturity
[€ million]

Less than
1 year

1 to 2 years

2 to 3 years

3 to 4 years

4 to 5 years

More than
5 years

Total more
than 1 year

Total
645

DEC 31, 201 5

Minimum lease payments (nominal)

180

38

77

28

26

296

465

Less future interest charges

24

18

16

12

11

138

195

219

Finance lease liabilities

156

20

61

16

15

158

270

426

849

DEC 31, 201 4

Minimum lease payments (nominal)

204

179

36

76

27

327

645

Less future interest charges

35

24

17

16

12

152

221

256

Finance lease liabilities

169

155

19

60

15

175

424

593

228

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

μ μ(29) OTHER LIABILITIES
Æ
Residual maturity
Less than
1 year

1 to 2 years

2 to 3 years

3 to 4 years

4 to 5 years

Trade liabilities including deposits received

4,679

164

39

36

Miscellaneous/other liabilities

3,338

11

10

11

Total

8,017

175

49

[€ million]

More than
5 years

Total more
than 1 year

Total

24

7

270

4,949

7

25

64

3,402

47

31

32

334

8,351
2,044

DEC 31, 201 5

		 thereof non-financial liabilities

1,931

25

30

29

23

6

113

		 thereof deposits received

127

25

30

29

23

6

113

240

		 thereof due to related parties

290

0

0

0

0

0

0

290

Trade liabilities including deposits received

4,949

34

30

34

34

32

164

5,113

Miscellaneous/other liabilities

3,412

15

11

11

10

30

77

3,489

Total

8,361

49

41

45

44

62

241

8,602

		 thereof non-financial liabilities

1,924

28

24

26

29

29

136

2,060

		 thereof deposits received

108

28

24

26

29

29

136

244

		 thereof due to related parties

417

0

0

0

0

0

0

417

DEC 31, 201 4

The decline in trade liabilities is mainly related to the liabilities settled

The other personnel obligations also include bonus obligations.

in the year under review from the acquisition of rolling stock. The miscella­
­neous/other liabilities comprise the following:

As of December 31, 2015, other liabilities were secured in an amount of
€ 0 million in the year under review (as of December 31, 2014: € 0 million).

Æ
Dec 31,
2014

Unused holiday entitlements

347

348

Outstanding overtime

248

281

Social security

102

97

28

26

4

3

PER SONNEL-RELATED LIABILITIES

Severance payments
Christmas bonuses
Holiday pay
Other personnel obligations

14

14

700

748

μ μ(30) INCOME TAX LIABILITIES
The income tax liabilities as of December 31, 2015 related mainly
to obligations to the fiscal authorities in Great Britain, France and
Denmark.

μ μ(31) ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES RELATING
TO THE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Carrying amounts and fair values are based on valuation categories.

OTHER TA XES

Value-added tax

109

76

Payroll and church taxes, solidarity surcharge

131

113

Miscellaneous other taxes

120

111

Interest payable

279

290

Sales discounts

116

108

Deferred construction grants

126

129

Liabilities due to Railway Crossings Act

3

3

Reconveyance obligations

3

3

Miscellaneous/other liabilities

1,072

1,139

Total

3,402

3,489

229

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Dec 31,
2015

[€ million]

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμ Balance sheet categories
Æ

Categories of assets [€ million]

Held for trading 1)

Held to maturity

Fair value
(recognized in the
income statement)

At amortized cost

2015

2014

2015

2014

Shares in affiliated companies (at cost)

0

0

0

0

Investments (at cost)

0

0

0

0

Securities (at cost)

0

0

0

0

Securities (at fair value)

0

0

0

0

Available-for-sale financial assets

0

0

0

0

Trade receivables

0

0

0

0

Receivables from financing

0

0

0

0

Receivables from finance leases

0

0

0

0

Advance payments and accrued income

0

0

0

0

Plan assets according to IAS 19

0

0

0

0

Miscellaneous other assets

0

0

0

0

Receivables and other assets

0

0

0

0

Currency-based derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

Commodity derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

Interest-based derivatives – non-hedging

–

–

–

0

Currency-based derivatives – non-hedging

0

1

0

0

Derivative financial instruments

0

1

0

0

Total non-current financial assets

0

1

0

0

Investments (at cost)

0

0

0

0

Securities (at cost)

0

0

0

0

Securities (at fair value)

0

0

0

0

Available-for-sale financial assets

0

0

0

0

Trade receivables

0

0

0

0

Receivables from financing

0

0

0

0

Receivables from finance leases

0

0

0

0

Advance payments and accrued income

0

0

0

0

Held-to-maturity securities

0

0

0

0

Receivables from other taxes

0

0

0

0

Plan assets according to IAS 19

0

0

0

0

Miscellaneous other assets

0

0

0

0

Other receivables and other assets

0

0

0

0

Currency-based derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

Commodity derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

Interest-based derivatives – non-hedging

0

–

0

0

Currency-based derivatives – non-hedging

5

3

0

0

Commodity derivatives – non-hedging

0

0

0

0

NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS

CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS

Derivative financial instruments

5

3

0

0

Cash and cash equivalents

0

0

0

0

Assets held for sale

0

0

0

0

Total current financial assets

5

3

0

0

1)

Including non-hedge derivatives.

DB Group did not apply the fair value option according to IAS 39. Thus the sub-category
	
“held for trading” was used instead of the main category “fair value through profit and loss.”
2)

For reconciling the categories of financial assets and financial liabilities to the figures
stated in the balance sheet.

230

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to the consolidated financial statements

Valuation categories (according to IAS 39)
Loans and receivables

Fair value
(with no impact on the
income statement)

At cost

At cost

Not attributable to
a category according
to IAS 39 2)

At amortized cost

Total

Fair value

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

0

–

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

n/a

n/a

9

8

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

9

8

n/a

n/a

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

n/a

n/a

0

0

2

2

0

0

0

0

0

0

2

2

2

2

9

8

2

2

0

0

0

0

0

0

11

10

–

–

0

0

0

0

0

0

11

7

0

0

11

7

11

7

0

0

0

0

0

0

11

10

0

0

11

10

11

10

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

8

9

8

9

8

9

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

29

32

29

32

n/a

n/a

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

64

53

64

53

n/a

n/a

0

0

0

0

0

0

52

15

0

0

52

15

52

15

0

0

0

0

0

0

74

32

101

94

175

126

–

–

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

339

89

339

89

339

89

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

5

0

5

0

5

–

0

–

0

–

0

–

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

339

94

339

95

339

95

9

8

2

2

0

0

74

32

440

188

525

231

–

–

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

n/a

n/a

1

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

1

n/a

n/a

0

0

0

4

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

4

0

4

1

1

0

4

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

5

–

–

0

0

0

0

0

0

4,018

4,146

0

0

4,018

4,146

4,018

4,146

0

0

0

0

0

0

54

37

0

0

54

37

54

37

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

37

35

37

35

37

35

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

176

183

176

183

n/a

n/a

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

161

200

161

200

n/a

n/a

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

n/a

n/a

0

0

0

0

0

0

691

629

40

37

731

666

731

666

0

0

0

0

0

0

745

666

414

455

1,159

1,121

822

738

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

54

4

54

4

54

4

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

5

3

5

3

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

54

4

59

7

59

7

0

0

0

0

0

0

4,549

4,031

0

0

4,549

4,031

4,549

4,031

–

0

0

0

0

0

–

–

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

1

0

4

0

0

9,312

8,843

468

459

9,786

9,310

–

–

231

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Available for sale

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ
Valuation category (according to IAS 39)
Held for trading 1)

Other liabilities

Fair value
(recognized in
the income
statement)
Categories of liabilities [€ million]

2015

At amortized
cost

At cost

2014

2015

Not attributable
to a category
according to
IAS 39 2)

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

Total
2015

Fair value
2014

2015

2014

1,279

1,317

1,530

16,463 19,374

18,458

NON- CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES

Interest-free loans

0

0

0

0

1,122

1,279

0

0

1,122

Bonds

0

0

0

0

17,757

16,463

0

0

17,757

Bank borrowings

0

0

0

0

402

807

0

0

402

807

403

EUROFIMA loan

0

0

0

0

200

200

0

0

200

200

241

243

Finance lease liabilities

0

0

0

0

0

0

270

424

270

424

416

602

0

2

0

2

0

19,173 21,753

21,641

Other finance liabilities

0

0

0

0

2

–

0

Financial debt

0

0

0

0 19,483

18,749

270

424 19,753

808

Trade liabilities including received deposits

0

0

0

0

157

28

113

136

270

164

157

Other liabilities

0

0

0

0

64

77

0

0

64

77

64

28
77

Liabilities

0

0

0

0

221

105

113

136

334

241

221

105

Interest-based derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

0

0

24

30

24

30

24

30

Currency-based derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

0

0

191

315

191

315

191

315

Commodity derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

0

0

235

210

235

210

235

210

Currency-based derivatives – non-hedging

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

Derivative financial instruments

0

0

0

0

0

0

450

555

450

555

450

555

Total non-current financial liabilities

0

0

0

0 19,704 18,854

833

1,115 20,537 19,969 22,424

22,301

CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES

Interest-free loans

0

0

0

0

215

215

0

0

215

215

215

215

Bonds

0

0

0

0

1,550

699

0

0

1,550

699

1,581

699

Bank borrowings

0

0

0

0

723

55

0

0

723

55

723

55

Finance lease liabilities

0

0

0

0

0

0

156

169

156

169

156

169

Other financial liabilities

0

0

0

0

31

23

0

0

31

23

31

23

Financial debt

0

0

0

0

2,519

992

156

169

2,675

1,161

2,706

1,161

Trade liabilities including received deposits

0

0

0

0

4,551

4,841

127

108

4,678

4,949

4,551

4,841

Trade liabilities including received deposits

0

0

0

0

4,551

4,841

127

108

4,678

4,949

4,551

4,841

Liabilities from other taxes

0

0

0

0

0

0

360

299

360

299

0

0

Miscellaneous/other liabilities

0

0

0

0

1,535

1,596

1,443

1,517

2,978

3,113

1,535

1,596
1,596

Other liabilities

0

0

0

0

1,535

1,596

1,803

1,816

3,338

3,412

1,535

Interest-based derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

1

0

1

0

Currency-based derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

0

0

101

12

101

12

101

12
107

Commodity derivatives – hedging

0

0

0

0

0

0

99

107

99

107

99

Currency-based derivatives – non-hedging

4

6

0

0

0

0

0

0

4

6

4

6

Commodity derivatives – non-hedging

0

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–
125

Derivative financial instruments

4

6

0

0

0

0

201

119

205

125

205

Available-for-sale liabilities

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

Total current financial liabilities

4

6

0

0 8,605

7,429

2,287

2,212 10,896

9,647

8,997

7,723

1)

Including non-hedge derivatives.
DB Group did not apply the fair value option according to IAS 39. Thus the sub-category

“held for trading” was used instead of the main category “fair value through profit and loss.”

2)

For reconciling the categories of financial assets and financial liabilities to the figures
stated in the balance sheet.

232

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to the consolidated financial statements

The carrying amounts of the cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts

The carrying amounts of the trade liabilities, the miscellaneous and other

receivable and other financial assets (€ 4,882 million) approximate the

financial liabilities (a total of € 6,307 million) as well as the current finan-

fair values as of the balance sheet date.

cial debt approximate the fair values as of the balance sheet date.
The fair values of the non-current financial debt are allocated to the
following valuation categories:

Æ
Dec 31, 2015
[€ million]

Level 1

Level 2

Dec 31, 2014

Level 3

Total

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

FINANCIAL DEBT – NON- CURRENT

Interest-free loans
Bonds 1)

–

1,317

–

1,317

–

1,530

–

1,530

1,238

18,136

–

19,374

866

17,592

–

18,458

Commercial paper

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Bank borrowings

–

403

–

403

–

808

–

808

EUROFIMA loan

–

241

–

241

–

243

–

243

Finance lease liabilities

–

416

–

416

–

602

–

602

1,238

20,513

–

21,751

866

20,775

–

21,641

Total
1)

Previous-year figures adjusted.

The interest-free loans shown at fair value are established by discounting

Reuters and Bloomberg; these have been verified on the basis of the valu­

the nominal values of the interest-free loans broken down into maturity

­ation models using the parameters which are observable on the market,

buckets using the DB interest curve (market interest curve plus current

such as interest rate curves and exchange rates.
Theoretical refinancing via bonds of DB Finance is assumed for as­­

DB spread; source: Reuters or Bloomberg) and a term until 2024.

Market prices from an active market, multiplied by the foreign cur-

sessing the market value of outstanding EUROFIMA loans. A discounted

rency rates applicable on the balance sheet date, are used for bonds of

cash flow method is used for calculation purposes. The reference interest

DB Finance which are classified as level 1. Various sources are used for

rate which is used is established by interpolation of the yields for

these prices, including Reuters and Bloomberg. The bonds for which the

matching maturities of bonds of DB Finance.

market activity does not comply with the requirements of an active

The fair value of the finance leases is calculated by discounting the

market have been allocated to level 2. For establishing the market prices

outstanding leasing payments using the DB interest curve (market interest

of these bonds, binding offers were used from various sources, including

curve plus current DB spread; source: Reuters or Bloomberg).
The financial instruments recognized at fair value are classified under
valuation level 2 and to a lesser extent under valuation level 1.
Dec 31, 2015

[€ million]

Level 1

Level 2

Dec 31, 2014

Level 3

Total

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total
6

ASSETS

Available-for-sale financial assets (securities at fair value)

2

–

–

2

6

–

–

Derivatives – non-hedging

–

5

–

5

–

4

–

4

Derivatives – hedging

–

393

–

393

–

98

–

98

Total

2

398

–

400

6

102

–

108

LIABILITIES

Derivatives – non-hedging

–

4

–

4

–

6

–

6

Derivatives – hedging

–

651

–

651

–

674

–

674

Total

–

655

–

655

–

680

–

680

The other available-for-sale financial assets shown in the balance sheet

For establishing the fair values of the derivative financial instruments, the

(a total of € 10 million; as of December 31, 2014: € 9 million) comprise

contractually agreed or most probable cash flows are discounted using

other investments and securities which are recognized at cost, because

the appropriate market interest rate, whereby due consideration is given

there is no corresponding price listed on an active market and because

to the credit risk by means of credit spreads. No credit risk mark-downs

the fair value cannot be reliably determined. At present, there is essen-

have been recognized in the case of secured exposures. The credit risk

tially no intention to sell.

resulting from the derivative portfolio is treated on a net basis. Credit

There have been no reclassifications between the valuation levels in
the year under review.

support annexes, which are subject to daily security settlement with a
threshold value of € 0, were concluded to minimize the credit risk of longterm interest and cross-currency transactions.

233

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Æ

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

No held-to-maturity securities are shown as of the balance sheet date.

The net results according to valuation categories are detailed in the
following:

Æ
From subsequent valuation

[€ million]

Interest
income

Interest
expense

Other
income

Other
expenses

at fair value

from
currency
from
translation impairments

Total
net result

DEC 31, 201 5

Held-for-trading assets and liabilities
including non-hedge derivatives

–

–

–

–

4

–

–

4

Held to maturity

–

–

–

–

–

–

0

0

–

–

6

–2

–

–

0

4

23

–

4

–

–

7

– 66

–32

Available for sale
Loans and receivables
Other liabilities

–

– 644

0

–16

–

–

–

– 660

Total

23

– 644

10

–18

4

7

– 66

– 684

		 thereof recognized in the income statement

23

– 644

10

–18

4

7

– 66

– 684

–

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

–3

		thereof directly offset in equity
DEC 31, 201 4

Held-for-trading assets and liabilities
including non-hedge derivatives

–

–

–

–

–3

–

–

Held to maturity

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

0

Available for sale

–

–

61

–23

1

–

–2

37

Loans and receivables

32

–

7

–

–

16

–28

27

–

– 686

–

–18

–

–

–

–704

Total

32

– 686

68

– 41

–2

16

–30

– 643

		 thereof recognized in the income statement

32

– 686

68

– 41

–3

16

–30

– 644

–

–

–

–

1

–

–

1

Other liabilities

		thereof directly offset in equity

The net result mainly includes net interest income of € – 621 million (pre-

μμ Germany

vious year: € – 654 million).

Pension obligations of DB Group in Germany comprise pension obligations

The interest attributable to financial instruments is shown in net in­­­­

for civil servants and also for employees.

terest income (see NOTE (9) [PAGE 21 3]); the other components of net
result are shown under other financial result.

After they retire, civil servants assigned to the companies of DB Group
receive pensions from the BEV under the Civil Servants Benefits Act

The net result of financial liabilities in the category “Other liabilities”

(Beamten­­versorgungsgesetz).

includes interest expenses attributable to the cumulative interest relating
to interest-free loans.

Only while the assigned civil servants are actively working for DB Group
are payments made to the BEV as part of a pro forma settlement in the

Foreign currency gains and losses attributable to the translation of

same way as for newly recruited employees (section 21 (1) DBGr G). This

foreign currency liabilities are opposed by almost identical losses/gains

also includes theoretical amounts for contributions to statutory pension

attributable to derivatives (see NOTE (10) [PAGE 21 3]).

insurance schemes as well as theoretical costs in accordance with the
collective bargaining agreement regarding the additional company pen-

μ μ(32) PENSION OBLIGATIONS

sion scheme for employees of DB AG (ZVersTV). The payments made to the

DB Group grants post-employment benefits to its employees in numerous

BEV for retirement pensions and supplementary benefits of civil servants

countries. The form of the pension commitments depends on the legal,

are defined contribution retirement schemes.

economic and tax conditions applicable in the particular country. A distinction is made between defined contribution plans and defined benefit

The pension obligations with regard to employees mainly relate to the
following:

plans. Major pension obligations exist only in Germany and in Great Britain.

a) Employees who were employed by Deutsche Bundesbahn before

For this reason, only these pension obligations are described in greater

DB AG was established (January 1, 1994) enjoy supplementary benefits

detail in the following.

in view of their former membership of the public sector. The employees
are entitled to benefits from this additional pension insurance from
Deutsche Rentenversicherung Knappschaft-Bahn-See (KBS). As an official authority, KBS has not only assumed responsibility for managing and
paying the statutory pension for DB Group employees; it also continues
the additional pension insurance for the transferred employees who are
beneficiaries.

234

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to the consolidated financial statements

The BEV bears the costs of these additional benefits, less the contribution

f) In addition, there are also employee-financed direct insurance policies,

made by the employees themselves (section 14 (2) DBGrG). Ac­­cordingly,

mainly with DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung Lebensversicherungs-

DB AG does not set aside any provisions for these public sector benefits.

verein a. G ., as well as an employee-financed pension fund at DEVK Pen-

b) Employees of the former Deutsche Reichsbahn and the employees

sionsfonds-AG which is the subject of a collective bargaining agreement.

who have been recruited after January 1, 1994 receive an additional com-

Due to the existence of a guarantee in the form of insurance, these two

pany pension from DB AG within the framework of the ZversTV. This

external forms of company pension scheme are not relevant for provisions.

supplementary company pension is a defined benefit scheme, which is
linked to salary and length of service. The current pension benefits are

μμ Great Britain

adjusted every year in line with the regulations of the Company Pensions

a) The company pension scheme of DB Schenker Rail (UK) Holdings

Act (Betriebsrentengesetz). Retirement benefits, invalidity benefits and

Limited is essentially a defined benefit pension scheme (linked to salary

benefits to surviving dependants are provided in the form of a lifetime

and length of service) within the British Railway Pension Scheme. The costs

pension. No plan assets are created for this scheme.

of the pension schemes are shared between the employer and the em­­

c) Various defined benefit pension obligations exist with regard to

ployee in the ratio 60:40 and accordingly recognized in the balance sheet.

senior executives in DB Group who were granted a senior executive com-

The plan assets are managed by an independent trustee. The process of

mitment before January 1, 2007. The extent of the benefits depends on the

collating the data of members in the plan for the purpose of compliance

length of service and the salary of the beneficiary. In general, retirement

with legal requirements in relation to the members of the plan is gener-

benefits, invalidity benefits and benefits to surviving dependants are pro­

ally carried out every three years, most recently as of December 31, 2013.

­vided in the form of a lifetime pension. In some exceptional cases, pledged

As of the intermediate valuation dates, the obligations in the plan are

reinsurance policies have been taken out to eliminate biometric risks;

measured on the basis of the correspondingly updated data. The pension

these are recognized as plan assets. With this exception, no plan assets

scheme is based on final salary, and lifetime pensions are provided as

are created.

benefits. The pension obligations are essentially covered by plan assets.

tive commitment after December 31, 2006, are provided with a retire-

Capital is invested by the trustee of the plan assets following liaison with
DB Group.

ment benefit scheme in the form of a defined contribution commitment.

b) Within DB Arriva, there are mainly defined benefit retirement

For this purpose, a benefit module is calculated in each year of service,

benefit commitments. By far the most important defined benefit plans

depending on the salary and age of the beneficiary. These benefits are

(related to salary and length of service) relate to employees of DB Arriva

financed by way of a contractual trust arrangement (CTA), namely

within the Railway Pension Scheme in Great Britain. These are sections

Deutsche Bahn Pension Trust e. V. The extent of the benefits depends on

other than the DB Schenker Rail UK scheme within the Railway Pension

the yield of the CTA , whereby a minimum return is guaranteed. To avoid

Scheme. The costs of the pension schemes are also shared between the

longevity risks, the benefits are granted in the form of a five-year install-

employer and the employee in the ratio 60:40 and accordingly recognized

ment. The assets of the CTA are classified as plan assets. The pension

in the balance sheet. The pension schemes are based on final salary, and

obligation is covered by the plan assets on the assumption that the CTA

lifetime pensions are provided as benefits. The corresponding pension

produces a corresponding performance, thus minimizing investment

obligations are to a large extent covered by fund assets. Capital is in­­

risks. There are no legal or regulatory obligations requiring Deutsche Bahn

vested by the trustee of the plan assets following liaison with DB Group.

Pension Trust e. V. to make minimum payments into the scheme. The

Some companies pay contributions within the framework of a fran-

contributions are invested in line with the fundamental assumption that

chise agreement to the British Railway Pension Scheme for employees

the benefit commitment is guaranteed by a corresponding guarantee

seconded for the duration of the agreement (franchise period). The ob­­

element. For each payment relating to the individual beneficiary, an

ligations to these employees as well as the plan assets are completely

age-related amount is invested in prime zero bonds. The investment

disclosed after deduction of the element financed by the employees

amount remaining after the payment has been made into the guarantee

(40%). The process of recognizing the effect of franchise agreements

element is mainly invested in passively managed European equity and

recognizes that part of the shortfall or surplus cover will probably not

bond funds (or equivalent products) with the aim of optimizing returns.

be financed by DB Group.

Whilst maintaining the existing rights from an original pension scheme

In addition, individual companies of DB Arriva also issued defined

(lifetime pension), some senior executives with an older senior executive

contribution retirement benefit commitments to their employees. Under

commitment have been transferred to this defined contribution scheme

such arrangements, the employer does not enter into any obligations

financed via Deutsche Bahn Pension Trust e. V.

apart from paying contributions to an external benefit scheme. The

e) Senior executives are able to participate in a deferred compensa-

extent of the future pension benefits depends exclusively on the amount

tion program. This employee-financed form of company pension scheme

of contributions paid to the external benefit scheme, including the

constitutes a defined benefit obligation.

income generated by investing these contributions.
In addition, some contributions have also been paid to social pension
funds within the context of statutory regulations (government schemes).
In the case of the defined benefit pension obligations in Germany
and abroad, the actuarial risks are borne by DB Group. There are the
following actuarial risks which are considered to be typical for companies
with defined benefit schemes.

235

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

d) Senior executives of DB Group who were granted a senior execu-

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμ Interest rate risk: A change in the discount rate results in a change in

μμ Investment risk: The capital investment is exposed to numerous risks,

the present value of the total obligation (DBO).

which may have an impact on the present value recognized for the

μμ Inflation risk: Part of the pension obligations, particularly as a result

plan assets. In the case of pension schemes with an obligation to pay

of adjustments to current pensions, is linked to the development of

into the scheme, the amount of future contributions may be affected

inflation.

by the investment risk.

μμ Longevity risk: A longevity risk may occur in the form of extended
pe­­­­riods in which pensions are paid out as a result of an increase in life

The figures stated for pension provisions in the balance sheet are de­­
tailed in the following:

expectancy in future.
Æ
Europe
(excluding Germany)

Germany
As of Dec 31 [€ million]
Funded obligations

Rest of world

Total

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

219

214

4,607

4,701

61

69

4,887

4,984

Unfunded obligations

2,976

3,301

271

316

5

6

3,252

3,623

Total obligations

3,195

3,515

4,878

5,017

66

75

8,139

8,607

–163

–144

–3,741

–3,456

–37

–39

–3,941

–3,639

Effects due to cost sharing

Fair value of plan assets

–

–

–285

–370

–

–

–285

–370

Effects due to franchise contracts

–

–

–289

–293

–

–

–289

–293

Assets recognized in the balance sheet as pension assets

0

–

64

52

–

–

64

52

3,032

3,371

627

950

29

36

3,688

4,357

Net liability recognized in the balance sheet

The total pension commitment has developed as follows:
Æ
Europe
(excluding Germany)

Germany

Rest of world

Total

[€ million]

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

Obligations as of Jan 1

3,515

2,699

5,017

3,918

75

54

8,607

6,671

131

95

102

76

3

2

236

173

2

3

46

44

0

0

48

47

61

79

115

116

1

1

177

196

Service cost, excluding employee contributions
Employee contributions
Interest expense
Payments

– 68

–71

–208

–136

–3

–2

–279

–209

		thereof pensions

– 68

– 66

–147

–136

–3

–2

–218

–204

0

–5

– 61

0

0

0

– 61

–5

15

–3

– 98

– 45

–1

0

– 84

– 48

		 thereof payments for settlements
Past service costs and profits or losses from settlements
Transfers

0

0

1

3

1

–

2

3

–2

–

–

–

–

–

–2

–

		thereof additions

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

		thereof disposals

–2

–

–

–

–

–

–2

–

– 459

713

–393

780

–7

16

– 859

1,509

– 45

–35

–126

72

–1

0

–172

37

–

–

–29

99

0

2

–29

101

– 414

748

–238

609

–6

14

– 658

1,371

–

–

296

261

–3

4

293

265

3,195

3,515

4,878

5,017

66

75

8,139

8,607

Changes in scope of consolidation

Actuarial gains (–) or losses
		 Revaluations based on experience
		 Due to change in demographic assumptions
		 Due to change in financial assumptions
Currency effects
Obligations as of Dec 31

In the year under review, various plan changes and payments for settle-

accompanied by independent advice, which is free for the beneficiary,

ments were carried out, resulting in total income of € 84 million. Of this

concerning financial retirement issues. In addition, several payments for

figure, € 63 million is attributable to agreements relating to pension

settlements were carried out in the DB Schenker segment in the Nether-

schemes in Great Britain which provide the beneficiaries with a greater

lands, resulting in income of € 29 million.

degree of flexibility with regard to payouts and for conversion into
defined contribution plans. The so-called “flexible retirement offer” is

236

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to the consolidated financial statements

The development of the plan assets is detailed in the following:
Æ
Europe
(excluding Germany)

Germany
[€ million]

Rest of world

Total

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

144

129

3,456

2,947

39

33

3,639

3,109

Employer contributions

17

13

86

78

2

2

105

93

Employee contributions

1

0

46

44

0

0

47

44

Fair value of plan assets as of Jan 1

3

4

92

98

1

1

96

103

Payments

Expected return from plan assets

–5

–10

–190

–126

–3

–2

–198

–138

		thereof pensions

–5

–5

–137

–126

–3

–2

–145

–133

		thereof payments for settlements

–

–5

– 53

0

–

0

– 53

–5

Transfers

–

0

–

4

1

–

1

4

Changes in scope of consolidation

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

		thereof additions

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

		thereof disposals

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Revaluation

3

8

46

208

0

3

49

219

Administrative costs: costs of pension assurance

–

–

–6

–7

0

0

–6

–7

Currency effects

–

–

211

210

–3

2

208

212

163

144

3,741

3,456

37

39

3,941

3,639

Fair value of plan assets as of Dec 31

The reported plan assets are broken down as follows:
Æ

As of Dec 31 [€ million]
Stocks and other securities

Rest of world

Total

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

3

5

2,354

1,983

15

16

2,372

2,004
1,367

		 thereof with market price listing

3

5

2,354

1,346

15

16

2,372

		 thereof without market price listing

–

–

–

637

–

–

–

637

Interest-bearing securities

72

51

832

822

20

21

924

894

		 thereof with market price listing

72

51

832

787

20

21

924

859

		 thereof without market price listing

–

–

–

35

–

–

–

35

Real estate and other self-used assets

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

0

		 thereof with market price listing

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

0

		 thereof without market price listing

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

0

Reinsurance

87

88

20

68

–

0

107

156

		 thereof with market price listing

87

37

1

0

–

–

88

37

–

51

19

68

–

–

19

119
240

		 thereof without market price listing
Private equity

–

–

244

240

–

–

244

		 thereof with market price listing

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

		 thereof without market price listing

–

–

244

240

–

–

244

240
92

Facilities in infrastructure

–

–

195

92

–

–

195

		 thereof with market price listing

–

–

110

–

–

–

110

–

		 thereof without market price listing

–

–

85

92

–

–

85

92

Commodities

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

		 thereof with market price listing

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

		 thereof without market price listing

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Cash and other assets

0

0

96

251

3

2

99

253
192

		 thereof with market price listing

0

0

73

192

1

0

74

		 thereof without market price listing

–

–

23

59

2

2

25

61

162

144

3,741

3,456

38

39

3,941

3,639

		 thereof assets classified as pension assets

237

0

0

– 64

– 52

–

–

– 64

– 52

162

144

3,677

3,404

38

39

3,877

3,587

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Europe
(excluding Germany)

Germany

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Changes in the net pension provisions are detailed in the following:
Æ
Europe
(excluding Germany)

Germany

Rest of world

Total

[€ million]

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

Provisions as of Jan 1

3,371

2,570

950

573

36

21

4,357

3,164

Pension expenses

205

170

33

56

2

2

240

228

		 thereof service cost

132

98

102

76

3

2

237

176

58

75

23

18

0

0

81

93

–

–

6

7

0

0

6

7

15

–3

– 98

– 45

–1

0

– 84

– 48
– 93

		thereof interest income and interest expenses
		 thereof administrative expenses
		 thereof past service costs and profits or losses from settlements
Employer contributions

–17

–13

– 86

–78

–2

–2

–105

Payments

– 63

– 61

–18

–10

0

0

– 81

–71

		thereof pensions

– 63

– 61

–10

–10

0

0

–73

–71

		thereof payments for settlements

0

0

–8

0

0

0

–8

0

Transfers

0

0

1

–1

0

–

1

–1
–

–2

–

–

–

–

–

–2

		
thereof additions

Changes in scope of consolidation

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

		thereof disposals

–2

–

–

–

–

–

–2

–

– 462

705

–308

388

–7

13

–777

1,106

– 45

–35

– 90

38

–1

0

–136

3

–

–

–28

78

0

2

–28

80

– 414

748

–167

416

–6

14

– 587

1,178

–3

–8

–23

–144

0

–3

–26

–155

Currency effects

–

–

47

16

0

2

47

18

Change in recognized assets

0

–

8

6

–

–

8

6

3,032

3,371

627

950

29

36

3,688

4,357

Revaluation
		 Revaluations based on experience
		 Due to change in demographic assumptions
		 Due to change in financial assumptions
		 Difference between actual income and theoretical income from plan assets

Provisions as of Dec 31

The effect of cost splitting and the effect of franchise agreements declined

Sensitivities and additional information:

by € 131 million in the year under review as a result of revaluations (pre-

Æ

vious year: increase of € 184 million). The interest expense and expected
income from the plan assets are recorded under net interest income.
All other items are recognized under personnel expenses.
The actuarial parameters used for assessing the value of most of the
pension provision are set out in the following:
Æ
[%]

2015

2014

2.25

1.75

DISCOUNT R ATE

Germany and abroad (excluding Great Britain)

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

Total obligation for an interest rate
increased by 1 percentage point

6,807

6,927

Total obligation for an interest rate
reduced by 1 percentage point

9,790

10,838

Total obligation with salary growth
increased by 0.5%

8,263

8,832

Total obligation for pensions
increased by 0.5%

8,602

9,325

[€ million]

DB Cargo (Great Britain)

3.70

3.40

Total obligation for life expectancy
increased by 1 year

8,346

8,901

Great Britain

3.70

3.40

Total obligation

8,122

8,607

		 thereof active beneficiaries

4,376

4,930

Germany and abroad (excluding Great Britain)

2.60

2.50

		 thereof vested rights

1,157

1,281

DB Cargo (Great Britain)

3.80

3.70

		thereof pensioners

2,589

2,396

Great Britain

3.70

3.55

Payments into plan assets
expected for next year

102

100

EXPECTED R ATE OF SALARY INCREASES

EXPECTED R ATE OF PENSION INCREASES
(DEPENDENT ON STAFF GROUP)

Germany and abroad (excluding Great Britain)

Direct pension payments for next year

88

87

Duration of benefit obligation (years)

18.7

18.1

1.75

2.00

DB Cargo (Great Britain)

2.10

2.00

Great Britain

2.10

2.00

The sensitivity figures have been established using the method which was

The 2005 G mortality tables of Professor Dr. Klaus Heubeck have been

modified while the other assumptions were retained, which means that

used for valuing the pension obligations for the German Group companies.

interdependencies between the individual assumptions were disregarded.

used for calculating the extent of the obligation. One assumption was

Country-specific mortality tables have been used for valuing the pension
obligations of the other Group companies.

238

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to the consolidated financial statements

μ μ(33) OTHER PROVISIONS
Æ
Personnelrelated
provisions

Sales
discounts

Provisions for
potential losses

Decommissioning
provisions

Environmental
protection
provisions

Other
provisions

Total

[€ million]

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

As of Jan 1

1,270

1,090

748

586

258

377

523

522

1,052

1,116

1,193

1,192

5,044

4,883

Currency translation differences

0

1

0

0

2

1

0

0

0

0

5

7

7

9

Changes in scope of consolidation

4

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

15

0

19

0

		thereof additions

4

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

15

0

19

0

		thereof disposals

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

Amounts used

–314

–270

–175

–151

–110

–129

–21

–27

– 67

–72

–309

–259

– 996

– 908

Reversals

–145

– 85

–79

– 54

– 90

–27

0

–4

–2

–1

–113

–118

– 429

–289

–1

19

2

4

16

–1

0

0

0

0

–14

–1

3

21

445

476

453

363

156

35

8

7

4

1

549

362

1,615

1,244

Reclassifications
Additions
Compounding and discounting
As of Dec 31

9

39

0

0

3

2

28

25

6

8

2

10

48

84

1,268

1,270

949

748

235

258

538

523

993

1,052

1,328

1,193

5,311

5,044

The following table breaks down the other provisions into current and
non-current amounts, and also details their estimated residual maturity:
Æ
Residual maturity
Less than
1 year
[€ million]

1 to 2
years

2 to 3
years

3 to 4
years

4 to 5
years

More than
5 years

Total more
than 1 year

Total

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

Personnel-related provisions

539

399

182

128

128

113

88

73

67

124

264

433

729

871

1,268

1,270

Sales discounts

949

748

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

949

748

Provisions for potential losses

108

94

43

71

20

36

15

24

19

7

30

26

127

164

235

258

Decommissioning provisions

28

31

27

30

27

30

27

30

27

30

402

372

510

492

538

523
1,052

Environmental protection
provisions

74

74

71

70

71

71

69

69

68

68

640

700

919

978

993

Other provisions

1,016

870

95

79

43

50

26

27

37

29

111

138

312

323

1,328

1,193

Total

2,714

2,216

418

378

289

300

225

223

218

258

1,447

1,669

2,597

2,828

5,311

5,044

μμ Provisions for environmental protection

it is capable of meeting future requirements and to ensure that the need

Of the figure stated for environmental protection provisions, € 978 million

to take remedial action can be limited to this future network. The network

(as of December 31, 2014: € 1,038 million) relate to remedial action obli-

which is not utilized will be decommissioned.

gations of DB AG . In order to take account of the remedial action obliga-

The 2-stage landfill shut-down program will guarantee that landfill

tions recognized in the environmental protection provisions, DB AG has

sites on rail property are identified and measured in a standard manner,

set up the following programs:

and that these landfill sites will be decommissioned in accordance with

μμ the 4-stage soil decontamination program
μμ the 3-stage sewerage network program
μμ the 2-stage landfill shut-down program

the Landfill Regulation (Deponieverordnung; DepV)/Technical Instruc-

These measures will ensure that the work on investigating and carrying

gesetz; BbodSchG).

tions for Residential Area Waste (Technische Anleitung Siedlungsabfall;
TASi) and the German Federal Soil Protection Act (Bundesbodenschutz­

out remedial action will be systematic, cost-efficient and consistent with

μμ Personnel-related provisions

the legal situation.
In the 4-stage soil decontamination program, the contamination in
the soil and/or groundwater is localized using the following stages: historical investigation, rough examination and detailed analysis. The program involves a feasibility study, implementation and approval planning
as well as remedial action, and due consideration is given to technical
and legal requirements for the remedial action which aims to ensure
appropriate utilization.
The 3-stage sewerage network program aims to remedy any contam-

Æ
[€ million]

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014
739

Obligations under employment contracts

731

Early retirement and semi-retirement obligations

239

252

Service anniversary provisions

127

106

Other

171

173

Total

1,268

1,270

ination of soil and/or groundwater resulting from leaks. The program also
involves a plan to optimize the existing sewerage network to ensure that

239

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

As of Dec 31

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

The staff-related provisions include obligations arising from employment

Of the figure shown for the reversal in the year under review, € 59 million

agreements which result from the entitlement of many employees under

(previous year: € 59 million) is attributable to the annual reversal of

labor law and the willingness of DB AG not to terminate employment

deferred items. The remainder is attributable to the release of amortized

contracts for operational reasons. In such cases, DB Group will incur losses

deferrals relating to premature one-off repayments at the respective

in the form of personnel expenses which will have to be borne until the

present value in 1999, 2004 and in 2011.

em­­ployment contract is terminated or the employee is placed with another
company; no reciprocal benefit will be provided in return for these costs.
The contractual personnel obligations also include restructuring provisions.
The provisions set aside to cover semi-retirement and early retirement obligations cover the obligations arising from collective bargaining

Deferred revenues constitute that part of compensation which is
attributable to the period after the balance sheet date.

μμNotes to the statement of cash flows

agreements, and have mostly been calculated on the basis of actuarial

The statement of cash flows shows the changes in cash and cash equiva-

reports. As a result of the current regulations of the Demographic Wage

lents in the year under review, and was prepared in accordance with IAS 7

Agreement (Demografietarifvertrag), this includes an amount of € 109 mil-

(Cash Flow Statements). The cash flows are broken down into operating

lion (previous year: € 115 million) for the entitlement of employees with

activities, investing activities and financing activities. The indirect

many years of service and also many years of shift working to enjoy special

method has been used for showing cash flow from operating activities.

semi-retirement benefits.

Interest income and interest payments, dividend income as well as

The service anniversary provisions increased considerably in the year

tax payments are stated under operating activities.

under review as a result of a change to the retirement age. This resulted

Cash and cash equivalents include the cash and cash equivalents

in additional service anniversary benefits for many persons, for whom no

stated in the balance sheet with a residual maturity of less than three

provisions had been previously created.

months (cash in hand, cash deposited with the Bundesbank, cash at
banks and checks as well as securities). In the year under review, of the

μμ Decommissioning provisions

total figure stated for cash and cash equivalents, € 539 million (previous

The decommissioning provisions refer to the company’s pro rata decom-

year: € 448 million) was subject to disposal restrictions mainly as a result

missioning obligation in relation to a joint power generation plant. The

of provisions of the rail franchises in Great Britain, external solvency re­­

valuation of the provision is based on an unchanged discount rate of 5.0%.

quire­­ments for DB Group’s own insurance companies as well as countryspecific and contractual restrictions particularly in international logistics

μμ Other provisions

business.

The other provisions comprise in addition to provisions for litigation risks,

The cash and cash equivalents also include current receivables due

decommissioning and demolition obligations, claims for damages, other

from banks (€ 232 million; previous year: about € 465 million) resulting

tax risks, real estate risks, third-party obligations for maintenance, non-

from hedges in connection with financial futures. These receivables are

personnel-related restructuring measures, guarantee and warranty obliga-

repaid in the event of a positive market development, and are repaid by

tions, liability pensions, insurance and project risk provisions for numerous

no later than the maturity of the financial futures.

other issues which individually are of minor significance.

μ μCASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
μ μ(34) DEFERRED ITEMS

The cash flow from operating activities is calculated by adjusting the net
profit for the period before taxes by items which are not cash-effective

Æ
Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

(in particular additions to and reversals of other provisions) and by adding

1,014

1,163

Deferred revenues

509

568

operating activities is then established after due consideration is given

Other

330

332

Total

1,853

2,063

Non-current portion

1,104

1,265

749

798

[€ million]
Deferred Federal grants

Current portion

other changes in non-current assets and liabilities. The cash flow from
to interest and tax payments.
The inflow of cash from operating activities declined compared with
the previous year. This was due to the negative pre-tax profit result.
Higher liabilities and a significantly lower result from the disposal of
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets have also had an
impact in this respect. The increase in non-cash-effective expenses and

The deferred Federal grants comprise mainly the interest benefit (dif-

income is mainly attributable to higher expenses related to additions to

ference between the nominal value and present value) attributable to

other provisions; higher reversals of other provisions have had an impact

the interest-free loans; this has developed as follows:

on the non-cash-effective income.

Æ
[€ million]
As of Jan 1

2015

2014

931

1,075

Addition

0

0

Reclassifications

0

0

–144

–144

787

931

Reversals
As of Dec 31

24 0

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to the consolidated financial statements

μ μCASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

In this connection, management reporting is addressed to the Group Man­

The cash flow from investing activities is calculated as the cash flow

­agement Board in its function as the primary decision maker. Manage-

provided by the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intan-

ment reporting in DB Group is based on the accounting principles in

gible assets as well as by investment grants, and the cash flow used for

accordance with IFRS. With regard to reconciling the segment data with

capital expenditures in property, plant and equipment and intangible

the corresponding corporate data, it is accordingly mainly necessary to

assets as well as for non-current financial assets.

take account of consolidation effects. For this reason, a consolidation

Payments received from investment grants are shown under investing

column is used for reconciliation purposes. The operations of the Group

activities due to the close connection between investment grants re­­

divisions are covered in the reporting format in line with the corporate

ceived and the payments made for capital expenditures in property, plant

organization structure of DB Group. The main regions covered by DB Group

and equipment.

are detailed in the segment information based on regions.

The considerably higher cash flow from investing activities is mainly

DB Group uses the following primary segments:

attributable to the 12% increase in outflows for capital expenditures in

μμ DB Long-Distance (previously DB Bahn Long-Distance): This segment com-

property, plant and equipment and an increase in net inflows from

prises all cross-regional transport operations and other passenger

investment grants in conjunction with a simultaneous decline in the

transport services. Most of these transport services are provided in

inflows from the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intan-

Germany.

gible assets. Outflows for the acquisition of shares in consolidated com-

μμ DB Regional (previously DB Bahn Regional): The activities for the German

panies (in the year under review: € 25 million; previous year: € 2 million,

transport and general services in regional rail and road local passenger

for the acquisition of CUP TOUR bus, s.r.o., Pribram/Czech Republic, and

transport are combined in the DB Regional segment. These activities

Bochimar) increased compared with the previous year. In addition, the

also comprise the S -Bahn (metro) operations in Berlin and Hamburg.

decline in inflows resulting from the sale of shares in consolidated com-

μμ DB Arriva: All European local transport activities (rail and bus) outside
Germany are pooled in the DB Arriva segment.

panies as well as lower inflows from the disposal of assets measured at
equity have also resulted in a reduction in cash inflows.

μμ DB Cargo (previously DB Schenker Rail): This segment pools the European

When changes take place in the scope of consolidation as a result of

activities for rail transport in freight transport services. It operates

the acquisition or sale of companies, the acquisition price which is paid

primarily in Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Italy, Great Britain,

(excluding any liabilities which are transferred) less the acquired or sold

France, Poland and Spain.

financial resources are stated as cash flow from investing activities. The

μμ DB Schenker (previously DB Schenker Logistics): All global logistics activ-

other effects of the acquisition or sale on the balance sheet are elimi-

ities of DB Group are managed in the DB Schenker segment. These

nated in the corresponding items of the three categories.

com­­prise the freight, transport and other services in commodity and
goods transport.

μ μCASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

μμ DB Netze Track: This segment is responsible for installing, main-

The cash flow from financing activities is due to the net inflows and

taining and operating the complete track-related rail infrastructure

have been raised as well as outflows for the redemption of interest-free

in Germany.

μμ DB Netze Stations: This segment comprises the operation, development

loans.

and marketing of passenger stations and retail facilities in stations
in Germany.

The increase in cash flow from financing activities is due to an in­­crease
of € 500 million in the profit distribution to the Federal Government,

μμ DB Services: This segment provides all types of services, mainly in the

higher net inflows resulting from the issuing and redemption of bonds

fields of transport, logistics, information technology and telecommu-

as well as an increase in net inflows from the raising of funds.

nications. The companies in this segment mainly render their services
within DB Group.

μμNotes to the segment information

μμ Subsidiaries/Other: DB AG and DB ML AG with their numerous management, financing and service functions in their capacity as the man-

Segment reporting of DB Group has been prepared in accordance with

agement holdings of DB Group are shown in this segment. In addi-

IFRS 8 (Operating Segments). The operating segments of DB Group

tion, this segment also comprises DB Energie GmbH and the other

result from the aggregation of fully consolidated legal entities; these

subsidiaries and remaining activities.

legal entities have been allocated to specific segments on the basis of

The data concerning the segments are shown after intra-segment rela-

the company-specific operational performance on a defined market. The

tions have been eliminated. The transactions between the segments

Management Board of DB Group takes its decisions and carries out eco-

(inter-segment relations) are eliminated in the column “Consolidation.”

nomic analyses as well as appraisals at the level of the operating segments (“management approach”).

The income and expenses detailed on the basis of operating segments in the segment information are adjusted by issues which are of an

The allocation of legal entities to operating segments in external

exceptional nature in terms of the amount involved or in terms of the

accounting is consistent with the allocation in internal management re­­

reason for the specific issue. A general adjustment is recognized for book

porting. This means that the management and legal structure of DB Group
are coincident. As a result of this allocation principle, there are no partial
balance sheets or partial income statements within a legal entity which
are allocated to different segments.

24 1

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

outflows attributable to issued bonds, bank loans and other loans which

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

profits and losses attributable to transactions with investments/finan-

The number of employees comprises the workforce, excluding trainees and

cial investments and in the amount of the depreciation on long-term

dual degree students (students on courses combining theory and prac-

customer contracts, which have been capitalized as part of the purchase

tice), at the end of the reporting period (part-time employees have been

price allocation process or company acquisitions. In addition, an adjust-

converted to full-time equivalents).

ment is recognized for individual issues if they are of an exceptional

The segments are subject to the same accounting principles which

nature, if they are definable for accounting purposes, if they can be

are described in the section “BASIC PRINCIPLES AND METHODS” [PAGE

measured and if the amount involved is material. They are shown in the

192 FF.] and which are applicable for the remainder of the consolidated

reconciliation column.

financial statements. Internal segment transactions within the Group

Segment reporting is based on the management parameters which

are generally conducted on an arm’s length basis.

are used for internal management of the operating segments. These
parameters form the basis of the value-oriented management concept

μ μEXPLANATIONS CONCERNING THE
INFORMATION ACCORDING TO REGIONS

(see “CAPITAL MANAGEMENT IN DB GROUP (IN ACCORDANCE WITH IAS 1)”

External revenues are stated on the basis of the registered offices of the

[PAGE 207 F.].

The external revenues and other revenues consist exclusively of

Group company providing the service.

in­­come generated by the segments with parties who are external to

Non-current assets are allocated on the basis of the location of the

DB Group. The internal revenues and other income show the income with

company. The non-current assets comprise intangible assets, property,

other segments (inter-segment income). Market prices are used for

plant and equipment as well as non-current receivables and other assets

establishing the transfer prices for DB Group internal transactions.

(excluding financial instruments, deferred tax assets, rights from insur-

EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortiza-

tion) is used for assessing the purely operational profitability of the oper-

ance policies as well as assets in conjunction with benefits after termination of the employment agreement).

ating segments. It does not include any costs of essential capital in the
form of depreciation and interest. Accordingly, EBITDA is not influenced

μ μINFORMATION CONCERNING
MAJOR CUSTOMERS

by segment-specific financing structures and long-term investment cycles
(in particular in the infrastructure segments); consequently, deprecia-

In the year under review and the previous year, no single customer ac­­

tion is incurred sooner than the positive returns generated by these

counted for more than 10% of overall revenues at DB Group.

investments. EBITDA thus has the character of pre-tax cash flow.
On the other hand, EBIT additionally comprises depreciation recognized in relation to fixed assets (property, plant and equipment and

μμRisk management and derivative
financial instruments

intangible assets). EBIT is the result generated by operations which is
available for meeting the return requirements of the providers of capital.

μ μMANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL
AND ENERGY PRICE RISKS

The financing costs which are incurred as a result of the (in certain
cases) very high amounts of capital tied up in the operating segments

As a mobility, transport and logistics group with international opera-

of DB Group (particularly in the infrastructure segments) are also rele-

tions, DB Group is exposed to financial risks in the form of changes in

vant for a long-term assessment of results. This is the reason why oper-

interest rates and exchange rates. In addition, there are also energy price

ational net operating interest income is additionally taken into consid-

risks on the procurement side as a result of fluctuations in the prices of

eration in the parameter operating income after interest.

diesel fuel and electricity. One of the aspects of corporate policy is to

The essential assets which are used (capital employed) also have to
be taken into consideration in addition to the above-mentioned param-

actively manage and thus limit these risks by means of the use of derivative financial instruments.

eters for internal management of the operating segments. The capital

With its central Group Treasury, DB AG is responsible for all financing

employed comprises the essential capital which is used by providers of

and hedging transactions. It cooperates with the subsidiaries to identify,

equity and providers of debt and for which interest has to be paid.

evaluate and control financial and energy price risks. At regular inter-

Net financial debt is defined as the balance of interest-bearing

vals, the Management Board is informed of major financial risks and

external liabilities and finance lease liabilities as well as cash and cash

receives a schedule of all financial instruments as well as information on

equivalents and interest-bearing external receivables. The net financial

the impact on profits and the balance sheet. Speculation is not per-

debt of the segments also comprises the receivables and liabilities attrib-

mitted. Ongoing market and risk assessment takes place as part of risk

utable to DB Group financing and internal finance arrangements within

management.

DB Group.

The Management Board of DB AG has defined principles for risk man-

The gross capital expenditures consist of investments in property,

agement. The guidelines for DB Group financing and for the internal

plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding capitalized bor-

control system contain binding rules for the use of derivative financial

rowing costs. Net capital expenditures are calculated by deducting the

instruments for managing interest rate and foreign exchange risks and

participation of third parties in the financing of specific investment proj-

the risks of energy price changes, as well as the procedure for dealing

ects (essentially the construction grants of the Federal Government and

with related counterparty default risks. In the structure and procedure

the Federal states).

organization, there is a clear functional and organizational segregation

Additions from changes in the scope of consolidation are shown as

between scheduling and trading on the one hand (front office) as well

part of total segment capital expenditures, and comprise exclusively the
capital expenditures in property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets, including the goodwill acquired as part of company acquisitions
or included in the consolidated financial statements of DB Group for the
first time.

24 2

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to the consolidated financial statements

as settlement and monitoring on the other (back office). Group Treasury

Group Treasury extends loans to foreign subsidiaries in their functional

operates on the global financial markets using the minimum requirements

currency. These positions are normally hedged with the aid of derivative

applicable for risk management (Mindestanforderungen an das Risiko-

financial instruments.

management; MaRisk) of the banks prepared by the Federal Financial

With its activities, DB Group is active internationally and is thus ex­­

Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht;

posed to operational exchange rate risks. In order to minimize these risks,

BaFin), and is subject to regular internal and external control.

the subsidiaries take out internal foreign exchange transactions with

Derivative financial instruments are used exclusively for hedging

Group Treasury and hedge all major foreign currency positions in their

interest, currency and energy price risks. All individual transactions cor-

functional currency. Group Treasury in turn hedges its open foreign cur-

respond to on-balance-sheet or anticipated underlyings (for instance

rency positions by way of opposite transactions on the financial markets.

bonds, purchases of diesel fuel and electricity). The aim is to achieve

In exceptional cases and to a limited extent, subsidiaries are permitted

qualification as an effective hedge in accordance with IAS 39.

to hedge foreign currency positions with banks themselves.

μ μINTEREST RATE RISKS

analysis which investigates the effects of theoretical changes in foreign

In line with the length of time that assets are tied up, the financial require­

currency relations on profits and equity capital.

In order to present foreign currency risks, IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity

­ment is covered mainly by issuing long-term and fixed-interest bonds.

The currency sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions:

Interest rate management comprises a comparatively low amount of

μμ The cross-currency swaps which are concluded and the current cur-

variable interest for optimizing interest costs. Interest rate derivatives

rency transactions are always allocated to original underlyings.

such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and collars may be used for man­

μμ All major foreign currency positions arising from operating activities

­aging the fixed-floating ratio.

are always 100% hedged. If exchange rate changes are 100% hedged,

In accordance with IFRS 7, existing interest rates are detailed by means
of a sensitivity analysis which investigates the effects of theoretical

they do not have any impact on profits or equity capital.

μμ Foreign currency risks can only occur if a 100% hedge does not exist

changes in market interest rates on results and shareholders’ equity.

in justified exceptional cases; for instance if a conservative estimate

The sensitivity analysis which has been carried out has taken account

is made for hedge volumes for anticipated foreign currency cash flows

of the following financial instruments:

in order to avoid overhedging.

μμ Derivatives designated in cash flow hedges (interest hedges and cross-

μμ On-balance-sheet foreign currency risks may result from energy

currency hedges) have an impact on the hedge reserve in share-

price hedging which is not denominated in the respective functional

holders’ equity and are therefore taken into consideration in the

currency.
If the following foreign currencies for currency hedges had weakened (or

μμ Variable-interest financial instruments have an impact on net interest

strengthened) by 10% as of the balance sheet date, profits would have

income. This is applicable to variable-income cross-currency swaps

been affected as follows:

as well as variable-rate loans/finance leases.

Æ

μμ Cash at banks and current borrowings/deposits with banks have an

Appreciation of foreign currency by

impact on net interest income.

2015

If the level of market interest rates for the exposure had been 100 basis

2014

points higher (lower) as of the balance sheet date, the result would have

[€ million]

+10%

–10%

+10%

–10%

been affected as follows:

USD

+6

–6

+3

–3

Æ

CHF

0

0

+1

–1

CNY

0

0

+5

–5

HKD

–7

+7

–3

+4

CAD

–1

+1

–1

+1

SGD

+5

–6

–1

+1

SAR

0

0

+1

–1

Changes in market level of interest rates by
2015

2014

+100

–100

+100

–100

Impact on comprehensive income

–1

+1

+ 29

–29

		thereof recognized in
income statement

+4

–4

+ 19

–19

		thereof covered directly in equity

–5

+5

+ 10

–10

[€ million]

1)

BP 1)

BP 1)

BP 1)

BP 1)

Basis points.

DB Group has numerous equity investments in foreign subsidiaries, whose

net assets are exposed to a translation risk. This translation risk is not
perceived to be a foreign currency risk for the purposes of IFRS 7, and is
not hedged.

μ μFOREIGN CURRENCY RISKS
The foreign currency risks are attributable to financing measures and

μ μENERGY PRICE RISKS

operating activities.

DB Group is the largest consumer of electricity in Germany. In addition,

In order to avoid interest rate and foreign currency risks, the foreign

the Group also requires considerable volumes of diesel fuel. The high

currency bonds issued within the framework of DB Group financing are

energy procurement volume and the volatility of electricity and mineral oil

converted into euro liabilities by means of cross-currency swaps. How-

markets result in substantial profit risks, which are continuously monitored.

ever, it is not necessary for such bonds to be converted in individual
cases if there is a guarantee that the bond can be serviced out of inflows
of foreign currency payments.

24 3

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

sensitivity calculations relating to shareholders’ equity.

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

The Energy Price Risk Management Committee (ERMC) is responsible for

Æ

managing and minimizing these risks; this committee is responsible for

Changes in market prices by

ensuring the implementation of the risk policy of DB Group specifically

2015

with regard to energy price risks. The ERMC takes decisions with regard
to specific hedging strategies and measures in which financial and energy
derivatives are used.
Swaps relating to the commodities underlying the price formulae
(coal and heavy fuel oil) are used as hedges for the risks of price changes
for sourcing electricity.
Diesel price risks are for instance limited by taking out diesel swaps
(hybrid hedges of diesel price and currency risks and individual hedges
of currency risks are possible in exceptional cases).
Energy price risks are quantified by means of sensitivity analyses in
accordance with IFRS 7. These provide information concerning the effects

[€ million]
Impact on comprehensive income

2014

+10%

–10%

+10%

–10%

+ 46

– 46

+ 83

– 83

		thereof recognized in the
income statement

0

0

0

0

			Diesel

0

0

0

0

			Hard coal

0

0

0

0

			Heavy fuel oil

0

0

0

0

		thereof covered directly in equity

+ 46

– 46

+ 83

– 83

			Diesel

–74

+ 43

– 43

+ 74

			Hard coal

+2

–2

+5

–5

			Heavy fuel oil

+1

–1

+4

–4

of theoretical energy price changes on result and shareholders’ equity
(in relation to the balance sheet exposure on the balance sheet date).

μ μCOUNTERPARTY DEFAULT RISK OF INTEREST,
CURRENCY AND ENERGY DERIVATIVES

The following assumptions have been made for performing the sensitivity analyses:

Counterparty default risk is defined as possible losses due to the default

μμ In the case of energy price swaps, the effective part is recognized in

of counterparties (“worst-case scenario”). It represents the replacement

shareholders’ equity, and the ineffective part is recognized in the

costs (at market values) of the derivative financial instruments for which

income statement.

DB Group has claims against contract partners. The counterparty default

μμ If options are used (collars), the intrinsic value constitutes the effec-

risk is monitored and actively managed by way of strict requirements

tive part of the hedge, so that the intrinsic value is shown in equity

relating to the creditworthiness of the counterparty at the point at which

capital. On the other hand, the fair value is not part of the hedge,

the transactions are concluded and also throughout the entire life of the

and is shown in the income statement.

transactions, and also by way of defining risk limits.

If the energy prices at the end of the year had been 10% lower (or higher),
the profits would have been affected as follows:

In order to minimize the credit risk of long-term derivative transactions, DB Group has concluded credit support agreements (CSA) with its
core banks. In the CSA , it was agreed that both parties would mutually
provide cash securities for interest and cross-currency swaps as well as
energy derivatives. Securities are exchanged daily with all relevant banks.
Related amounts which are not netted in the balance sheet:

Æ

Financial assets/
liabilities shown in
the balance sheet
As of Dec 31 [€ million]

Related amounts which are
not netted in the balance sheet:
Financial
instruments

Cash securities
received/provided

Net amounts

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

2014

2015

Derivative financial instruments – assets

398

102

–166

– 98

–232

–

0

2014
4

Derivative financial instruments – liabilities

655

680

–166

– 98

– 419

– 465

70

117

The increase in the assets of financial derivatives and thus the maximum

μ μLIQUIDITY RISK

counterparty default risk is based on the development in the value of the

Liquidity management involves maintaining adequate cash and cash

cross-currency swaps. The increase in the liabilities of derivative financial

equivalents, constantly checking the commercial paper market for ensuring

instruments due to the collapse in prices on the energy markets has

adequate market liquidity and depth and the constant availability of fi­­

more than compensated for this aspect, and there has accordingly been

nancial resources via guaranteed credit facilities of banks (see NOTE (28)

an increase in the cash securities which have been paid. The maximum

[PAGE 225 FF.].

individual risk – default risk in relation to individual contract partners –

The following table shows the contractually agreed undiscounted

is € 85 million, and exists in relation to a bank with a Moody’s rating of

interest payments and redemption payments relating to the original

A1. For transactions with terms of more than one year, all banks which

financial liabilities as well as the derivative financial instruments with a

are exposed to a counterparty default risk have at least a Moody’s rating

positive and negative fair value of DB Group:

of Baa2.

24 4

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

μ μMATURITY ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Æ
2016
Maturity analysis of financial liabilities
as of Dec 31, 2015 [€ million]

Fixed/
variable
interest

2017
Re- Fixed/
demp- variable
tion interest

2018 – 2020
Re- Fixed/
demp- variable
tion interest

2021 – 2025

Re- Fixed/
demp- variable
tion interest

2026 ff.

Re- Fixed/
demp- variable
tion interest

Redemption

NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES

		Interest-free loans
		Bonds

–

220

–

206

–

545

–

624

–

–

543

1,551

493

1,893

1,090

6,019

805

7,624

355

2,307

		Commercial paper

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

		Bank borrowings

11

723

9

–

26

–

15

402

–

–

8

–

8

–

24

–

8

200

–

–

24

156

18

20

39

92

37

78

101

80

		EUROFIMA loan
		 Finance lease liabilities
		 Other financial liabilities

–

31

–

–

–

–

–

2

–

–

Trade liabilities

–

4,679

–

164

–

99

–

7

–

–

Other/miscellaneous liabilities

–

3,338

–

11

–

28

–

25

–

–

52

571

39

59

94

739

51

537

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (NET/GROSS SETTLED)

Interest/currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges
Interest derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges
Interest derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

7

–

5

–

13

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

344

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges
Energy price derivatives

–

518

–

3

–

–

–

–

–

–

161

–

104

–

72

–

15

–

–

–
863

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL A SSETS (GROSS SETTLED)

Interest/currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

85

226

80

466

192

874

171

971

49

Interest derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

447

–

0

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

551

–

6

–

47

–

–

–

–

Energy price derivatives

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

VOLUNTARY INFORMATION ABOUT DERIVATIVES

Interest/currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

0

–

0

–

–

–

–

–

–

Energy price derivatives

–

–

–

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

INFLOW OF FUNDS FROM DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS (GROSS SETTLED)

–116

–747

– 97

– 562

–249

–1,714

–254

–1,558

– 67

– 933

Interest derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

Interest/currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–793

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

–1,070

–

–9

–

– 47

–

–

–

–

Energy price derivatives

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

35

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

FINANCIAL WARR ANTIES

Financial warranties

24 5

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL A SSETS (NET SETTLED)

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ
2015
Maturity analysis of financial liabilities
as of Dec 31, 2014 [€ million]

Fixed/
variable
interest

2017 – 2019

2016
Redemption

Fixed/
variable
interest

Redemption

Fixed/
variable
interest

2020 – 2024

Redemption

Fixed/
variable
interest

2025 ff.

Redemption

Fixed/
variable
interest

Redemption

NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES

		Interest-free loans
		Bonds

–

220

–

220

–

588

–

787

–

–

533

700

499

1,535

1,183

5,657

806

7,320

310

2,029

		Commercial paper

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

		Bank borrowings

13

55

15

404

26

1

24

402

–

–

8

–

8

–

24

–

16

200

–

–

35

169

24

155

45

94

42

88

110

87

		EUROFIMA loan
		 Finance lease liabilities
		 Other financial liabilities

–

23

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Trade liabilities

–

4,949

–

34

–

98

–

32

–

–

Other/miscellaneous liabilities

–

3,412

–

15

–

32

–

30

–

–
202

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (NET/GROSS SETTLED)

Interest/currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

95

279

88

499

190

733

140

1,651

5

Interest derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

1

–

1

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

562

–

15

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

546

–

4

–

–

–

–

–

–

159

–

84

–

82

–

8

–

–

–
497

Energy price derivatives
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL A SSETS (GROSS SETTLED)

Interest/currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

38

28

37

218

92

307

87

402

27

Interest derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

292

–

0

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

407

–

15

–

52

–

–

–

–

Energy price derivatives

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

VOLUNTARY INFORMATION ABOUT DERIVATIVES
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL A SSETS (NET SETTLED)

Interest/currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges
Energy price derivatives

–

0

–

0

–

–

–

–

–

–

–3

–

–2

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

–712

INFLOW OF FUNDS FROM DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS (GROSS SETTLED)

Interest/currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–102

–350

– 92

– 678

–207

–1,077

–211

–2,042

– 41

Interest derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives connected with cash flow hedges

–

– 853

–

–15

–

–

–

–

–

–

Currency derivatives not connected with cash flow hedges

–

– 950

–

–20

–

– 52

–

–

–

–

Energy price derivatives

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

42

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

FINANCIAL WARR ANTIES

Financial warranties

24 6

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

This includes all instruments which were held at the end of 2015 and for

μ μ(36) OTHER FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS

which payments had already been agreed. Foreign currency amounts

The other financial obligations amounted to € 20,343 million as of Decem­

have been translated using the spot rate applicable as of the reference

­ber 31, 2015 (as of December 31, 2014: € 20,866 million).

date. The variable interest payments attributable to the financial instru-

Capital expenditures in relation to which the company has entered

ments have been calculated on the basis of the interest rates applicable

into contractual obligations as of the balance sheet date, but for which

on December 31, 2015 (previous year on December 31, 2014). Financial

no consideration has yet been received, are broken down as follows:

liabilities which can be repaid at any time are allocated to the earliest

Æ

possible time segment.
The financial liabilities are opposed by cash and cash equivalents of
€ 4,549 million, consisting of positive account balances (50%) and current

[€ million]

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

15,145

15,512

Committed capital expenditures

fixed-term deposits (50%).

		 Property, plant and equipment

μμOther disclosures

Acquisition of financial assets

		Intangible assets
Total

(35) CONTINGENT RECEIVABLES
AND LIABILITIES AS WELL AS
GUARANTEE OBLIGATIONS

6

6

434

391

15,585

15,909

μμ

The slight decline in the order commitment in property, plant and equipment is due particularly to planned capital expenditures projects resulting

Contingent receivables were stated as € 68 million as of December 31,

from the company’s own construction services; this is opposed mainly

2015 (as of December 31, 2014: € 64 million), and comprise mainly a claim

by the completed acquisitions of new rolling stock. In the case of some

for a refund regarding investment grants which had been paid; however,

supply arrangements, there are independent admissions of guilt with

as of the balance sheet date, the extent and due date of the claim was not

regard to fulfilling the order commitment; these are opposed by claims

sufficiently certain.

of the same amount, backed by bank guarantees and insurance policies

As of the balance sheet date, no contingent receivables had been

with maximum ratings.

recognized for all injunction proceedings in view of the high level of un­­

The figure of € 434 million shown for the acquisition of financial assets

certainty relating to refund claims, the timing of refunds and the prob-

(as of December 31, 2014: € 391 million) relates to outstanding contribu-

ability of refunds.

tions at EUROFIMA which have not been called in. Various companies in
DB Group have leased assets, e.g. property, buildings, technical equip-

The contingent liabilities are broken down as follows:

ment, plant and machinery as well as operational and business equipment

Æ
Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

Other contingent liabilities

85

128

Total

85

128

within the framework of operating lease agreements.
The terms of the future minimum payments arising from operating
lease agreements are set out in the following table:
Æ
Nominal values

Other contingent liabilities also comprise risks arising from litigation
which had not been stated as provisions because the expected probability

[€ million]

of occurrence is less than 50%.

Less than 1 year

There are also contingencies of € 35 million from guarantees as of

Dec 31,
2015

Dec 31,
2014

1,239

1,208

December 31, 2015 (as of December 31, 2014 € 41 million). The decline re­­

1 to 2 years

870

851

2 to 3 years

635

649

lates particularly to the DB Cargo segment. Property, plant and equipment

3 to 4 years

435

498

with carrying amounts of € 6 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 6 mil-

4 to 5 years

363

351

lion) were also used as security for loans. The reported figure essentially

More than 5 years

1,216

1,400

relates to rolling stock and buses which are used at the operating com-

Total

4,758

4,957

panies in the segments DB Arriva and DB Long-Distance.
In individual cases, cartel authorities carry out investigations into com­
­panies in the freight-forwarding sector. With its decision of July 15, 2015,

μ μ(37) STRUCTURED COMPANIES

the EU Commission imposed a fine of € 32 million on Schenker&Co. AG,

DB ML AG holds 100% of the shares in DB Barnsdale AG . Barnsdale is a

Vienna/Austria, and Schenker A .E., Athens/Greece, and also on DB AG

structured company for enforcing claims for damages from a cartel, and

and Schenker AG as the corresponding parent companies on the grounds

is included as a subsidiary in the consolidated financial statements.

of alleged anti-competitive collusion in relation to rail freight services

DB ML AG has provided Barnsdale with an undated and unlimited guar-

on block train services to South-East Europe; this fine has been paid. The

antee for absorbing litigation cost refund claims. A profit and loss transfer

decision relates to the period between 2004 and 2012. DB Group had

agreement has also been concluded.

cooperated fully with the EU Commission for the purpose of clarifying
the issue. The fine was paid in 2015.
DB Group acts as guarantor mainly for equity participations and

common project units, and is subject to joint and several liability for all
common project units in which it is involved.

24 7

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

[€ million]

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μ μ(38) INFRASTRUCTURE AND

The funds necessary for this purpose are made available to the Federal

TRANSPORT CONTRACTS

states by the Federal Government in accordance with the regulations of

The following notes and information refer to the requirements of SIC-29

the Regionalization Act (Regionalisierungsgesetz; RegG). The conces-

(Disclosure – Service Concession Arrangements).

sion fees received by the subsidiaries of the segment DB Regional
amounted to a total of € 3,855 million in the year under review (previous

μμ Infrastructure contracts

year: € 4,145 million) (see NOTE (1) [PAGE 210].

The main rail infrastructure companies (RICs) of DB Group are DB Netz AG,
DB Station&Service AG and DB Energie GmbH.

The transport contracts usually run for periods of between 5 and 15
years. In the year under review, the fact that most German transport

On the basis of section 6 of the General Railways Act (Allgemeines

contracts include a provision for the concession fee to increase by 1.5%

Eisen­­bahngesetz, AEG), the RICs which operate track, control and secu-

p. a., as well as revenues attributable to final settlements of previous

rity systems or platforms require approval for such operations. This is

years and successful quality improvements could not compensate for the

applicable particularly for DB Netz AG and DB Station&Service AG, whose

effects of invitation-to-tender losses and loss of margin as well as cuts

approvals are valid until the end of December 31, 2048.

of the ordering organizations in the year under review.

The right of the RICs to operate the rail infrastructure is connected

In addition, there are similar transport contracts with international

to various obligations. They are required in particular to manage their

ordering organizations in the segment DB Arriva, with a volume of

operations safely, construct the rail infrastructure in a safe manner and

€ 656 million (previous year: € 628 million) (see NOTE (1) [PAGE 210].

ensure that it is maintained in a safe condition (section 4 (3) AEG). With

The overall number of secured transport contracts will remain con-

regard to compliance with this regulation, the RICs of DB Group are re­­g-

stant until the end of 2016; 75% of the transport contracts are due to run

ulated by the EBA .

until at least 2019, 50% are due to run until at least 2021 and 25% until at

In addition, the RIC s also have to observe statutory duties with

least 2029. The transport contracts can only be terminated by the ordering

regard to noise abatement in the case of any new and expansion projects.

organization during the term of the agreement for a compelling reason.

DB Group voluntarily participates in the “Rail noise abatement program”

for existing lines.

The companies enjoy legal and beneficial ownership of virtually all of
the assets necessary for providing the services, and in particular the rolling

The RICs provide non-discriminatory access to the rail infrastructure

stock. No special obligations exist after the end of the contract term.

in accordance with sections 14 ff. AEG , and charge the train operating
companies (TOC s) for this access. The charges of DB Netz AG and

μ μ(39) RELATED -PARTY DISCLOSURES

DB Station&Service AG must comply with the requirements of the AEG

The following parties are deemed to be related parties of DB Group in

and Rail Infrastructure Utilization Ordinance (Eisenbahninfrastruktur-

accordance with IAS 24 (Related-Party Disclosures):

Benutzungsverordnung; EIBV); in accordance with the decision of Novem­

μμ the Federal Government in its capacity as the owner of all shares in

­ber 9, 2010, DB Energie GmbH is obliged to have its charges for the use
of traction power lines approved in accordance with the German Energy

DB AG ,

μμ the companies or enterprises subject to the control of the Federal

Industry Act (Energiewirtschaftsgesetz; EnWG). The first approval procedure – retrospectively for the years 2005 to 2013 – as well as the approval

Republic of Germany (Federal companies),

μμ affiliated, non-consolidated and associated companies as well as

procedure for the second incentive regulation period (2014 to 2018) has
now been concluded.

joint ventures of DB Group, as well as

μμ the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board

In the year under review, DB Netz AG , DB Station&Service AG as
well as DB Energie GmbH generated overall revenues of € 8,794 million

of DB AG and their close relatives.
Transactions with related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis.

(previous year: € 8,676 million); thereof € 2,710 million (previous year:
€ 2,556 million) with non-Group customers.

The figures attributable to related companies and persons are stated
under the corresponding items of the “Notes to the balance sheet” with

The assets of the rail infrastructure are the legal and economic prop-

the designation “thereof.” Individual figures are set out in the NOTES (19)

erty of the companies.

[PAGE 220 FF.], (28) [PAGE 225 FF.] AND (29) [PAGE 229].

μμ Transport contracts

Federal Republic of Germany are included in the NOTES (3) [PAGE 210 F.],

Service licenses and similar approvals which guarantee the general

(5) [PAGE 211 F.], (9) [PAGE 21 3], (1 3) [PAGE 21 5 FF.], (32) [PAGE 234 FF.],

public access to important economic and public facilities have been

(36) [PAGE 2 47] AND (38) [PAGE 2 4 8].

Details and explanations of transactions between DB Group and the

granted to companies in DB Group. This is applicable particularly for DB

Significant economic relations which need to be reported separately

Regio AG as well as its subsidiaries which conduct regional rail passenger

between DB Group and related companies and persons are explained in

operations.

the following:

DB Regio AG and its subsidiaries provide transport services on the

basis of ordered-service contracts. These so-called “transport contracts
for regional rail passenger transport services” are signed with the organization which orders the transport services (e.g. Federal states, specialpurpose association, local transport company); these contracts determine the way in which the transport service is provided and continued,
and also governs the relevant compensation (concession fees) paid for
the transport services.

24 8

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

μμ Relationships with the Federal Republic of Germany
2015

2014

1,503

1,542

Lease and rental payments made
Investment grants received
Other income grants received

1

1

4,527

3,902

200

195

6,231

5,640

­ume) under the terms of the LuFV I. The RICs undertake to use a further

311

298

€ 0.5 billion per annum for maintaining and modernizing the existing
network. During the period covered by the agreement, the RIC s also
undertake to use a minimum amount of € 1.25 billion (2009) and € 1 billion (starting 2010) per annum for the specific purpose of maintaining
the track (so-called minimum maintenance contribution).
The RIC s are responsible for guaranteeing operation of the infra-

SERVICES RENDERED BY DB GROUP

Sale of goods and services

G4-EC7

tion and simultaneously minimum replacement capital expenditures vol­

SERVICES RECEIVED BY DB GROUP

Purchase of goods and services

GRI

per year to the RIC s which are earmarked exclusively for carrying out
replacement capital expenditures for the track (infrastructure contribu-

Federal Government
[€ million]

The Federal Government undertakes to make payments of € 2.5 billion

structure, and are measured against the attainment of quality targets as
well as evidence of minimum replacement capital expenditures and

Lease and rental payments received

14

13

Other services rendered

93

113

Repayment of loans

220

220

The application of funds as well as success in attaining the quality

Repayment of investment grants

156

19

targets is documented by the annual infrastructure status and development

Repayment from cartel proceedings

9

100

report. The use of funds is reviewed by an infrastructure auditor engaged

Repayment of other income grants

0

0

by the Federal Government. The quality objectives are reviewed by the EBA

803

763

itself. The Federal Government is authorized to reclaim all or part of its

115

95

Unsecured liabilities 1)

1,613

1,896

Current total of guarantees received 1)

1,176

1,080

minimum maintenance expenses.

OTHER DISCLOSURES

Unsecured receivables 1)

1)

infrastructure contribution if the RICs fail to meet the agreed targets.
With the “First addendum to the performance and financing agreement,” some stipulations of the LuFV I were specified in greater detail
and extended with regard to the quality parameters with effect from

As of the balance sheet date.

January 1, 2010. In addition to the previous regulation of the infrastrucat least € 180 million per annum and DB Energie GmbH would receive at

Federal Government within the framework of the pro forma billing of the

least € 40 million per annum out of the total of € 2.5 billion. Moreover,

allocated civil servants as well as cost refunds for staff secondments in

some more details were also provided with regard to supporting evi-

the service provision field.

dence for capital expenditures and maintenance. For new and extension

In the year under review, the Federal Employment Agency refunded

measures of the local rail passenger transport services, the criteria defined

to DB Group subsidies of around € 6 million for which an application has

in the LuFV I (in particular passenger numbers) must be met in order to

been made in accordance with section 3 of the Semi-Retirement Act (Alters-

qualify for funding. With regard to the quality parameters, the parameter

teilzeitgesetz; AltTZG) in conjunction with sections 4, 16 AltTZG. The claim

relating to the facilities quality of the stations was specified in greater

to such payments is justified when a person is appointed to the position

detail and the parameter “Total signal standard deviation” was replaced

which has become free as a result of the semi-retirement arrangement.

by the parameter “Number of infrastructure faults.” In addition, the annual

With the law for improving the opportunities for re-integration on

targets previously agreed for the parameter “Theoretical journey time

the labor market, the corresponding regulations in the German social

loss,” which in total amounted to eight minutes improvement compared

security code (Sozialgesetzbuch; SGB) III were revised. In accordance

with the base figure from the year 2008, was extended to include a total

with section 54 SGB III, the Federal Employment Agency provides a sub-

reduction target of 200 minutes. This additional reduction target relates

sidiary of up to € 216 per month for career opportunity qualifications. In

to the end of 2013.

the year under review, approximately 290 young persons were offered a

The second addendum defined not only the extension of the dura-

training opportunity within the framework of the career preparation

tion of the LuFV I but also and in particular the targets for the quality

program “Chance plus.”

parameters for 2014. These were unchanged for 2013.

GRI

‡ DB AG and the RIC s have signed a performance and financing

In connection with the prolongation of the LuFV I, DB AG and the

G4-EC7

agreement (Leistungs- und Finanzierungsvereinbarung; LuFV) I with the

RIC s also signed an agreement with the Federal Government on Sep-

Federal Republic of Germany represented by the Federal Ministry of Trans-

tember 6, 2013, on the basis of which, in the budget years 2013 and 2014,

port, Building and Urban Development (Bundesministerum für Ver­­kehr,

the Federal funds of € 250 million per year which were not utilized in the

Bau und Stadtentwicklung). This agreement has reformed the financing

requirement plan were transferred from the budget item for the require-

regime for the existing network. Whereas in the past, individual and col-

ment plan to the budget item for the existing network, and these funds

lective agreements have been used as the basis for financing replacement

were paid out to the RIC s. The regulations of the LuFV I regarding the

capital expenditures in relation to individual measures, the use of Federal

infrastructure contribution of the Federal Government are applicable

funds within the framework of the performance and financing agreement

accordingly for the transferred amounts. The transferred amounts are

is managed in a quality-oriented manner. The plannability, efficiency and

to be used mainly for providing additional finance for capital expendi-

transparency of funding for maintaining the infrastructure has been

tures in the barrier-free expansion of interchanges as well as planning

improved with the LuFV I. The agreement came into force on January 1,

services and replacement capital expenditures in railway bridges. The

2009. The duration of the LuFV was extended from the end of 2013 to the

minimum maintenance contribution in the years 2013 and 2014 increased

end of 2015 by way of a second addendum to the performance and

by € 100 million in each case. The agreement also provides for Federal

financing agreement of September 6, 2013. The LuFV I was replaced by

funds in the amount of the transferred amounts to be taken from the

the follow-up agreement LuFV II with effect from January 1, 2015.

budget item for the existing network and used for the requirement plan

24 9

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

ture contribution, it was agreed that DB Station&Service AG would receive
Purchases of goods and services mainly comprise the fees paid to the

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI

project rail hinterland connection for the permanent Fehmarn Belt crossing

19/20, 2013. On the basis of the damage reports which have been sub-

GRI

G4-EC7

(Schienenhinterlandanbindung der Festen Fehmarnbeltquerung) in accor-

mitted to the Federal Government, a total of about € 100 million will be

G4-EC7

dance with the financing agreement still to be concluded on the basis of

made available to DB AG , spread over the years 2013 to 2015, from the

the state treaty.

European Solidarity Fund and the Restructuring Aid Fund of the Federal

Moreover, on the occasion of the extension of the LuFV I, DB AG and

Government. The funds will be used for remedying flood damage to per-

the RICs signed an agreement with the Federal Government regarding the

manent way and concourse buildings which are used as interchanges in

need to combat corruption and also regarding cartel damages relating

the Elbe and Danube catchment areas.

to the infrastructure contribution of the Federal Government. With this

DB AG has been approved funds from the European Union for infra-

agreement, the regulations agreed between DB and the Federal Govern-

structure projects in the fields of trans-European networks (TEN) and

ment regarding these areas have essentially been extended to the LuFV I.

for the regional development of transport infrastructure (European

The LuFV I in the version of the second addendum was replaced by the

Regional Development Fund; ERDF).

LuFV II, and ended on December 31, 2014. The negotiations concerning

The grants recognized in the income statement relate also to pay-

the LuFV II between DB Group and the Federal Government were con-

ments provided by the Federal Government for covering excessive bur-

cluded in October 2014. The LuFV II, which was signed on January 12, 2015

dens borne by DB Group as a result of operating and maintaining level

and which has been applicable since January 1, 2015, is a target-oriented

crossings with roads of all construction authorities.

instrument for financing and managing capital expenditures. The core

Sales of products and services also comprise services for carrying

objectives are to maintain and further improve the quality and availability

severely disabled persons, German Armed Forces soldiers and German

of the existing infrastructure (existing network) and to assure financing

Armed Forces transports.

for the existing network for the years 2015 to 2019.

DB AG repaid to the Federal Government interest-free loans of

Under the terms of the LuFV II, the contractually defined volume of

€ 220 million in accordance with the BSWAG . The payments were made

funds was considerably increased: the infrastructure contribution of the

within the framework of the agreed annual standard redemption to the

Federal Government was increased to an average of € 3.316 billion per cal-

Federal Government.

endar year. The planned dividend distribution of DB AG on the basis of the

The liabilities due to the Federal Government comprise the extended

profit after taxes of the RIC amounts to an average of € 440 million per

loans, which are shown here with their present values, and other liabili-

year. The dividend distributions are reinvested completely in the rail infra-

ties of € 276 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 402 million).

structure as Federal grants. The element for improving local rail passenger

The guarantees received from the Federal Government primarily relate

transport (appendix 8.7) was increased to € 1.1 billion for the entire life

to the loans received from EUROFIMA as well as the outstanding contribu-

of the LuFV II. The maintenance contribution to be provided by the RICs

tions and liabilities arising from collective liability of DB AG at EUROFIMA .

has increased to a minimum of € 8.0 billion for the life of the LuFV II.

The guarantees which have been received include a maximum commitment

The own funds for capital expenditures to be provided by the RICs
every year on the other hand now amount to € 100 million per annum

of € 1,153 million of the Federal Government for loans of EUROFIMA . The
loan volume amounted to € 200 million as of the balance sheet date.

(LuFV I: € 500 million per year).

The following agreements were concluded with the Federal Govern-

The quality parameters from the LuFV I have been retained, whereby

ment in the year under review:

the targets show an increased degree of tension. A new “status category

Eight new financing agreements were concluded in the year under

fully and partially renewed bridges” has been agreed in the LuFV II. If at

review in addition to the Adjustment Agreement (APV) 2015. The Federal

least 875 rail bridges are not fully or partially renewed during the life of

Government has provided finance totaling about € 1,361 million for the

the LuFV II, and/or if the average status category of these bridges does

new agreements. Of this figure, about € 29 million relates to the year

not improve by at least one status category, the Federal Government can

under review. The financing agreements have different terms, which in

demand a one-off repayment of € 15 million.

certain cases extend to the year 2026. Financing is provided completely

In addition to the previous reasons for demanding repayments, the

in the form of investment grants which do not have to be repaid.

Federal Government can demand repayment of € 1.0 million per bridge

Section 21 (5) No. 2 and (6) of the Deutsche Bahn Foundation Act

in the event of a bridge having to be closed due to a fault for which one

(Deutsche Bahn Gründungsgesetz; DBG r G) has resulted in claims of

of the RICs is responsible. In addition, under certain conditions, the Fed-

DB AG against the Federal Government. Section 21 (5) No. 2 DBG r G spec-

eral Government can also demand repayment in the event of data errors.

ifies that the Federal Government bears those costs which are incurred

And finally, the Federal Government can demand repayment of a propor-

by DB AG in the performance of technical, operational or organizational

tionate amount in the event of a deliberate or grossly negligent contra-

measures as a result of the fact that employment agreements cannot be

vention of the principle of efficient and cost-effective application of

terminated. Section 21 (6) DBG r G states that (5) No. 2 is applicable

funds if it is disadvantaged in this way.

accordingly for assigned civil servants. The joint implementation of the

The LuFV II has also specified in greater detail the statutory assess-

DBG r G is based on an agreement in accordance with section 21 (8)

ment and audit rights of the Federal Audit Office (Bundesrechnungshof).

DBG r G in relation to section 21 (5) No. 2 and (6) DBG r G of June 10/17,

Further investment grants are provided in accordance with the Munic-

2015 between the Federal Railroad Fund (Bundeseisenbahnvermögen;

ipal Transport Financing Act (Gemeindeverkehrsfinanzierungs­gesetz;

BEV) on the one hand and DB AG on the other. The Federal Ministry for

GVFG) for measures of the transport program. Under the terms of the infra-

Traffic and Digital Infrastructure (Bundesministerium für Verkehr und

structure improvement acceleration program II signed in 2013, the Federal

digitale Infrastruktur; BMVI) and the Federal Ministry of Finances (Bundes­

Government provided DB Netz AG with funds for individual noise abatement

­ministerium der Finanzen; BMF) approved this agreement on June 24/

measures on railways of the Federal Government in 2014 for the last time.

July 28, 2015. The new agreement states that DB AG shall provide evi-

In order to remedy the flood damage caused in 2013 (between May 18

dence (with documentation of each individual case) that an employee

and July 4) to the track network of the RICs, a financing agreement was

on the books of DB JobService GmbH (a civil servant or employee subject

concluded between DB AG and the Federal Government on December

to collective bargaining agreements satisfying certain criteria at the

250

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

initial foundation in 1994) was affected by rationalization measures and

ments; of this figure, € 216 thousand (previous year: € 814 thousand)

employment elsewhere is not possible. The personnel expenses plus an

was generated with the SMS GmbH Group, and € 5,771 thousand (pre-

additional amount of 10% of the personnel expenses to cover costs shall

vious year: € 9,849 thousand) was generated with the Georgsmarien-

be reimbursed only after each individual case has been reviewed by the

hütte Holding GmbH Group.

BEV. In the year under review, it was not possible for all submitted cases

The goods and services purchased by DB Group (service recipient)

to be definitively reviewed by the BEV. By the end of 2015, a total of

comprise almost entirely supplies of Georgsmarienhütte Holding GmbH.

€ 47.7 million (excluding amount for reimbursing costs) was recognized

μμ Compensation of the Management Board

for the cases previously confirmed by the BEV. The BEV transferred a
figure of € 4.8 million as reimbursement of costs to DB JobService GmbH.

[€ thousand]

2015

2014

μμ Relations with Federal companies

Benefits due in the short term

5,780

9,714

Most of the transactions carried out in accordance with IAS 24 in the year

Post-employment benefits

4,028

3,699

under review and in the previous year related to operations, and overall were

Other benefits due in the long term

263

695

of minor significance for DB Group. The receivables and liabilities which

Payments on the occasion of termination
of employment contracts

had arisen were virtually completely settled as of the balance sheet date.

4,635

–

–

–

14,706

14,108

Share-based compensation

Business relations with Deutsche Telekom and Deutsche Post re­­

Total compensation of the Management Board
according to IFRS

garding the use of telecommunications and postal services have taken
place to the usual extent.

μμ Relations with affiliated, non-consolidated
companies, associates and joint ventures
In the year under review, DB Group purchased goods and services worth
€ 125 million (previous year: € 140 million), mainly for purchasing passenger transport and freight services. At € 93 million (previous year:
€ 110 million), most of the total figure which has been reported is attributable to transactions with associates. Rental and leasing payments of

Fixed

8,056

7,786

Variable

2,015

6,322

Payments on the occasion of termination
of employment contracts

4,635

–

Pension provisions for active members
of the Management Board 1)

27,456

33,227

Total compensation of the Management Board according to HGB

10,415

10,409

3,822

3,474

77,387

76,566

Compensation of former members of the Management Board
and their surviving dependants

€ 7 million were also made (previous year: € 7 million).

Retirement benefit obligations in respect of former members of
the Management Board and their surviving dependants 1)

Interest payments of € 10 million (previous year: € 29 million) were
also incurred in the year under review. This figure relates almost exclu-

1)

sively to interest payments for the loans extended by EUROFIMA . Please

Details of defined benefit obligations.

In the year under review, DB Group generated revenues of € 397 mil-

No loans and advances were extended to members of the Management

lion (previous year: € 409 million) from sales of goods and services. The

Board in the year under review. Nor did the company take on any contin-

revenues were generated mainly in the DB Cargo segment and relate to

gencies for the benefit of members of the Management Board.

revenues generated by transport services which were provided.

μμ Compensation of the Supervisory Board

Guarantees totaling € 14 million (as of December 31, 2014: € 19 million) have been extended; of this figure € 14 million (as of December 31,
2014: € 19 million) was attributable to joint ventures. An equivalent

[€ thousand]

volume of transactions with related companies was conducted in the

Total compensation of the Supervisory Board

744

827

previous year period.

		thereof short-term

744

827

		thereof fixed

507

513

–

103

μμ Relations with the Management Board

		thereof variable

and Supervisory Board of DB AG
The following section sets out the transactions between DB Group and
well as the companies in which members of the Management Board or
the Supervisory Board own a majority interest.

2014

		 thereof attendance fees

40

37

		 thereof benefits in kind from discounted travel

89

81

108

93

		thereof compensation for membership in supervisory
board/advisory boards of DB Group companies
(including attendance fees)

the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, as

2015

No compensation was incurred for former members of the Supervisory
[€ thousand]

2015

2014

6,073

10,710

135

186

20,595

25,725

1,752

2,161

Board and their surviving dependants. There are no pension obligations
for former members of the Supervisory Board and their surviving depen-

SERVICES RENDERED BY DB GROUP

Sale of goods and services
Trade receivables as of Dec 31

dants. The members of the Supervisory Board only receive benefits due
in the short term.
No loans and advances were extended to members of the Supervisory

SERVICES RECEIVED BY DB GROUP

Purchase of goods and services
Trade liabilities as of Dec 31

Board in the year under review. Nor did the company take on any contingencies for the benefit of members of the Supervisory Board.
The total amount of compensation for the Management Board and

The revenues of € 6,073 thousand (previous year: € 10,710 thousand)

Supervisory Board was € 15,450 thousand in the year under review (pre-

generated by DB Group (service provider) mainly comprise transport

vious year: € 14,935 thousand). Individual details as well as further

and freight forwarding services of the DB Cargo and DB Schenker seg-

251

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

refer to the details under NOTE (28) [PAGE 225 FF.].

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

details concerning the payments of the members of the Management
Board and Supervisory Board are included in the Corporate Governance
report in the Group management report.

μ μ(40) EVENTS AFTER THE
BALANCE SHEET DATE

μμ DB Sicherheit GmbH, Berlin
μμ DB Systel GmbH, Frankfurt am Main
μμ DB Systemtechnik GmbH, Minden
μμ DB Vertrieb GmbH, Frankfurt am Main
μμ DB Zeitarbeit GmbH, Berlin
μμ DVA Deutsche Verkehrs-Assekuranz-Vermittlungs-GmbH,

With the agreement of December 10, 2015 (closing January 29, 2016),
Schenker AG, Essen, acquired 75% of shares in Redhead Holdings Limited,
Bradford/Great Britain. After the expiry of four years, Schenker AG has
the right to acquire the remaining shares. At the same time, the vendor
has the right to sell his remaining shares to the purchaser. A total purchase price of € 13 million (converted) was agreed. Redhead operates
as a freight forwarder and groupage freight company in Great Britain.
The net assets acquired with the merger are currently still being analyzed;
this means that the purchase price allocation has not yet been completed.
In segment reporting, the company will be shown in the DB Schenker
segment starting February 1, 2016.

μ μ(41) EXEMPTION OF SUBSIDIARIES FROM
THE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE
The following subsidiaries intend to utilize the possibility of section 264
(3) and section 264 b HGB respectively and not disclose their financial

Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe

μμ ELAG Emder Lagerhaus und Automotive GmbH, Emden
μμ EVAG Emder Verkehrs und Automotive Gesellschaft mbH, Emden
μμ Friedrich Müller Omnibusunternehmen GmbH, Schwäbisch Hall
μμ Haller Busbetrieb GmbH, Walsrode-Honerdingen
μμ Hanekamp Busreisen GmbH, Cloppenburg
μμ Karpeles Flight Services GmbH, Frankfurt am Main
μμ MTS MarkenTechnikService GmbH&Co. KG, Karlsruhe
μμ NVO Nahverkehr Ostwestfalen GmbH, Münster
μμ Omnibusverkehr Franken GmbH (OVF), Nuremberg
μμ ORN Omnibusverkehr Rhein-Nahe GmbH, Mainz
μμ RBO Regionalbus Ostbayern GmbH, Regensburg
μμ Regional Bus Stuttgart GmbH RBS, Stuttgart
μμ Regionalbus Braunschweig GmbH -RBB-, Brunswick
μμ Regionalverkehr Allgäu GmbH (RVA), Oberstdorf
μμ Regionalverkehr Kurhessen GmbH (RKH), Kassel
μμ Regionalverkehr Oberbayern Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung,

statements:

μμ AMEROPA-REISEN GmbH, Bad Homburg v.d. Höhe
μμ Autokraft GmbH, Kiel
μμ Bayern Express&P. Kühn Berlin GmbH, Berlin
μμ BBH BahnBus Hochstift GmbH, Paderborn
μμ BERLIN LINIEN BUS Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, Berlin
μμ BRN Busverkehr Rhein-Neckar GmbH, Ludwigshafen am Rhein
μμ BRS Busverkehr Ruhr-Sieg GmbH, Meschede
μμ BVO Busverkehr Ostwestfalen GmbH, Bielefeld
μμ BVR Busverkehr Rheinland GmbH, Düsseldorf
μμ DB Barnsdale AG, Berlin
μμ DB Busverkehr Hessen GmbH, Gießen
μμ DB Dialog GmbH, Berlin
μμ DB Dienstleistungen GmbH, Berlin
μμ DB European Railservice GmbH, Dortmund
μμ DB FuhrparkService GmbH, Frankfurt am Main
μμ DB Gastronomie GmbH, Frankfurt am Main
μμ DB Intermodal Services GmbH, Mainz
μμ DB International GmbH, Berlin
μμ DB JobService GmbH, Berlin
μμ DB Kommunikationstechnik GmbH, Berlin
μμ DB Media&Buch GmbH, Kassel
μμ DB Mobility Logistics AG, Berlin
μμ DB Projekt Stuttgart-Ulm GmbH, Stuttgart
μμ DB ProjektBau GmbH, Berlin
μμ DB Regio Bus Bayern GmbH, Coburg
μμ DB Regio Bus Nord GmbH, Hamburg
μμ DB Regio Bus Ost GmbH, Potsdam
μμ DB Regionalverkehr Bayern GmbH, Ingolstadt
μμ DB Rent GmbH, Frankfurt am Main
μμ DB Schenker BTT GmbH, Mainz
μμ DB Schenker Nieten GmbH, Freilassing
μμ DB Schenker Rail Automotive GmbH, Kelsterbach
μμ DB Schenker Rail Corridor Operations GmbH, Mainz
μμ DB Schenker Rail Deutschland Aktiengesellschaft, Mainz

Munich

μμ Rheinpfalzbus GmbH, Ludwigshafen am Rhein
μμ RMV Rhein-Mosel Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH, Koblenz
μμ RVE Regionalverkehr Euregio Maas-Rhein GmbH, Aachen
μμ RVN Regionalverkehr Niederrhein GmbH, Wesel
μμ RVS Regionalbusverkehr Südwest GmbH, Karlsruhe
μμ Saar-Pfalz-Bus GmbH, Saarbrücken
μμ Saar-Pfalz-Mobil GmbH, Bexbach
μμ S-Bahn Hamburg Service GmbH, Hamburg
μμ SBG SüdbadenBus GmbH, Freiburg im Breisgau
μμ Schenker Aktiengesellschaft, Essen
μμ Schenker Dedicated Services Germany GmbH, Essen
μμ Schenker Deutschland AG, Frankfurt am Main
μμ Schenker Direct Production GmbH, Lübeck
μμ SCHENKER INTERNATIONAL AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, Essen
μμ Schenker Technik GmbH, Essen
μμ Südwest Mobil GmbH, Mainz
μμ TFG Transfracht Internationale Gesellschaft für kombinierten
Güterverkehr mbH, Mainz

μμ TRANSA Spedition GmbH, Offenbach am Main
μμ UBB Usedomer Bäderbahn GmbH, Heringsdorf
μμ Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH Untermain – VU –, Aschaffenburg
μμ Vorpommernbahn GmbH, Wolgast
μμ WB Westfalen Bus GmbH, Münster
μμ Weser-Ems Busverkehr GmbH (WEB), Bremen
μμ Zentral-Omnibusbahnhof Berlin GmbH, Berlin

252

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

Æ

The list of shareholdings is set out on the following pages.
Subsidiary [name and domicile]

μμ Breakdown of shareholdings of DB AG
(in accordance with section 313 (2) HGB)
Æ

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

RegioTram Betriebsgesellschaft mbH i.L., Kassel

EUR

253

50.96

rhb rheinhunsrückbus G mbH, Simmern

EUR

283

48.69

Rheinpfalzbus GmbH, Ludwigshafen am Rhein

EUR

5,610

100.00

Rhein-Westerwald Nahverkehr G mbH,
Montabaur

EUR

1,828

74.90

RMV Rhein-Mosel Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH,

DB LONG -DISTANCE

Koblenz

EUR

10,007

74.90

FULLY CONSOLIDATED

RVE Regionalverkehr Euregio Maas-Rhein
G mbH, Aachen

EUR

1,645

100.00

EUR

1,749

100.00

DB Bahn Italia S.r.l., Verona/Italy

EUR

7,737

100.00

DB European Railservice G mbH, Dortmund

EUR

1

100.00

RVN Regionalverkehr Niederrhein G mbH, Wesel

Frankfurt am Main

EUR

2,276,611

100.00

Karlsruhe

EUR

8,891

100.00

DB Reise&Touristik Suisse SA , Basel/Switzerland

CHF

–1,746

100.00

Saar-Pfalz-Bus G mbH, Saarbrücken

EUR

5,463

100.00
100.00

DB Fernverkehr Aktiengesellschaft,

AT EQUITY

Alleo G mbH, Saarbrücken 2), 3)

EUR

257

50.00

RailLink B.V., Amsterdam/the Netherlands 2), 3), 4)

EUR

113

25.00

Railteam B.V., Amsterdam/the Netherlands 2), 3), 4)

EUR

61

20.00

Rheinalp G mbH, Frankfurt am Main 2), 3)

EUR

176

50.00

Autokraft G mbH, Kiel

EUR

9,264

100.00

DB REGIO
FULLY CONSOLIDATED

Bayern Express&P. Kühn Berlin G mbH, Berlin

EUR

4,748

100.00

BBH BahnBus Hochstift G mbH, Paderborn

EUR

2,850

100.00

BERLIN LINIEN BUS Gesellschaft
mit beschränkter Haftung, Berlin

EUR

1,126

100.00

BRN Busverkehr Rhein-Neckar G mbH,

RVS Regionalbusverkehr Südwest G mbH,

Saar-Pfalz-Mobil G mbH, Bexbach

EUR

565

S -Bahn Berlin G mbH, Berlin

EUR

170,903

100.00

S -Bahn Hamburg G mbH, Hamburg

EUR

63,684

100.00

S -Bahn Hamburg Service G mbH, Hamburg

EUR

25

100.00

SBG SüdbadenBus G mbH, Freiburg im Breisgau

EUR

9,654

100.00

Südwest Mobil G mbH, Mainz

EUR

4,260

100.00

Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH Untermain – VU –,
Aschaffenburg

EUR

2,733

100.00

Vorpommernbahn G mbH, Wolgast

EUR

8,482

100.00

WB Westfalen Bus G mbH, Münster

EUR

6,176

100.00

Weser-Ems Busverkehr G mbH (WEB), Bremen

EUR

10,941

100.00

Zentral-Omnibusbahnhof Berlin G mbH, Berlin

EUR

214

100.00

“Rhein-Nahe Nahverkehrsverbund G mbH,”
Ingelheim am Rhein 2), 5)

EUR

123

29.00

“ZOB” Zentral-Omnibus-Bahnhof Gesellschaft
mit beschränkter Haftung, Bremen 2), 5)

EUR

30

25.60

Bodensee-Oberschwaben Verkehrsverbund­
gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung,
Ravensburg 2), 3)

EUR

150

25.31

Connect-Fahrplanauskunft GmbH, Hanover 2), 4), 6)

EUR

111

42.00

FahrBus Ostalb G mbH, Aalen 2), 4), 5)

EUR

227

49.90

EUR

59

30.00

AT EQUITY

Ludwigshafen am Rhein

EUR

6,178

100.00

BRS Busverkehr Ruhr-Sieg G mbH, Meschede

EUR

5,353

100.00

Busverkehr Märkisch-Oderland G mbH,
Strausberg

EUR

6,397

51.17

Busverkehr Oder-Spree G mbH, Fürstenwalde

EUR

3,900

51.17

BVO Busverkehr Ostwestfalen G mbH, Bielefeld

EUR

9,746

100.00

BVR Busverkehr Rheinland G mbH, Düsseldorf

EUR

5,082

100.00

DB Busverkehr Hessen G mbH, Gießen

EUR

13,753

100.00

DB Regio Aktiengesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main

EUR

2,080,153

100.00

DB Regio Bus Bayern G mbH, Coburg

EUR

1,005

100.00

Filsland Mobilitätsverbund G mbH,
Göppingen 2), 3), 4)

DB Regio Bus Nord G mbH, Hamburg

EUR

1,045

100.00

FSN Fahrzeugservice Neunkirchen G mbH,

DB Regio Bus Ost G mbH, Potsdam

EUR

5,283

100.00

DB Regionalverkehr Bayern GmbH, Ingolstadt

EUR

50

100.00

DB RegioNetz Verkehrs GmbH, Frankfurt am Main

EUR

69,191

100.00

DB ZugBus Regionalverkehr Alb-Bodensee
G mbH (RAB), Ulm

EUR

29,911

100.00

Friedrich Müller Omnibusunternehmen G mbH,
Schwäbisch Hall

EUR

1,582

100.00

Haller Busbetrieb G mbH, Walsrode-Honerdingen

EUR

4,749

100.00

Hanekamp Busreisen G mbH, Cloppenburg

EUR

3,070

100.00

KOB G mbH, Oberthulba

EUR

1,519

70.00

NVO Nahverkehr Ostwestfalen GmbH, Münster

EUR

865

100.00

Omnibusverkehr Franken G mbH (OVF),
Nuremberg

EUR

16,259

100.00

ORN Omnibusverkehr Rhein-Nahe G mbH, Mainz

EUR

6,177

100.00

RBO Regionalbus Ostbayern G mbH,

Regensburg

EUR

12,010

100.00

Regional Bus Stuttgart G mbH RBS, Stuttgart

EUR

19,948

100.00

Regionalbus Braunschweig GmbH – RBB –,
Brunswick

EUR

7,473

100.00

Regionalverkehr Allgäu GmbH (RVA), Oberstdorf

EUR

3,336

70.00

Regionalverkehr Dresden G mbH, Dresden

EUR

6,427

51.00

Regionalverkehr Kurhessen G mbH (RKH), Kassel

EUR

4,580

100.00

Regionalverkehr Oberbayern Gesellschaft
mit beschränkter Haftung, Munich

EUR

13,557

100.00

Neunkirchen 2), 5)

EUR

146

47.50

Hövelhofer Ortsbus G mbH (HOB),
Rheda-Wiedenbrück 2), 5)

EUR

26

50.00

Kahlgrund-Verkehrs-Gesellschaft mit
beschränkter Haftung, Schöllkrippen 2), 3)

EUR

8,598

28.00

Kitzinger Nahverkehrsgemeinschaft (KiNG),
Kitzingen 2), 4), 7)

EUR

2

50.00

Kreisbahn Aurich G mbH, Aurich 2), 3)

EUR

1,149

33.33

Main-Spessart-Nahverkehrsgesellschaft mbH,
Gemünden (Main) 2), 5)

EUR

107

25.00

Niedersachsentarif G mbH, Hanover 2), 5)

EUR

54

8.33

Kiel 2), 5)

EUR

105

46.90

OstalbMobil G mbH, Aalen 2)

EUR

50

39.30

OWL Verkehr G mbH, Bielefeld 2), 3)

EUR

221

21.36

NSH Nahverkehr Schleswig-Holstein G mbH,

RBP Regionalbusverkehr Passau Land G mbH,

Bad Füssing 2), 3)

EUR

58

33.33

Regio-Verkehrsverbund Freiburg G mbH (RVF),
Freiburg im Breisgau 2), 3)

EUR

402

45.00

Saarländische Nahverkehrs-Service G mbH,
Saarbrücken 2), 5)

EUR

60

41.67

stadtbus Ravensburg Weingarten G mbH,
Ravensburg 2), 3)

EUR

25

45.20

EUR

283

48.50

TGO – Tarifverbund Ortenau G mbH,

Offenburg 2), 3)

253

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

μ μ(42) LIST OF SHAREHOLDINGS

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ

Æ

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

GBP

18,321

100.00

Arriva Bus&Coach Rental (4) Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

6,802

100.00

Arriva Bus Transport Polska Sp. z o.o.,
Toruń/Poland

PLN

45,402

99.80

Arriva Colchester Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva Coöperatie W.A .,
Heerenveen/the Netherlands

EUR

601,389

100.00

Arriva CR s.r.o., Prague/Czech Republic

CZK

112

100.00

34.00

Arriva Crossrail Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

18.64

Arriva Croydon&North Surrey Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

26.92

Arriva Cymru Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

40,057

100.00

Arriva Danmark A/S, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

1,496,806

100.00

Arriva Derby Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

8,041

100.00

Arriva Dolenjska in Primorska, družba za
prevoz potnikov, d.o.o., Koper/Slovenia

EUR

31,166

100.00

Arriva Durham County Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

13,668

100.00

EUR

237

30.91

UVW Unternehmensverbund Westpfalz G mbH
i. L., Kaiserslautern 2), 8)

EUR

48

61.67

Verkehrsgemeinschaft Mittelthüringen G mbH
(VMT), Erfurt 2), 5)

EUR

70

12.50

Verkehrsgesellschaft Landkreis Nienburg mbH
(VLN), Nienburg/Weser 2), 3)

EUR

26

48.54

VerkehrsGesellschaft Main-Tauber mbH
(VGMT), Lauda-Königshofen 2), 3), 4)

EUR

112

42.19

Verkehrsunternehmen Hegau-Bodensee
Verbund G mbH (VHB), Constance 2), 5)

EUR

30

Verkehrsverbund Großraum Nürnberg G mbH
(VGN), Nuremberg 2), 3), 4)

EUR
EUR

30
52

Verkehrsverbund Neckar-Alb-Donau G mbH
(naldo), Hechingen 2), 3)

EUR

440

19.62

Verkehrsverbund Schwarzwald-Baar G mbH
(VSB), Villingen-Schwenningen 2), 5)

EUR

68

45.00

Verkehrsverbund Süd-Niedersachsen G mbH
(VSN), Göttingen 2), 3), 4)

EUR

74

32.09

VGC Verkehrsgesellschaft Bäderkreis
Calw mbH, Calw 2), 3)

EUR

619

32.50

Schleswig 2), 3), 4)

EUR

720

20.00

VHN Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH,
Schleswig 2), 3), 4)

EUR

30

EUR

38

VHN Verkehrsholding Nord G mbH&Co. KG ,

VMS Verkehrs-Management und Service G mbH,

Trier 2), 3)

Currency

Arriva Bus&Coach Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

Unternehmensgesellschaft Verkehrs­verbund Rhein-Neckar G mbH (URN G mbH),
Mannheim 2), 5)

Verkehrsunternehmens-Verbund Mainfranken
G mbH – VVM, Würzburg 2), 3)

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Arriva East Herts&Essex Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

1,140

100.00

Arriva Europe G mbH, Berlin

EUR

133,298

100.00

20.00

Arriva Finance Holding BV,
Heerenveen/the Netherlands

EUR

57,030

100.00

38.46

Arriva Finance Lease Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

7,035

100.00

Völklinger Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH,
Völklingen 2), 3), 4)

EUR

217

25.50

WNS Westpfälzische Nahverkehrs-Service
G mbH, Kaiserslautern 2), 3)

Arriva Findiv Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

EUR

211

45.00

WTV Waldshuter Tarifverbund G mbH,
Waldshut-Tiengen 2), 3)

Arriva Guildford&West Surrey Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

3,177

100.00

EUR

110

40.00

Arriva Holding Česká Republika s.r.o.,
Prague/Czech Republic

100.00

AT COST

CZK

625,881

Arriva Hongarije Holding BV,
Heerenveen/the Netherlands

EUR

33,468

100.00

Arriva Hrvatska d.o.o., Osijek/Croatia

HRK

53,788

100.00

Regio Verkehrsverbund Lörrach G mbH (RVL),
Lörrach 2), 3)

EUR

189

54.00

Verkehrsverbund Rottweil G mbH (VVR),
Rottweil 2), 5)

EUR

93

70.20

Arriva Hungary Zrt., Budapest/Hungary

HUF

4,281,767

100.00

vgf Verkehrs-Gemeinschaft Landkreis
Freudenstadt G mbH, Waldachtal 2), 3)

Arriva Insurance A/S, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

102,566

100.00

EUR

152

51.42

Arriva Insurance Company (Gibraltar) Limited,
Gibraltar/Gibraltar

GBP

3,492

100.00

EUR

27

21.61

Arriva International (2) Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva International (7) Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

100.00

Arriva International (Northern Europe)
Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

EUR

353,400

100.00

VVW Verkehrsverbund Warnow G mbH,

Rostock 2), 5)

DB ARRIVA
FULLY CONSOLIDATED

A&T Motor Retailing Limited,

Sunderland/Great Britain

ACTIJOVEN CONSULTING&TRAVELLING s.l.,

GBP

0

Madrid/Spain

EUR

374

100.00

Alliance Rail Holdings Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

Arriva International (Southern Europe)
Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

EUR

353,400

100.00

GBP

0

100.00

Alpetour – Potovalna Agencija, d.d.,
Kranj/Slovenia

Arriva International Finance Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

EUR

0

100.00

EUR

22,198

97.87

Ambuline Ltd., Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

2,751

100.00

Arriva International Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

EUR

383,144

100.00

Ambuline Training Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva International Trains (Leasing) Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

EUR

30,982

100.00

APS (Leasing) Ltd, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

649

100.00

Almada/Portugal

EUR

219,578

100.00

Arriva Italia Rail S.R .L., Milan/Italy

EUR

1,397

100.00

Arriva Italia s.r.l., Milan/Italy

EUR

301,695

100.00

Arriva Kent&Surrey Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

81,328

100.00

Arriva (2007) Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

471,790

100.00

Arriva Bus&Coach Finance Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

2,923

100.00

Arriva Bus&Coach Holdings Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

21,250

100.00

ARRIVA INVESTIMENTOS SGPS, SA ,

254

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

Æ

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva Rail North Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

10,000

100.00

4

100.00

Arriva RP Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland

PLN

–1,620

100.00

1,612,407

100.00

Arriva Scotland West Limited,
Inchinnan/Great Britain

GBP

6,961

100.00

100.00

Arriva Scotrail Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva Service s.r.o., Komárno/Slovakia

EUR

26,121

100.00

Arriva Services a.s.,
Králův Dvůr/Czech Republic

GBP

69,469

100.00

Arriva Letbane ApS, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

28,626

Almada/Portugal

EUR

Arriva LITAS d.o.o. Pozarevac,
Pozarevac/Serbia

RSD

Arriva Liverpool Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain
Arriva London Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain
ARRIVA LONDON NORTH EAST LTD,

Sunderland/Great Britain

ARRIVA LONDON NORTH LTD,

Sunderland/Great Britain

ARRIVA LONDON SOUTH LTD,

Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

Currency

Arriva Rail London Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

Arriva Kent Thameside Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain
ARRIVA LISBOA TRANSPORTES, SA,

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

716

100.00

GBP

0

100.00

GBP

0

100.00

CZK

54,086

100.00

ARRIVA Slovakia a.s., Nitra/Slovakia

EUR

23,229

100.00

GBP

83,003

100.00

Arriva South Western Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

100.00

Arriva Southend Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

7,804

100.00

Arriva Southern Counties Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

721

100.00

ARRIVA SPAIN HOLDING , S.L., Madrid/Spain

EUR

60,568

100.00

Arriva Spain Rail S.A ., Madrid/Spain

EUR

305

100.00

Arriva Stajerska, družba za prevoz potnikov,
d.d., Maribor/Slovenia

EUR

11,480

75.90

Arriva Stredni Cechy s.r.o.,
Kosmonosy/Czech Republic

CZK

184,285

100.00

Arriva Sverige AB, Stockholm/Sweden

SEK

734,093

100.00

Arriva Tag AB, Malmö/Sweden

SEK

16,031

100.00

Arriva Techniek BV, Heerenveen/the Netherlands

EUR

787

100.00

Arriva Tees&District Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

957

100.00

Arriva Teesside Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

749

100.00

Arriva Teplice s.r.o., Teplice/Czech Republic

CZK

156,852

100.00
100.00

GBP

36,926

Arriva Malta Finance&Investments Limited,
Valletta/Malta

EUR

123,231

100.00

Arriva Malta Holdings Limited, Valletta/Malta

EUR

233,904

100.00

Arriva Manchester Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva Medway Towns Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

6,671

100.00

Arriva Merseyside Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

140,386

100.00

Arriva Michalovce, a.s., Michalovce/Slovakia

EUR

11,716

60.14

Arriva Middle East FZE,
Dubai/United Arab Emirates

AED

1,000

100.00

Arriva Midlands Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

34,484

100.00

Arriva Midlands North Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

53,687

100.00

Arriva Morava a.s., Ostrava/Czech Republic

CZK

1,594,161

100.00

Arriva Motor Holdings Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

102,376

100.00

Arriva the Shires Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

70,455

Arriva Multimodaal BV,
Heerenveen/the Netherlands

Arriva Tog A/S, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

311,816

100.00

EUR

18

100.00

Arriva Touring BV, Heerenveen/the Netherlands

EUR

2,477

100.00

Arriva Night Trains Limited,
Glasgow/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva Trains (Poland) Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

EUR

0

100.00

Arriva Nitra a.s., Nitra/Slovakia

EUR

17,428

60.48

Arriva Noroeste s.l., Ferrol/Spain

EUR

14,074

100.00

Arriva Trains Holdings Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

94,518

100.00

Arriva North East Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

6,319

100.00

Arriva Trains Merseyside Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva North West Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

7,880

100.00

Arriva Trains Northern Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva Trains Wales/Trenau Arriva Cymru
Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

60,921

100.00

Arriva Transport Česká Republika a.s.,
Prague/Czech Republic

CZK

1,690,430

100.00

Arriva Transport Solutions Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

686

100.00

Almada/Portugal

EUR

82,273

100.00

Arriva Trustee Company Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva UK Trains Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

248,682

100.00

Arriva vlaky s.r.o., Prague/Czech Republic

CZK

15,999

100.00

Arriva Východní Čechy a.s.,
Chrudim/Czech Republic

CZK

656,796

100.00

Arriva West Sussex Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

4,331

100.00

Arriva Yorkshire Ltd, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

51,512

100.00

Arriva Northumbria Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

22,241

100.00

Arriva Nove Zamky, a.s., Nove Zamky/Slovakia

EUR

10,014

60.36

Arriva Östgötapendeln AB, Stockholm/Sweden

SEK

17,641

100.00

Arriva Passenger Services (International)
Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva Passenger Services Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

359,168

100.00

Arriva Passenger Services Pension Trustees
Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Arriva Personenvervoer Nederland BV,
Heerenveen/the Netherlands

EUR

218,264

100.00

Arriva plc, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

569,769

100.00

Arriva Poland Holding B.V.,
Heerenveen/the Netherlands

EUR

6,103

100.00

Arriva Polska Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland

PLN

45,785

100.00

ARRIVA PORTUGAL – TRANSPORTES LDA ,

Guimaraes/Portugal

EUR

8,009

100.00

Arriva Praha s.r.o., Prague/Czech Republic

CZK

739,681

100.00

ARRIVA TRANSPORTES DA MARGEM SUL , SA ,

255

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Æ

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ

Æ

Subsidiary [name and domicile]
Arriva Yorkshire North Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain
Arriva Yorkshire South Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain
Arriva Yorkshire West Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain
Arriva Zuid Europa Holding BV,
Heerenveen/the Netherlands

Currency
GBP
GBP
GBP
EUR

At Seat Catering (2003) Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

AUTOBUSES GREISI S.L., Madrid/Spain

Autocares Mallorca, s.l., Alcudia/Spain

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)
1,283
0
5,282
422,191

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

KM S.P.A ., Cremona/Italy

EUR

6,863

100.00

LIORBUS, s.r.o., Ružomberok/Slovakia

EUR

371

60.42

100.00

London and North Western Railway Company
Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

8,403

100.00

100.00

London Pride Sightseeing Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

4,682

100.00

100.00

Londonlinks Buses Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

M40 Trains Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

93,338

100.00

Meadowhall Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

52

100.00

Merseyrail Electrics Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

GBP

0

100.00

GBP

9,355

100.00
100.00

100.00

14

100.00

EUR

332

100.00

EUR

2,174

100.00

Autoservizi F.V.G. S.P.A. – SAF, Udine/Italy

EUR

71,200

60.00

Bergamo Trasporti Est S.c.a.r.l., Bergamo/Italy

EUR

10

93.67

Merseyside Transport Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

Botniatåg AB, Umeå/Sweden

SEK

– 82,262

60.00

MK Metro Ltd, Sunderland/Great Britain

British Bus (Properties) Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

50,337

100.00

British Bus Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

2,274

100.00

MTL Services Limited,

Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

132,439

NET LINES, s.r.o., Piešťany/Slovakia

EUR

– 84

60.50

NETOSEC S.L., Madrid/Spain

EUR

163

100.00

GBP

0

100.00

Broadwood Finance Company Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

32,508

100.00

Bus Nort Balear s.l., Alcudia/Spain

EUR

302

100.00

Network Colchester Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

Bratislava/Slovakia

EUR

5,860

100.00

New Enterprise Coaches (Tonbridge) Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

BUSDAN 31 ApS, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

32,287

100.00

Nitravel s.r.o., Nitra/Slovakia

EUR

123

60.48

BUSDAN 32 ApS, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

28,815

100.00

Busdan 32.1 A/S, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

76,269

100.00

Northern Spirit Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

BUSDAN 33 ApS, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

36,625

100.00

BUSDAN 34 ApS, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

51,299

100.00

Northern Spirit Trains Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

BUSDAN 35 ApS, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

36,450

100.00

BUSDAN 36 ApS, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

42,687

100.00

Northern Spirit Transport Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Centrebus Holdings Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

831

100.00

EUR

421

100.00

Chase Coaches Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Svoboda nad Úpou/Czech Republic

CZK

44,309

100.00

Classic Coaches (Continental) Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Panturist Dioničko društvo za prijevoz
putnika i tutizam d.d., Osijek/Croatia

HRK

15,094

99,69

DB Regio Tyne and Wear Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

1,260

100.00

Pickeringʼs Transport Services Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

1,032

100.00

Premier Buses Ltd, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

2,102

100.00

Madrid/Spain

EUR

128,737

100.00

PROBO BUS a.s., Králův Dvůr/Czech Republic

CZK

297,966

100.00

ESFERA BUS S.L., Madrid/Spain

EUR

2,654

100.00

RIVIERA TRASPORTI LINEA S.P.A ., Imperia/Italy

EUR

619

80.00

ESFERA UNIVERSAL S.L., Madrid/Spain

EUR

31,079

100.00

S.A .B. AUTOSERVIZI S.R .L., Bergamo/Italy

EUR

37,944

100.00

Estacion de autobuses de Ferrol S.A .,
Ferrol/Spain

EUR

358

80.14

EUR

7,973

100.00

Eurocare Travel Ltd, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

343

100.00

BUS PARTNERS SERVICES, s.r.o.,

EMPRESA DE BLAS Y COMPANIA S.A .,

Flight Delay Services Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain
GCRC Holdings Limited,

GBP

0

100.00

Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

GOTFRI spol. s r.o., Bratislava/Slovakia

EUR

5,384

100.00

Grand Central Railway Company Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

21,974

100.00

Great North Eastern Railway Company Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Great North Western Railway Company Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Greenline Travel Ltd, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

8

100.00

Integral Avto prodaja vozil in servisi d.o.o.,
Jesenice/Slovenia

EUR

967

97.87

Integral, Avtobusni promet Trzic, d.o.o.,
Pristava/Slovenia

EUR

717

97.87

JTL 2004 ApS, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

85,062

100.00

EUR

4,648

97.87

KAM -BUS družba za potnikov, turizem in

vzdrževanje vozil d.o.o., Kamnik/Slovenia

NV Personeel de Noord-Westhoek,

Heerenveen/the Netherlands
OSNADO spol. s.r.o.,

S.A .L. Servizi Automobilistici Lecchesi S.R .L.,

Lecco/Italy

S.I.A . Società Italiana Autoservizi S.P.A .,

Brescia/Italy

EUR

32,143

100.00

SAB Piemonte S.r.l. a socio unico,
Grugliasco (TO)/Italy

EUR

6,618

100.00

SAD INVEST, s.r.o., Trnava/Slovakia

EUR

808

60.50

SAD LIORBUS, a. s., Ružomberok/Slovakia

EUR

14,087

60.42

SADEM – SOCIETÀ PER AZIONI, Turin/Italy

EUR

10,814

100.00

SAIA TRASPORTI S.P.A ., Brescia/Italy

EUR

23,144

100.00

Slovenska autobusova doprava Trnava,
akciova spolocnost, Trnava/Slovakia

EUR

18,490

60.50

Stevensons of Uttoxeter Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

–2,610

100.00

Teamdeck Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

2,097

100.00

GBP

19

100.00

TGM (Holdings) Limited,

Sunderland/Great Britain
TGM Operations Limited,

Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

TGM Group Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

16,921

100.00

256

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

Æ

Æ

The Chiltern Railway Company Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain
The Moor-dale Coaches Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

Currency
GBP
GBP

41,307
0

FULLY CONSOLIDATED

ATG Autotransportlogistic Sp. z o. o.,

100.00

GBP

341

100.00

Transportes Sul do Tejo S.A ., Almada/Portugal

EUR

2,461

100.00

Guimaraes/Portugal

EUR

– 447

100.00

Currency

DB CARGO

100.00

Transcare Solutions Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain
TRANSURBANOS DE GUIMARAES TP, LDA ,

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Malaszewicze/Poland

PLN

2,752

100.00

Auxiliar Logística de Vehiculos S.L.,
Zaragoza/Spain

EUR

273

65.28

Axiom Rail (Stoke) Limited,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

–3,624

100.00

Axiom Rail Components Limited,
Doncaster/Great Britain

Trasporti Brescia Nord S.c.a.r.l., Brescia/Italy

EUR

100

92.00

GBP

–2,337

100.00

Trasporti Brescia Sud S.c.a.r.l., Brescia/Italy

EUR

100

93.00

TUF-TRANSPORTES URBANOS DE FAMALICAO,
LDA , Vila Nova de Famalicao/Portugal

Boreal&Austral Railfreight Ltd,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

67,500

100.00

EUR

–250

66.67

UCPLUS A/S, Kastrup/Denmark

DKK

14,344

100.00

Compañía Aragonesa de Portacoches S.A .,
Zaragoza/Spain

EUR

4,835

65.28

United Automobile Services Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

13,085

100.00

Container-Terminal Púchov s. r. o.,
Púchov/Slovakia

EUR

108

100.00

White Rose Bus Company Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

–103

100.00

Corridor Operations NMBS/SNCB DB Schenker
Rail N.V., Brussels/Belgium

EUR

1,728

51.00

XC Trains Limited, Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

55,112

100.00

DB Intermodal Services G mbH, Mainz

EUR

3,620

100.00

Yorkshire Bus Group Ltd,
Sunderland/Great Britain

DB PORT SZCZECIN Sp. z o.o., Szczecin/Poland

PLN

18,400

96.82

GBP

38,544

100.00

DB Schenker BTT G mbH, Mainz

EUR

2,116

100.00

Yorkshire Tiger Limited,
Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

3,684

100.00

DB Schenker Nieten G mbH, Freilassing

EUR

1,782

100.00

Zeta Automotive Limited,
Bicester/Great Britain

GBP

2,513

51.00

GBP

135,988

100.00

Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

188,363

100.00

Aquabus BV, Heerenveen/the Netherlands 2), 3), 4)

EUR

4,475

50.00

DB Schenker Rail Aktiengesellschaft, Mainz

EUR

– 95,456

100.00

Barraqueiro SGPS SA , Lisbon/Portugal 4)

EUR

131,218

31.50

DB Schenker Rail Automotive G mbH, Kelsterbach

EUR

4,529

100.00

DB Schenker Rail Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia/Bulgaria

BGN

10,423

100.00

EUR

47

100.00

DKK

6,929

100.00

DB Schenker Rail (UK) Holdings Limited,

Doncaster/Great Britain

DB Schenker Rail (UK) Limited,

AT EQUITY

Bergamo Trasporti Ovest S.c.a.r.l.,
Bergamo/Italy 4)

EUR

10

65.76

Bergamo Trasporti Sud Scarl, Bergamo/Italy 4)

EUR

10

25.57

Bus Point Srl, Lallio (BG)/Italy 3)

EUR

192

30.00

Estacion Autobuses de Pobra, Ferrol/Spain 2), 9)

EUR

9

33.33

Explotacion Gasoleos de la Coruña, s.l.,
Ferrol/Spain 2), 4), 6)

EUR

83

40.00

EXTRA .TO S.c.a.r.l., Turin/Italy 2), 10)

EUR

100

30.01

Garda Trasporti Scarl,
Desenzano del Garda (BS)/Italy 2), 5)

EUR

16

Intercambiador de Transportes Principe PIO
S.A ., Madrid/Spain 4)

EUR

Lecco Trasporti S.c.a.r.l., Lecco/Italy 4)

EUR

DB Schenker Rail Corridor Operations G mbH,

Mainz

DB Schenker Rail Danmark Services A/S,

Taastrup/Denmark

DB Schenker Rail Deutschland

Aktiengesellschaft, Mainz

EUR

50

100.00

DB Schenker Rail Hungaria Kft., Györ/Hungary

HUF

1,700,774

100.00

23.00

DB Schenker Rail Information Services Limited,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

1,326

100.00

8,651

30.00

Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

15,266

100.00

10

56.94

DB Schenker Rail Italia S.r.l., Milan/Italy

EUR

8,035

60.00

DB Schenker Rail Italia Services S.r.l., Milan/Italy

EUR

1,250

100.00

DB Schenker Rail Italy S.r.l.,

EUR

9,456

100.00

DB Schenker Rail International Limited,

London Overground Rail Operations Limited,
London/Great Britain 2), 4)

GBP

530

50.00

Omnibus partecipazioni S.R .L., Milan/Italy 4)

EUR

8,037

50.00

Prometro S.A ., Porto/Portugal 2), 3)

EUR

4,263

20.00

Utrecht/the Netherlands

EUR

95

100.00

Sunderland/Great Britain 2), 5)

GBP

337

20.00

DB Schenker Rail Polska S.A ., Zabrze/Poland

PLN

415,784

100.00

Rodinform – Informatica Aplicada aos
Transportes, SA , Lisbon/Portugal 2), 4)

EUR

189

20.00

Timişoara/Romania

RON

– 9,979

100.00

S.T.I. Servizi Transporti Interregionali SpA ,
Cordenons PN/Italy 2), 10)

EUR

962

9.81

DKK

323,072

51.00

TPL FVG Scarl s.r.l., Gorizia/Italy 2), 3), 4)

EUR

102

15.00

Trieste Trasporti S.P.A ., Trieste/Italy 4)

EUR

51,658

39.94

CHF

968

100.00

Union Ferrolana de Transportes S.A .,
Ferrol/Spain 2), 4), 7)

EUR

2

50.00

GBP

678

100.00

Viajeros del Eo, Ferrol/Spain 2), 4), 7)

EUR

9

50.00

Kędzierźyn-Kozle/Poland

PLN

10,758

100.00

49.91

Deutsche TRANSFESA G mbH Internationale
Eisenbahn-Spezial-Transporte, Kehl/Rhein

EUR

1,699

77.33

Doker-Port Sp. z o.o., Szczecin/Poland

PLN

521

96.82

DUSS Italia Terminal s.r.l., Verona/Italy

EUR

76

80.00

PTI (South East) Limited,

VT-ARRIVA Szémelyszállító és Szolgáltató Kft.,

Székesfehérvár/Hungary 4)
WSMR (Holdings) Limited,

London/Great Britain 2), 6)

HUF
GBP

7,049,809
0

Novate Milanese/Italy

DB Schenker Rail Nederland N. V.,

DB Schenker Rail Romania S.R .L.,
DB Schenker Rail Scandinavia A/S,

Taastrup/Denmark

DB Schenker Rail Schweiz G mbH,

Opfikon/Switzerland

DB Schenker Rail Services Limited,

Doncaster/Great Britain

DB Schenker Rail Spedkol Sp. z o.o.,

50.00

AT COST

Cremona Transporti Scarl i. L., Cremona/Italy 2), 3)

EUR

0

62.00

257

East&West Railway Ltd,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Euro Cargo Rail SAS, Paris/France

EUR

– 8,061

100.00

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ

Æ

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Infra Silesia S.A ., Rybnik/Poland

PLN

1,149

100.00

KombiTerminal Burghausen G mbH, Mainz

EUR

1,349

67.62

LGP Lagerhausgesellschaft Pfullendorf mbH i. L.,

Pfullendorf

EUR

0

49.08

Loadhaul Ltd, Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

16,131

100.00

Locomotive 6667 Ltd, Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

Locomotive Operating Leasing Partnership,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

Logística Sanmival S.L., Burgos/Spain

EUR

374

58.00

Mainline Freight Ltd, Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

21,266

100.00

Marcroft Holdings Ltd,
Doncaster/Great Britain
MDL Distribución y Logistica S.A .,

GBP

150,161

–3,033

95.00

100.00

Madrid/Spain

EUR

2,462

77.33

Mitteldeutsche Eisenbahn G mbH, Schkopau

EUR

788

80.00

New Locomotive Finance Ltd,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

OOO Railion Russija Services, Moscow/Russia

RUB

55,889

100.00

Rail Express Systems Ltd,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

31,377

100.00

Rail Service Center Rotterdam B. V.,
Rotterdam/the Netherlands

EUR

5,374

51.00

Rail Terminal Services Limited,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

–2,406

100.00

Railway Investments Ltd,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

–200

100.00

RBH Logistics G mbH, Gladbeck

EUR

–120

100.00

RES December Ltd, Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

16,048

100.00

TFG Transfracht Internationale Gesellschaft für
kombinierten Güterverkehr mbH, Mainz

EUR

92

100.00

Pfullendorf

EUR

202

75,50

Transervi France S.A .S., Cerbère/France

EUR

560

77.33

TGP Terminalgesellschaft Pfullendorf mbH,

Transervi S.A ., Madrid/Spain

EUR

3,217

77.33

Transfesa Benelux S.P.R .L., Genk/Belgium

EUR

265

77.33

Transfesa France SAS,
Gennevilliers Cedex/France

EUR

1,797

77.33

Transfesa Portugal Lda., Lisbon/Portugal

EUR

333

77.33

Transfesa Rail S.A ., Madrid/Spain

EUR

1,200

77.33

Transfesa UK Ltd.,
Rainham (Essex)/Great Britain

GBP

272

77.33

Transportes Ferroviarios Especiales S.A .,
Madrid/Spain

EUR

99,799

77.33

Subsidiary [name and domicile]
INTERCONTAINER – INTERFRIGO SA i. L.,

Brussels/Belgium 2), 3)

EUR

–21,433

36.20

Kombiverkehr Deutsche Gesellschaft für
kombinierten Güterverkehr mbH&Co.
Kommanditgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main 2), 3)

EUR

17,519

50.00

Lokomotion Gesellschaft für Schienentraktion
mbH, Munich 2), 3)

EUR

10,705

30.00

OFP – Sud Ouest SAS, Bayonne/France

EUR

0

24.90

OFP La Rochelle Maritime Rail Services SAS,

La Rochelle/France 2), 3), 4)

EUR

626

24.90

Omfesa Logistica S.A ., Madrid/Spain

EUR

–1,305

38.66

OPTIMODAL NEDERLAND B.V.,

Rotterdam/the Netherlands 2), 5)

EUR

693

24.34

PKV Planungsgesellschaft kombinierter
Verkehr Duisburg mbH, Duisburg 2), 4)

EUR

1,615

50.00

Pool Ibérico Ferroviario A .I.E., Madrid/Spain

EUR

0

9.02

Gliwice/Poland 2), 3)

PLN

48,008

20.55

Sociedad de Estudios y Explotacion de
Material Auxiliar de Transportes, S.A . (“SEMAT ”),
Madrid/Spain

EUR

5,545

48.56

Stifa S.A . i.L., Malveira/Portugal 4)

EUR

– 85

38.66

Terminal Singen TSG G mbH, Singen 2), 3)

EUR

677

50.00

Trans-Eurasia Logistics G mbH, Berlin 3), 4)

EUR

963

40.00

Xrail S.A ., Brussels/Belgium 2), 4), 5)

EUR

342

36.80

RUB

2

34.90

Air Terminal Handling S.A .,
Tremblay en France/France

EUR

–1,222

100.00

ALB Automotive Logistica LTDA ,
Juiz de Fora – MG/Brazil

BRL

3,359

51.00

ŠLĄSKIE CENTRUM LOGISTYKI S.A .,

ZAO Eurasia Rail Logistics i. L.,

Moscow/Russia 2), 9)
DB SCHENKER

FULLY CONSOLIDATED

Anterist + Schneider Zeebrugge B.V.,
Zeebrugge/Belgium

EUR

1,186

100.00

AO Schenker, Moscow/Russia

RUB

350,944

100.00

AS Schenker, Tallinn/Estonia

EUR

9,694

100.00

ASIMEX Anterist + Schneider Import – Export
SAS, Stiring-Wendel/France

EUR

560

100.00

EUR

329

100.00

MYR

241

100.00

ZAR

106

100.00

THB

391,585

100.00
100.00

ATLANTIQUE EXPRESS SAS,

Montaigu Cedex/France

BAX Global (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.,

Petaling Jaya/Malaysia

BAX Global (Pty.) Ltd.,

AT EQUITY

Johannesburg/South Africa

ATN Auto Terminal Neuss G mbH&Co. KG ,

BAX Global (Thailand) Limited,

Neuss 3), 4)

Autoterminal Śląsk Logistic Sp. z o. o.,
Dąbrowa Górnicza/Poland 4)

EUR
PLN

7,299
4,029

50.00
50.00

Autotrax Limited,
Warrington/Great Britain 2), 3), 4)

GBP

393

24.00

baymodal Bamberg G mbH, Bamberg 2), 5)

EUR

163

25.10

Container Terminal Dortmund G mbH,
Dortmund 2), 3)

EUR

4,613

30.00

Container Terminal Enns G mbH, Enns/Austria 2)

EUR

4,399

49.00

CTS Container-Terminal G mbH

Rhein-See-Land-Service, Cologne 4)

DCH Düsseldorfer Container-Hafen G mbH,

Düsseldorf 2), 4)

EUR
EUR

1,473
737

22.50
51.00

Dörpener Umschlaggesellschaft für den
kombinierten Verkehr mbH (DUK), Dörpen 2), 3)

EUR

5,028

35.00

Etihad Rail DB Operations LLC ,
Abu Dhabi/United Arab Emirates 3)

AED

1,600

49.00

Hispanauto-Empresas Agrupadas A .E.I.E. ©,
Madrid/Spain

EUR

0

58.04

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Bangkok/Thailand

BAX Global (UK) Limited i. L.,

London/Great Britain

GBP

7,979

BAX Global Inc., Norfolk/USA

USD

79,767

100.00

BAX Global Limited i. L., London/Great Britain

GBP

2,738

100.00

BAX Global Logistics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.,
Shanghai/China

CNY

108,392

100.00

Petaling Jaya/Malaysia

MYR

90,460

100.00

BEMI JOYAU SCI, Montaigu Cedex/France

EUR

98

100.00

Bischof Gesellschaft mbH., Vienna/Austria

EUR

89

100.00

Luxembourg/Luxembourg

SEK

41,699

100.00

Cartrend G mbH, Karlsruhe

EUR

25

69.00

BAX Global Logistics Sdn.Bhd.,

BTL Reinsurance S.A .,

DB Schenker (Cambodia) Limited,

Phnom Penh/Cambodia

USD

1,061

100.00

DB Schenker FLLC , Minsk/Belarus

BYR

– 660,283

100.00

258

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

Æ

Subsidiary [name and domicile]
DB Schenker Global Services Asia Pacific Inc.,

Taguig City/Philippines

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

PHP

386,244

100.00

Bucharest/Romania

RON

–1,525

100.00

DP Schenker, Kiev/Ukraine

UAH

13,824

100.00

DVA Marine Re S.A ., Luxembourg/Luxembourg

EUR

15,919

65.00

Emden

EUR

958

100.00

Engelberg Transportes Internacionales C .A .
(Entra), Caracas/Venezuela

VEF

463,636

100.00

EVAG Emder Verkehrs und Automotive
Gesellschaft mbH, Emden

EUR

1,398

100.00

Landau in der Pfalz

EUR

25

69.00

Facility Plus B.V., Tilburg/the Netherlands

EUR

854

100.00

DB Schenker Global Services Europe S.R .L.,

ELAG Emder Lagerhaus und Automotive G mbH,

EVB Handelshaus Bour G mbH,

Fastighets Aktiebolaget Orbyn,
Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

10,362

100.00

HANGARTNER Terminal AG , Zurich/Switzerland

CHF

2,472

100.00

HANGARTNER Terminal S.r.l., Verona/Italy

EUR

844

100.00

Heck Slovensko s.r.o., Bratislava/Slovakia

EUR

127

100.00

Intertec Asia Limited, Hong Kong/China

HKD

8,815

69.00

Intertec Beteiligungs- G mbH, Landau in der Pfalz

EUR

31,071

69.00

Intertec G mbH, Landau in der Pfalz

EUR

26

69.00

INTERTEC Polska Sp.zo.o., Nardarzyn/Poland

PLN

707

Intertec Retail Logistics G mbH,
Landau in der Pfalz

EUR

Inter-Union Technohandel Gesellschaft m.b.H.,
Vienna/Austria
Inter-Union Technohandel G mbH,
Landau in der Pfalz
Intreprinderea Mixta “S.C . Schenker” S.R .L.,
Chisinau/Moldova

Subsidiary [name and domicile]
KB Neonljuset 3 -Eskilstuna, Eskilstuna/Sweden
KB Önnestad 108:4 -Kristianstad,

Kristianstad/Sweden

KB Överön 1:66 -Örnsköldsvik,

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

SEK

5,025

100.00

SEK

41,141

100.00

Örnsköldsvik/Sweden

SEK

10,748

100.00

KB Pantern 1 -Växjö, Växjö/Sweden

SEK

38,036

100.00

KB Reläet 8 -Norrköping, Norrköping/Sweden

SEK

25,786

100.00

Stockholm/Sweden

SEK

53,698

100.00

KB Sörby 24:3 -Gävle, Gävle/Sweden

SEK

33,993

100.00

KB Storheden 1:8 -Luleå, Luleå/Sweden

SEK

27,868

100.00

SEK

32,744

100.00

SEK

19,286

100.00

KB Sandstuhagen 3 -Stockholm,

KB Tingstadsvassen 31:3 -Göteborg,

Göteborg/Sweden

KB Transporten 1 -Hultsfred,

Hultsfred/Sweden

KB Transportören 1 -Värnamo,

Värnamo/Sweden

SEK

87,745

100.00

KB Viken 3 -Karlshamn, Karlshamn/Sweden

SEK

11,279

100.00

KB Vindtrycket 1 -Borås, Borås/Sweden

SEK

64,673

100.00

KB Vivstamon 1:13 -Timrå, Timrå/Sweden

SEK

52,223

100.00

Kiinteistö Oy Ferryroad, Helsinki/Finland

EUR

542

100.00

Kiinteistö Oy Helsingin Metsäläntie 2 – 4,
Helsinki/Finland

EUR

3,777

100.00

69.00

Kiinteistö Oy Kaakon Terminaali,
Lappeenranta/Finland

EUR

356

100.00

26

69.00

Kiinteistö Oy Porin Kiitolinja,
Björneborg/Finland

EUR

113

100.00

EUR

19

69.00

Kiinteistö Oy Reininkatu 9, Vaasa/Finland

EUR

1,441

100.00

EUR

26

69.00

Kiinteistö Oy Seinäjoen Kiitolinja-asema,
Seinäjoki/Finland

EUR

201

100.00

96.69

Kiinteistö Oy Tampereen Rahtiasema,
Tampere/Finland

EUR

625

100.00

Kiinteistö Oy Tir-Trans, Joentaustankatu/Finland

EUR

609

100.00

Kiinteistö Oy Turun Nosturinkatu 6,
Turku/Finland

EUR

1,001

100.00

Kiinteistömaaliikenne Oy, Helsinki/Finland

EUR

1,643

54.70

Langtradaren i Jämtland AB, Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

5,737

100.00

EUR

1,450

100.00

EUR

50,872

69.00

MDL

483

Karpeles Flight Services (H.K.) Limited,
Hong Kong/China

HKD

7,846

100.00

Karpeles Flight Services G mbH,
Frankfurt am Main

EUR

1,631

100.00

Karpeles Freight Services Inc., Delaware/USA

USD

–103

100.00

KB Ädelgasen 1 -Jönköping, Jönköping/Sweden

SEK

98,887

100.00

KB Älghunden Jönköping, Jönköping/Sweden

SEK

21,308

100.00

Luxemburger Transport Logistik Diekirch S.A .,
Wilwerdange/Luxembourg

KB Älghunden 1 -Jönköping, Jönköping/Sweden

SEK

27,115

100.00

MTS MarkenTechnikService G mbH&Co. KG ,

KB Anholt 3, Stockholm/Sweden

SEK

9,107

100.00

Karlsruhe

Stockholm/Sweden

SEK

40,364

100.00

Karlsruhe

EUR

108

69.00

KB Ättehögen Östra 1 -Helsingborg,
Helsingborg/Sweden

Oy Schenker East AB, Helsinki/Finland

EUR

40,482

100.00

SEK

66,602

100.00

PT. Schenker Petrolog Utama,

KB Backa 107:3 -Göteborg, Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

125,591

100.00

KB Baggböle 2:35 -Umeå, Umeå/Sweden

SEK

22,803

100.00

KB Benkammen 12 -Malmö, Malmö/Sweden

SEK

126,031

100.00

KB Bleket 1 -Karlstad, Karlstad/Sweden

SEK

41,928

100.00

KB Distributören 3 och 4 -Örebro,
Örebro/Sweden

SEK

82,982

100.00

KB Forsmark 2 -Stockholm, Stockholm/Sweden

SEK

60,822

100.00

KB Forsmark 3 -Stockholm, Stockholm/Sweden

SEK

167,098

100.00

KB Forsmark 5 Stockholm, Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

–313

100.00

KB Frysen 1 Visby, Visby/Sweden

SEK

15,152

100.00

KB Fryshuset 3-Visby, Visby/Sweden

SEK

1,029

100.00

KB Köpmannen 10 -Västerås, Västerås/Sweden

SEK

35,028

100.00

KB Kungsängen 28:1 -Uppsala, Uppsala/Sweden

SEK

11,356

100.00

KB Langtradaren 2 -Borlänge, Borlänge/Sweden

SEK

33,798

100.00

KB Lertaget 1, Skara, Skara/Sweden

SEK

46,388

100.00

KB Malmö Hamnen 22 Malmö, Malmö/Sweden

SEK

64,802

100.00

KB Maskinen 3 -Linköping, Linköping/Sweden

SEK

62,073

100.00

KB Arbetsbasen 4 -Stockholm,

MTS MarkenTechnikService Verwaltungs- G mbH,

Jakarta/Indonesia

USD

21,281

71.00

Rengaslinja Oy, Helsinki/Finland

EUR

470

100.00

Romtrans Holiday Ltd.,
Eforie Sud/Constanța/Romania

RON

–212

99.47

Scantrans SAS, Rouen/France

EUR

411

100.00

SCHENKER&CO AG , Vienna/Austria

EUR

118,859

100.00

Schenker (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd.,
Singapore/Singapore

SGD

584,749

100.00

Schenker (BAX) Holding Corp., Delaware/USA

USD

101,444

100.00

Schenker (H.K.) Ltd., Hong Kong/China

HKD

102,477

100.00

Schenker (Ireland) Ltd., Shannon/Ireland

EUR

11,804

100.00

Schenker (L.L.C), Dubai/United Arab Emirates

AED

57,444

60.00

Schenker (Lao) Sole Co., Ltd., Vientiane/Laos

LAK

3,081,933

100.00

Schenker (NZ) Ltd., Auckland/New Zealand

NZD

16,840

100.00

Schenker (Thai) Holdings Ltd.,
Bangkok/Thailand

THB

56,248

100.00

Schenker (Thai) Ltd., Bangkok/Thailand

THB

1,440,711

100.00

259

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Æ

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ

Æ

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Schenker A .E., Athens/Greece

EUR

Schenker A/S, Hvidovre/Denmark

DKK

118,396

100.00

Schenker AB, Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

249,689

100.00

Schenker Åkeri AB, Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

69,632

100.00

74

100.00

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Schenker Jinbei Logistics (Shenyang) Co. Ltd.,
Shenyang/China

CNY

73,896

50.00

Schenker Khimji’s LLC , Maskat/Sultanate Oman

OMR

581

60.00

Schenker Korea Ltd., Seoul/Republic of Korea

KRW 40,970,647

100.00

Schenker Limited, London/Great Britain

GBP

20,320

100.00

Schenker Aktiengesellschaft, Essen

EUR

974,237

100.00

Schenker Angola, Limitada, Luanda/Angola

AOA

33,872

99.90

Schenker Argentina S.A .,
Buenos Aires/Argentina

Schenker Logistics (Chengdu) Co., Ltd.,
Chengdu/China

CNY

–14,463

100.00

ARS

14,950

100.00

Schenker Logistics (Chongqing) Co. Ltd,
Chongqing/China

CNY

16,427

100.00

Schenker Logistics (Guangzhou) Company
Ltd., Guangzhou/China

CNY

82,984

100.00

Schenker AS, Oslo/Norway

NOK

594,634

100.00

Schenker Australia Pty. Ltd.,
Alexandria/Australia

AUD

152,876

100.00

Schenker B.V., Tilburg/the Netherlands

EUR

168

100.00

Schenker Logistics (Kunshan) Co., Ltd.,
Kunshan/China

CNY

5,305

100.00

70.00

Schenker Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd.,
Kuala Lumpur/Malaysia

MYR

152,429

100.00

Schenker BITCC Customs Broker (Beijing)
Co. Ltd., Beijing/China

CNY

921

Schenker BITCC Logistics (Beijing) Co., Ltd.,
Beijing/China

CNY

82,391

70.00

Schenker Business Services LLC ,
Moscow/Russia

Schenker Logistics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.,
Shanghai/China

CNY

– 8,256

100.00

RUB

10,605

100.00

Schenker Chile S.A ., Santiago/Chile

CLP

5,124,019

100.00

Schenker Logistics (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd.,
Shenzhen/China

CNY

28,344

100.00

Schenker China Ltd., Pudong/Shanghai/China

CNY

1,492,695

100.00

Schenker Logistics (Suzhou) Company Ltd.,
Suzhou/China

CNY

111,962

100.00

Schenker Consulting AB, Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

8,348

100.00

Schenker Customs Agency B.V.,
Rotterdam/the Netherlands

Schenker Logistics (Thai) Ltd.,
Bangkok/Thailand

THB

23,055

100.00

EUR

6

100.00

Schenker d.d., Ljubljana/Slovenia

EUR

16,517

100.00

Schenker Logistics (Xiamen) Co. Ltd.,
Xiamen/China

CNY

59,214

100.00

Schenker Logistics AB, Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

–10,148

100.00

Schenker Logistics Inc.,
Calamba City/Philippines

SCHENKER d.o.o.,

Sarajevo/Bosnia-Herzegovina

BAM

869

100.00

Schenker d.o.o., Rugvica/Croatia

HRK

9,032

100.00

PHP

10,676

100.00

Schenker d.o.o., Novi Banovci/Serbia

RSD

117,377

100.00

Schenker Dedicated Services AB,
Göteborg/Sweden

Schenker Logistics L.L.C .,
Abu Dhabi/United Arab Emirates

AED

41,539

70.00

SEK

16,491

100.00

Schenker Dedicated Services Germany G mbH,
Essen

Schenker Logistics Romania S.A .,
Bucharest/Romania

RON

336,696

99.47

EUR

436

100.00

Schenker Logistics S.A ., Barcelona/Spain

EUR

134,731

100.00

Schenker Deutschland AG , Frankfurt am Main

EUR

56

100.00

Schenker Direct Production G mbH, Lübeck

EUR

19,184

100.00

Schenker Logistics Vietnam Co., Ltd.,
Ho-Chi-Minh City/Vietnam

VND

14,058,432

100.00

Schenker Distribution Solutions, Inc.,
Paranaque City/Philippines

Schenker Ltd., Nairobi/Kenya

KES

110,889

100.00

PHP

20,802

98.51

Schenker do Brasil Transportes Internacionais
Ltda., São Paulo/Brazil

EUR

1,079

100.00

BRL

21,201

100.00

SCHENKER DOOEL , Skopje/Macedonia

MKD

36,152

100.00

Schenker Egypt Ltd., Cairo/Egypt

EGP

2,549

100.00

SCHENKER EOOD, Sofia/Bulgaria

BGN

12,861

100.00

Schenker Equipment AB, Göteborg/Sweden

EUR

473

100.00

Schenker Filen 8 Aktiebolag,
Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

5,497

100.00

EUR

136,690

SCHENKER FRANCE SAS,

Montaigu Cedex/France

USD

45,254

100.00

EUR

786

100.00

100.00

Schenker Middle East FZE,
Dubai/United Arab Emirates

AED

59,858

100.00

SCHENKER N.V., Antwerp/Belgium

EUR

37,318

100.00

Schenker Namibia (Pty) Ltd.,
Windhoek/Namibia

NAD

8,761

100.00

Schenker Nederland B.V.,
Tilburg/the Netherlands

EUR

16,498

100.00

Schenker Nemzetközi Szállítmányozási és
Logisztikai Kft., Szigetszentmiklos/Hungary

HUF

5,070,923

100.00

Schenker North&East AB, Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

2,042,966

100.00

Schenker of Canada Ltd., Toronto/Canada

CAD

43,611

100.00

Schenker OY, Helsinki/Finland

EUR

24,227

100.00

NZD

18,998

100.00

INR

2,059,801

100.00

1,438,109

100.00

SCHENKER INTERNATIONAL
AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, Essen

HKD
EUR

31,142
56

100.00

Schenker Mauritius (Malaysian Holdings) Ltd.,
Port Louis/Mauritius

Schenker Metafores A .G . i. L., Athens/Greece

100.00

HKD

100.00

13,274

100.00

20,342

Schenker International (Macau) Ltd.,
Macau/China

9,595

MAD

36,874

EUR

Schenker International (HK) Ltd.,
Hong Kong/China

PHP

Schenker Maroc S.A .S, Casablanca/Morocco

USD

Schenker Holdings (NZ) Limited,
Auckland/New Zealand
New Delhi/India

Schenker Manila Administrative Competence
Center Inc., Taguig City/Philippines

Schenker Mauritius (Thai Holdings) Ltd.,
Port Louis/Mauritius

Schenker High Tech Logistics B.V.,
Rotterdam/the Netherlands

SCHENKER INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED,

SCHENKER LUXEMBURG GMBH,

Leudelange/Luxembourg

100.00
100.00

Schenker International B.V.,
Rotterdam/the Netherlands

EUR

17,120

100.00

Schenker International S.A . de C .V.,
Mexico City/Mexico

MXN

301,304

100.00

Schenker Italiana S.p.A ., Peschiera/Italy

EUR

58,588

100.00

Schenker Panama S.A ., Panama City/Panama

USD

2,016

100.00

Schenker Peru S.R .L., Lima/Peru

PEN

4,527

100.00

Schenker Philippines, Inc.,
Makati City/Philippines

PHP

751,993

100.00

Schenker Privpak AB, Borås/Sweden

SEK

2,876

100.00

NOK

6,880

100.00

Schenker Privpak AS, Oslo/Norway

26 0

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

Æ

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Gardermoen Perishables Center AS,
Gardermoen/Norway 2), 3)

NOK

8,008

33.30

Germans Corbalan&Alvarez, S.L.,
Manresa (Barcelona)/Spain 2), 3), 4)

EUR

874

20.00

100.00

Halmstadsakarnas Fastighets AB,
Halmstad/Sweden 2), 3)

SEK

–19,445

31.44

I.M. “Moldromukrtrans” S.R .L.,

Chisinau/Moldova 2), 3), 4)

MDL

17,243

33.15

Intermodal Sea Solutions, S.L.,
Orejo-Cantabria/Spain 2), 3), 4)

EUR

148

24.75

LogCap-IR Grundverwertungsgesellschaft
mbH, Vienna/Austria 3)

EUR

4,840

49.00

Speditionsbau und Verwertungsgesellschaft
m.b.H., Salzburg/Austria 2), 3), 4)

EUR

31

25.00

Trans Jelabel S.L.,
Aldeamayorde S Martin/Spain 2), 3), 4)

EUR

238

20.00

RON

6,375

49.73

SEK

–15,466

50.00

NOK

15,071

50.00

EUR

618,674

100.00

Schenker Property Sweden AB,
Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

73,220

100.00

Schenker Re Limited, Dublin/Ireland

EUR

40,658

100.00

Schenker S.A ., Guatemala City/Guatemala

GTQ

–17,093

100.00

SCHENKER s.r.o., Bratislava/Slovakia

EUR

3,440

Schenker Saudi Arabia LLC ,
Riyadh/Saudi Arabia

SAR

33,327

100.00

Schenker Schweiz AG , Zurich/Switzerland

CHF

67,247

100.00

Schenker Shared Services (Nanjing) Co. Ltd.,
Nanjing/China

CNY

13,020

100.00

Schenker Singapore (PTE) Ltd.,
International Forwarders, Singapore/Singapore

SGD

182,382

100.00

Schenker South Africa (Pty) Ltd.,
Isando/South Africa

ZAR

237,064

100.00

Schenker Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland

PLN

291,360

99.62

SCHENKER spol. s r.o., Prague/Czech Republic

CZK

464,076

100.00

Schenker Technik G mbH, Essen

EUR

25

100.00

Transatlantic Shipping and Trading SRL,
Bucharest/Romania 2), 3)

Schenker Transitarios, S.A ., Loures/Portugal

EUR

7,122

100.00

Värnamo Åkeri AB, Värnamo/Sweden 2), 3), 4)

Schenker Transport Aktiebolag,
Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

70,807

100.00

Schenker Transport Groep B.V.,
Tilburg/the Netherlands

EUR

4,315

100.00

Schenker Vietnam Co., Ltd.,
Ho-Chi-Minh City/Vietnam

VND 401,441,412

100.00

Schenker, Inc., New York/USA

USD

118,519

100.00

Schenker-Arkas Nakliyat Ve Tic. A .S.,
Zincirlikuyu/Turkey

TRY

61,566

55.00

Volla Eiendom AS, Oslo/Norway 2), 3), 4)
DB SERVICES
FULLY CONSOLIDATED

DB Dienstleistungen G mbH, Berlin
DB Fahrzeuginstandhaltung G mbH,

Frankfurt am Main

EUR

204,474

100.00

DB FuhrparkService G mbH, Frankfurt am Main

EUR

78,481

100.00

DB Kommunikationstechnik G mbH, Berlin

EUR

4,470

100.00

Schenker-BTL Ltd., London/Great Britain

GBP

0

100.00

DB Mobility Services Austria G mbH,

Schenker-Gemadept Logistics Vietnam Company
Limited, Binh Duong Province/Vietnam

Vienna/Austria

EUR

927

100.00

USD

– 602

100.00

DB Rent G mbH, Frankfurt am Main

EUR

8,031

100.00

Schenkerocean Ltd, Wanchai/China

HKD

5,194

100.00

DB Services G mbH, Berlin

EUR

12,880

100.00

JPY

5,702,946

60.00

DB Sicherheit G mbH, Berlin

EUR

2,055

100.00

SIA Schenker, Riga/Latvia

EUR

5,913

100.00

DB Systel G mbH, Frankfurt am Main

EUR

252,487

100.00

SIA Sky Partners, Riga/Latvia

EUR

43

100.00

DB Systel UK Limited, Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

1,817

100.00

Sky Partners OÜ, Tallinn/Estonia

EUR

242

100.00

DB Verwaltungsgesellschaft WBN mbH, Niesky

EUR

–25,783

100.00

SPA Systems s.r.o., Prague/Czech Republic

CZK

–13,963

69.00

Stinnes (UK) Limited,
Feltham/Middlesex/Great Britain

GBP

22,358

100.00

DB Energie G mbH, Frankfurt am Main

EUR

552,500

100.00

SW Zoll-Beratung G mbH, Wees

EUR

1,211

100.00

DB NETZE TR ACK

TEGRO AG , Schwerzenbach/Switzerland

CHF

11,631

62.10

FULLY CONSOLIDATED

tested Limited, Hong Kong/China

HKD

165

69.00

DB Bahnbau Gruppe G mbH, Berlin

EUR

28,405

100.00

DB Fahrwegdienste G mbH, Berlin

EUR

2,633

100.00

DB Netz Aktiengesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main

EUR

7,365,815

100.00

Schenker-Seino Co. Ltd., Tokyo/Japan

DB NETZE ENERGY
FULLY CONSOLIDATED

Trafikaktiebolaget NP Kagström,
Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

1,664

100.00

TRANSA Spedition G mbH, Offenbach am Main

EUR

13,913

100.00

Transport Gesellschaft mbH, Hamburg

EUR

634

96.70

Frankfurt am Main

EUR

2,594

100.00

Deutsche Umschlaggesellschaft Schiene –
Straße (DUSS) mbH, Bodenheim am Rhein

EUR

2,102

87.50

MegaHub Lehrte Betreibergesellschaft mbH,
Hanover

EUR

286

65.62

25.00

Transworld Asig – Broker de Asigurare Ltd.,
Bucharest/Romania

RON

451

99.47

UAB “Schenker,” Vilnius/Lithuania

EUR

1,177

100.00

Viktor E. Kern Gesellschaft m.b.H.,
Vienna/Austria

EUR

1,156

69.00

DB RegioNetz Infrastruktur G mbH,

AT EQUITY

EEIG Corridor Rhine – Alpine EWIV,

AT EQUITY

Frankfurt am Main 2), 5)

EUR

0

promet d.o.o., Ljubljana/Slovenia 2), 3), 4)

EUR

12,341

33.70

ATS Air Transport Service AG ,
Zurich/Switzerland 2), 3), 4)

Güterverkehrszentrum Entwicklungsgesellschaft Dresden mbH, Dresden 2), 4)

EUR

2,807

24.53

CHF

3,217

26.00

TIA G mbH, Augsburg 2), 5)

EUR

289

42.88

Autoport Emden G mbH, Emden 2), 3), 4)

EUR

101

33.30

TKN Terminal Köln-Nord G mbH, Cologne 2), 3), 4)

EUR

18

42.88

Bäckebols Åkeri AB, Göteborg/Sweden 2), 3), 4)

SEK

–70,731

35.00

TriCon Container-Terminal Nürnberg G mbH,
Nuremberg 2), 3)

EUR

1,973

21.88

Solna/Sweden 2), 3), 4)

SEK

–3,103

50.00

DB NETZE STATIONS

Express Air Systems G mbH (EASY), Kriftel 2), 4)

EUR

3,774

50.00

FULLY CONSOLIDATED

ADRIA KOMBI, nacionalna družba za kombinirani

BTU – Bilspedition Transportörer Utvecklings AB,

DB BahnPark G mbH, Berlin

EUR

4,734

51.00

DB Station&Service Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin

EUR

1,505,600

100.00

26 1

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

Æ

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Æ

Æ

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

Currency

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

Immobilien-Vermietungsgesellschaft
Schumacher&Co Objekt Bahnhöfe
Deutschland KG i. L., Düsseldorf 2), 5)
TUDO Grundstücks-Vermietungsgesellschaft
mbH&Co. Objekt Bahnhöfe KG Düsseldorf i. L.,

Düsseldorf 2), 5)

EUR

EUR

0

1

100.00

100.00

OTHER SUBSIDIARIES
FULLY CONSOLIDATED

AMEROPA-REISEN G mbH,

Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe

Subsidiary [name and domicile]

EUR

21

100.00

BahnflächenEntwicklungsGesellschaft
NRW mbH, Essen 2), 5)

EUR

336

49.90

Beijing HuaJing DeBe International Engineering
Consulting Co., Ltd, Beijing/China 2), 6)

CNY

6,061

25.00

BwFuhrparkService G mbH, Troisdorf 2), 5)

EUR

148,982

24.90

CD -DUSS Terminal, a.s.,
Lovosice/Czech Republic 2), 5)

CZK

7,300

49.00

Elevator-Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung,
Hanover 4)

EUR

176

50.00

die Finanzierung von Eisenbahnmaterial,
Basel/Switzerland 4)

CHF

1,596,909

22.60

flinc G mbH, Darmstadt 2), 3)

EUR

–1,538

18.78

Innovationszentrum für Mobilität und gesellschaftlichen Wandel (InnoZ) G mbH, Berlin 2), 3)

AT EQUITY

EUR

3,070

100.00

Sunderland/Great Britain

GBP

881,569

100.00

DB Barnsdale AG , Berlin

EUR

10,860

100.00

DB Belgie Holding BVBA , Antwerp/Belgium

EUR

37,922

100.00

DB Czech Holding s.r.o., Rudná/Czech Republic

CZK

244,731

100.00

DB Danmark Holding ApS, Hvidovre/Denmark

DKK

214,987

100.00

DB Dialog G mbH, Berlin

EUR

1,064

100.00

DB France Holding SAS,
Gennevilliers Cedex/France

EUR

553,464

100.00

DB Gastronomie G mbH, Frankfurt am Main

EUR

19,304

100.00

DB Hungaria Holding Kft., Budapest/Hungary

HUF 10,930,267

100.00

CNY

2,500

100.00

TREMA Grundstücks-Vermietungsgesellschaft
mbH&Co. Objekt Bahnhöfe West KG , Berlin 2), 5)

Ltda., Rio de Janeiro/Brazil

BRL

– 477

100.00

DB International G mbH, Berlin

EUR

34,386

100.00

TRENTO Grundstücks-Vermietungsgesellschaft
mbH&Co. Objekt Bahnhöfe Ost KG i. L.,

DB International USA , Inc., Delaware/USA

USD

–216

100.00

DB JobService G mbH, Berlin

EUR

3,533

100.00

DB Media&Buch G mbH, Kassel

EUR

26

100.00

DB Mobility Logistics AG , Berlin

EUR

2,369,932

100.00

DB (UK) Investments Limited,

DB International (Beijing) Co., Ltd.,

Beijing/China

DB International Brasil Servicos de Consultoria

DB Nederland Holding B.V.,

Currency

Unterstützungskasse der Firma H.M. Gehrckens
Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, Berlin

AT COST

EUROFIMA Europäische Gesellschaft für

EUR

537

50.27

Rail Technology Company Limited,
Jeddah/Saudi Arabia 2), 5)

SAR

1,483

24.90

SSG Saar-Service G mbH, Saarbrücken 2), 5)

EUR

1,421

25.50

Stinnes Holz G mbH, Berlin 2), 3)

EUR

–151

53.00

EUR

4,155

94.00

EUR

1

100.00

AT COST

Düsseldorf 2), 5)

1)

IFRS data.

2)

Local GAAP data.

3)

Data: 2014 financial year.

4)

Preliminary data.

5)

Data: 2013 financial year.

6)

Data: 2012 financial year.

7)

Data: 2010 financial year.

Heerenveen/the Netherlands

EUR

223,796

100.00

DB Polska Holding Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland

PLN

2,352,721

100.00

DB Projekt Stuttgart-Ulm G mbH, Stuttgart

EUR

1,961

100.00

DB ProjektBau G mbH, Berlin

EUR

24,394

100.00

DB Schweiz Holding AG , Zug/Switzerland

CHF

57,274

100.00

DB Systemtechnik G mbH, Minden

EUR

1,385

100.00

DB US Corporation, Tarrytown/USA

USD

463,383

100.00

DB US Holding Corporation, Tarrytown/USA

USD

491,060

100.00

DB Vertrieb G mbH, Frankfurt am Main

EUR

9,301

100.00

DB Zeitarbeit G mbH, Berlin

EUR

105

100.00

Deutsche Bahn Finance B. V.,
Amsterdam/the Netherlands

EUR

50,260

100.00

Deutsche Bahn France Voyages&Tourisme SAS,
Paris/France

EUR

395

100.00

Deutsche Bahn Iberica Holding, S.L.,
Barcelona/Spain

EUR

219,823

100.00

Deutsche Bahn Stiftung gG mbH, Berlin

EUR

2,176

100.00

Hamburg

DVA Deutsche Verkehrs-Assekuranz-Vermittlungs- G mbH, Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe

EUR

1,307

65.00

µ
µ

DVA REINSURANCE LIMITED, Dublin/Ireland

EUR

6,088

65.00

Engineering Support Group Ltd,
Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

– 629

100.00

Frank&Schulte G mbH i. L., Essen

EUR

25

100.00

Precision National Plating Services, Inc.,
Delaware/USA

USD

–19,860

100.00

Railway Approvals Ltd, Doncaster/Great Britain

GBP

377

100.00

Schenker International AB, Göteborg/Sweden

SEK

1,799,114

100.00

Stinnes Handel AG&Co. Beteiligungs OHG , Essen

EUR

– 92

100.00

UBB Polska Sp.z o.o., Swinouyscie/Poland

PLN

866

100.00

UBB Usedomer Bäderbahn G mbH, Heringsdorf

EUR

6,776

100.00

Shareholdersʼ
equity Ownership
(TLC 1))
(%)

8)

Liquidation balance sheet as of July 31, 2013.

9)

Data: 2009 financial year.

10) Data:

2011 financial year.

μ μ (43) MANAGEMENT BOARD
AND SUPERVISORY BOARD
The names and mandates of the members of the Supervisory Board and
Management Board of DB AG are set out in the following list.

μμ Management Board
Dr. Rüdiger Grube
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Management Board,
a)

DB Netz AG (Chairman)
DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Lebensversicherungsverein a. G .
Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

µ

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Sach- und HUK-Versicherungsverein a. G .
Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn
b)

26 2

µ
µ
µ

Allianz SE (Advisory Board)
Deutsche Bank AG (Advisory Board Stuttgart region)
DB Stiftung gGmbH (Advisory Board, Chairman)

GRI
G4–34

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

Dr. Volker Kefer

Ronald Pofalla (since August 1, 2015)

Deputy Chairman (since August 1, 2015), Infrastructure,

Economic, Legal and Regulatory Affairs

Services and Technology,

Mülheim an der Ruhr

Erlangen

a)

a)

b)

µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ

DB Energie GmbH (Chairman)
DB International GmbH (Chairman)

µ
µ
µ
µ

DB Schenker Rail AG (since April 1, 2015)

Ulrich Weber

DB Systemtechnik GmbH (since August 1, 2015; Chairman)

Personnel,

DB Dienstleistungen GmbH (Advisory Board, Chairman)

Krefeld

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

a)

(Advisory Board)

Gerd Becht (until July 31, 2015)

µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ

Compliance, Data Protection, Legal and Group Security,

DB Schenker Rail AG

Schenker AG
DB Gastronomie GmbH (Chairman)
DB JobService GmbH (Chairman)
DB Zeitarbeit GmbH (Chairman)
DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Lebensversicherungsverein a. G .

Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe

b)

Schenker AG (since April 1, 2015)

DB Station&Service AG (Chairman)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ

DB Regio AG (since April 1, 2015)

DB ProjektBau GmbH (Chairman)

Sach- und HUK-Versicherungsverein a. G .

a)

DB Fernverkehr AG (since April 1, 2015)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

DB Schenker Rail AG

µ

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Schenker AG

Sach- und HUK-­­Ver­sicherungsverein a. G .

DB Barnsdale AG (Chairman)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

DB International GmbH
DB Sicherheit GmbH

b)

µ
µ

HDI -Gerling Industrie Versicherung AG

µ

DB Stiftung gGmbH (Advisory Board)

DB Dienstleistungen GmbH

(since September 14, 2015; Advisory Board)

DEVK Rückversicherungs- und Beteiligungs-Aktiengesellschaft
DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Sach- und HUK-Versicherungsverein a. G .

μμ Supervisory Board

(Advisory Board)

Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht

DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH (Advisory Board)

Chairman of the Supervisory Board,

DB Stiftung gGmbH (Advisory Board)

Munich
a)

Dr. Heike Hanagarth (until July 31, 2015)

b)

Technology and Environment,
Oberteuringen
a)
b)

µ
µ

µ
µ
µ
µ

DB Mobility Logistics AG (Chairman)

Honosthor N.V., the Netherlands (since December 15, 2015)
CRH plc, Ireland
DB Stiftung gGmbH (Advisory Board)

DB Systemtechnik GmbH (Chairman)
DB Dienstleistungen GmbH (Advisory Board)

Alexander Kirchner*
Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board

Berthold Huber (since August 1, 2015)

Chairman of the Eisenbahn- und Verkehrsgewerkschaft trade union (EVG)

Traffic and Transport,

Runkel

Weilheim

a)

a)

b)

µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ

DB Vertrieb GmbH (Chairman)

µ
µ

DB Fernverkehr AG (since August 5, 2015; Chairman)

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Lebensversicherungsverein a. G .

DB Regio AG (since August 5, 2015; Chairman)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn (Chairman)

DB Schenker Rail AG (since August 1, 2015; Chairman)

µ

DB Schenker Rail Deutschland AG (since August 1, 2015; Chairman)

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Sach- und HUK-Versicherungsverein a. G .

DB Dienstleistungen GmbH (Advisory Board)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn (Chairman)

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Lebensversicherungsverein a. G .

DB Mobility Logistics AG (Chairman)

b)

µ
µ

DEVK Rückversicherungs- und Beteiligungs-AG (Chairman)
DB Stiftung gGmbH (Advisory Board)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn
(Advisory Board)

Jürgen Beuttler*
Head of ITK and CIO Long-Distance, Data Protection, Compliance,

Dr. Richard Lutz

Wiesbaden

Finance/Controlling,

Christoph Dänzer-Vanotti (until March 18, 2015)

Berlin
a)
b)

µ
µ
µ

DB Netz AG (until December 31, 2015)

Lawyer,

Schenker AG (since August 4, 2015; Chairman)

Essen

Arriva Plc, Sunderland/Great Britain

b)

(Chairman of the Board of Directors)

µ

DB Stiftung gGmbH (Advisory Board)

26 3

µ
µ

RWE Generation SE
RAG Stiftung (Chairman of Board of Trustees)

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

µ
µ

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Dr. Michael Frenzel (since March 18, 2015)

Steffen Kampeter (since March 18, 2015)

President of the Bundesverband der Deutschen Tourismuswirtschaft e. V.,

Member of the German Bundestag,

Burgdorf

Minden

a)
b)

µ
µ
µ

AXA Konzern AG

a)

VHV Gruppe (Administrative Board)

b)

µ
µ

DB Mobility Logistics AG (since March 18, 2015)

Deutsche Welle (Administrative Board)

GBT III B.V.

Prof. Dr. Susanne Knorre (since March 18, 2015)
Dr.-Ing. Dr. E .h. Jürgen Großmann

Management consultant,

Shareholder Georgsmarienhütte Holding GmbH,

Hanover

Hamburg

a)

a)

b)

µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ

BATIG Gesellschaft für Beteiligungen mbH

British American Tobacco (Germany) GmbH

µ
µ
µ

RÜTGERS Germany GmbH

Norddeutsche Landesbank
STEAG GmbH

British American Tobacco (Industrie) GmbH
SURTECO SE (Chairman)

Ludwig Koller*

Hanover Acceptances Limited, London/Great Britain

Chairman of the Central Works Council of DB Fernverkehr AG,

RAG Stiftung (Chairman of Board of Trustees)

Karlsruhe
a)

Dr. Ingrid Hengster (since March 18, 2015)
Member of the Management Board of the Kf W Bank Group,

b)

µ
µ
µ

DB Fernverkehr AG

Sparda Bank Baden-Württemberg eG
DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Frankfurt am Main

Lebensversicherungsverein a. G .

a)

DB Mobility Logistics AG (since March 18, 2015)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

Thyssen Krupp AG, Essen (since January 30, 2015)

(since May 1, 2015; Advisory Board)

b)

µ
µ
µ

Europäische Investitionsbank (EIB), Luxembourg
(Expert of the Administrative Board)

Dr. Jürgen Krumnow
Self-employed entrepreneur,

Jörg Hensel*

Wiesbaden

Chairman of the Central Works Council of DB Schenker Rail AG,

a)

Chairman of the Central (European) Works Council of DB AG,
Hamm
a)

b)

µ
µ
µ
µ

b)

µ
µ
µ

DB Mobility Logistics AG

Lenze SE (Chairman)
Peek&Cloppenburg KG (Advisory Board)

DB Schenker Rail AG
DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Prof. Dr. Knut Löschke (until March 18, 2015)

Sach- und HUK-Versicherungsverein a. G .

Management consultant,

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

Leipzig

DEVK Pensionsfonds-AG (Advisory Board)

a)

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Lebensversicherungsverein a. G .

b)

µ
µ
µ

Universitätsklinikum Leipzig, AÖR (Chairman)
SoftLine AG (Chairman)
Druck und Werk GmbH (Advisory Board, Chairman)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn
(membersʼ representative)

Kirsten Lühmann
Member of the German Bundestag,

Klaus-Dieter Hommel*

Hermannsburg

Deputy Chairman of the Eisenbahn- und

a)

Verkehrsgewerkschaft trade union (EVG),

µ
µ

Nürnberger Beamten-Lebensversicherung AG
BTA Betriebs- und Anlagengesellschaft mbH

Neuenhagen
a)

µ
µ
µ

DB Mobility Logistics AG (since March 18, 2015)

Vitus Miller* (until March 18, 2015)

DB Fahrzeuginstandhaltung GmbH (until December 31, 2015)

Responsible for “Staff Affairs fit 2014” Region Baden-Württemberg,

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Stuttgart

Lebensversicherungsverein a. G .

a)

µ

DB Regio AG (since June 17, 2015)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

µ

b)

µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Heike Moll* (since March 18, 2015)

Sach- und HUK-Versicherungsverein a. G .

Chairwoman of the Central Works Council of DB Station&Service AG,

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

Munich

DEVK Pensionsfonds-AG

a)

DEVK Rechtsschutz-Versicherungs-AG

b)

µ
µ

DB Station&Service AG
DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

DB Regio AG (since November 3, 2015)

Sach- und HUK-Versicherungsverein a. G .

DB Vertrieb GmbH (since November 12, 2015)

Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

DB Fernverkehr AG (since November 3, 2015)

(Advisory Board)

DB Dienstleistungen GmbH (Advisory Board)

26 4

C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S — N otes to t h e consolidated financial statements

Fred Nowka*

Dr.-Ing. E .h. Dipl.-Ing. Heinrich Weiss (until March 18, 2015)

First Deputy Chairman of the Central Works Council of DB Netz AG,

Chairman of Supervisory Board of SMS Holding GmbH,

Glinzig

Meerbusch

b)

µ

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

a)

Lebensversicherungsverein a. G .
Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

b)

µ
µ
µ

DB Mobility Logistics AG (until March 18, 2015)
SMS group GmbH (Chairman)

Bombardier Inc., Montreal/Canada (until May 7, 2015)

(Advisory Board)

Brigitte Zypries
Michael Odenwald

Parliamentary Secretary of State in the

State Secretary in the Federal Ministry

Federal Ministry of Economics and Energy,

of Transport and Digital Infrastructure,

Berlin

Kleinmachnow

a)

a)

µ
µ
µ

DB Mobility Logistics AG
DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH (Chairman)

µ
µ
µ

Fraport AG

DB Mobility Logistics AG

Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG)
Deutsche Gesellschaft für internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ)
GmbH

Mario Reiß*

SUPERVI SORY BOARD COMMIT TEE S

Chairman of the Works Council of DB Schenker Rail AG,

Members of Executive Committee

NL South-East,

µ
µ
µ
µ

Süptitz
a)

µ

DB Schenker Rail AG

Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht (Chairman)
Alexander Kirchner
Michael Odenwald
Jens Schwarz

Regina Rusch-Ziemba*
Deputy Chairwoman of the Eisenbahn-

Members of the Audit and Compliance Committee

und Verkehrsgewerkschaft trade union (EVG),

µ
µ
µ
µ

Hamburg

µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ
µ

DB Station&Service AG
DB Fahrwegdienste GmbH
DB JobService GmbH

µ
µ
µ
µ

DEVK Allgemeine Lebensversicherungs-AG (Chairman)
DEVK Allgemeine Versicherungs-AG
DEVK Pensionsfonds-AG

µ
µ
µ
µ

DB Fahrzeuginstandhaltung GmbH
DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Lebensversicherungsverein a. G .
Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn

µ

DEVK Deutsche Eisenbahn Versicherung

Sach- und HUK-Versicherungsverein a. G .
Betriebliche Sozialeinrichtung der Deutschen Bahn
(Advisory Board)

Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht (Chairman)
Alexander Kirchner
Michael Odenwald
Jens Schwarz

Members of the Mediation Committee

Chemnitz

b)

Regina Rusch-Ziemba

Members of the Personnel Committee

DB Bahnbau Gruppe GmbH

Chairman of the Group Works Council of Deutsche Bahn AG,

µ
µ

Jörg Hensel

DB ProjektBau GmbH

Jens Schwarz*

a)

Michael Odenwald

Prof. Dr. Dr. Utz-Hellmuth Felcht (Chairman)
Alexander Kirchner
Michael Odenwald
Jens Schwarz

*		 Employeesʼ representative on the Supervisory Board.
a)

Membership in other supervisory boards required by law.

b)	Membership in comparable domestic and foreign corporate
control committees of business enterprises.
Information on mandates relating to December 31, 2015 or the time of leaving the
services of the company in the year under review. If appointed after December 31, 2015,
the time of appointment is used.

Dr. Thomas Steffen (until March 18, 2015)
State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Finance,

Berlin, February 16, 2016

Berlin
a)
b)

µ
µ

DB Mobility Logistics AG (until March 18, 2015)

Deutsche Bahn Aktiengesellschaft

BaFin Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht

The Management Board

(Administrative Board, Chairman)

µ

FSMA Bundesanstalt für Finanzmarktstabilisierung

(Steering Committee, Chairman)

26 5

FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S

a)

Dr. Jürgen Krumnow (Chairman)

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

AUDITOR’S REPORT
To Deutsche Bahn Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin

the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Managing Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the con­

Report on the consolidated
financial statements

s­ olidated financial statements.

μμ

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of
Deutsche Bahn Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin, and its subsidiaries, which com-

μ μAUDIT OPINION

prise the consolidated statement of income and the reconciliation of the

According to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz (sentence) 1 HGB, we state that our audit

consolidated comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, con­

of the consolidated financial statements has not led to any reservations.

­solidated statement of cash flows, consolidated statement of changes

In our opinion based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated

in equity and the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the

financial statements comply, in all material respects, with IFRSs, as adopted

business year from January 1 to December 31, 2015.

by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law
pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net

BOARD OF MANAGING DIRECTORS’
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

assets and financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2015, as

μμ

well as the results of operations for the business year then ended, in
accordance with these requirements.

The Board of Managing Directors of Deutsche Bahn Aktiengesellschaft is
responsible for the preparation of these consolidated financial statements.
This responsibility includes that these consolidated financial statements

μμReport on the group
management report

are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German

We have audited the accompanying group management report of Deutsche

commercial law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB

Bahn Aktiengesellschaft for the business year from January 1 to Decem­

(“Handels­­gesetzbuch:” German Commercial Code) and that these con-

­ber 31, 2015. The Board of Managing Directors of Deutsche Bahn Aktien­

solidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the net assets,

­gesellschaft is responsible for the preparation of the group management

financial position and results of operations of the group in accordance

report in accordance with the requirements of German commercial law

with these requirements. The Board of Managing Directors is also respon-

applicable pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB. We conducted our audit in

sible for the internal controls as the Board of Managing Directors deter-

accordance with § 317 Abs. 2 HGB and German generally accepted stan-

mines are necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial

dards for the audit of the group management report promulgated by the

statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud

Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany)

or error.

(IDW). Accordingly, we are required to plan and perform the audit of the
group management report to obtain reasonable assurance about whether

μ μAUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY

the group management report is consistent with the consolidated finan-

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated finan-

cial statements and the audit findings, as a whole provides a suitable

cial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accor-

view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and

dance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the

risks of future development.

audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW) and additionally

According to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz 1 HGB, we state that our audit of the
group management report has not led to any reservations.

observed the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Accordingly, we

In our opinion based on the findings of our audit of the consolidated

are required to comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform

financial statements and group management report, the group manage-

the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consoli-

ment report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, as

dated financial statements are free from material misstatement.

a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably

An audit involves performing audit procedures to obtain audit evi-

presents the opportunities and risks of future development.

dence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. The selection of audit procedures depends on the auditor’s
professional judgment. This includes the assessment of the risks of mate-

Berlin, February 26, 2016

rial misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due

PricewaterhouseCoopers

to fraud or error. In assessing those risks, the auditor considers the in­­

Aktiengesellschaft

ternal control system relevant to the entity’s preparation of consolidated

Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

financial statements that give a true and fair view. The aim of this is to
plan and perform audit procedures that are appropriate in the given

Prof. Dr. Georg Kämpfer		

Rainer Kroker

circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the

(German Public Auditor) 		

(German Public Auditor)

effectiveness of the group’s internal control system. An audit also
includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and

26 6

Additional
information on
sustainability
μμDB Group

268

μμCompliance instruments refined
μμNew compliance app launched
μμDeutsche Bahn Foundation support
for social programs

μμSocial270

μμEnvironmental273

μμLarge share of workforce with

μμAdditional disclosure of

permanent employment contracts
Further improvements
to the collective bargaining
agreement
Lost time injury frequency introduced
in Germany as an occupational health
and safety indicator

μμ

location-based scope 2 emissions

μμIT systems indicate points
of contact with conservation areas

μμLower water consumption

μμ

Practitioner’s Limited
Assurance Report

277

μμGRI and Global
Compact Index

279

SUS TAINABILIT Y

μμIndependent

26 7

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμDB Group –

268

Compliance

μμDB Group –

269

μμSocial –

Social commitment

270

μμEnvironmental –

Top employer

This additional information on sustainability contains supplementary

273

Eco-pioneer

μ μIMPROVEMENTS IN THE YEAR
UNDER REVIEW

disclosures, including information about the fulfillment of Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) requirements. An auditor checked this content

As part of our digitalization efforts we introduced a new compliance app.

with what is called limited assurance.

The app can be consulted to see whether payments or donations are

GRI

‡ The 2015 Integrated Report of DB Group refers to the year

admissible or subject to approval. App users can communicate with their

G4-13
G4-18
G4-20
G4-21
G4-22
G4-23
G4-28
G4-29
G4-30

under review, respectively the calendar year 2015. For the purpose of

supervisors, and send e-mails with details of the contribution within the

comparison, most of the key figures are also presented for 2014 and 2013.

app. Employees and executives of all national and international DB com­

The Integrated Report is published on an annual basis.

panies can use the app free of charge on their smartphones.

The report for 2015 follows the Integrated Report published for 2014
and the DB Group's Annual Reports published until 2013, together with

μ μFURTHER IMPROVEMENTS IN COMPLIANCE
BY BUSINESS PARTNERS

the Sustainability Reports, which are published intermittently.
The 2015 Integrated Report is addressed to the major stakeholder

Successful long-term business operations require the careful selection of

groups of DB Group. The reporting covers all essential economic, social

business partners and suppliers who must then be informed of DB Group

and environmental elements. All of the fully consolidated companies of

values and commit to collaboration based on shared values. The COMPLI-

DB Group are included in the report. Deviations from this reporting pro­

ANCE E-LEARNING FOR BUSINESS PARTNERS Œ is accessible at no cost

cess are noted as such.

on the Internet and provides information about binding ethical stan­

The data collection methods and bases of calculation used for the

dards, legal questions and the topic of integrity. DB Group also offers a

data in the Integrated Report 2015 are oriented towards applicable stan­

special compliance dialog program for its medium-sized business partners

dards. The Integrated Report is prepared in accordance with the core

to discuss the mutual understanding of compliance and how it is organized.

option of GRI G4 guidelines. In addition, important content, indicators

DB Group further hosted its “5th Compliance Conference” in the year

and text passages in the Integrated Report were audited by an indepen­

under review, giving employees and executives the opportunity to dis­

dent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirt­

cuss compliance by business partners with representatives from sup­

schaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (P wC).

pliers, associations and public organizations. The Compliance Confer­
ences are a regular event that serve as a platform for discussing the
changing issues in compliance.

DB GROUP
GRI
G4-DMA SO

μ μINTEGRITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS

μμCompliance

GRI
G4-SO4

TRAINING PROGRAMS
Three different e-learning courses are available to DB Group employees

The Compliance Management System aims to ensure that compliance

and executives: “DB Code of Conduct” as well as two e-learning units on

risks are identified quickly, and that appropriate countermeasures are

the topic of anti-corruption (“DB Corruption Prevention” and “DB Refresher

implemented.

Course on Corruption Prevention”). One area of focus of the e-learning

Compliance is a significant area of our internal control system (inter­

course on the DB Code of Conduct is the issue of integrity (anti-corrup­

­nes Kontrollsystem; IKS). The Group internal audit function therefore

tion). The topics of human rights, child labor, forced labor, equal opportu­

reviews the compliance management systems within DB Group as part of

nity and teamwork are other important subjects in e-learning. Executives

its IKS audits under BilMoG (German Accounting Law Modernization Act).

are required to complete e-learning. In selected companies and units, par­
ticipation in e-learning is also mandatory for all other employees for rea­

GRI
G4-SO3

μ μCOMPLIANCE INSTRUMENTS

sons of risk. Employees have free access to e-learning in several languages

DB Group has put various instruments in place to ensure that its compli­

on the intranet.

ance targets are reached. These instruments are continuously improved
and include binding guidelines, risk and process analysis, special com­

Due to privacy rules in a works council agreement, we cannot deter­
mine how many DB Group employees used the e-learning program.

munication measures, and consulting.
The established compliance risk atlas provides an overview of com­

μ μON-SITE COMPLIANCE TRAINING

GRI
G4-SO4

ON INTEGRITY

pliance risks for DB Group business activities. The atlas consists of car­
tographic representations and risk observations for the countries in
which DB Group is represented outside of Germany. It includes and doc­
uments all of the results of compliance activities in the relevant year
under review. It also addresses the risks of all DB Group business units
and service centers, including the holding functions, and indicates
risk-mitigation factors and countermeasures.

Training sessions for executives and employees

2015

2014

2013

Participants

6,137

13,500

6,507

Risk-based selection of participants (focus on Germany and Europe), especially from typical
risk areas (for example sales, procurement, construction supervision).

26 8

A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M AT I O N O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y — D B G roup

As in previous years, on-site training sessions throughout the Group

DB Group also has a range of instruments that include, in particular, the

continued in the year under review. After the number of training sessions

e-learning course on the DB Code of Conduct and the central whis­

in 2014 increased as a consequence of the expansion of the aware­

tle-blowing management. The central whistle-blowing management is

ness-raising concept, especially at DB Schenker, the number of training

available at all times as a reporting venue, and applies also to persons

sessions declined again in the year under review.

who do not belong to DB Group.

μ μCORRUPTION REPORTING AND

available as contact person on matters of human rights. A follow-up

For employees and executives specifically, the HR ombudswoman is
G4-SO5

MITIGATION MEASURES

process is in place to examine alleged violations of human rights. There

Our central WHISTLE-BLOWING MANAGEMENT Œ received and examined

were no specific human rights incidents reported during the year under

allegations of corruption in the double-digit range in the year under

review.

review. Remedial actions were introduced whenever they were necessary.

To reinforce these efforts, the human rights topic is part of the stake­

DB Group is cooperating with the authorities in their INVESTIGATION

holder dialogs of DB Group. Further, DB Group is involved in a human

OF DB SCHENKER [PAGE 1 48] . Specifically, the Cologne state prosecutor’s

rights peer learning group set up by the German Global Compact net­

office is investigating against several current and former DB Schenker

work, in the working groups set up by econsense (Forum for Sustainable

employees on suspicion of potential legal violations in association with

Development of German Business), and in the dialog process organized

business relationships in Russia. Extensive remediation measures (with

by the Wittenberg Center for Global Ethics between NGOs and business

both immediate and long-term effect, and including labor law coun­

enterprises relating to “human rights and commodities in global supply

termeasures) have been implemented, and our compliance structures

chains.”

reinforced.
GRI
G4-SO8

μμSocial commitment

μ μFINES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE LAW
AND NON-MONETARY PENALTIES

GRI
G4-SO1

μ μDEUTSCHE BAHN FOUNDATION

A large fine was imposed in the year under review by the EU Commission

Deutsche Bahn Foundation continued its support for charitable projects

on Schenker&Co. AG, Vienna/Austria, and Schenker A.E., Athens/Greece,

in the year under review.

as well as on Deutsche Bahn AG and Schenker AG as the respective parent
companies. The fine of nearly € 32 million was imposed for alleged anti­

Charitable projects in Germany [number]

competitive collusion on R AIL FORWARDING SERVICES ON BLOCK TR AINS

Deutsche Bahn Foundation

TO SOUTH-EASTERN EUROPE [PAGE 1 47 F.] .

2015

2014

2013

21

20

5

2015 preliminary figure.

μ μHUMAN RIGHTS
μμ Responsibility to society
DB Group places great importance on respecting and promoting human

rights. The high standards demanded by DB Group in this respect are
reflected in its policies, and especially in the DB CODE OF CONDUCT Œ

Expenses for charitable projects in Germany
[€ thousand]

2015

2014

2013

Deutsche Bahn Foundation

2,758

2,593

451

2015 preliminary figure.

and DB CODE OF CONDUCT FOR BUSINESS PARTNERS Œ . Particular areas

In response to donation requests, Deutsche Bahn Foundation has also

of focus of DB Group include fair labor conditions, respect for workers’

provided funds from its general response budget.

rights, anti-discrimination measures, and the prohibition of any and all
forms of child or forced labor. Moreover, DB Group is bound by the prin­

Donations in Germany [€ thousand]

ciples of the UN GLOBAL COMPACT Œ .

Deutsche Bahn Foundation

To ensure compliance with its own high standards, DB Group has put
appropriate measures in place and continues to improve them. A funda­
mental distinction is made between measures taken within DB Group,

2015

2014

2013

96

53

52

2015

2014

2013

69

61

49

2015 preliminary figure.

Deutsche Bahn Foundation has also funded scholarships.

and measures in its SUPPLY CHAIN [PAGE 165 FF.] .
Scholarships in Germany [number]

μμ Measures within DB Group

Deutsche Bahn Foundation

Within DB Group, the management approach to human rights centers on
identifying relevant risks. A risk analysis method was developed and

2015 preliminary figure.

implemented in the year under review to identify potentially adverse

The expenses for DB Museum amounted to € 6.8 million in the year under

impacts of DB Group business activities on human rights. The main

review (previous year: € 4.8 million).

criteria of this analysis focus on the type of business activity (business
model) and the country risk related specifically to human rights. Spe­
cific actions are derived from the findings in respect of identified risks.

26 9

SUS TAINABILIT Y

GRI

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

SOCIAL

†
Training and professional development days
in customer-oriented job families [days]

μμTop employer

|

μ μSTRATEGIC WORKFORCE PLANNING
†
Employee turnover [NP]
Retirement-related turnover

2015

2014

2013

3,309

3,831

2,904

2015

2014

2013

6.9

7.0

6.6

Per employee (FTE)

Germany (companies with about 74% of domestic employees).
Training and professional development days are only considered in customer-oriented
job families for core employees, excluding vocational trainees and students in dual
degree programs.

592

521

476

In the year under review the training and professional development cost

Other employee turnover

6,285

5,460

4,649

per employee increased compared to the previous year, mainly due to

		thereof women

1,515

1,197

883

9,594

9,291

7,553

		thereof women

Total

higher expenses (overhead) in the support job families.
The number of days spent on training and professional development

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees).

per employee did not change year on year. As these days are only

The figures indicate non-restructuring-related turnover of permanent employees.
Employee turnover due to retirement also includes cases of semi-retirement.

the longer times spent training employees in the support job families

reported for customer-oriented job families, the figures do not include
(overhead).

Employee turnover is a key factor in determining our hiring and qualifica­
tion needs related to specialist employees and trainees.
With strategic workforce planning (SWP) we forecast turnover trends
based on past experience and current overall conditions to ensure timely
appropriate personnel measures.

μμ Securing new talent

GRI

†

G4-10

Young professionals hired as permanent staff
by type of training [NP]
Vocational trainees

The increase in other employee turnover is partly due to the will­

Dual degree students

ingness of young persons to change jobs, and partly to the temporary
absence of employees taking parental leave or drawing on their longterm accounts for time off.

2015

2014

2013

2,630

2,512

2,208

242

179

184

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees).
Hires after completion of training or dual degree.

Young people can complete training in over 50 apprenticeships in DB

μ μPERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT
μμ Training and professional development

Group. Vocational training and dual degree programs are the foundation

Vocational training and professional development of employees in Ger­

More young talent were hired overall by year-on-year comparison.

of DB Group’s efforts to secure the recruitment of skilled employees.

many is conducted through DB Training as the in-house Group partner
for education, development and change processes. More than 3,000

μμ Talent management and management diagnostics

training sessions are offered addressing all target groups and functions

Targeted recruitment of young talent requires the systematic identifica­

within DB Group.

tion and promotion of suitable specialists and executives. Today the focus
of talent management is primarily the quality of selection processes in

†
Training and professional
development costs for employees 1)
[€ million]

1)

the management area. Possible instruments for targeted individual

Change

development of talent is a development center for a personalized status

2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

quo analysis and measures which expand on this. By coordinating our

Total

173

158

+15

+ 9.5

146

selection processes, we help to expand the breadth of experience of our

Per employee (FTE) (€)

884

796

+ 88

+11.1

739

Germany, including vocational trainees and students in dual degree programs,
excluding executives.

executives, and to promote careers spanning various stations (business
units, functions, countries).

μμ Understanding of leadership

DB Academy is responsible for the qualification of the about 7,700 exec­

DB Group’s UNDER STANDING OF LEADER SHIP † is derived from the

utives and future executives of DB Group. Through our talent, transition

transformational leadership values, which are reflected in all career

and excellence programs based on individual development phases, we

development tools. The elements of transformational leadership play a

were able to reach out to and train most of our executives. We are contin­

particularly important role in the change process of DB Group. Since fall

uously improving our portfolio and adjusting it to the needs of our target

2014, the dialog series “strategy and leadership” was continued with the

groups. We are increasingly using digital elements, agile methods and

top 250 managers and executives in upper management with the target

new procedures of learning and communication.

of establishing and deepening leadership understanding. The format

Regional training centers were set up as pilot projects during the year
under review for employee training and professional development abroad.

supplements the activities and measures that had already begun in 2013
in the various divisions and business units.

Furthermore, the DB Schenker Training Center in Singapore was expanded
further and a program for time-limited international project and visitation
experience for specialists and potential executives was developed.

270

A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M AT I O N O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y — S ocial dimension

μ μCORPORATE CULTURE
μμ Diversity

Group-wide, the employment rate of severely disabled employees in Ger­

†

quota of 5%, even in numerous areas that might not seem particularly

Share of women worldwide
as of Dec 31, based on NP [%]

many is 6%. In terms of legal entities, the rate is far above the statutory

2015

2014

suitable for employees with severe disabilities at first glance.

2013

DB Long-Distance

26.8

27.1

27.1

DB Regional

16.0

16.0

15.7

DB Arriva

14.7

13.5

12.4

DB Cargo

11.2

10.9

11.4

DB Schenker

35.1

35.2

34.6

DB Services

19.0

18.9

18.5

DB Netze Track

17.7

16.8

16.5

μ μEMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS
μμ Collective agreements

GRI

†
Employees by employment type [NP]
Employees subject to collective
bargaining agreements
Civil servants

DB Netze Stations

47.6

47.7

46.9

DB Netze Energy

13.2

12.9

12.0

Employees on individual contracts 1)

Other

42.1

42.0

41.7

Total

DB Group

23.4

23.1

22.6

2015

2014

2013

154,336

153,181

150,186

26,277

27,776

30,177

9,853

9,838

9,873

190,466

190,795

190,236

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees).
1)

We have steadily increased our share of women worldwide in recent years.
†

The figures for employees on individual contracts primarily include executive
employees (managers), employees paid above the wage agreement level (called
non-tariff employees) and employees with individual contractual agreements.

2015

2014

2013

The working conditions for DB Group employees are oriented, in addition

< 30

23,882

23,304

21,989

to country-specific regulations, primarily on collective bargaining agree­

30 – 49

83,112

85,078

87,023

≥ 50

83,472

82,413

81,224

ments that have been concluded with the trade unions in the respective

190,466

190,795

190,236

Employees by age as of Dec 31 [NP]

Total

G4-10
G4-11

countries.
Civil servants are also included in the share of employees in Germany
for whom collective agreements apply. The activities of the civil servants

Germany (companies accounting for about 97% of the domestic workforce).

in DB Group are based on statutory allocation within the framework of
In Germany, almost 200,000 employees from over 100 nations work for

the German Rail Restructuring Act (ENeuOG), Art. 2 § 12. The same wage

DB Group, and about 45,000 of them are women. The share of employees

agreement provisions therefore apply on this basis to civil servants as

of foreign birth or citizenship increased to 9.1% in the year under review

for other employees.

(previous year: 8.6%). About 80,000 employees are over 50 years of

†

age and over 20,000 are under 30 years of age. The over-50 age group

Employees with
collective agreements
as of Dec 31 [NP]

recorded the largest growth year on year.
†
Managerial levels by gender as of Dec 31 [NP]

2015

2014

2013

32

32

32

		 Share of women (%)

31.3

21.9

9.4

Senior executives

230

235

224

		 Share of women (%)

11.3

10.6

9.8

Upper management

886

869

852

Supervisory Board (DB AG , DB ML AG) 1)

		 Share of women (%)
Middle management
		 Share of women (%)
Executives (excluding Supervisory Board)
total
		 Share of women (%) 2)

15.8

15.8

14.6

2,187

2,177

2,147

19.9

18.9

18.5

3,303

3,281

3,223

18.2

17.5

16.9

Employees with collective
bargaining agreements
		Share (%)

2)

%

2013

180,558

180,897

–339

– 0.2

180,274

94.8

94.8

–

–

94.8

bargaining agreement designed to address
demographic change
In July and November, 2015, respectively, DB Group agreed improvements
with Agv MoVe and EVG to the collective bargaining agreement designed
to address demographic change. The following amendments have been
implemented:

μμ Further developments of the “Special partial retirement for older
employees”: Partial wage compensation was increased from 88.5%

In recent years, we have steadily increased the share of women in

to 90% with effect from September 1, 2015, and the minimum age
lowered to 59 from 60. The remaining conditions stayed unchanged.

management.

μμ Special incentive to use long-term accounts for the accounting period

†
2015

2014

2013

261

234

257

30 – 49

2,962

3,077

3,144

≥ 50

9,475

9,464

9,231

12,698

12,775

12,632

Total

absolute

μμ Further improvements to the collective

The share of women in management in Germany was 18.3% in the year under review.

< 30

2014

The share of employees subject to collective agreements remains high.

Eight people were members of the Supervisory Boards of both DB AG and DB ML AG
in the year under review (in previous years: seven people).

Employees with severe disability by age
as of Dec 31 [NP]

2015

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees).

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees).
1)

Change

2015: Agreement was reached on the transfer of up to 100% of all
overtime to the long-term account. In addition, employees receive a
bonus of € 5 for each hour they transfer to the long-term account.

μμ Agreement to grant one day off in 2016 in order to attend a health­
care/prevention course organized by BAHN -BKK, Knappschaft BahnSee, Krankenversorgung der Bundesbahnbeamten or Vital Clinics.

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees), severely disabled
employees and vocational trainees or equivalent. Change in methods from 2015 onward.

271

SUS TAINABILIT Y

GRI
G4-10

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

†

μμ Further improvements of employment conditions

Agency staff [NP]

Employment conditions for executives and employees not subject to wage

Total

2015

2014

2013

2,560

2,500

2,303

agreements are undergoing continuous development. Remuneration

|

policy and ancillary benefits will be oriented towards the strategic tar­

Germany (companies with about 99% of domestic employees).

gets. The system of targets for our strategy DB2020

is integrated into

our variable annual bonus.

The share of agency staff is virtually unchanged year on year.

To improve work-life balance, since 2012 executives and employees not
subject to collective bargaining agreements have been able to negotiate a

μμ Occupational health and safety

sabbatical of up to six months. We also support the provision of part-time

†

executive employment and interim management.

Occupational and work-related
commuting accidents

2015

2014

2013

Occupational and work-related
commuting accidents

7,469

7,688

7,458

8

5

1

25.3

–

–

μμ Social and fringe benefits
In addition to remuneration that is fair and commensurate with perfor­

		 thereof fatal occupational accidents

mance, DB Group also offers diverse social and fringe benefits. Five

Lost time injury frequency (LTIF)

major social partners – the R AILWAY STAFF SOCIAL SERVICES FOUNDA-

Germany (companies with about 93% of domestic employees).

TION Œ (Stiftung Bahn-Sozialwerk; BSW), the health insurer BAHN -BKK,

Occupational and work-related commuting accidents lasting more than three calendar
days (notifiable), LTIF-related absences of more than one calendar day.

the association of railway staff sports clubs (VDES), the insurer DEVK
and Sparda banks – offer benefits packages to our employees.
DB Group provides different care offers to its employees in cooper­

We were unable to achieve our goal of reducing the number of fatal work

ation with the BSW as well as childcare provider ELTERNSERVICE AWO

accidents in the year under review.

Œ . There are 90 care places available at DB Group’s own facility “Bahn­

A range of prevention campaigns were designed to reduce fatal

bini” in Frankfurt am Main and 164 places at private nurseries. During

work accidents. Behavioral seminars were developed for executives and

the summer vacation, the children of employees are able to take part in

employees, and further improvements were made to the training pro­

DB Group’s “DB RasselBAHNde” program at various DB sites. Parents also

gram “Working on tracks” for occupational health and safety experts.

receive support from ElternService AWO in their search for childcare

In the year under review, lost time injury frequency (LTIF) was intro­

options, emergency and vacation care offers as well as with the placing

duced as an occupational health and safety performance indicator in

of au pairs and daily care staff. We also offer wide-ranging support to

Germany to replace the former occupational accident rate. DB Group

our employees in caring for family members via ElternService AWO.

plans to make LTIF internationally reportable.

μμ Work-life balance

health and safety as well as health protection. Compliance with internal

†

standards according to OHSAS 18001 and national laws serve to protect

DB Group is aware of its responsibility with regard to occupational
GRI
G4-10

Employees by working time and gender
as of Dec 31 [NP]
Full-time
		 Share of women (%)
Part-time
		 Share of women (%)
Total

2015

2014

2013

173,845

175,205

175,125

18.6

18.6

18.4

16,621

15,590

15,111

65.9

68.4

68.6

190,466

190,795

190,236

employees. A safe work environment, as well as healthy and motivated
employees, contributes to the success of the business. We conducted
more safety campaigns in the year under review with different focuses.
The aim was to improve safety awareness among executives and
employees.

μμ Development of the number of employees

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees).

†

DB Group offers a variety of part-time arrangements to facilitate better

Employees
as of Dec 31 [NP]

work-life balance for its employees. This increased flexibility in working
†
Employees by contract type as of Dec 31 [NP]

2015

2014

2013

Permanent

183,091

183,048

182,630

Temporary

7,375

7,747

7,606

190,466

190,795

190,236

Total

2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

17,277

17,503

–226

–1.3

17,621

DB Regional

38,163

38,220

– 57

– 0.1

38,496

DB Arriva

48,527

47,792

+735

+1.5

48,715

DB Cargo

30,718

31,212

– 494

–1.6

31,290

DB Schenker

68,722

67,374

+1,348

+2.0

66,795

DB Services

25,721

26,483

–762

–2.9

27,344

DB Netze Track

46,872

44,116

+2,756

+ 6.2

42,930
5,095

DB Long-Distance

hours is not just appreciated by female employees.

Change

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employees).

DB Netze Stations

5,241

5,122

+119

+2.3

DB Netze Energy

1,770

1,805

–35

–1.9

1,783

The share of employees with permanent contracts in Germany remained

Other

25,362

27,339

–1,977

–7.2

26,850

very high, at more than 95%.

DB Group

308,373

306,966

+ 1,407

+ 0.5

306,919

272

A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M AT I O N O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y — S O C I A L D I M E N S I O N
E nvironmental dimension

of December 31, 2015. At business unit level, the main changes were

μ μCLIMATE PROTECTION
μμ Adjustment to climate change

the increased number of employees at DB Schenker in response to the

Extreme weather events are major challenge for us as they can consid­

continued growth of its contract logistics business, and at DB Arriva

erably impair rail transport and the railway infrastructure. Storms have

due to acquisitions, and on the other hand a decrease in the number of

again caused significant damage in the year under review. We have to

employees at DB Service and DB Cargo prompted by volume changes.

prepare ourselves increasingly on the assumption that storms, floods,

†‡

extreme temperatures and longer periods of drought will occur more

The number of employees in natural persons (NP) increased slightly as

G4-10

Employees by region
as of Dec 31 [NP]

frequently. Together with various research institutions, government

Change
2015

2014

absolute

%

2013

195,378

195,805

– 427

– 0.2

195,912

Europe (excluding Germany)

87,502

86,944

+ 558

+ 0.6

87,270

Asia/Pacific

14,322

14,008

+314

+2.2

13,755

North America

8,632

7,688

+ 944

+12.3

7,421

Rest of world

2,539

2,521

+18

+ 0.7

2,561

308,373

306,966

+ 1,407

+ 0.5

306,919

Germany

DB Group

agencies and other European railway companies, we actively participate
in the stakeholder processes to make the rail system more robust against
anticipated changes. The results continuously flow into the planning of
our production resources. Thus we address climate change at a very early
stage in our planning phase for the construction or expansion of railway
facilities. At the same time, we are working in national and international
expert committees that are focused on adjusting external technological
regulations to meet changing environmental conditions.

North America and Europe (excluding Germany) recorded the largest

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

growth year on year. The number of employees in Germany has decreased

μμ Overview of absolute CO₂ emissions

slightly. The share of employees outside of Germany remained virtually

GRI
G4-EN19

and CO ₂ equivalents

unchanged, at 37%.

CO₂ FOOTPRINT

μμ Employees in Germany

Our CO₂ footprint describes the total volume of CO₂ emitted in one year
by DB Group. It consists of the emissions from all journeys and transports

†
New hires by gender as of Dec 31 [NP]
< 30 years
		 Share of women (%)
30 – 49 years
		 Share of women (%)
≥ 50 years
		 Share of women (%)
DB Group

of DB Group in rail, road, air and sea, together with the emissions of our

2015

2014

2013

4,942

5,491

4,990

stationary systems, such as stations or workshops, and the emissions of

33.8

33.3

33.1

our fleet, for example our company cars. Absolute CO₂ emissions form

5,123

5,411

5,204

the basis for calculating specific CO ₂ emissions as well as the level of

23.0

25.0

27.4

achievement of our DB climate protection target within the specified

1,553

1,535

1,287

limits. They also act as a benchmark for our efficiency improvement mea­

20.7

20.6

22.8

11,618

12,437

11,481

Germany (companies with about 97% of domestic employee).
Not included are hiring and takeover of vocational trainees and dual degree students.

sures, and provide a basis for comparison with other enterprises.
¥‡

GRI

Absolute CO₂ emissions by journeys, transports
and stationary systems [million t]

G4-EN15
G4-EN16

As in previous years, DB Group hired a large number of new employees.
To meet our future external staffing needs, which arise especially due to
employee attrition due to retirement, we will need to hire an average of
about 8,000 new employees per year in the years to come. At the same
time we must encourage the career development and retention of our
current employees.

ENVIRONMENTAL

2015

2014

2013

Regional rail passenger transport

3.01

3.07

3.29

		 thereof in Germany

2.46

2.53

2.75

Long-distance rail passenger transport

0.45

0.38

0.72

Bus service

1.72

1.62

1.70

		 thereof in Germany

0.69

0.59

0.66
2.46

Rail freight transport

2.15

2.27

Road freight transport 1)

3.60

4.06

3.07

Air freight 1), 2)

5.94

5.62

4.83

Ocean freight 2)

2.55

2.88

2.72

Other transport 3)

0.11

0.10

0.10

Stationary facilities
Total

μμEco-pioneer

1.43

1.27

1.50

20.96

21.27

20.39

Well-to-wheel (WTW), scope 1 – 3, 2013 DB Cargo stationary in Germany only.

In addition to our main areas of environmental focus, our efforts to
become an eco-pioneer also embrace further issues, such as air quality

1)

Change in methods from 2015 onward.

2)

Including pre- and onward carriage.

3)

Including DB fleet, internal traffic.

control and nature conservation, as discussed below. Additional infor­

DB GROUP CO₂ EQUIVALENT S

mation and detailed tables are provided on our Web site.

In addition to CO₂ emissions, CO₂ equivalents also consider the five most

μ μEMPLOYEES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL

important other gases that affect climate, such as methane or nitrous

PROTECTION

oxide. Together, these gases account for another 5 – 10% of CO₂ emissions,

If we are to successfully achieve our environmental goals and imple­

thus increasing the total volume compared to CO₂ emissions alone.

ment our environmental plans, we need employees to identify with our
corporate strategy. We bring environmental protection to life for our

The increase in absolute CO₂ emissions, CO₂ equivalents and primary
energy consumption in air freight is due to a change in the method.

employees through training, professional development programs and
various campaigns.
Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

273

SUS TAINABILIT Y

GRI

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI
G4-EN15
G4-EN16

¥‡
Absolute CO₂ equivalents by journeys, transports
and stationary systems [million t]

We focus particularly on diesel vehicles as their soot particles have been
2015

2014

2013

Regional rail passenger transport

3.23

3.28

3.51

		 thereof in Germany

2.66

2.72

2.96

Long-distance rail passenger transport

0.49

0.43

0.79

Bus service

1.79

1.69

1.76

		 thereof in Germany

0.71

0.60

0.67

Rail freight transport

2.31

2.43

2.60

Road freight transport 1)

3.74

4.26

3.20

Air freight 1), 2)

5.99

5.66

4.87

Ocean freight 2)

2.58

2.91

2.75

Other transport 3)

0.11

0.10

0.11

Stationary facilities
Total

1.52

1.33

1.57

21.76

22.09

21.16

classified as a health hazard, and operators of such vehicles have a spe­
cial responsibility toward their customers and employees. Therefore, we
have set ourselves a new target in the year under review: we plan to
reduce the particle emissions of our proprietary rail and road fleet by
55% within ten years (between 2010 and 2020). These are absolute emis­
sions that will then no longer pollute the air. By 2015, we already
achieved a reduction of 41.7%. Calculation is based on the energy con­
sumption and composition of our fleets by pollutant categories.
¥
Air pollutants emitted on journeys and transports
in absolute terms [t]

Well-to-wheel (WTW), scope 1 – 3, 2013 DB Cargo stationary in Germany only.
1)

Change in methods from 2015 onward.

2)

Including pre- and onward carriage.

3)

Including DB fleet, internal traffic.

Total

2014

2013

9,075

7,781

Nitrogen oxide (NO X) emissions

143,951

152,573

129,432

Sulfur dioxide (SO ₂) emissions

60,722

66,248

57,249

Hydrocarbon (NMHC) emissions

11,602

12,015

10,186

Global Group figures, including DB Arriva starting in 2014, combustion-related,
well-to-wheel (WTW), scope 1 – 3.
Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

¥‡
CO ₂ equivalents by scope 1 – 3 [million t]

2015
8,158

Particle emissions

2015

2014

2013

21.76

20.76

19.59

		 Share of scope 1 (%)

17

18

16

		 Share of scope 2 (%)

25

20

27

		 Share of scope 3 (%)

58

62

57

Including stationary systems as of 2015.

The scope 2 emissions of 5.51 million tons of CO₂e incorporate market-

μμ Our vehicles comply with stringent
emissions standards
Our rail and road vehicles meet stringent European standards, thereby
emitting fewer pollutants:

μμ 95% of the trucks owned by DB Group and used for long-distance
transport comply with the highest European standards V and VI.

μμ Our entire car fleet complies with emissions standards Euro 5 or 6.
μμ Of our rail transport vehicles, 13% (previous year: 21%) are still

based mechanisms, this means that the figure includes all contractually
regulated instruments for generating and trading electricity from renew­

classified in the lowest pollutant category, UIC 0.

μμ The share of rolling stock with low-emissions electric traction has

able sources.

in­­­creased to 68% (previous year: 61%).

In compliance with the dual reporting guidelines of the Greenhouse

μμ The share of our buses complying with European emissions stan­

Gas Protocol published in the year under review, we also disclose loca­

dards V or VI increased to 49% (previous year: 42%).

tion-based scope 2 emissions. If we base our calculation on the relevant

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

national electricity mixes, our scope 2 totals 6.21 million tons of CO₂e.

μμ New refueling facilities help

μ μAIR QUALITY CONTROL
μμ Reducing pollutant emissions

With new refueling facilities at gas stations, DB Netze Energy offers

The combustion-related pollutant emissions allocable to DB Group are

customers AdBlue® fuel. AdBlue® is the brand name of a urea-based liquid

largely influenced by our ocean and air freight activities. In the case of

for exhaust treatment in diesel engines. It effectively reduces nitrogen

particulates, for example, they account for more than 80%. Since air

oxide emissions. The number of DB Energy fuel stations offering AdBlue®

pollution – unlike greenhouse gases – is primarily a local issue, we focus

is growing steadily in Germany, and totaled 15 by the end of 2015.

to reduce nitrogen oxide

our efforts to reduce pollutant emissions on specific rail and road trans­
fleet. The use of modern vehicles continuously reduces nitrogen oxide

μ μNATURE CONSERVATION
μμ Responsibility for the plant and animal world

and particulate emissions caused by rail transport. The high electrifica­

Railway lines as well as other operating facilities, buildings and land held

tion rate of our rail network played a major role here because the vehi­

by DB Group often provide a unique habitat for protected species. This

cles themselves do not produce pollutant emissions; only the generation

fact forms the basis for our acknowledgment of our responsibility to

of traction current causes emissions. Our efforts to reduce this pollution

maintain biological diversity. Wherever conflicts arise we seek solu­­tions

include energy-efficient driving, modern vehicles, and an increasing

that make both ecological and economic sense. When building new

share of renewable energy in the traction current mix.

lines, or expanding existing lines, or when planning real estate proj­­­­-

port measures, and especially on continuously improving our vehicle

ects, we consider the interests of nature conservation already in the
planning phase. If it is not possible to avoid interfering with the natural

274

GRI
G4-EN27

A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M AT I O N O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y — E nvironmental dimension

environment, we compensate accordingly – to make sure that, for ex­­

μμ Development of a crane habitat
in the Stendal – Uelzen project

am­­­­­­­ple, the habitats for rare species of animals or plants are not lost. Our
actions extend beyond statutory requirements. For example, we are

As part of the construction measures to expand the Stendal –Uelzen line,

currently work­­­­ing with nature protection organizations and the relevant

DB Group created nesting and feeding areas for cranes on 6.5 ha of agri­

authorities to develop regulations for overhead catenary lines that are

cultural land in its real estate portfolio. Stones were placed in the bed

bird-friendly. We will be ceding DB land to environmental organizations

of the stream and trees planted along the banks to limit the drainage of

for the purpose of nature conservation. And we conduct studies on

water and encourage the growth of wet grassland. Plants such as reeds

environmentally compatible care of the vegetation along rail lines and

and bulrushes can flourish, creating valuable habitat for cranes and other

energy routes.

rare species, such as grass snakes and great crested grebes. In addition,
cows, sheep, cattle and horses can graze on the neighboring grassland.

μμ IT systems indicate points of contact
with conservation areas

μμ Vegetation control as a means of ensuring
safety of railway operations

We use geographic information systems (GIS) to identify points where
nature comes in contact with rail lines or DB properties. All of the rail

Safe railway transport has the highest priority. We have to regularly

lines and land are stored in the system, together with all digitally avail­

maintain tracks and train paths to make this happen. We also remove

able conservation areas in Germany. We can only conduct our operations

plants so that they do not encroach upon the track bed, block the view

in a manner which takes account of the sensitivity of these areas, armed

of signals, or cause hindrances. As a general rule, we only use chemical

with knowledge of any points of contact between our train-paths and

pesticides in close coordination with the proper authorities in places

properties with conservation areas. As the restrictions and constraints

where there is no non-chemical means of preventing overgrowth, as is

differ from one conservation area to the next, we have stored the rele­

generally the case in the immediate vicinity of the tracks. We make sure

vant ordinances – for example, with respect to water conservation

no herbicidal agents are applied to adjacent areas. This procedure is

areas – in the system. Their inclusion in the process of planning our expan­

described in our guidelines on integrated plant protection. For track

sion and maintenance measures is essential in conservation areas where

systems, stations, pathways and public areas, we utilize mechanical

we need to be particularly sensitive.

methods.

Since the beginning of the year under review, we have in addition to

The use of herbicides is dependent on weather conditions and veg­

the documentation of the points of contact between our lines and our

etation growth in a particular year and therefore varies. The volume used

properties and conservation areas the ability to also chart and track the

in the year under review was slightly higher by year-on-year comparison.

points of contact of our overhead lines with DB Energy.

In the year under review, the volume used on more than 57,500 km of

¥

track amounted to 83 t (previous year: 81 t), which is equivalent to

Points of contact between DB overhead lines and
conservation areas in Germany [km]

1.44 kg/km and approximately 0.4% of total herbicide applications in
Germany. This means that about 94% of the tracks were treated with
1,445

0

75

541
394
262

flazasulfuron, flumioxazin and glyphosate. Both glyphosate and the

2,266

other two substances have been approved by the Federal Office of Con­
sumer Protection and Food Safety especially for use in the vicinity of

1,995

tracks. Glyphosate was subjected to regular testing at EU level in the
year under review before its approval was renewed. Deutsche Bahn will
continue to use this substance as long as it is approved by the relevant
authorities. There is no alternative to chemically controlling the exces­
sive growth of vegetation in track beds. DB Group is reliant on manufac­

There may be overlaps between conservation areas.

turers to develop alternatives and is in dialog with the relevant compa­
nies on this matter.

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

μμ Mitigation and compensation measures

μμ DB properties go back to nature

We take the issue of nature conservation into account early on in the

A pilot project was launched in Bavaria in the year under review, with the

planning process for the construction or expansion of railway facilities.

aim of returning land which is no longer needed for railway operations

Our aim is to avoid interfering with nature and the landscape as much as

to nature. We compounded this project with the relevant environmental

possible. If adverse effects nevertheless occur, we try to compensate for

associations in 2014. In common “Facility Dialogs,” the participants

the loss or replace it. In the year under review, all relevant data for these

developed a procedure for identifying appropriate land. By the end of

compensation obligations are kept in the Web-based technical informa­

the year under review, eight suitable areas had been identified in these

tion system for nature conservation and compensation (Fachinforma­

dialog events. These will be made available to the interested environ­

tionssystem Naturschutz und Kompensation; FINK). This enables us to

mental organizations involved, who will take over the preservation and

comply with the reporting requirements set forth by the Federal Railway

natural care of the areas.

Authority (Eisenbahn-Bundesamt; EBA) in accordance with the Federal
Nature Conservation Act (Bundesnaturschutzgesetz) with an efficient
and innovative tool. By the end of the year under review, we had stored
about 900 compensation projects comprising a total of 3,900 actions, of
which 500 relate to species protection in the system. This number will
increase further as more data is captured, and actions implemented.

275

SUS TAINABILIT Y

Areas of outstanding natural
beauty 		
Nature parks
Water protection areas
Flora-fauna habitat areas
Bird sanctuaries
Nature conservation areas
Biosphere reserves
National parks

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμ Protection of birds in overhead line systems

RESOURCE- EFFICIENT VEHICLE CLEANING

New overhead line systems are designed to be safe for birds. The aim of

Most of the washing facilities for DB Regional and DB Long-Distance

our avian protection measures is to protect birds against electrocution.

rolling stock are equipped with a system for recycling water used.

We evaluated the short circuits that occurred in the existing network in

Resource-efficient cleaning is also available for many buses.

the year under review and discovered that the vast majority (85%) of the

DB Regional washes its trains in 53 cleaning facilities throughout

total of around 3,700 animal-related short circuits were caused by

Germany, of which 28 have now been replaced by enclosed new build­

pigeons and crows. DB Netze Track is working on a concept to signifi­

ings. These prevent the residue from cleaning materials from being car­

cantly reduce the number of short circuits caused by birds.

ried by the wind into the environment. In the new facilities, for example
Münster and Cologne, up to 70% of the water used is recycled.

Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

μ μOTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
μμ Destination Nature expanded

μμ Further expansion of our environmental

Together with the environmental organizations BUND, NABU and VCD,

The DB Group-wide environmental management system provides oper­

we are partners in the joint venture FAHRZIEL NATUR Œ (Destination

ational support for our environmental targets. Our approach adheres to

nature). Partners include 22 national parks, conservation areas and bio­

the ISO 14001 norm. 30% of all active DB companies have already certi­

sphere reserves in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The most

fied under ISO 14001. The number of certified companies among the

important aim of the partnership is to shift tourist traffic to environmen­

international business units declined due to restructuring measures,

management systems

tally friendly means of transport. The project focuses on offering sus­

including mergers, while the share in Germany remained unchanged.

tainable mobility services on-site, its development is the most important

Overall, 50% of all DB companies work with an ISO -compliant environ­

foundation for evaluating the partnership’s success. While up to the end

mental management system.

of 2012 more than one-third of Destination Nature areas offered a free

¥

or reduced-price fare for the use of public regional passenger transport,

Share of DB Group companies with environmental
management systems certified under ISO 14001,
as of Nov 30 [%]

half of the areas already had such products and services in the year
under review. This is an important incentive for tourists to travel by train.
In the year under review, Destination Nature was again commended
as a UN Decade on Biodiversity project.

μμ Lower water consumption
After an increase in the previous year, the water consumption declined

1)

in the year under review. The figures are based on the public supply.
Water consumed [million m³]
2015
2014
2013

7.81

9.07
9.31

DB Cargo figures only for Germany.

276

2014

2013 1)

In Germany

40

39

43

In Europe (excluding Germany)

21

26

22

Worldwide (excluding Europe and Germany)

48

61

49

Total

30

34

30

As of December 31.
Ω MORE DETAILS Œ

¥

2015

A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M AT I O N O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y — E N V I R O N M E N TA L D I M E N S I O N
INDEPENDENT PR ACTITIONER’S LIMITED A SSUR ANCE REPORT

INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S
LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT
To Deutsche Bahn AG, Berlin

μμPractitioner’s Responsibility

We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability informa­

the sustainability information in the sections “To our stakeholders” and

tion in the Report based on our work performed.

the appendix “Additional information on sustainability” of the Integrated

Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit

Report (hereafter the “Report”), of Deutsche Bahn AG (hereafter the

on external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the

“Company”) for the period 1 January to 31 December 2015.

Report.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard

Management’s Responsibility

μμ

on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engage­

Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and pre­

published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the

sentation of the Report in accordance with the criteria as set out in the

assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters

G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative

have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the sustainability

(GRI) (hereafter the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the information

information in the Report has not been prepared, in all material respects,

to be assessed.

in accordance with the GRI -Criteria.

ments other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”

This responsibility includes the selection and application of appro­

In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures

priate methods to prepare the Report as well as the use of assumptions

are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and there­

and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable

fore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance

in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing,

engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitionerʼs

implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the

judge­ment. This includes the assessment of the risks of material mis­

preparation of the Report, which is free of material misstatements due

statements of the sustainability information in the Report with regard

to intentional or unintentional errors.

to the GRI -Criteria.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the

Audit Firm’s Independence
and Quality Control

following procedures:

μμ

μμ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability
organization and of the stakeholder engagement

We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding

μμ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Report

independence as well as other ethical requirements.

regarding the preparation process, the underlying internal control

The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and profes­

system and selected sustainability information

sional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public

μμ Site-visits at the following units/sites:
μμ DB Schenker, Essen
μμ Central units on group level, Berlin/Frankfurt am Main
μμ Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information of the

Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschafts­
prüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer”: “BS WP/vBP ”) as well as the joint
opinion of the Wirtschaftsprüferkammer (Chamber of German Public
Auditors; WPK) and the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public

Report

Auditors in Germany; IDW): requirements to quality control for audit

μμ Inspection of relevant working documents and processes
μμ Evaluation of presentation of sustainability information in the

firms (“Gemeinsamen Stellungnahme der WPK und des IDW: Anfor­
derungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”:

Report.

“ VO 1/2006”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of
quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding

μ μCONCLUSION

compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and appli­

Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our

cable legal and regulatory requirements.

attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information in
the Report of the Company for the period 1 January to 31 December 2015
has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the

SUS TAINABILIT Y

GRI -Criteria.

277

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμEmphasis of Matter –
Recommendations

Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the Companyʼs sustainability
management and sustainability reporting:

μμ Further formalization of internal controls regarding sustainability
information

μμ Extension and harmonization of reporting procedures regarding
sustainability information to cover all non-German entities so the
Company is able to report on all material aspects globally.

μμRestriction on Use and Distribution
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the
Company. The audit has been performed for purposes of the Company
and is solely intended to inform the Company about the results of the
audit. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards
third parties.

Berlin, February 26, 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Hendrik Fink				ppa. Robert Prengel
Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor)

278

A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M AT I O N O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y — I N D E P E N D E N T A S S U R A N C E R E P O R T
G R I A N D C L O B A L C O M PA C T I N D E X

GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX
The full GRI INDEX Œ and GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Œ are available
online.
General standard disclosures
GRI indicator

Description

Page

Chairman’s letter

3–5

G4-3

Name of the organization

54 – 60

G4-4

Primary brands, products and/or services

61 – 63

G4-5

Location of the organization’s headquarters

54 – 60

G4-6

Countries where the organization operates

Cover, 54 – 60, 61 – 63, 94 – 109

G4-7

Nature of ownership and legal form

54 – 60

G4-8

Markets served

61 – 63

G4-9

Company profile

54 – 63

G4-10

Employee structure

112, 113, 115, 270 – 273

G4-11

Employees subject to collective agreements

271 – 272

G4-12

Supply chain

165 , 166 – 167

G4-13

Changes in size, structure and ownership

54 – 60, 94 – 109, 195 – 200, 268

G4-14

Addressing the precautionary approach

49 – 50

G4-15

External charters, principles or other initiatives

Cover, 76, 279 – 280

G4-16

Memberships in associations and advocacy organizations

45, 76, 166

G4-17

Corporate structure

54 – 60

G4-18

Defining report content

48, 268

G4-19

Material aspects

48

G4-20

Material aspects within the organization

48, 268

G4-21

Material aspects outside the organization

48, 268

G4-22

Explanation of any restatements of information

268

G4-23

Changes in scope, boundaries or measuring method

268

G4-24

Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization

45 – 46

G4-25

Identification and selection of stakeholder groups

45 – 47

G4-26

Approaches to stakeholder engagement

45 – 48

G4-27

Key topics and concerns of stakeholder groups

45 – 48

G4-28, G4-29, G4-30

Report profile

268

G4-31

Contact(s)

286

G4-32

GRI index

48, 279 – 280

G4-33

External assurance for the report

30 – 35, 266, 277 – 278

Governance structure

30 –35, 36 – 44, 262 – 265

Values, principles and norms of behavior

36 – 44, 45, 49 – 50

STR ATEGY AND ANALYSIS

G4-1
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE

IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT

REPORT PROFILE

GOVERNANCE

G4-34
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY

G4-56

SUS TAINABILIT Y

GRI
G4-15
G4-32

279

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

Specific standard disclosures
Management approach and GRI indicator

Description

Page

G4 -DMA EC

Management approach

72 – 75

G4 -EC 1

Direct economic value generated and distributed

95 – 98, 189

G4 -DMA EC

Management approach

72 – 75

G4-EC7

Development and impact of infrastructure capital
investments and services supported

175, 249 – 250

CATEGORY: ECONOMIC
ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE

ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS

CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL
ASPECT: ENERGY

G4 -DMA

Management approach

72 – 75

G4 -EN 3

Energy consumption within the organization

118

G4 -EN 7

Reductions in energy requirements
of products and services

118, 119

ASPECT: EMISSIONS

G4 -DMA EN

Management approach

72 – 75

G4 -EN15, G4-EN16

Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions

117, 274

G4 -EN19

Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions

117, 273 – 274

G4 -DMA EN

Management approach

72 – 75

G4 -EN 27

Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of
products and services

91 , 92, 118 – 119, 125, 147, 155, 274

ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

CATEGORY: SOCIAL
ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

G4 -DMA LA

Management approach

72 – 75

G4 -LA 7

Health rate

114

G4 -DMA SO

Management approach

48, 64 – 65

G4-SO1

Impact of operations on local communities

64 – 65, 269

G4-DMA SO

Management approach

49 – 50, 268 – 269

G4 -SO3

Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for
risks related to corruption
49, 268

G4 -SO 4

Communication and training on anti-corruption policies
and procedures

268 – 269

G4 -SO 5

Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken

269

G4 -DMA SO

Management approach

268

G4 -SO 8

Monetary value of significant fines and total number of
non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and
regulations
269

SUB- CATEGORY: SOCIETY
ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES

ASPECT: ANTI- CORRUPTION

ASPECT: COMPLIANCE

SUB- CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING

G4 -DMA PR

Management approach

72 – 75

G4 -PR 5

Practices related to customer satisfaction

72, 90, 124, 128, 132, 137, 142, 148 – 149,
152, 156, 160, 163

An overview of the DB-specific indicators can be found in the chapter
STAKEHOLDER DIALOG [PAGE 048] and in the ONLINE INDEX Œ.

280

Additional
information

μμGlossary282

μμFinancial calendar

μμList of abbreviations

286

281

285

μμContact information

286

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GLOSSARY

μμSustainability-related terms
Air pollutants
An air pollutant is a form of air contamination
that can have a damaging effect on the environ­
­ment. The source of an air pollutant can be
either natural or man-made, for example NOx
or SO₂.
Climate
Not merely weather conditions, rather a “snap­
shot” of the so-called climatic factors (altitude,
relief, vegetation, etc.) and climatic elements
(rain, solar radiation, etc.) prevailing at a par­
ti­cular location.
Eco Plus
Service for freight transport customers that en­­
sures their goods are transported CO₂-free by
rail on all routes within Germany.

Migration background
Citizenship held abroad or country of birth dif­
ferent from country of employment.
Nitrogen oxide (NOx)
Air pollutant arising from the burning of fossil
fuels and which can be harmful to health.
Noise
Sounds that are disruptive or harmful for human
beings and the environment.
Noise abatement program
Voluntary program introduced by the Federal
Government for the reduction of noise on ex­ist­
­ing rail lines and implemented by DB Group.

Eco Rail Innovation
Joint project of DB Group and other partners for
the development of low-emission and energyefficient drive systems for rolling stock.

Noise barrier
Means of active protection against noise gen­
erated on rail lines, mainly constructed out of
materials such as aluminum, wood and con­
crete. Novel are noise barriers constructed out
of wire cages filled with rocks (gabions).

Eco Solutions
Innovative and climate-friendly transport and
logistics solutions offered by DB Schenker.

Noise prevention
Legal entitlement to noise protection measures
on newly built and expansion lines.

Energy mix
Breakdown of electricity according to the man­
­ner of its generation (for example on the basis
of black coal or renewable energy).

Noise reduction
Reduction of noise by means of active (for ex­­
ample noise barriers) and passive (for example
noise-reducing windows) noise protection
measures.

Environment Plus
Special offers enabling customers to travel CO₂free on passenger transport services.

Particles
Particulate material, for example dust.

Health rate (by non-attendance)
The health rate indicates the ratio of work per­
formed excluding work missed due to illness to
the total work performed (in percent by business
unit) and therefore includes in the calculation
only those employees who continue to receive
compensation.
Hydrocarbon (NHMC)
Hydrocarbons are constituents of crude oil, nat­
ural gas and coal. When emitted they are con­
sidered as polluting.
K brake shoes

Quiet brake technology made using composite
materials (K), which cuts the rolling noise made
by freight cars by half.
LL brake shoes

Quiet brake technology made using composite
materials (LL: low noise – low friction).
Methane (CH₄)
A greenhouse gas. A colorless and odorless hy­­
dro­­carbon and main constituent of natural gas.

Primary energy
Energy from its source in its natural form, i.e.
including the processes of generation, trans­
port and conversion.
Recycling
Reuse of materials, for example waste.
Renewable energy
Sources of energy that are renewable and, in
principle, infinite, for example water, wind or
sunlight.
Renewable Energy Sources Act
Federal legislation promoting the supply of
energy from renewable sources.
Resource
Tools, funds, reserves, raw materials.
Returnees
Employees who return from maternity leave/
parental leave.
Satisfaction index
Index based on (customer) satisfaction shown
on a scale of 1 (very satisfied) to 6 (very dissat­
­isfied). These ratings are converted to a scale
of 0 to 100 (0 points = rating 6; 20 points =
rating 5; 40 points = rating 4; 60 points = rating
3; 80 points = rating 2; 100 points = rating 1).

282

Scope 1 – 3
(according to Greenhouse Gas Protocol)
In carbon accounting, emissions are catego­
rized in three “scopes.” The following applies
at DB Group: Scope 1 = CO₂ emissions from our
own vehicles; Scope 2 = traction current provi­
sioning; Scope 3 = transport services from our
subcontractors. Because of our business model,
Scope 3 only includes transport-related emis­
sions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Slow steaming
A strategy for reducing fuel costs in liner ship­
ping. Reduction of speed for ocean-going ves­
sels results in lower fuel costs and CO₂ savings.
Soot particles
Emissions generated by the combustion of
diesel fuel. Diesel emissions also include par­­
ti­culate matter.
Specific
Relative, for example: calculated relative to vol­
­ume sold.
Stakeholders
Groups of holders of interests/claims and rep­
resentatives thereof.
Sulfur dioxide
A colorless gas causing irritation of the mucous
membrane, generated by the combustion of
coal and oil. It is a cause of acid rain.
Sustainability
Mission statement for the reconciliation of en­­
vironmental, social and economic targets with
a view to achieving viable development that
accounts for the needs of all generations.
Traction current mix
The traction current mix is the composition of
the traction current that DB Energy provides to
train operating companies.
Vegetation management
Checking and cutting back/removal of vegeta­
tion on and around rail tracks by mechanical and
chemical (in the immediate vicinity of the tracks
only) means.
Waste
Waste denotes solid residual material that is no
longer required, including liquid waste and
gases kept in containers. Chemical residues are
also considered to be waste material.
Whisper brakes
See K and LL brake shoes.

A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M AT I O N — G lossary

μμFinancial terms
Capital employed
This encompasses property, plant and equip­
ment (including intangible assets) and net
working capital.

Equity ratio
Financial ratio based on the balance sheet struc­
­ture: share of total assets equal to equity, ex­­
pressed as a percentage.

Commercial paper program (CP program)
Contractual framework or standard documen­
tation for the issue of short-term debt issues.

Floating rate note (FRN)
Bond with variable rate of interest.

Cost of capital
Minimum required return, calculated based on
market values as the weighted average cost of
debt and equity capital.
Credit facilities
Lines of credit provided by banks that can be
tapped into as required. These are agreed lines
of credit with different maturities that serve in
part as available liquidity reserves, while “um­­
brella credit lines” are available in particular to
foreign subsidiaries as financing for working
capital and as a guarantee reserve.
Debt issuance program
Contractual framework or standard documen­
tation for the issue of bonds. Provides a high
degree of flexibility in issuing activity.
Derivative financial instruments (derivatives)
Derivatives are financial instruments for which
the price or value depends on the future prices
of other goods, assets or benchmarks (interest
rates, indices). These are contracts where the
parties agree to buy, sell or swap assets in the
future at certain conditions, or to provide alter­
­native payment of the notional amount.
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
Operating profit before the subtraction of inter­
­est and taxes.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization (EBITDA)
Operating profit before the subtraction of inter­
­est, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Equity method
Procedure to account for subsidiaries that are
to be included in the consolidated financial
state­­ments, but not on the basis of full consol­
idation with all assets and liabilities. The book
value of the investment is adjusted to reflect
the development of the pro rata share of equity.

Gearing
Key financial performance indicator that pro­
vides a structural indicator of the ratio of net
fi­­
nancial debt to equity, expressed as a
percent­­age.
Gross capital expenditures
Total expenditures for property, plant and
equip­­ment and intangible assets, regardless of
financing method.
Gross profit
Amount of revenues remaining after the sub­
traction of the variable (= revenues-based) costs
or direct (= order-based) costs.
Interest-free loans

A loan from the Federal Government that is to

be repaid but is not subject to interest. These
emerge from financial participation of the
German Federal Government in capital expen­
ditures for the expansion and replacement of
rail infrastructure.
International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS)
Internationally recognized accounting stan­
dards. The term IFRS is used to refer to the
overall framework of standards approved by
the International Accounting Standards Board
in 2002. Standards approved prior to this are
still cited as International Accounting Stan­
dards (IAS).
Investment grants
Financial participation of third parties in spe­
cific capital expenditure projects without fu­­
ture repayment requirements.
Net capital expenditures
Gross capital expenditure minus third-party
investment grants; for example, for infrastruc­
ture capital expenditures.
Net financial debt
The total of interest-bearing external liabilities
and finance lease liabilities as well as cash and
cash equivalents and interest-bearing external
receivables.

283

Operate leases
Off-balance-sheet financial instruments: leased
or rented assets.
Operating income after interest
Profits indicator that also takes into account
costs of financing in order to be able to assess
earnings in the long term (mainly important in
the Infrastructure business units). In contrast to
EBIT, the net operating interest income is also
taken into account when calculating this figure.
Plan assets
Assets netted with gross pension obligations.
Rating
An assessment of creditworthiness issued by
rating agencies that affects the refinancing
options available to a company and the associ­
ated costs.
Redemption coverage
Key financial performance indicator showing
the ratio between ongoing financial power and
the financial obligations of the company (ad­­
justed net financial debt)
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
Key ratio used for value-oriented management.
Corresponds to the return on operational cap­
ital employed. Ratio of (adjusted) EBIT to capi­
­t al employed, expressed as a percentage.
Scope of consolidation
The subsidiaries within a group that are included
in the consolidated financial statements.
Swap
A swap is a financial transaction based on the
exchange of future payment flows. This en­ables
the targeted hedging of financial risks (inter­
­est rates, currencies, commodities).

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

μμBusiness-specific terms
Block train transport
A freight transport service for transporting
freight cars linked to form an entire train.
Bus kilometers (bus km)
One bus kilometer is equivalent to the route
traveled by a bus over a distance of one kilo­
meter.
Combined transport
The interlinked transport of containers or entire
trucks both by road and by rail.
Contract logistics
The bundling of a variety of different logistics
activities. The service provider not only orga­
nizes transport services, but is also responsible
for additional services along the supply chain.
Contracting organizations
Generally German Federal states, which, as
trans­­port authorities, are responsible for order­
­ing local rail passenger transport services from
transport companies.
Customer satisfaction
Satisfaction of customers and partners with a
product or service. The relevant data is collect­­ed
and analyzed on behalf of DB Group by inde­
pendent market research institutes on a repre­
sentative basis by phone, personally or online.
Existing network
The existing rail network, which is the backbone
of the rail infrastructure.
Facilities quality
Assessment of the condition of the active facil­
ities of the DB Netze Stations business unit.
Freight carrier
A company that is used for the transport of
goods.
Integrated Group structure
Train operating company that is also the rail
infrastructure operator.
Intermodal competition
Competition among different modes of trans­
port; for example, between rail and air transport.
Interoperability (multisystem capability)
The ability of rolling stock to adapt to different
technical standards (e.g. track widths or power
systems) and to operate on the varying rail net­
­works in different countries with as few delays
as possible.
Intramodal competition
Competition within a mode of transport; for ex­­
ample, within the rail sector.

Load factor
Real ratio of usage relative to capacity.
Long-distance transport
Transport using ICE, IC/EC and City Night Line
services.
Mode of transport
Type of route used by means of transport, for
example road or rail.
Network access
Rail infrastructure companies provide their rail
networks for a fee to train operating companies
for train runs.
Passenger kilometers (pkm)
Unit of measurement for volume sold in passen­
­ger transport services: product of the number
of passengers and the mean travel distance.
Punctuality
Proportion of punctual stops in relation to all
stops along the way and at the end of routes in
Germany. A stop is considered punctual if the
planned time of arrival has been exceeded by
less than six minutes for rail passenger trans­
port and less than 16 minutes for rail freight
transport.
Rate of people making connections (longdistance transport/long-distance transport)
Proportion of connections shown in the time­
table for long-distance transport that are made,
expressed as a percentage.
Regional transport
Transport using IRE, RB, RE and S-Bahn services.
Requirements plan
New line construction and line expansion proj­
ects set out in the Federal Transport Infrastruc­
­ture Plan.
Single-car transport
A freight transport service for the haulage of
single freight cars that are attached to a train
with other freight cars. The individual freight
cars of such trains can have different departure
and destination stations.
Station pricing system
Transparent, non-discriminatory pricing system
for the use of passenger stations. The specific
station price depends on the level of perfor­
mance and equipment of each station.
Stationary systems
Buildings and equipment such as facilities and
stations.
Supply chain (value chain)
The supply chain of a product encompasses all
activities that generate value, including the
production and sales stages, beginning with
raw materials and continuing to the finished
product.

284

Supply reliability
Measurement of the reliability of the power sup­
­ply for the railway operations in Germany.
Ton kilometers (tkm)
Unit of measurement for volume sold in freight
transport services: product of the freight carried
(tons) and the distance traveled (kilometers).
Total punctuality
The total punctuality for DB Netze Track com­
prises all travel using the infrastructure of DB
Netz AG.
Traction
Propulsion for the operation of trains. Depend­
­ing on energy source, drive and transmission,
a differentiation is made between electric, die­
sel-electric and diesel-hydraulic traction,
among other things. Traction units that have
both electric and diesel traction are also known
as hybrid vehicles.
Train kilometers (train km)
One train kilometer is equivalent to the route
traveled by a train over a distance of one kilo­
meter.
Train-path
Route traveled by a train as set out in the time­
table.
Train-path kilometers (train-path km)
See volume produced.
Train-path pricing system (TPS)
This provides transparent, non-discriminatory
prices for use of the rail network by internal
and external customers taking into account
the individual characteristics of the infrastruc­
ture used.
Transport contract
An agreement between a contracting organi­
zation and a train operating company for the
provision of passenger transport services.
Twenty-foot equivalent unit (TEU)
Standardized container unit with a length of 20
feet (1 foot = 30 cm).
Volume produced
Distance traveled by train operating companies
on the rail network. Unit of measurement: trainpath kilometers (train-path km).
Volume sold
Central key performance indicator used to mea­
sure services provided in passenger and freight
transport. Units of measurement: passenger
kilometers (pkm), ton kilometers (tkm).

A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M AT I O N — G lossary
L I S T O F A B B R E V I AT I O N S

LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
A
AFRA – Association Francaise du Rail

Agv MoVe – Mobility and Transport Services
Association
ApS – Pro-Rail Alliance
ARAFER – French Railway and Road Activities
Regulation Authority
AUD – Australian dollar
B

bbl – Barrel
BEX – Bayern Express&P. Kühne Berlin GmbH
BGH – Federal Court of Justice
BilMoG – Accounting Law Modernization Act
blb – Berlin Linien Bus GmbH
BMF – Federal Ministry of Finance
BMVI – Federal Ministry of Transport
and Digital Infrastructure
BMWi – Federal Ministry of Economics
and Energy
BNetz A – Federal Networks Agency for
Electricity, Gas, Telecommunications, Post
and Railways
BoJ – Bank of Japan
BR – Series
Bund – Federal Republic of Germany
Bus km – Bus kilometers
BVerf G – German Federal Constitutional Court
BVerw G – Federal Administrative Court
B2B – Business-to-Business
B2C – Business-to-Consumer
C
CER – Community of European Railway

and Infrastructure Companies

CHF – Swiss franc
CNY – Chinese yuan
CO₂ – Carbon dioxide
CO₂e – CO₂ equivalent
COSO – Committee of Sponsoring Organizations

of the Treadway Commission
CRI – Corporate Reputation Index
CSA – Credit Support Agreements
CSO – Chief Sustainability Officers
CSR – Corporate Social Responsibility
D

D&O insurance – Directorsʼ and officersʼ

liability insurance

DB AG – Deutsche Bahn AG
DB E&C – DB Engineering&Consulting
DB Finance – Deutsche Bahn Finance B. V.
DB Group – Deutsche Bahn Group
DB ML AG – DB Mobility Logistics AG
DB ML Group – DB Mobility Logistics Group
DSA – Digital visual displays
DSB – Danish state railway
DVF – German Transport Forum
E
EAV – Profit and loss transfer agreement
EBA – Federal Railway Authority
EBR – European Works Council
ECB – European Central Bank
ECJ – European Court of Justice
EE – Renewable energy
EEG – Renewable Energy Sources Act
EIU – Rail infrastructure company
ERA – European Railway Agency

ERÄG – Act to revise the railway regulations
ET – Electric multiple unit
ETA – Estimated time of arrival
ETCS – European Train and Control System
EVG – Railway and Transport Workers Union
EVU – Train operating company
EWC – European Works Council
F

Fed – US central bank
FINK – Technical information system for nature
conservation and compensation
FLAME – First and last mile event
FRN – Floating rate note
FS – Ferrovie dello stato (Italian state railway)
G
GAM/RAM – Global and Regional

Account Manager

GBP – Pound Sterling
GDL – German Train Driversʼ Union
GDP – Gross domestic product
GIS – Geographic information system
GRI – Global Reporting Initiative
GUS – Commonwealth of Independent States
GWh – Gigawatt hour
GXD – Global x-Docking
H

ha – Hectare
HFM – Hyperion Financial Management
HR – Human Resources
I
IC – Intercity
IC 2 – Double-decker Intercity 2
ICE – Intercity Express
ICS – Internal control system
IFRS – International Financial

Reporting Standards

IZB – Infrastructure State and

Development Report
K

km – Kilometer
KV – Combined transport
KWKG – Act on Combined Heat
and Power Generation
L

LaTPS – Noise-based train-path pricing system
LTIF – Lost time injury frequency
LuFV – Performance and Financing Agreement

O
ÖPNV – Local public passenger transport
ÖSPV – Public road passenger transport
P
P – Passengers
PCGK – German Federal Public Corporate

Governance Code
Pkm – Passenger kilometers
PKP – Polskie Koleje Państwowe
(Polish state railway)
PLV – Price-performance ratio
PSI – PeopleSoft International
P w C – PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktien­
gesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
R
RFF – Réseau ferré de France
RMS – Risk management system
ROCE – Return on capital employed
S
S&P – Standard&Poorʼs
SCM – Supply chain management
SI – Satisfaction Index
SJ – Swedish state railway
SMP – Strategic management process
SNCF – Société Nationale des Chemins de fer

Français (French state railway)

SO₂ – Sulfur dioxide emissions
SPFV – Long-distance rail passenger transport
SPNV – Regional rail passenger transport
SPP – Strategic personnel planning
SPV – Rail passenger transport
SÜWEX – Südwest-Express
T

t – Tons
TEU – Twenty-foot equivalent unit
tkm – Ton kilometers
TOT – The Original London Sightseeing Tour Ltd.
Train km – Train kilometers
Train-path km – Train-path kilometers
U
UIC – International Union of Railways
UNGC – United Nations Global Compact
USD – US dollar
V
VDE – German Unity Transport Projects
VDES – Association of railway staff sports clubs
VDV – Association of German transport

companies

M

m2

– Square meter
m3 – Cubic meter
M&A – Mergers and acquisitions
MaRisk – Minimum requirements for
risk management
MJ – Megajoule
MRR – Minimum required rate of return
MTx – Mobile terminal
MWh – Megawatt hour
N
NFC – Near field communications

Nkm – Commercial vehicle kilometer

NMHC – Hydrocarbon emissions
NOK – Norwegian krone
NP – Natural persons
NS – Nederlandse Spoorwegen N. V.

(Dutch state railway)

285

VLF – Volume sold factor
V brake shoe – Composite brake shoe
FTE – Full-time employees
W
WACC – Weighted average cost of capital
WAN – Wide Area Network

D E U T S C H E B A H N G R O U P — 2 0 1 5 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O R T

GRI
G4-31

CONTACT INFORMATION

FINANCIAL CALENDAR

μ μINVESTOR RELATIONS

μ μJULY 27, 2016

Deutsche Bahn AG

Interim Results Press Conference,

Investor Relations

Publication of the Interim Report January–June 2016

Europaplatz 1

μ μMARCH 23, 2017

10557 Berlin, Germany

Annual Results Press Conference,
Phone:

+ 49-30-297-64031

Fax:

+ 49-69-265-20110

E-mail:

ir @ deutschebahn.com

Publication of the 2016 Integrated Report

Internet: www.deutschebahn.com/ir-e

CONTRIBUTION TO RESOURCE CON SERVATION
This Integrated Report, the Financial Statements of Deutsche Bahn AG,
the Annual Reports of DB Fernverkehr AG, DB Regio AG, DB Station&

This Integrated Report is printed on EnviroTop

Service AG and DB Netz AG and up-to-date information are also available

recycled paper which has been awarded with the

on the Internet.

eco-label “Blue Angel.” The paper used for EnviroThis Integrated Report and the Financial Statements of

Top is prepared according to the latest deinking

Deutsche Bahn AG are published in German and English.

method. EnviroTop is produced without additional

In case of any discrepancy, the German version shall

bleach, optical brightener and with­­out coating

prevail.

application.

The 2015 Integrated Report was published on
March 16, 2016 and is also available on the Internet at www.db.de/ib-e.

IMPRINT

μ μCORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS
Corporate publications and the Competition Report are available on the
Internet or can be requested from Corporate Communications:
Deutsche Bahn AG
Corporate Communications
Potsdamer Platz 2
10785 Berlin, Germany
Phone:

+ 49-30-297-61030

Fax:

+ 49-30-297-61919

E-mail:

presse @ deutschebahn.com

Internet: www.deutschebahn.com/presse

μ μDB SERVICE NUMBER
Our service number + 49-180-699-6633 gives you direct access to all of
our telephone services. These services include general information,
booking of train tickets, finding train times, our customer dialog and our
frequent traveler system (BahnCard).
The following charges apply: calls from the German fixed-line net­
work cost 20 ct/call. Calls from the German cell phone network cost 60
ct/call at most.

μμ Edited by: Deutsche Bahn AG, Investor Relations
μμ Design and typesetting: Studio Delhi, Wiesbaden
μμ Proofreading: AdverTEXT, Düsseldorf
μμ Lithography: Koch. Prepress Print Media GmbH, Wiesbaden
μμ Printing: Kunst- und Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen
μμ Photography and consulting: Max Lautenschläger, Berlin
μμ Photography (from top to bottom; back to front): Cover page: Max
Lautenschläger µ Pages 1 – 5: Max Lautenschläger µ Pages 2 – 4: Brian
Jackson/fotolia.com µ Page 3: Wolfgang Wilde µ Pages 3 – 5: vector_
master/fotolia.com µ Pages 6 – 7: Max Lautenschläger, vector_master/
fotolia.com, Afrika Studio/fotolia.com µ Pages 8 – 11: Max Lauten­
schläger µ Flap Page 9: Max Lautenschläger µ Page 10: Max Lauten­
­schläger µ Page 11: Max Lautenschläger µ Pages 12 –17: Max Lauten­
­s chläger µ Flap Page 13: Max Lautenschläger µ Page 14: Axel
Hartmann, Bernd Roselieb µ Page 15: Max Lautenschläger, DB Sales,
Andreas Varnhorn µ Page 16: Max Lautenschläger, Max Lauten­­
schläger, Philipp von Recklinghausen µ Page 17: Max Lautenschläger,
Bartlomiej Banaszak, Max Lautenschläger µ Pages 18–21: Max Lauten­
­­­schläger µ Flap Page 19: Max Lautenschläger µ Page 20: Max Lauten­
­­­s chläger µ Page 21: prescott09/fotolia.com, Stockphoto mania/
shutter­­stock.com µ Pages 22 – 27: Ralf Kreuels µ Flap Page 23: Max
Lautenschläger µ Page 24: Bartlomiej Banaszak, Alwine Spiritu
µ Page 25: Jonathon Kirby, Bartlomiej Banaszak, Andreas Varnhorn
µ Page 26: Daniel Kählert, Volker Emersleben, Max Lautenschläger
µ Page 27: Volker Emersleben, Bernd Roselieb µ Page 28: Max Lauten­
­­­schläger µ Page 29: Max Lautenschläger µ Page 31: Max Lauten­
schläger µ Page 46: Max Lautenschläger, Volker Emersleben µ Page
51: Max Lautenschläger µ Page 64: Dieter Puhl/Stadtmission
µ Page 65: Deutsche Bahn Foundation/Michael Bader µ Page 112:
Philipp von Recklinghausen µ Page 117: Volker Emersleben µ Page
119: Matthias Krüger µ Page 185: Max Lautenschläger µ Page 267:
Jet-Foto Kranert µ Page 281: Max Lautenschläger µ Background
graphics: Max Lautenschläger

286

10-YEAR SUMMARY
Æ †
[€ million]

2015

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

STATEMENT OF INCOME

Revenues

40,403

39,728

39,107

39,296

37,979

34,410

29,335

33,452

31,309

30,053

Overall performance

43,102

42,422

41,756

41,910

40,436

36,617

31,271

35,324

33,254

31,943

2,772

2,824

2,853

3,443

3,062

3,120

3,864

3,046

3,219

2,859

Cost of materials

–20,208

–20,250

–20,414

–20,960

–20,906

–19,314

–15,627

–18,544

–17,166

–16,449

Personnel expenses

Other operating income

–15,599

–14,919

–14,383

–13,817

–13,076

–11,602

–11,115

–10,583

– 9,913

– 9,782

Depreciation

– 4,471

–3,190

–3,228

–3,328

–2,964

–2,912

–2,825

–2,723

–2,795

–2,950

Other operating expenses

– 5,750

– 5,057

– 4,817

– 4,719

– 4,375

– 4,092

–3,360

–3,927

–3,704

–3,144

–154

1,830

1,767

2,529

2,177

1,817

2,208

2,593

2,895

2,477

22

8

3

14

19

17

9

21

32

18

0

–3

–15

–13

3

–23

–4

– 47

–3

1

– 800

– 898

– 879

–1,005

– 840

– 911

– 826

–760

– 908

– 941

Operating profit (EBIT)
Result from investments accounted for using the equity method
Other financial result
Net interest income
Profit before taxes on income
Net profit for the year

– 932

937

876

1,525

1,359

900

1,387

1,807

2,016

1,555

–1,311

988

649

1,459

1,332

1,058

830

1,321

1,716

1,680

OPER ATING PROFIT

EBITDA adjusted

4,778

5,110

5,139

5,601

5,141

4,651

4,402

5,206

5,113

–

EBIT adjusted

1,759

2,109

2,236

2,708

2,309

1,866

1,685

2,483

2,370

2,143

33,459

33,683

33,086

32,642

31,732

31,312

28,596

27,961

27,393

28,693

5.3

6.3

6.8

8.3

7.3

6.0

5.9

8.9

8.7

7.5

Redemption coverage (%)

18.5

20.9

20.5

22.1

20.5

18.1

19.4

22.5

21.1

18.6

Gearing (%)

130

112

110

109

110

118

115

131

151

213

3.7

3.2

3.2

2.9

3.2

3.6

3.4

3.1

3.2

3.9

Cash flow from operating activities

3,489

3,896

3,730

4,094

3,390

3,409

3,133

3,539

3,364

3,678

Gross capital expenditures

9,344

9,129

8,224

8,053

7,501

6,891

6,462

6,765

6,320

6,584

Net capital expenditures

3,866

4,442

3,412

3,487

2,569

2,072

1,813

2,599

2,060

2,836

Non-current assets

45,199

45,530

43,949

44,241

44,059

44,530

41,308

42,353

42,046

43,360

		thereof property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets

42,821

43,217

41,811

41,816

41,541

42,027

39,509

39,976

39,855

41,081

1,335

1,604

1,404

1,548

1,461

1,471

1,173

1,692

1,644

1,800

10,860

10,353

8,945

8,284

7,732

7,473

5,995

5,840

6,483

5,080

VALUE MANAGEMENT

Capital employed as of Dec 31
Return on capital employed (ROCE) (%)

Net financial debt/EBITDA
CASH FLOW/CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

BALANCE SHEET AS OF DEC 31

		thereof deferred taxes
Current assets
		thereof cash and cash equivalents
Equity

4,549

4,031

2,861

2,175

1,703

1,475

1,470

879

1,549

295

13,445

14,525

14,912

14,978

15,126

14,316

13,066

12,155

10,953

9,214

24.0

26.0

28.2

28.5

29.2

27.5

27.6

25.2

22.6

19.0

Non-current liabilities

28,091

28,527

26,284

25,599

24,238

24,762

23,359

23,161

25,612

26,319

		thereof financial debt

19,753

19,173

18,066

17,110

16,367

16,394

14,730

14,083

16,228

17,165

		thereof pension obligations

3,688

4,357

3,164

3,074

1,981

1,938

1,736

1,649

1,594

1,514

14,523

12,831

11,698

11,948

12,427

12,925

10,878

12,877

11,964

12,907

Equity ratio (%)

Current liabilities

2,675

1,161

1,247

1,503

1,984

2,159

1,780

2,770

1,834

2,716

Net financial debt

		thereof financial debt

17,491

16,212

16,362

16,366

16,592

16,939

15,011

15,943

16,513

19,586

Total assets

56,059

55,883

52,894

52,525

51,791

52,003

47,303

48,193

48,529

48,440

2,251

2,254

2,235

2,152

1,981

1,950

1,908

1,920

1,835

1,854

132

129

131

131

125

126

123

123

119

120

2,119

2,125

2,104

2,021

1,856

1,824

1,785

1,797

1,717

1,735

Volume sold (million pkm)

88,636

88,407

88,746

88,433

79,228

78,582

76,772

77,812

74,792

74,788

		Long-distance transport

36,975

36,102

36,777

37,357

35,565

36,026

34,708

35,457

34,137

34,458

		Regional and urban transport

51,661

52,305

51,969

51,076

43,663

42,556

42,064

42,355

40,654

40,331

R AIL PERFORMANCE FIGURES
PA SSENGER TR ANSPORT

Passengers (million)
		Long-distance transport
		Regional and urban transport

FREIGHT TR ANSPORT

Freight carried (million t)

300.2

329.1

390.1

398.7

411.6

415.4

341.0

378.7

312.8

307.6

Volume sold (million tkm)

98,445

102,871

104,259

105,894

111,980

105,794

93,948

113,634

98,794

96,388

1,054

1,044

1,035

1,039

1,051

1,034

1,003

1,043

1,050

1,016

290

261

247

231

220

195

170

162

147

128

Average

297,170

296,094

293,765

286,237

282,260

251,810

239,888

240,008

231,356

228,990

As of Dec 31

297,202

295,763

295,653

287,508

284,319

276,310

239,382

240,242

237,078

229,200

INFR A STRUCTURE

Train kilometers on track infrastructure (million train-path km)
		thereof non-Group customers
EMPLOYEES (FTE)

Deutsche Bahn AG
Potsdamer Platz 2
10785 Berlin
Germany
www.deutschebahn.com

