Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

es sen tial
Responsible business practice is essential to the long-term
business success of Deutsche Post DHL Group.

Deutsche Post DHL Group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

es sen tial
[adjective];
fundamental, significant, indispensable
Responsible business practice is essential to the long-term business success of
Deutsche Post DHL Group.
We follow this principle in our day-to-day business operations as well as in our
strategic planning. For our stakeholders, too, it is of fundamental importance that
we act responsibly. They expect us to adopt fair business practices, take a sustainable management approach and act with integrity in our dealings with customers,
employees, investors and business partners. We aim to meet their expectations by
applying high ethical, social and environmental standards in our daily activities
across the Group.
This report provides an insight into our focus areas and core activities related to
corporate responsibility. It describes how we combine our commitment to responsible business with bottom-line business interests as well as the actions we take.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report serves as our Advanced Level Communication
on Progress for the UN Global Compact. The content of the report is based on
the G4 Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting (Core option) as well as external
CR ratings and customer requirements. The report was reviewed by the audit firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers.

To the main online report:
cr-report2015.dpdhl.com

This PDF was automatically generated
from the content of the online version.

Deutsche Post DHL Group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

TABLE OF CONTENTS
4 con nect ing

90 to geth er

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

6
9
16
23
29
33
37

92
93
94
97
99

A word from the CEO
The Group
Strategy
Stakeholder relations
Boards and committees
External recognition
Essay

Management approach & targets
Measuring engagement
Disaster management
Improving educational opportunity and employability
Community involvement

39 mo ti va ting

101 ef fi cient

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

41
42
43
48
51
54
60
67

103
105
107
109
118
120
122
127

Management approach & targets
Workforce structure
Employee satisfaction
Diversity management
Employee relations
HR development and planning
Occupational safety & health
Interview with Melanie Kreis

70 fu ture fo cu sed

Management approach & targets
Environmental protection program
Management system
Efficiency management
Emissions
Natural resources
Green products
Interview with Jürgen Gerdes

130 an nex

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

72
73
78
81
83
85
87

Code of Conduct
Supplier management
Compliance
Data protection
Security management
Opportunity & risk assessment
Interview with Ken Allen

130
132
137
145
146
147

3

About this report
Employees
Environment
Economics
Corporate citizenship
Assurance report

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

con nect ing
[adjective];
bringing together, overcoming distances

4

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

WHAT DOES CONNECTING MEAN FOR US?
Corporate responsibility is inextricably linked to our business success. This is why we forge
meaningful relationships with our stakeholders to drive the development of innovative solutions.

IN THIS CHAPTER
6

A WORD FROM THE CEO

23

STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS

Memberships and partnerships
9

THE GROUP

29

Customers & innovation
Economic performance
16

STRATEGY

Management approach & targets
Agenda & CR activities
CR management

BOARDS AND COMMITTEES

Managing corporate responsibility
33

EXTERNAL RECOGNITION

Achievements in 2015
Awards & distinctions
37

5

ESSAY

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

A WORD FROM THE CEO

Dear Readers,
2015 was a year of social, political and economic change. The Eurozone crisis, the stagnation
in the world's growth markets, and widespread geopolitical tensions and their effects often
defined and dominated the agenda. Some developments had a destabilizing effect,
heightening fears and insecurities. Other developments forced change for the better,
providing the stimulus needed to grow and even exceed perceived limits. Parting with old
habits is often difficult because of the flexibility it demands, but this remains essential to
achieving progress. As a company, Deutsche Post DHL Group must also remain flexible. To
continue to improve, we must continue to change. This is why we made some important
changes in 2015 which we believe will allow us to successfully meet the challenges of a
highly competitive and demanding market. Change is essential for us, too.
The term “essential” is the overarching theme of this Corporate Responsibility Report, since
responsible business practice is, for us, an essential component of our daily work. In keeping
with our corporate strategy of sustainable, long-term growth, we developed and
implemented measures in 2015 that will allow us to meet our standards for both business
performance and corporate responsibility.
We have once again made significant progress in planning, executing and communicating
our activities in the area of CR and sustainability in the past year. As part of a materiality
analysis, we worked with our stakeholders to identify the issues considered most essential to
the company, took steps to further align our business activity with these issues, and
established corresponding KPIs and targets. We continued to make progress towards our
longer-term goals as well, improving non-financial KPIs “Active Leadership” and “Carbon
Efficiency” each by one percentage point as compared to the previous year. And this year for
the first time, our CR reporting is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4
guidelines.

6

Deutsche Post DHL Group

»

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Our corporate strategy is built upon core principles of long-term growth and
sustainability; with this as our guide, we remain truly well-equipped for
continued growth and success. In a highly competitive market, it allows us to
remain strong financially, maintain stability for us and our employees, and
keep a steady eye on the interests of our stakeholders.

«

We achieved some important stage wins last year on the road to becoming Employer of
Choice. I am truly proud to report that we were able to increase our global workforce by
some 8,900 employees despite challenging market conditions. The new regional delivery
companies we established within our Post - eCommerce - Parcel division provide employees
with both job security and career opportunity; at the same time, they will enable future
growth in a highly dynamic, competitive market. In all countries and divisions across the
Group, our priority is to create a working environment that enables our employees to do
their best work. For this reason we included a new KPI – "Performance Enablement" – in
our Employee Opinion Survey last year, which will give us an indication of how well we are
empowering our employees to provide customers with best-in-class service. We also made
further progress implementing the Group-wide Certified initiative in our divisions – a
program designed to help our employees develop into certified specialists in their respective
area of work. This represents a large-scale investment in our employees; we believe it creates
a culture that will improve our company on a number of different levels.
We also further expanded our activity in the area of corporate citizenship. Once again, the
spirit of volunteerism and community involvement on the part of our employees was truly
impressive. This engagement is something the Group expressly encourages: as part of our
2015 Global Volunteer Day more than 78,000 employees participated in charitable projects
in their local communities, volunteering some 260,000 hours of their time on behalf of over
2,000 different projects around the world. Many of our employees have also volunteered to
provide refugee aid here in Germany; since September of last year, we have contributed to
this cause in the form of both volunteer work and financial support. In 2015 our Disaster
Response Teams were deployed to Brazil, Chile, Guatemala, Nepal and the island nation of
Vanuatu to support airport logistics in the wake of devastating natural disasters. In addition
to this, preparedness workshops were conducted at airports in the Dominican Republic,
India and Macedonia to improve the management of incoming relief supplies in the event of
a disaster.
As part of our commitment to improving educational opportunity and employability for
children and young people, we were able to establish important new partnerships with
Teach For Bangladesh and Teach For Malaysia in 2015, as well as expand our collaboration
with SOS Children's Villages to include two new country partnerships in Nigeria and
Tanzania. As demonstrated clearly by these many examples, the volunteer spirit of our
employees is at the heart of our efforts to bring people together and improve their lives. On
behalf of the Board of Management I would therefore like to thank all Group employees for
this essential contribution to our corporate responsibility.
Environmental protection remains a top strategic priority for the Group. Our carbon
efficiency measures, as well as the development and deployment of our eco-friendly

7

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

products and solutions, support the overarching objective of the 2015 UN climate
conference agreement (COP21) to limit global warming to well below 2°C. The continued
recognition from external CR rating agencies also confirms the course we have set: in 2015
our engagement on behalf of the environment received the highest rating from the
renowned Climate Disclosure Project. Our membership in the Dow Jones Sustainability
Indices (DJSI World, DJSI Europe) was re-confirmed in 2015. In addition, we received
another RobecoSam Bronze Class distinction as well as the top “AAA” rating from MSCI –
strong examples of recognition for our outstanding performance in the area of planning and
executing centralized sustainability activities.
As always, our actions as individuals and as a company are guided by our Group-wide Code
of Conduct, which is based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ten
principles outlined in the UN Global Compact. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact,
we are committed to “living” these ten principles in our day-to-day work. We also support
the United Nation’s Global Goals for Sustainable Development.
As mentioned already, 2015 was a year of change. As a company, we succeeded in rising to
the challenge and seizing upon the opportunities that often go hand-in-hand with change –
which is why I’m certain 2016 will be a good year for Deutsche Post DHL Group. Our
corporate strategy is built upon core principles of long-term growth and sustainability; with
this as our guide, we remain truly well-equipped for continued growth and success. In a
highly competitive market, it allows us to remain strong financially, maintain stability for us
and our employees, and keep a steady eye on the interests of our stakeholders.
Sincerely,
Dr. Frank Appel
CEO

8

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

THE GROUP
Deutsche Post DHL Group conducts business in more than 220 countries and territories
and is the world’s leading postal and logistics services provider.

Group at a glance
Sites worldwide

~12,000

Americas

Europe

Other regions

Asia Pacific

658

6,887

451

1,263

ISO 14001-relevant sites

ISO 14001-relevant sites

ISO 14001-relevant sites

ISO 14001-relevant sites

Employees

78,027

Vehicles

5,080

Employees
Vehicles

Global hub Cincinatti (USA)

Global hub Leipzig (Germany)

DRT Panama

Group headquarters Bonn (Germany)

326,979

Employees

81,190

Vehicles
DRT Dubai

18,896
1,825

Employees
Vehicles
Global hub Singapore
DRT Singapore

The principle company of the Group, Deutsche Post AG, is a listed corporation domiciled in
Bonn, Germany. The Group is organized into four operating divisions – Post - eCommerce Parcel, Express, Global Forwarding, Freight and Supply Chain – each of which is under the
control of its own divisional headquarters. We have consolidated internal services, such as
Finance, IT, Procurement and Legal, under Global Business Services. Group management
functions are centralized in the Corporate Center.

9

73,843
4,245

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Organizational structure of Deutsche Post DHL Group

 PwC

DEUTSCHE POST DHL GROUP

CORPORATE CENTER

CEO

Finance, Global Business Services

Functions

Functions

Board Services
Corporate First Choice
Corporate Legal
Customer Solutions & Innovation
Corporate Office
Corporate Development
Corporate Executives
Corporate Heritage & Industry Associations
Corporate Communication & Responsibility
Corporate Public Policy & Regulation
Management

Human Resources
Functions

Corporate Accounting & Controlling
Corporate Finance
Global Business Services: Procurement, Real
Estate, Finance Operations, Legal Services etc.
Investor Relations
Corporate Audit & Security
Taxes

Corporate HR Germany
Corporate HR Standards & Programs
Corporate HR International
HR Post - eCommerce - Parcel
HR Express
HR Global Forwarding, Freight
HR Supply Chain
HR Finance, GBS, CSI, CC

DIVISIONS

Post - eCommerce - Parcel
Business units

Express
Regions

Post
eCommerce - Parcel

Global Forwarding, Freight
Business units

Europe
Americas
Asia Pacific
MEA (Middle East and Africa)

Our brands

Supply Chain
Regions

Global Forwarding
Freight

EMEA (Europe, Middle East and
Africa)
Americas
Asia Pacific

 PwC

With our dual Deutsche Post and DHL brands, we offer our customers a comprehensive
portfolio of products and services.

Brand architecture
Group

Divisions

DEUTSCHE POST DHL GROUP
Post - eCommerce - Parcel

Express

Global Forwarding,
Freight

Supply Chain

Brands

Deutsche Post – The Postal Service for Germany
Deutsche Post is the sole provider of universal postal services in Germany. In the Post eCommerce - Parcel division we transport letters both domestically and internationally, and
are specialists in dialogue marketing, the nationwide distribution of press products, and

10

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

electronic services related to mail dispatch. In Germany as well as in other markets we
provide domestic parcel services and continue to expand our offers for shipping parcels and
merchandise across national borders. We also offer services on the travel and intercity bus
market.
DHL – The Logistics Company for the World
DHL is an international express service provider, an air, ocean and overland freight
forwarder as well as a supply chain specialist, and offers our customers a wide range of
integrated logistics solutions. With a network that spans the globe, we are one of the leading
providers in our business segments. And we strive continually to improve our services so
that whatever our customers want we provide to their satisfaction.

1
2

Ranked 30th, source: Interbrand
Ranked 66th, source: Millward Brown, 2015

Please see our 2015 Annual Report for detailed information about our products and
business performance.

11

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Customers & innovation

 PwC

Provider of Choice is one of the three core objectives of our Group strategy. That is why we
regularly conduct customer satisfaction surveys, quantify that satisfaction with key figures
and pursue well-defined goals.

To increase customer satisfaction and strengthen customer loyalty further, we apply First
Choice methodology. Based on Six Sigma and Lean, this methodology has been employed
across the Group since 2007 for the purpose of continually improving what we do. We
handle customer complaints as quickly as possible and use them as motivation for
optimizing our processes and substantially improving our customer service.

Measuring customer satisfaction

 PwC

Customers of Deutsche Post DHL Group expect us to provide fast, reliable and high quality
products and services. In turn we measure their satisfaction with our performance, utilizing
a set of tools matched with the divisions’ different fields of activity. A few examples are
provided below. More detailed information can be found in the 2015 Annual Report.
Post - eCommerce - Parcel

90%

53

of letters in Germany are delivered to their
recipients the next day

weekly business hours on average

External surveys confirm that 90% of letters are delivered to their recipients the next day in
Germany. This puts us markedly above the statutory requirement of 80%. Our quality
management system is certified externally every year. In the parcel business in Germany,

12

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

items usually reach their recipients the next working day. Our internal system for measuring
parcel transit times has been certified by TÜV Rheinland since 2008. Like last year, the
average weekly business hours of our 29,000-plus sales points in 2015 was 53 hours. The
annual survey conducted by “Kundenmonitor Deutschland”, the largest consumer study in
Germany, also showed a high acceptance of our exclusively partner-operated retail outlets:
91.5% of customers were satisfied with our quality and service.
Express

~280

Global

TAPA-certified locations

ISO 9001:2008 certification

In our Express business, we want to offer our customers the best possible service quality all
around the world. It’s why we place high demands on our products, processes, infrastructure
and employees, and keep a constant eye on the ever-changing requirements of our
customers. Whenever our employees are in contact with customers, the feedback from those
customers is documented and evaluated. In addition, our managers talk to dissatisfied
customers personally to find out the root causes of their dissatisfaction. That means
customer criticism is an integral part of our continuous improvement processes.
Our operational safety, compliance with standards, and the quality of service at our facilities
are reviewed regularly in cooperation with government authorities. Approximately 280
locations – over 120 of which are in Europe – have been certified by the Transported Asset
Protection Association (TAPA), one of the world’s most prestigious organizations promoting
logistics safety and security. Our sites have had global ISO 9001:2008 certification since
2013.
Global Forwarding, Freight
In the Global Forwarding business unit, we use
a continual customer feedback approach to
improve our offers systematically. This method
countries covered by customer
generated a steady stream of responses once
feedback approach
again and led to concrete suggestions for
improvements. In the reporting year we expanded that approach to cover 29 additional
countries, with more to follow in 2016.

+29

In the Freight business unit, we are bolstering our customer service and investing heavily in
systems that will improve process management and communication between customers and
DHL employees.

13

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Supply Chain
We want to be the quality leader in contract
logistics – the company that best understands
customers’ needs and leads the way in customer
of our services meet the highest
satisfaction. To this end, we implement
service standards
practices and methodologies that provide our
customers with the highest level of service quality and the most added-value. We use
globally tested processes to offer our customers comparable solutions and uniformly high
service standards. In order to measure and monitor the quality of our service, we have
defined a number of key performance indicators (KPIs) for the division, which include
safety and operational performance. We consistently deliver products and services that meet
the highest service standards worldwide, achieving ratings of over 95% in all relevant
categories.

>95%

Innovations

 PwC

Deutsche Post DHL Group is developing business models that benefit both our company
and society. Technical innovations are key factors in this process. The task of researching
and developing those new technologies is assigned to Customer Solutions & Innovation
(CSI) in the CEO board department, which works in close collaboration with divisional
experts.
We intend to use our innovations in multifaceted ways to create added value for our
customers. It’s more than just a matter of simplifying and automating logistics processes.
With our innovations, we seek to make logistics chains more secure and more stable. Many
of these new technologies are also designed to reduce the carbon footprint of logistics
services.
Strategic innovation management
We drive innovation strategically in two ways. First, we use technology that is available
today to develop new, more energy efficient and more robust solutions. Second, we strive to
develop alternative technologies. In this process we seek to collaborate with customers,
suppliers, financial institutes, the scientific community, logistics initiatives and many other
reference groups. This cooperative approach gives our innovation projects better chances to
succeed, accelerates their development, and expands their impact. Our innovation projects
are multi-faceted and adapted to specific situations. In the reporting year, we launched a
number of new efforts and reached important milestones in current projects. Moreover, our
company has received external recognition for our innovation management.
Project examples
A pilot project at a distribution center in the Netherlands focused on testing for the use of
"smart glasses" and "Augmented Reality (AR)". Developers working together with customers
used the technologies to explore the effectiveness of an AR concept called "Vision Picking"

14

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

in warehouse operations. Employees were given smart glasses that display order information
step-by-step, the goal being to expedite the picking process and reduce errors.

Economic performance

 PwC

Deutsche Post DHL Group provides services that are indispensable to a modern society.
With our world-spanning logistics networks we not only ensure that information and goods
are conveyed securely but also create the conditions necessary for companies and people to
participate in world trade. It’s how we can contribute to the welfare of companies and
individuals around the globe.
A detailed look at our Group’s significance for global trade and our economic performance
is provided in our Annual Report. The Group’s solid results in 2015 are once again a
reflection of the trust our customers place in us as a company that acts responsibly. At the
same time, this income gives us the opportunity to expand our commitment to corporate
responsibility.

Taxes
The Group pursues a conservative tax strategy. As a company that does business around the
world, we have a presence via different enterprises in a number of nations, including some
that are considered “low-tax countries”. These companies are not tools for optimizing our
tax payments, but instead are used to support our operating activities.
With the help of our global team of tax experts, we ensure that taxation risks can be
recognized and counteracted, that national and international tax-related compliance
requirements are met and as a result that the commercial activities of the Group are properly
taxed in the respective countries.
Through the payment of taxes and other duties to federal, state and local authorities in many
countries, the Group helps finance infrastructure maintenance and expansion world-wide.
Please refer to our Annual Report for details on our tax expenses.

Dividend
Our shareholders also benefit from our economic success. In 2015, we paid out
€1,030 million in dividends for fiscal year 2014. Information on dividends for fiscal year
2015 will also be available in our Annual Report.

Wages and salaries
With around 500,000 staff members, we are one of the world’s largest employers. Staff costs
in the reporting year amounted to some €19.6 billion. They include wages, salaries and
compensation as well as all other benefits paid to employees of the Group for their work

15

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

during the fiscal year, including social contributions. These are primarily statutory
contributions, in particular the social security contributions. In numerous countries we offer
defined benefit and/or defined contribution-based pension plans, and which accounted for
approximately €1 billion of total staff costs in 2015. More detailed information regarding the
defined benefit pension plans is available in our 2015 Annual Report.
Remuneration of Board of Management and Supervisory Board Members
In the reporting year, the total remuneration paid to active Board of Management members
amounted to €17.4 million; for the Supervisory Board, that total was €2.7 million. These
figures include share-based remuneration. Overall the remuneration paid to the Board of
Management and the Supervisory Board represents a 0.1% share of total staff costs. Please
refer to the Remuneration Report in the 2015 Annual Report for further details related to
the Board of Management and Supervisory Board remuneration.

Investments
We continue to optimize the networks and to refurbish our vehicle and aircraft fleet as well
as our buildings, machines and facilities. The Group’s investment expenditures amounted to
some €2 billion in the reporting year. Detailed information about these investments is
available in this year’s Annual Report.
Environmental aspects enjoy great significance in our capital expenditure policies. Our
Corporate Investment Policy, for example, specifies that the company may not make a
replacement purchase if the replacement is not more energy efficient than its predecessor
model or does not at least offer other environmental advantages. Our policy applies to all
decisions related to building and renovation projects as well as for example to measures
related to renewing our road vehicle and aircraft fleets. For examples of these investments,
please see the Shared Value chapter.

STRATEGY  PwC
Management approach & targets

 PwC

Our mission as the leading mail and logistics company is to connect people and improve
their lives. Because of the sheer size of our company and its significance for global
commerce, we believe we have an added responsibility to our employees, to society and the
environment. This keen sense of social and environmental responsibility has a significant
influence on the way Deutsche Post DHL Group does business and forms the backbone of
our company culture. Responsibility is what defines our Group-wide Code of Conduct,
which is guided by the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN
Global Compact, and takes into account widely recognized legal standards including
applicable anti-corruption conventions and legislation. We also support the United Nation’s
Global Goals for Sustainable Development.

16

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Corporate responsibility is an integral component of our corporate strategy. Our goal is to
become Provider, Employer and Investment of Choice – and to become a benchmark
company for responsible business. Deutsche Post DHL’s business goals and sustainability
targets are directly related. Today, more and more customers consider a company's social
value when deciding on a service provider. Companies whose management is characterized
by a strong commitment to ethical business practices are also at an advantage when it comes
to motivating their employees and building employee loyalty; these are the companies
favored by job applicants. Moreover, an increasing number of investors base their
investment decisions on a company’s record of responsible, sustainable business practice as a
way to minimize long-term investment risks.
Corporate strategy goals

With sustainability and responsibility as integral components of our corporate strategy, we
are committed to meeting the demands of the business, our stakeholders, society and the
environment. We work together with our stakeholders to identify the action areas
considered essential for our company. As part of a materiality analysis conducted during the
course of the reporting year, we have identified eight material issues, along with
performance indicators (KPIs) and target objectives. With the help of these KPIs we can also
measure progress made in implementing our long-term corporate strategy.
KPIs and targets
Focus area

KPI

Target

Occupational health and safety

Accident rate (LTIFR)

Suitable targets will be reviewed and
set in 2016

Employee engagement

KPI “Active Leadership”

Increase the approval rating to 74%
in 2016

Training & HR development

Participation in Certified initiative

80% of our workforce is to be
certified by 2020

Energy efficiency and climate change

Carbon efficiency index (CEX)

Improve CEX by at least one index
point over previous year

Local air pollutants and noise

We plan to give this area special attention with the goal of developing relevant
targets and reviewing the applicability of existing KPIs for this area

17

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

The material issues compliance, data protection and security, as well as environmental and
social standards in the supply chain are also monitored centrally with the help of defined
KPIs. However, because of the sensitive nature of this data, we do not report on this
information externally.

Agenda & CR activities

 PwC

Our Group-wide activities and objectives in the area of sustainability focus on the following
dimensions:
Organization and strategy
Employees and workplace
Principles and guidelines
Society and engagement
Environment and solutions

Organization and strategy
Corporate responsibility is an integral component of Deutsche Post DHL Group strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for setting the company’s strategic direction.
Within the CEO board department, the corporate department for Corporate
Communications and Responsibility is charged with overseeing the Group’s corporate
responsibility activities. Through our CR management process, and in various committees
with internal and external stakeholders, we identify relevant issues and make the necessary
decisions to improve our performance. This process is recognized for excellence on a regular
basis by rating agencies and other external institutions.

Employees and workplace
The ability of Deutsche Post DHL Group to succeed and meet its targets depends largely on
the quality of our people and their commitment to continually deliver high-level
performance for our customers, and continuously further their own personal and
professional development at the same time. The most important functions of our human
resources management work involve recruiting the right people to fill open positions, and
continuously motivating and developing our existing workforce worldwide. Ultimately, the
key to our success is to create the basis for productive, long-term employer-employee
relationships based on mutual respect and appreciation. This requires a corporate culture of
openness, trust and respect, as well as performance-based remuneration, good career
development opportunities and a safe, secure and healthy working environment.

18

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Principles and guidelines: Responsible business practice
The central platform for our CR management is the Group-wide Responsible Business
Practice (RBP) network, which coordinates the main aspects of responsible management
practice across divisions and functions. CR-relevant issues include ethical governance,
sustainable business strategy, product responsibility and responsible business practices,
working conditions, safeguarding human rights, environmental protection and corporate
citizenship. With the help of the materiality analysis, the RBP network identifies focus
issues, improves the Group’s performance in those areas and creates transparency with
regard progress made against our targets. As part of this process, members of the RBP
network maintain an ongoing dialogue with their respective stakeholders. In this way we
ensure that stakeholder expectations with regard to social and environmental issues are
taken into account and that we take a systematic approach to aligning our business activities
with these expectations. The overarching goal remains the same: to combine sustainability
with profitability.

Society and engagement: Corporate Citizenship
Our social engagement activities are bundled and managed in the area called “Society &
Engagement”. Working closely with experienced partner organizations, we mobilize our core
strengths and competencies as the world’s leading mail and logistics service provider on
behalf of society and the environment. Our Group-wide programs help improve educational
opportunity and employability for young people from disadvantaged socio-economic
backgrounds, support disaster management at airports, and support local environmental
protection and other community projects initiated by our employees. In the reporting year
we also collaborated with partners to launch a wide-scale refugee aid initiative in Germany.
We encourage our employees to get involved as volunteers, and we provide funds to help
support their efforts.

Environment and solutions: Shared Value
"Shared Value" is the term we use to describe our various efforts to minimize the
environmental impact of our business activities and develop green solutions for our
customers. “Shared Value” guides a value-creation approach to environmental management
across Deutsche Post DHL Group. Accordingly, we not only make a contribution to society
and the natural environment, but also grow our business – and our success – with things like
carbon efficiency measures or our portfolio of eco-friendly GoGreen products. We meet the
specific needs of our customers by working with them to identify and develop sustainable
logistics solutions. Our corporate strategy is long-term and reflects our Group-wide
commitment to creating shared value.
With our Group-wide carbon efficiency target we want to lower the impact of our business
activity on the environment and improve our carbon efficiency by 30% by the year 2020 as
compared to the 2007 baseline. By 2015 we had already achieved an efficiency improvement
of 25%.

19

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

CR management process & materiality analysis

 PwC

Our goal is to become a benchmark company for responsible business; to do this, we want to
continually improve our CR performance in a way that can be quantified and
communicated clearly and transparently. This requires openness, as well as a systematic,
structured approach. Openness means proactively gathering information from our
stakeholder dialogues, initiatives, partnerships and from CR ratings, and assessing the
relevance of this information for our business. At the same time, we apply a management
process to systematically identify material issues and define concrete action measures, goals
and KPIs. Decisions were taken in the reporting year by our internal decision-making body,
the Responsible Business Practice Council, and also by the Board of Management. We
report to our stakeholders on progress made and take this opportunity to gather additional
input from them. In addition, we consider the recommendations of the independent experts
who make up the Sustainability Advisory Council.
The insights gained from this continuous process are fed back into the management cycle on
an ongoing basis. After the CR management process completed its first full cycle in 2014, we
initiated a new cycle in 2015. This included another materiality analysis with an extensive
stakeholder survey, telephone interviews with selected stakeholder groups, as well as
involvement and input from additional sources.
CR management process

Materiality analysis

 PwC

Deutsche Post DHL Group once again conducted a materiality analysis in the reporting year
as a way to identify focus issues within three main areas: Employees, the Environment and
Governance. Focus issues were identified and concrete goals and KPIs were defined for each
issue.

20

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

In the area of Employees, we will focus on the issues of employee engagement, learning
and development, and occupational health and safety.
In the area of Environment, we will concentrate on issues of energy efficiency, as well as
air pollution and noise.
In the area of Governance, our focus is on compliance, data protection and security, as
well as standards in the value chain (especially environmental and social standards in the
supply chain).
We do not report KPIs for compliance, data protection and data security, or environmental
and social standards in the supply chain since these figures contain sensitive information
pertaining to our business. The remaining material issues are covered in detail – including
changes and developments in 2015 – in the respective chapters of this report.
Results of the 2015 materiality analysis

 PwC

Methodology behind the materiality analysis
Identifying those issues considered material by Deutsche Post DHL Group involved a fourstep process.

21

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

First, 500 different stakeholder representatives participated in an international, anonymous
online survey and shared with us their input on the importance of sustainability issues for
the Group, as well as their feedback on the Group’s performance in the respective areas.
Participants in the survey included employees, customers, investors, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), policymakers, suppliers, journalists, academic institutions,
associations and councils, as well as CR experts from other companies.
The survey questions were based on the following five thematic areas: ethical governance
and sustainable business strategy, product responsibility and business practices, working
conditions and the safeguarding of human rights, environmental protection and corporate
citizenship. The list of issues was established according to today’s most important
sustainability initiatives and standards (including the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI, UN
Global Compact, OECD), and also based on the requirements of customers, CR rating
agencies and internal evaluation methods. The issues identified in 2015 were largely the
same as those identified for our company in 2013.
As a second step, the results of the stakeholder surveys were combined with insights gained
from other relevant sources of information. These sources included:
Information from interviews with selected stakeholders
Analysis of customer requirements
Insights gained from external evaluations by CR rating agencies
Evaluation of global trends and issues (Issues Monitoring), as well as
The impact of the logistics industry on environment and society based on the Green
Transformation Lab’s impact study “Responsibility to act”.
The third stage of the process involved interviews with members of our internal Responsible
Business Practice Council as well as with members of the Deutsche Post DHL Group Board
of Management, who were asked to provide their input on possible focus issues and their
relevance. In addition, an evaluation was performed by the Sustainability Advisory Council,
which is made up of independent external CR specialists.
In the final step, issues identified as material by internal and external evaluations were
reviewed and confirmed by the Board of Management, and then assigned individual KPIs
and target objectives.
The material issues along with their KPIs and targets form the basis for the continuous
performance improvement process and the associated reporting, both internally and
externally.

22

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS
Our forward-looking corporate strategy makes clear our aspiration to respond to the needs
and requirements of the Group’s diverse range of stakeholders in our day-to-day business
activity. As part of a global conference for Deutsche Post DHL Group communications and
sustainability managers, held from June 24 – 26, 2015 in Berlin, some 110 participants from
various divisions and regions across the Group took part in workshops to identify and
validate stakeholder groups and relevant issues for the respective regions. As part of the
materiality analysis, we also created a stakeholder map and analyzed the strategic relevance
of each stakeholder group.

Stakeholder engagement

 PwC

Maintaining regular dialogue with our stakeholder groups is a high strategic priority for our
company and a core component of our CR management approach; it is critical to
understanding and effectively addressing the social and business challenges considered most
relevant for our Group. We engage in a range of different dialogue formats to deepen the
dialogue with our stakeholders and gain an even better understanding of their views and
expectations. Some of these formats include roundtable discussions, direct feedback
following events, and detailed stakeholder surveys. Comprehensive stakeholder surveys also
provide key input for updating the materiality analysis, which is an ongoing process.
Deutsche Post DHL Group stakeholders

In the reporting year we published a Stakeholder Engagement Guideline complete with
training materials. The goal of the SE Guideline, which is based on the international AA1000
Stakeholder Engagement Standard (AA1000SES), is to streamline and standardize the
stakeholder dialogue process across the Group. We have established internal exchange
platforms and conducted various trainings as a way to further improve our employees’

23

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

knowledge of the SE Guideline and their overall stakeholder orientation. This included a
Stakeholder Engagement Forum on October 8, 2015 in Bonn, as well as teleconferences with
employees in Asia, Europe and the US. During the reporting year, the Group also invested in
the redesign of the DHL Innovation Center in Troisdorf and opened the Asia Pacific
Innovation Center (APIC) in Singapore. Both locations offer central platforms where DHL
experts can work together with customers and stakeholders on innovation-related topics.

Stakeholder groups, dialogue formats & events
We communicate with our stakeholders in a number of different ways to address our core
CR issues. For example, at our Innovation Centers in Troisdorf and Singapore we are
currently working closely together with our customers and a network of research and
industry partners to develop long-term solutions that will keep the flow of goods moving
around the world and provide solutions to the ever-changing requirements of global supply
chains.
Examples of stakeholder activities in 2015
Citizens
Dialogue on corporate responsibility topics through
events and participant feedback

Feedback as part of the “Formula E” racing series
event (see Customers)

Experts
Public, semi-public and closed-door dialogue with
opinion leaders about social developments and their
impact on logistics

CDP Climate Leadership Conference: On
November 4, 2015 Deutsche Post DHL Group
hosted the Carbon Disclosure Project DACH
Leadership Award Conference & Ceremony in
Bonn. As part of the event, some 300 industry
representatives and investors discussed the results
of the CDP Climate Disclosure & Performance
Scores, which had been published that same day.

Investors
Annual General Meeting, announcement of annual and
quarterly results, regular investor road shows, investor
conferences, investor surveys and studies

Normura European Responsible Investing
Conference: Presentation of the Group’s CR
activities to SRI investors on May 21, 2015 in Paris.

Media
Continuous dialogue and exchange with the media,
active and reactive media relations, media monitoring,
media response analysis, media cooperations, workshops,
social media activities, Logistics Newsroom

Deutsche Post DHL Group media relations portal
The media relations platform points journalists and
other members of the media community to media
contacts within the Group and supports them in
gathering information on Deutsche Post DHL
Group as well as its brands and products by
providing targeted access to the most recent news,

24

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

background reports, images, audio and video
material, as well as social media applications and
the Logistics Newsroom.
Customers
Annual customer satisfaction survey, market research,
numerous customer conferences and events, customer
magazines, Customer service center, workshops in the
DHL Innovation Centers
Digital: Websites, social media channels, Logistics
Newsroom

Customer event: Formula E racing series
As operator of one of the industry’s largest fleets of
green vehicles, we are official logistics partner of
the FIA Formula E Championship racing series.
Over the course of the reporting year, races were
held in Argentina, Germany, Russia, the UK and
the USA. We use the Formula E events, which
feature fully-electric racing cars, to engage visitors
and obtain feedback on six fundamental questions
pertaining to e-mobility. In 2015 over 2,600
individuals took part in the survey. 57% of survey
participants believe that e-mobility will prevail as
the drive technology of the future. 57% also believe
that the Formula E racing series contributes to
better awareness and understanding of e-mobility.
More than half of those surveyed consider
Deutsche Post DHL Group a leader in the
development of sustainability technologies.
Delivered: Our global customer magazine
Published five times a year, this magazine features
extensive information and expert opinions on
logistics solutions as well as industry and sector
trends. New content is constantly being added to
the magazine’s online version.
Innovation Centers
The Innovation Center in Troisdorf was completely
redesigned to help drive the development of
innovations in cooperation with customers and a
network of industry and research partners. It was
officially reopened on May 19, 2015.
A new center, the first of its kind in the Asia-Pacific
region and the company’s first outside of Germany,
was opened in Singapore on December 9, 2015. It
serves as regional platform for developing
innovative global supply chain solutions in
collaboration with customers, industry partners,
and independent experts.

25

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Suppliers and transportation subcontractors
Participation in trade association working groups and
other industry initiatives to, among other things, develop
industry-wide standards for emissions data measurement

Follow-up meeting: Smart Freight Latin America
Roundtable
Representatives from the various national Green
Freight programs and other stakeholders gathered
in São Paulo on September 14, 2015 to exchange
information and insights on the existing programs
in China, France and the USA. Participants
explored possible collaboration opportunities for
developing similar programs in Latin American
countries such as Argentina, Brazil and Chile.

Supplier management: DPDHL Group Supplier Day

DPDHL Group Supplier Day
Discussion rounds, lectures and workshops were
held on May 4, 2015, with more than 370
international participants, including representatives
from the Group’s strategic suppliers.

Opinion leaders
Public dialogue with opinion leaders from various fields
as part of our Delphi Dialog format

Delphi Dialog 2020: “Happ-e-Ness – How
digitization influences our satisfaction with life”
Some 130 experts from politics, business, academia
and the media convened on November 25, 2015 in
Berlin for the tenth Delphi Dialog to exchange
views on the topic of “Happ-e-Ness – How
digitization influences our satisfaction with life”.
The discussion also highlighted the “Deutsche Post
Atlas of Happiness 2015”, which was published on
the day of the event.

Publication of Trend Reports

Deutsche Post DHL Group regularly conducts and
publishes studies on global trends and issues being
debated in society and in the logistics industry. In
the reporting year, trend reports were published on
the Internet of things, Omni Chanel Logistics as
well as Fair and Responsible Logistics in
collaboration with customers, partners and
industry experts.

Employees and their representatives
Annual Employee Opinion Survey (EOS), Employee
Trend Monitor (four times per year), internal media,
discussion platforms on the Intranet and Extranet,
internal collaboration platform (Yammer), employee

Our annual Employee Opinion Survey (EOS) is
central to our ongoing dialogue with our
employees. The results help us gauge how close we
are to achieving our Employer of Choice aspiration.

26

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

events, works council meetings, works council
committees, Deutsche Post DHL Forum (twice yearly)
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
Regular meetings, conferences and symposia; ongoing
partnerships and collaborative projects

We participate in industry-wide initiatives such as
the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(US EPA) SmartWay program, and have played an
active role in the founding of the Green Freight
Europe and Green Freight Asia initiatives.

Policymakers
Regular events to promote dialogue on the latest
economic and social developments

Delphi Dialog 2020: “Happ-e-Ness” – How
digitization influences our satisfaction with life”
(See Opinion leaders)

Science and research
Collaboration on innovation projects, dialogue via
conferences and symposia

Round table forum “Was macht einen globalen
Logistikkonzern zum Vorreiter beim
Klimaschutz?” (What makes a global logistics
company a leader in climate protection?)
Discussion format during the Carbon Disclosure
Project DACH Leadership Award Conference &
Ceremony, which took place November 4, 2015 in
Bonn. Fifteen selected participants explored,
among others, the following questions: What kind
of contribution do you expect from a global
logistics company in the fight against climate
change? What measures should be taken to balance
environmental and business objectives?
Delphi Dialog 2020: “Happ-e-Ness” – How
digitization influences our satisfaction with life”
(See Opinion leaders)

27

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Memberships and partnerships
Partnerships with or memberships in national and international organizations are of
considerable strategic importance for us and our work. The dialogue with these partners/
organizations is a significant contributor to our successful practice of corporate
responsibility.
Memberships allow us to have an impact on comprehensive issues like sustainability. They
include for example the World Economic Forum (WEF), the United Nations Global
Compact (UNGC) as well as the international Partnering against Corruption (PACI)
Initiative.
We cooperate with a number of establishments and institutions on the full range of our CR
activities and develop common solutions and positions on specific issues.
In the area of health and occupational safety, for example, these efforts included work with
the World Health Organization, the global Occupational Health and Safety network of the
International Organization of Employers and the European Road Safety Charter.
We participate in a number of industry-led initiatives dedicated to environmental issues.
These include, among others:
aireg – Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany e.V.
As part of aireg, we are currently working alongside other companies to advance the
development of alternative aviation fuels.
The Business for Social Responsibility Clean Cargo Working Group
Here we are working with others towards greater sustainability in ocean freight shipping.
Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC), Green Freight Asia, Green Freight Europe
These initiatives are dedicated to harmonizing emissions calculation methodologies and
increasing awareness among road transport subcontractors about the importance of
emission data.
Memberships in the area of Corporate Citizenship offer us the opportunity to further
develop a standardized calculation method and support our employees involved in social
causes. For many years now, we have worked closely together with recognized cooperation
partners:
LBG Network
Our membership in this network enables us to support the further development of the
LBG model, which we use to evaluate our corporate responsibility activities.
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
Our commitment to UNDP makes us part of a global humanitarian system. To date, we
have enjoyed a ten-year partnership with the United Nations.
Teach For All, Inc.
We share the philosophy of this organization: Teach For All is dedicated to the idea that

28

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

every child should have access to quality education regardless of their parents' socioeconomic status. We also encourage our employees to get involved as mentors in their
free time.
SOS Children’s Villages of the Hermann-Gmeiner-Fonds Deutschland e.V. around the
world
We support SOS Children’s Villages in their efforts to help young people transition to
professional life and improve their chances for a self-determined life.
A complete list of memberships and partnerships can be found on the Group website .

BOARDS AND COMMITTEES  PwC
As a listed German public limited company, Deutsche Post AG has a dual management
structure. The Board of Management is responsible for the management of the company. It
is appointed, overseen and advised by the Supervisory Board. The Board of Management
and the Supervisory Board are in regular dialogue regarding strategic measures, planning,
business development, risk exposure and risk management as well as company compliance.
The Supervisory Board Report in the Annual Report 2015 provides information on issues
and decisions that were discussed by the Supervisory Board.

The Board of Management
The Board of Management, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, has established rules
of procedure that lay down, among other things, the cooperation within the Board of
Management. As such, each Board member manages their department independently and
regularly informs the rest of the Board about key developments. The Board of Management
as a whole decides on matters of particular significance for the company or the Group. These
include all decisions that pursuant to the rules of procedure must be presented to the
Supervisory Board for approval as well as those tasks the Board is statutorily prohibited
from delegating. In making their decisions, Board of Management members may not pursue
personal interests or exploit business opportunities due to the company if such pursuits are
for their own benefit. They are required to disclose any conflicts of interest to the
Supervisory Board without delay. The Articles of Association (shareholders’ agreement) can
be found on the Group website.

29

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

The Board of Management

1

Dr. Frank Appel
Chief Executive Officer1
Appointed until Oct. 2017

Melanie Kreis
Board Member for Human Resources
Appointed until Oct. 2017

Lawrence A. Rosen
Board Member for Finance,
Globa Business Services
Appointed until Aug. 2017

Jürgen Gerdes
Board Member for Post - eCommerce - Parcel
Appointed until June 2020

Ken Allen
Board Member for Express
Appointed until July 2020

John Gilbert
Board Member for Supply Chain
Appointed until March 2017

Frank Appel is also responsible for Global Forwarding, Freight until further notice.

The Board of Management comprises seven positions that have been occupied by six
members, one of them female, since 2015. The curriculum vitae of Board of Management
members, as well as the board department functions, appointment periods and other
mandates can be found on our Group website .
Organizational changes to the Board of Management in 2015
On April 27, 2015, Roger Crook stepped down from the Board of Management. Until the
appointment of a new board member for the Global Forwarding, Freight division, the CEO,
Dr. Frank Appel, has taken over the corresponding tasks in a dual role.

The Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board advises and oversees the Board of Management; it also appoints the
members of the Board of Management. It has established rules of procedure that include the
fundamental principles of its internal structure, a catalog of Board of Management
transactions requiring its approval as well as rules for the Supervisory Board committees. It
meets at least twice every half calendar year. Special meetings are held whenever particular
developments or measures need to be discussed or decided quickly. In addition, the
Supervisory Board has six committees that are charged primarily with preparing the
resolutions of the Supervisory Board’s plenary meetings. The Supervisory Board delegates
ultimate decision-making on individual issues to the committees.

30

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

The Supervisory Board has 20 members, ten
shareholder representatives that are elected by
the Annual General Meeting and ten employee
women in the Supervisory Board
representatives that are elected by employees in
accordance with the provisions of the German
Corporate Governance Codex. All members of the Supervisory Board are independent as
defined in the German Corporate Governance Codex. Women comprise 35% of the
Supervisory Board. This exceeds the legal requirement in Germany.

35%

The curriculum vitae of shareholder representatives and the composition of Supervisory
Board committees can be found on our Group website.

Managing corporate responsibility

 PwC

The standards for responsible corporate governance are set in the Corporate Center and in
Global Business Services. These include first and foremost the company’s strategic direction,
systematic dialogue with stakeholder groups, Group policies that are key for corporate
responsibility such as the Code of Conduct, and cross-divisional functions such as
compliance and supplier management. Standards are also set for remuneration in the Group,
health management and occupational safety. The divisions are responsible for connecting
customer requirements with the strategic and ethical principles of corporate responsibility
and for anchoring the Code of Conduct for Suppliers in their contractual relationships.

Management of corporate responsibility
DEUTSCHE POST DHL GROUP

CORPORATE CENTER
Standards for responsible business practice, e.g. Code of Conduct,
Compliance, Data Protection

1

DIVISIONS
Linking of business and responsibility, e.g. customer requirements,
Supplier Code of Conduct1

IDENTIFICATION OF ISSUES
AND DECISION MAKING

Issue-specific bodies, e.g. HR Board, GoGreen Sponsors Board
Cross-divisional Responsible Business Working Group/RBP Council
Board of Management

MANAGING ISSUES AND
CREATING TRANSPARENCY

Governance structures
Management systems
KPIs and targets
Transparency, e.g. regular reporting

The term "supplier" also refers to our transportation subcontractors.

Key internal bodies and working groups
Responsible Business Practice (RBP) Council and RBP Working Group
Cross-divisional dialogue between the central functions and the divisions on the different

31

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

issues of responsible corporate governance takes place in the RBP Working Group. In this
forum, progress and best practice examples are shared, new aspects discussed and
information and decision documents are created for the RBP Council. As the decisionmaking body, the RBP Council is composed of managers from the divisions and Group
functions. Issues are presented to the Board of Management depending on the scope of
the decision-making need.
HR Board
The HR Board manages personnel issues throughout the Group. The Board Member for
Human Resources serves as chair. Members of divisional HR departments and central HR
functions are represented.
Diversity Council
The Council sets the strategic orientation of diversity while taking into account the
specific requirements of diversity management in the divisions.
Operations Board
Executives from every division are represented on the Operations Board, which is headed
by the Chairman of the Board of Management. Its responsibilities include management
and development of occupational safety KPIs.
Occupational Health & Safety Committee
The committee is responsible for defining cross-divisional regulations and standards in
occupational safety, identifying high-accident rate areas, developing appropriate
prevention measures, and laying the groundwork for decisions of the Operations Board.
GoGreen Sponsors Board
At the Group level, the GoGreen Sponsors Board presides over the implementation of the
environmental strategy and the development of environmental products. The board is
headed by the CEO and consists of executives from all divisions as well as representatives
from the relevant corporate functions. Environmental protection issues are also discussed
regularly at Board of Management meetings. In each division, and in the larger regions
locally as well as at the country and site level, there are GoGreen Teams that report
directly to the business development units.

External advisory bodies
In both of these bodies, we seek out the perspectives and expertise of external experts:
Sustainability Advisory Council (SAC)
The SAC is charged with examining our sustainability agenda from an external point of
view. It consists of independent experts and progressive thinkers from different
disciplines (science, economics, the humanitarian community, the environment, logistics,
politics, the media, and ethics).
Integrity Board
The Integrity Board deals with fundamental questions of corporate integrity and the
organization of superordinate integrity management and the further development of our
Code of Conduct. It is composed of Group managers as well as prominent external
persons.

32

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

EXTERNAL RECOGNITION
Our performance as a company is evaluated independently against economic, ecologic,
social or ethical standards by rating agencies and other institutions according to their own
autonomous principles. We also utilize select rating platforms to have our performance
capability as a service provider externally evaluated according to similar standards.

»External ratings from rating agencies and investment
recommendations from equity analysts reflect assessments
of the performance capabilities of organizations. In addition
to gauging current and future financial strength, these
assessments also reflect stakeholders’ increasing demands
for corporations to act responsibly. Transparency and
reliable measurement of performance indicators create
positive incentives for companies to continue to improve
their performance in economic, environmental and social
affairs.«
LAWRENCE A. ROSEN
BOARD MEMBER FOR FINANCE, GLOBAL BUSINESS SERVICES

In the reporting year, diverse ratings agencies and the ESG performance platforms
confirmed our positive ratings. Moreover, we were distinguished for our performance in the
areas of diversity, health and occupational safety, and environmental protection.
Key ratings from ratings agencies in 2015

33

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Rating management
An increasing number of investors are
integrating non-financial KPIs and the rankings
of CR rating agencies in their company analyses
of our share capital is held by
and using them as a basis for investment
signatories of the PRI initiative
decisions. At the moment 42% of our share
capital is held by signatories of the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) initiative,
whose aims include advocating for more transparency in the reporting of non-financial key
performance indicators.

42%

Customers too with increasing frequency view a company’s presence on an ESG index as an
additional criterion in their business-making decisions.
For our company these ratings primarily have a strategic significance. We consult them
when we review the direction of our CR activities and use them as a benchmark
comparison. Rating agencies have a place among those stakeholders we involve in the
stakeholder survey component of our materiality analysis. We intend to deepen the dialogue
with them.

Achievements in 2015
Major achievements in the reporting year were our relisting in the Dow Jones Sustainability
Indices (DJSI World, DJSI Europe), once again receiving the RobecoSam Bronze Class
sustainability award, and with regard to environmental protection scoring the maximum
number of points in the CDP. Of special significance was the “AAA” rating that we again
received from MSCI. Deutsche Post DHL Group still remains the only logistics company to
receive this top score.
We were also able to maintain our good ratings as a service provider. The Electronic
Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), for example, awarded us 93 out of 100 points, which
amounted to a low-risk rating; EcoVadis confirmed our Gold Standard. Our spot on
Newsweek’s ranking of the “World's Greenest Companies” saw quite an improvement in
2015, up 18 places over last year.

34

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

External ratings for 2015
Ratings

Score

CDP Carbon Disclosure Project

100 out of 100 points

FTSE4Good

3.5 of 5

MSCI

AAA

Oekom Research

C+ Prime Standard

RobecoSam

Bronze Class

Sustainalytics Research

Rank 6 among 143 companies, industry leader

ESG indices

Score

CDP Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (DACH)

✔

DJSI World Index, DJSI Europe Index

✔

Euronext Vigeo – Eurozone 120 Index

✔

Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 Index

✔

FTSE4Good Europe and Global Indices

✔

MSCI Europe and Global Indices

✔

STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index

✔

Supplier ratings

Score

EcoVadis

Gold Standard

Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC)

93 out of 100 points

Rankings

Rank

International Postal Corporation

Rank 2, Gold Standard

Newsweek World's Greenest Companies

Rank 125 out of 500

Awards & distinctions
In 2015, Deutsche Post DHL Group once again received numerous distinctions from
customers, environmental and social organizations, and other institutions. These awards
reflect high global recognition of our corporate responsibility activities, and strengthen our
resolve to set the standard in this area as well. We received renowned awards and
distinctions in every priority area of our CR activities. The complete list can be found on the
CR website.

Awards & distinctions (excerpt)
SAMA Excellence Awards™ 2015
Award for both “systematic enterprise methodology to enable customer-driven
innovation” and for “use of business and/or social technologies to optimize the discovery
and sharing of customer issues and insights”

35

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Employees
Total E-Quality Award
Recognition for establishing long-term equal opportunity for men and women in human
resources work and for exemplary activities in the area of diversity
Healthy Workplaces Good Practice Award
Award of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for activities in the area of
stress management in the workplace
German Corporate Health Award
Prize for our company’s outstanding dedication to health management awarded by the
European Network for Workplace Health Promotion and the BKK umbrella association
Top Employer Global 2015
Awarded to employers that globally create optimal conditions for their employees to
develop, professionally and personally; DHL Express was the only company to be
recognized for employee development and working conditions on all continents.
Environment (Shared Value)
Huawei Supplier Sustainability Excellence Award 2015
In recognition of the Group’s close collaborative efforts with customers and business
partners such as Huawei in their bid towards sustainability
SHD Environment/Logistics Award 2015
In recognition of quantifiable reductions in carbon emissions, and innovative, sustainable
solutions
Sustainable Business Awards Singapore 2015
Award received two times in a row in the category of energy management for innovative,
energy-efficient and sustainable supply chain solutions
Green Brands Germany 2014/2015
Awarded every two years to flagship brands in Austria, Germany and other European
countries to companies taking the lead in environmental sustainability
CDP Supplier Climate A List
This ranking recognized 71 out of 4,000 companies worldwide for their efforts in
transparency, strategy and target-setting as well as extraordinary activities in the area of
climate protection
Payload Asia Awards 2015
Green Award and Corporate Social Responsibility Award for our express business in the
Asia/Pacific region
Corporate Citizenship
Tiger Award 2015
Recognition for the Group’s longstanding support of the global Teach For All network

36

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

ESSAY
Contributing to the environment and society – A performance factor
A look into the future shows that corporate responsibility
will continue to gain in importance. There is an urgent need
for responsible business practices that go beyond company
walls. The international community faces tremendous
social, environmental and economic challenges which
policymakers and society can only overcome in partnership
with industry. And in the spirit of Shared Value, businesses
are also recognizing the huge potential that responsible
business practice offers in securing both their innovative
ability and their future success.
Dialogue with various stakeholder groups is of particular importance. It gives companies
valuable insights when setting out their business and sustainability agendas. Engaging in
dialogue is vital if a company is to understand and assess stakeholder needs, and then use
the outcome of those assessments to develop and deliver innovative, sustainable products,
services and business processes for the markets of tomorrow. Stakeholder capital becomes a
competitive factor – and a valuable currency in business terms.
Demographic change will also influence entrepreneurial activity in the future. We will soon
see a generation shift as the Millennials, people born between 1980 and the early 2000s, take
over the helm. These young people have grown up with a heightened awareness for
corporate responsibility issues such as environmental protection, social equality, fair
working conditions and diversity. They are a generation that simply expects companies to
act responsibly. Be it as customers, employees or investors, they will challenge corporate
authenticity to an even greater extent than we see today.

»

With our sustainability management approach, we set ourselves realistic,
quantifiable targets and continually measure the progress we make towards
achieving them. This ensures that our contribution to the environment and
society is balanced with our financial interests as well as our goal of
becoming a benchmark for responsible business.

«

A company’s contribution to the environment and society is increasingly becoming a
performance and differentiation factor. Its growing relevance can be seen in the high
expectations placed on regular progress assessment and reporting. Industry thus faces a dual
task, one of improving the transparency and comparability of non-financial performance
indicators, and meeting increasing legal requirements when preparing and publishing
reports. External ratings by CR rating agencies pitch companies into competition with each
other. More and more business customers and investors consider companies’ performance
ratings as reliable indicators of the effectiveness of their business practices and their

37

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ORGANIZATION & STRATEGY

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

resilience to risk. The need to make business decisions on the basis of good corporate
governance criteria closes the loop between sustainability and economic performance.
We at Deutsche Post DHL Group view the challenges that lie ahead with careful optimism
and have made corporate responsibility an essential component of our corporate strategy.
We want to meet both our own high standards and our stakeholders’ growing expectations.
With our sustainability management approach, we set ourselves realistic, quantifiable targets
and continually measure the progress we make towards achieving them. This ensures that
our contribution to the environment and society is balanced with our financial interests as
well as our goal of becoming a benchmark for responsible business.
Prof. Dr. Christof Ehrhart
Executive Vice President Corporate Communications and Responsibility

38

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

mo ti va ting
[adjective];
stimulating, inspiring, encouraging

39

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

WHAT DOES MOTIVATING MEAN FOR US?
Our employees are our most valuable resource. As part of our corporate culture we respect and
appreciate the performance of each and every employee, and we encourage them to develop
their potential to the full. This benefits employees, the company and society as a whole.

IN THIS CHAPTER
41

MANAGEMENT APPROACH & TARGETS

42

WORKFORCE STRUCTURE

43

EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION

54

Turnover & new hires
HR development
Recruiting young employees
60

DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT

Raising awareness
Embracing diversity
51

OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH

Sickness rate & accident statistics
Accident prevention & occupational safety
Health management

Dialogue with our employees
48

HR DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING

67

INTERVIEW WITH MELANIE KREIS

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

Guiding principles & framework
Employee Relations Forum
Raising awareness
Exchange with employee representatives

INTERVIEW WITH MELANIE KREIS
»We see that employees and applicants alike are placing
increasing importance on corporate responsibility. We are
well able to meet their expectations and receive positive
feedback regarding our activities as a responsibly
managed business.«
READ INTERVIEW ON PAGE 67 →

40

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

MANAGEMENT APPROACH & TARGETS  PwC
The financial strength, performance and ultimate success of Deutsche Post DHL Group is
founded on the commitment, creativity and know-how of its people. The Group employs
some 500,000 people around the world, and it is their ability to deliver peak performance on
behalf of our customers – and their commitment to continuous improvement – that will
allow us to remain the world’s postal and logistics leader into the future. It’s no accident that
one of the Group’s three corporate strategy objectives is to become and remain Employer of
Choice in the industry. The job of Human Resources at Deutsche Post DHL Group is to
make a tangible contribution to the company’s business success; it does this by recruiting the
right people to fill open positions, and by continuously motivating and developing our
existing workforce worldwide. We treat our people with respect and honor their
contribution with competitive remuneration. This is the foundation for productive working
relationships over the long term.
Our Code of Conduct guides us in our actions as individuals and as a company; it is the
foundation for a corporate culture characterized by openness, trust and mutual respect. We
see great strength in the diversity of our workforce and the potential in each and every one
of our employees. Ours is a working environment that opposes any form of discrimination.
The objective of our diversity management is to increase diversity awareness at all levels of
the company and to reinforce employee commitment to conduct based on respect and a
sense of personal responsibility.
The safety and health of our employees is our highest priority. Workstations are designed
and equipped according to the latest workplace standards, and we offer a broad range of
trainings on topics from accident prevention to healthy lifestyle choices. This not only meets
our obligations as a responsible employer, but also helps boost employee motivation and
performance.
The high-level quality of our products and services results from the dedication, know-how
and innovative strength of our employees. Our Group-wide initiative Certified is designed
to promote the growth and development of our employees, making them the best in the
business. The modules convey knowledge specific to an employee’s respective division and
function, as well as more general content relevant to all Group employees.
We use our annual Employee Opinion Survey to assess employee engagement and
motivation. The survey is a central element in the open and constructive dialogue we
maintain with our employees. Survey results are used, among other things, to derive our
“Active Leadership” indicator, which helps determine bonus payments for all company
executives.

41

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

KPIs & targets
We measure the success of our HR measures with the help of various KPIs, which we track
and evaluate with the help of the HR Scorecard; results are then reported to management on
a regular basis. For the core HR themes, which were reaffirmed by the 2015 materiality
analysis, we have defined the following management parameters and targets:
KPIs and targets
Focus area

KPI

Target

Employee engagement

KPI “Active Leadership”

We want to increase the approval
rating to 74% in 2016

Training and HR development

Participation in Certified initiative

80% of our workforce is to be
certified by 2020

Occupational health and safety

Accident rate (LTIFR)

Suitable targets will be reviewed and
set in 2016

WORKFORCE STRUCTURE  PwC

497,745

35.5%

employees at the end of 2015

female employees

At the end of 2015, our global workforce numbered 497,745 employees. This makes us one
of the biggest employers in the world. Given our position as the leading postal and logistics
services provider, we are constantly creating new and secure jobs. We have some 327,000
employees in Europe. Of these, around 209,000 are based in Germany, where our
headquarters are located. At the end of the reporting year, we had 8,900 more employees as
compared to the previous year.
Our global workforce comprises 64% men and 36% women. One of our objectives is to
make career opportunity within our company equally attractive to women and men.
However, for jobs involving strenuous physical activity, we do receive more applications
from men than from women.

20.7%

18%

women in management

part-time employees

In upper and middle management, the share of women in executive positions is 21%.
Through the use of targeted measures, we aim to better prepare our women employees to

42

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

take on leadership positions and thus further increase the share of women in middle and
upper management.
While some 18% of employees worldwide work part-time, as many as 34% do so in
Germany.
Detailed data concerning our total workforce and associated trends are provided in the
Annex of this report.

Employees
Worldwide

497,745

Americas

Europe

Other regions

Asia Pacific

78,027

326,979

18,896

73,843

employees

employees

employees

employees

Female employees

32.0%

Female employees

38.7%

Female employees

22.3%

Female employees

28.8%

Male employees

68.0%

Male employees

61.3%

Male employees

77.7%

Male employees

71.2%

Turnover

31.1%

Turnover

Turnover

15.4%

Turnover

19.2%

Accident rate

1.4

Accident rate

8.0%
6.3

Accident rate

0.8

Accident rate

EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION
We believe that a system of performance-based, market-standard remuneration that is both
oriented towards the company’s business goals and provides long-term incentives plays a key
role in strengthening, motivating and retaining our employees. Along with monetary
remuneration, non-financial incentives are also very important to us.

43

0.3

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

First and foremost, this means a secure job, open employer-employee dialogue based on
respect, honesty and mutual trust, attractive career development opportunities, a safe work
environment and extensive health services.

Compensation
Monetary compensation includes a base salary plus variable remuneration components like
bonus payments that are subject to national and position-specific requirements and
regulations. Across the Group more than 70% of our workforce is employed under contracts
where monetary compensation is impacted by regulatory frameworks like legally binding
statutory increases, collective labor agreements or works agreements.
Positions are evaluated and graded based on job classification and responsibilities. In
accordance with our Code of Conduct and Corporate Diversity & Inclusion Statement, this
occurs independently of personal factors, such as age, gender, religious affiliation, skin color,
sexual orientation and ethnic background which could incite discrimination. We apply a
systematic job evaluation approach to ensure fair and equitable compensation within the
company.
Aware of our responsibilities as an employer, our pay structures take into account not only
national minimum wage requirements and the needs of our divisions, but local market
demands as well. We strive to offer fair and competitive compensation packages in all of the
markets we serve.
In addition to direct cash compensation, we provide employees in many countries with
access to defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans. In some countries,
Deutsche Post DHL Group assumes the costs of health insurance and treatment. In
countries with primarily privately financed health systems, we provide employees with
access to health insurance by way of health insurance allowances.
Remuneration for employees in Germany
In contrast to many other countries, the majority of our employees in Germany receive
wages or salaries covered by collective wage agreements. In many of our companies
throughout Germany, our wage-scale employees also receive a performance-based bonus in
addition to their wage or salary. At our principle company Deutsche Post AG in Germany,
wage-scale employees generally receive a bonus of between 5% and 17.5% of their annual
base salary. Non-managerial, non-pay-scale employees are entitled to a bonus of between
17.5% and 40% of their annual base salary.
Sustainable collective wage agreement
A sustainable collective wage agreement was concluded on July 5, 2015 for employees at our
principle company in Germany, Deutsche Post AG, ensuring security and new perspectives
for employees while laying the foundation for future growth for the company.
The agreement was reached following a tough and lengthy wage dispute which was settled
thanks to the willingness to compromise and enter into constructive dialogue shown by

44

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

company management, employee representative and the trade unions. Detailed information
about the collective wage agreement can be found in the Annual Report 2015.
As one of the key outcomes of the agreement, our DHL Delivery companies remain part of
the Group’s Post - eCommerce - Parcel division. Employment with the new companies is
subject to the prevailing regional collective wage agreements for the transportation and
logistics sector negotiated between the sectoral employer associations and trade union
ver.di. With these new companies, we have the ability to create new, attractive and, most
importantly, permanent jobs while placing our parcel business on a robust and sustainable
footing by paying more competitive wages.
Partial retirement and the Generations Pact
In Germany in particular, an aging workforce poses a significant human resources challenge
for our HR management system. One innovative response comes in the form of the
Generations Pact signed in 2011 between Deutsche Post AG and the trade unions, which
largely comprises a partial retirement program and working-time accounts. Comparable
provisions also apply as of 2016 for civil servants employed by our parent company in
Germany, Deutsche Post AG.
Additional benefits
In addition to monthly monetary compensation, we also offer attractive non-financial
benefits to our employees.
Working models to help balance family and career
Working models and forms of work are constantly changing. We offer flexible working
models which vary according to operational needs and requirements. These measures help
our employees to better combine and balance family and career.
Offerings to support work/life balance
Deutsche Post DHL Group is actively investing in the expansion of childcare opportunities
at locations where it is operationally feasible. In Bonn, for example, we have created
company-supported childcare facilities for our employees at headquarters. We also helped
fund the construction of a new childcare facility located near our Express air hub in Leipzig.
We work together with a service provider to support employees in matters relating to
childcare and the care of family members. We also offer a Relocation Service to facilitate
work-related moves and get employees settled in their new environment quickly and easily.
Scholarships for employee children
Fostering employee loyalty is one aspect of our
“UPstairs” scholarship program. Since
launching the program, we have provided over
scholarships for employee children
1,800 scholarships to employee children in
more than 120 countries around the world. To
be eligible for the scholarship, the family income may not exceed a specified limit, which

1,800

45

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

varies according to the respective country. Scholarship holders receive financial support to
help pay for tuition, books, learning materials and school uniforms for a period of three
years on average. The UPstairs program also provides scholarship holders with
individualized support in the form of mentoring by Group employees, internship
opportunities at Deutsche Post DHL Group, additional learning materials, and educational
courses – in IT or foreign languages, for example. In 2015 the program was expanded to
include pre-vocational support such as application writing workshops, summer school
courses and work placements.
Affordable vacations and family subsidies
The Recreation Service (ErholungsWerk) has
been offering holiday travel packages to our
current and former employees for over 40 years
vacations booked
now. The financial support provided to
Recreation Services by Deutsche Post DHL
Group especially benefits children of employees in lower wage groups or of single parents
whose earnings fall below a certain amount. A registered association in Germany, the
Recreation Service operates several of its own vacation resorts. Employees can also book
inexpensive stays at resorts operated by other European postal companies and take
advantage of affordable vacation offers from third-party travel providers, including flights,
cruises and group tours. In the reporting year, approximately 11,400 vacations were booked
via Recreation Services.

11,400

Dialogue with our employees
We practice and promote an open dialogue with our employees that is based on honesty,
respect and trust. This means making sure our employees at all levels of our organization are
informed on key developments and organizational changes across the Group on a regular
basis and in a timely fashion. Moreover, it is the responsibility of our line managers to listen
to and engage in dialogue with their employees. The Group makes use of various formats
and channels to communicate new developments and information within the company, such
as Town Halls, team meetings and one-on-one interactions.
Employees are also encouraged to identify areas for improvement as part of our idea
management program. A multi-lingual Intranet-based idea management platform makes it
easy for employees to share their ideas and collaborate on improvement suggestions. A
bonus system is in place to honor ideas with a proven benefit that have been implemented.

Group-wide Employee Opinion Survey
At the heart of our ongoing dialogue with our
employees is an annual Employee Opinion
Survey (EOS). Conducted across the Group
using a standardized questionnaire, the EOS
invites employees to share their opinions with

46

73%
participation rate

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

us. The questionnaire, which comprises 41 questions across ten different topic clusters, was
revised in the reporting year to further align with our corporate strategy and its goals.
Results from the “Active Leadership” section of the survey, a central non-financial
performance metric for the Group, are tied to executive bonus payments. This KPI achieved
an improvement of one percentage point over the previous year. Other key survey topics
include “Employee Engagement” and the newly introduced KPI “Performance Enablement”.
The updated survey also allows us to benchmark our results against external standards. The
2015 EOS results show that we are slightly above the external average in the category
“Employee Engagement“, while results in “Performance Enablement” clearly exceeded the
external benchmark. This new indicator was introduced to establish not only whether our
employees feel motivated to give their very best to our customers, but also if they feel
enabled to make that contribution.
Where questions could be compared with the previous survey, the 2015 results show
improvement in nearly all areas.
Results of the 2015 Employee Opinion Survey

1

Relevant for executive bonus payments

The results of the 2015 Employee Opinion Survey have also confirmed the effectiveness of
initiatives such as Certified and First Choice. They also confirm our employees’ satisfaction with the
company and help us understand how to deliver on our goal of becoming Employer of Choice.
We aim to keep improving on our already good results from the 2015 survey. Based on the changes
made to the questionnaire in the reporting year, our goal is to achieve 74% approval in the “Active
Leadership” KPI in 2016.
EOS results are also used Group-wide to identify focus areas on regional, country and site
level, and to develop actions to address them. This process enables our employees to be
involved in continuously improving their working environment.
Detailed results from the Employee Opinion Survey can be found in the Annex to this report.

47

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT
All across Deutsche Post DHL Group, people from different cultures with diverse
backgrounds, world-views and talents come together and work successfully as a team. We
consider this diversity a source of tremendous potential – a driver of continued business
growth and a key to attracting and retaining talent in our company.
The mandate of diversity management within the Group is to leverage the diversity of our
people and promote an environment where each individual can make a difference. We
therefore oppose all forms of discrimination. This principle is not only laid down in our
Code of Conduct, but affirmed in the Deutsche Post DHL Group Corporate Diversity &
Inclusion Statement.

»

All Different - Together Successful

«

With approximately 12,000 sites in 220 countries worldwide and a management staff that
represents around 100 different nationalities, diversity is simply a part of who we are as a
company. Deutsche Post DHL Group was once again recognized for its efforts in the area of
diversity management in the reporting year.
Our commitment to diversity is also reflected in our contribution to refugee aid in
Germany. Please see the “Society & Engagement” chapter for additional details.

Diversity Council & organization
The Diversity Council, an internal committee established two years ago, is chaired by the
Board Member for Human Resources and includes senior executives from the central
functions and the divisions. This platform drives exchange across the organization, giving us
important insights into areas such as regional labor market trends and diversity initiatives
within the divisions. The Diversity Council convened twice in the reporting year; topics
included women in management and the diversity – of nationalities, for example – within
management teams. Diversity Council members also function as advocates for diversity
within their respective divisions. In addition to the Diversity Council, the company also has
diversity management experts in place at the regional and country levels, which form the
Diversity Core Team headed by Corporate Headquarters.

Raising awareness
Our managers and executives play a key role in putting diversity management into practice
on a daily basis – not least because they themselves represent a diverse population. We
therefore offer management-level staff special diversity training to foster and promote
diversity in the workplace.

48

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

International Diversity Week
To promote understanding of diversity and inclusion among our employees and help link
the many different diversity-related activities happening at sites around the world, we
extended Diversity Day – a Germany-wide event organized around the “Diversity Charter”
– by holding a Diversity Week from June 8 – 12, 2015. During this period, over 120
organized activities and events were held across the Group, giving employees the chance to
share their own thoughts and stories about how diversity – such as local cultural or religious
customs – is handled in the workplace. The week’s focus was on networking, i.e. using our
internal social media to link various diversity initiatives across the Group from Japan to the
US. The week’s best initiative was recognized by management with an award.
The Board Member for Human Resources also joined divisional diversity experts to discuss
the significance of diversity and inclusion for Deutsche Post DHL Group as part of a special
panel discussion held at Group headquarters.

Reporting & following up on possible violations
As stated in our Code of Conduct we prohibit all forms of discrimination in the workplace.
We respond to concerns raised about possible violations thoroughly and take appropriate
measures including disciplinary action within the framework of local laws and practices.
Suspected violations of the Code of Conduct can be reported through multiple
communications channels, including anonymously via our dedicated Compliance Hotline.

Embracing diversity

20.7%

+1.4%

women in executive positions

women in executive positions vs. 2014

As part of our commitment to gender diversity within the Group, we have dedicated
measures in place to increase the share of women in management positions. Women
currently make up 36% of our workforce worldwide. The share of women in upper and
middle management across the Group worldwide is 21%.
Our goal is to continue to increase the share of women in executive positions. To do this,
Group-wide management data is collected as part of our HR scorecard and reported
regularly to the HR Board. We also have a number of professional development programs in
place in the divisions for female employees as well as women’s networks.
A key development in 2015 was the implementation of the German Act on Equal
Participation of Women and Men in Leadership Positions in the Private and Public Sectors.
As part of this legislation, we have committed to increasing the share of women in the first

49

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

management level to 19% and to 23% in the second management level at our principle
company Deutsche Post AG in Germany by the end of 2016.

Inclusion of employees with disabilities
As a responsible employer we consider it one of our obligations to create a working
environment that enables people with disabilities to take an active part in working life. This
inclusive approach applies not only to new hires, but to existing employees who become
disabled as a result of an illness or accident.

15,149

20

persons with disabilities

internships for people with disabilities

In 2015 we employed a total of 15,149 persons with disabilities at our principal company
Deutsche Post AG in Germany. This represents an average annual employment rate of 9.6%
and was once again well above the national average in Germany’s private sector (4.1% in
2013; source: German Federal Employment Agency).
We make it a point to approach young people with disabilities and offer them the
opportunity to learn a trade. At the end of 2015, 16 youths with disabilities were enrolled in
apprenticeships in our principal company in Germany, Deutsche Post AG.
We share our experience with disability-friendly workplace solutions with the REHADAT
database administered by the Cologne Institute for Economic Research, allowing us to share
our best practices with external stakeholders. We are also actively involved in educational
campaigns and engaged in dialogue with associations, institutions and other companies on
issues of inclusion in the workplace.
Certainly one of the keys to an inclusive society is regular, day-to-day interaction between
people with and without disabilities. Because this kind of interaction occurs all too seldom,
in the reporting year we initiated an “inclusive delivery teams” project in Germany together
with the German charity Aktion Mensch. As part of the project, people with disabilities
teamed up with delivery personnel in five delivery districts nationwide to deliver the daily
mail.
Deutsche Post will be offering 20 new internships for people with disabilities beginning in
2016.

LGBTI Network
We treat our employees with dignity and respect, regardless of their sexual orientation,
gender identity or gender expression. Over seven years ago we established our Group-wide
RAINBOWNET network for LGBTI employees. Founded in Germany, the network has

50

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

contact with employees in several other European countries as well as in Malaysia,
Singapore and the US.
Deutsche Post DHL Group is also one of the founding members of the PROUT AT WORK
Foundation. Established in January 2014, the organization is committed to greater
recognition and equal opportunity for LGBTI employees in the workplace. With a seat on
the PROUT AT WORK advisory board, Deutsche Post DHL Group has the opportunity to
shape the foundation’s future and send a clear message in favor of diversity. Over the course
of the reporting year, Deutsche Post DHL Group took part in two advisory board meetings.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS  PwC
Guiding principles & framework

 PwC

People are at the heart of what we do. Respect and fairness in the workplace are values that
are lived by at Deutsche Post DHL Group. We work together with our employees and their
authorized representatives, and engage with them in an open and constructive dialogue.
As signatory of the UN Global Compact, our understanding of employee relations includes
the protection of human rights. Our approach, which not only encompasses but goes
beyond the scope of traditional industrial relations, includes the prohibition of any form of
discrimination and human rights violations, such as forced or child labor; it also includes
the right to join (or not to join) a union and the freedom of collective bargaining.
As a service provider we depend on our employees. They are our key competitive advantage.
Openness, trust and constructive dialogue are the basis for successful employee relations.
Ultimately, the best way to achieve our strategic objective of becoming Employer of Choice
is to create a corporate culture in which the commitment and achievements of each
individual employee is respected, appreciated and honored.

»Employee Relations is about respect and fairness in the
workplace. We have nearly 500,000 employees and that
means just as many employee relations.«
TISH CLYDE
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT CORPORATE HR INTERNATIONAL

51

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Sustainable employee relations
Our goal is ensure that our employee relations remain effective over the long term. To do
this, we must continue to strengthen the engagement and motivation of our employees and
empower our executives and managers to interact with their teams openly, appropriately and
responsibly. Our employee relations framework supports us in meeting these requirements,
not only ensuring compliance with national laws and practices but helping us to become
Employer of Choice. Sustainable employee relations also enables us to anticipate future
trends and respond accordingly with new or adjusted processes.
Our approach to employee relations has been well received and officially recognized by
internal and external stakeholders alike.

Employee Relations Forum

 PwC

Expanding our employee relations to include human rights supports the further evolution of
our corporate culture. To overcome the challenges associated with this change and to
improve collaboration between Group divisions as well as with Group headquarters, we
established the Employee Relations Forum (ER Forum) – a governance body consisting of
employee relations experts from all divisions and from Group headquarters. Its mandate is
to proactively address any employee relations issues worldwide that could have crossdivisional or Group-wide impact. It met a total of ten times in 2015. Action
recommendations made by the ER Forum are discussed and approved by the HR Board.
Additional ER Forum action areas include:
Providing best-practice solutions and processes
Developing trainings tailored to local needs
Facilitating exchange at regional and country level among the divisions
Deepening our understanding of stakeholder requirements and expectations with regard
to employee relations and human rights issues

Raising awareness
Since 2013 we have conducted Employee Relations Impact Assessments on the country level
as a way to increase awareness of employee relations and anticipate future developments
especially in emerging markets. The assessments are based on a due diligence process in line
with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and help us to
better understand employee relations “on the ground” in the respective countries. We also
use the assessment to identify challenges in this area and help local management address
these challenges with the right tools and processes.
PwC



52

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

The assessments include round-table sessions with randomly selected employees from
various operating areas. Conducted according to our core value of respect, the round-tables
allow employees to voice their opinions. Feedback from these sessions is provided to
management anonymously, who are accountable for developing and implementing
appropriate actions.
PwC



The assessments are conducted by HR experts from Group headquarters to ensure the
necessary levels of competence and objectivity. The selection of assessment sites is based on
a set of criteria and aligned with the divisions. Following the assessment, an action plan is
developed by local management based on the findings and in dialogue with the Group
headquarters. In 2015 we conducted five assessments in Southeast Asia and South America,
including two follow-up assessments.

Training and awareness
Our Group-wide Certified initiative includes modules to raise awareness about employee
relations and human rights issues, especially among managers at all levels. We developed an
additional training module in the reporting year for all management-level employees,
including team leaders and supervisors.
A separate e-learning module for senior managers addresses the changing landscape of
employee relations, as well as the challenge of complying with global standards and local
practices. Since introducing the module in 2013, more than 50% of the defined target group
has successfully completed the online training.

Exchange with employee representatives
The majority of our workforce is represented by bodies such as employee committees, works
councils or unions, or is subject to collective labor agreements. In Germany, where we
employ 42% of our workforce, we cooperate with employee representatives in all divisions
where works councils have been formed. In fact, half of our Supervisory Board consists of
elected employee representatives.
PwC



The primary responsibility for managing local employee representatives and trade unions
rests with the divisions at a country and local site level. At the global level we engage in
regular dialogue with international union federations such as the UNI Global Union (UNI)
and the International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF).
PwC



In the reporting year we met with representatives from UNI and ITF on four occasions as
called for in the Joint Statement concluded in 2014 by the German National Contact Point
(NCP) of the OECD, Deutsche Post DHL Group, UNI and ITF. The majority of follow-up
actions from the OECD Joint Statement have now been closed. The OECD Specific Instance
Process will be concluded in a meeting with all parties concerned in the first quarter 2016 at

53

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

the NCP office in Berlin. Independently from this, the dialogue with the global union
federations will be continued in 2016.

Initiatives within Europe
Together with our social partners, we participate in an array of initiatives and activities at
the European level.
The Deutsche Post DHL Forum is a joint body of employee representatives (European
Works Council) and management representatives (European Management Forum) from 30
European countries. The Deutsche Post DHL Forum and its committees met a total of 35
times in the reporting year. The meetings mainly addressed the Group’s restructuring efforts
in Europe as well as the Group's business growth. The global union federations UNI and the
European Transport Workers’ Federation are each entitled to send a representative to
participate in the two Deutsche Post DHL Forum plenary sessions.
In 2015 the European Social Dialogue Committee for the Postal Sector successfully
implemented the “Managing demographic challenges in the postal sector” project funded by
the European Commission. The success of the project, including on-schedule completion,
was the result of the close collaboration with our European social partners.
In November 2015, partners of the European Social Dialogue Committee for the Postal
Sector conducted a two-day seminar in Brussels on the subject of “New Services”. More than
60 members and experts took advantage of the opportunity to inform themselves on market
developments and new technologies in the postal sector.

HR DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING
We have an established method for determining our medium-term staff requirements. This
calculation considers age distribution and turnover rate along with projected business
growth and expected changes in productivity and allows us to derive very precise estimates
of our future staffing requirements. We can also simulate various scenarios and use the
results to anticipate potential problems and take action early. For example, we can create
new training programs today that will help us avoid manpower shortages tomorrow.
To fill vacant positions with the most suitable candidates at competitive market rates, we
have developed and implemented a modern online-recruitment platform.
We also use the results of our analyses to derive new HR development measures. This
improves our ability to fill future vacancies internally rather than relying solely on the open
job market. Our goal is to provide our own qualified employees with opportunities for
advancement and with HR development measures that will allow them to take advantage of
those opportunities. We also continue to develop and expand our employee development
methods and measures through the provision of online offerings and presence training.

54

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Turnover & new hires
Turnover
One of the most important functions of our human resources management work involves
retaining employees. In 2015, average employee turnover Group-wide was 14%. In contrast
to the global situation, turnover in Europe, where we have some 327,000 employees, was
comparatively low, at 8%. In other regions, and especially in the Americas, turnover in 2015
rose as much as two percentage points.
So-called planned turnover, i.e. predictable staff changes due to retirement, etc., accounted
for 7% of turnover. In the area of contract logistics in particular, the share of planned
turnover is high because in this sector, we enter into medium and long-term business
relations, such as in warehousing operations. If the customer chooses not to renew the
contract, the employees involved are usually taken on by the new contract partner.
Unplanned turnover, where employees leave of their own accord, also lies at 7%.
We no longer report divisional turnover rates externally.

Employees
Worldwide

497,745

Americas

Europe

Other regions

Asia Pacific

78,027

326,979

18,896

73,843

employees

employees

employees

employees

Female employees

32.0%

Female employees

38.7%

Female employees

22.3%

Female employees

28.8%

Male employees

68.0%

Male employees

61.3%

Male employees

77.7%

Male employees

71.2%

Turnover

31.1%

Turnover

Turnover

15.4%

Turnover

19.2%

Accident rate

1.4

Accident rate

8.0%
6.3

Accident rate

55

0.8

Accident rate

0.3

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

We were able to fill 81% of upper and middle-management positions with internal
candidates.
At our principal company in Germany, Deutsche Post AG, a total of 3,625 employees made
use of the opportunity to take unpaid leave in order to attend to family responsibilities. Of
these, 1,396 were on parental leave (88% women and 12% men).

New hires
In our hiring process, we do not discriminate based on an applicant’s nationality, ethnic
origin, gender, religion, world view, age or disability. Applicants are judged on the basis of
merit alone, and hiring decisions are based on the qualifications of each individual
applicant. When hiring new employees, Deutsche Post DHL Group takes a zero-tolerance
approach to discriminatory practices as laid down in our Code of Conduct and our
Corporate Diversity & Inclusion Statement. We do not collate data on the number of new
hires recruited globally.
We face two major challenges in the area of HR development. In industrialized countries,
particularly in Germany, we have a steadily aging workforce. In highly populated developing
and emerging market countries, we are sometimes faced with the challenge of lower levels of
education. At our principal company in Germany, for example, the average age of employees
is 44.6 for men and 46.9 for women.
Age structure of workforce in Germany in 20151

1

Deutsche Post AG

HR development
Demographic change in industrialized nations and differing levels of education in
developing and emerging market countries are two of the greatest challenges we face in HR
development.
The core of our work lies in discovering and developing the potential of our approximately
500,000 employees. By offering development opportunities and motivational measures
tailored to our employees’ needs, we ensure our company’s long-term success.

56

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Turning employees into experts
We want to deliver first-class service and be our
customers’ Provider of Choice. We also want to
be the Employer of Choice for our employees.
of employees will be certified experts
But we can only achieve both these goals by
by 2020
making our employees the best in the business
and by giving them the opportunity to exploit their potential to the full. This is why we have
introduced our Group-wide Certified initiative, which will turn all our employees into
certified experts and specialists in their respective divisions. This broad-based, modular
program gives employees an insight into the business model, strategy and culture of their
own division and enables employees to acquire specific knowledge about the Group and the
role they play within it.

80%

Our experience has shown that our employees are far more motivated when addressed by an
in-house expert. This is why the Certified modules are generally conducted by company
managers and employees who have been trained as facilitators. Throughout the Group, some
2,500 managers and employees have completed the facilitator training needed to be able to
conduct Certified program modules.

Further education and training
We also offer a comprehensive catalog of further education and training opportunities.
These include skills and talent programs, train the trainer courses, expert seminars and
language lessons. Many of these courses are available as online seminars, while some involve
presence events or video conferencing. Regional programs have also been developed
especially for employees in local-level business units.

Personal development
An additional element of our HR development system involves the personal development
conversations that take place regularly between employees and their managers. These are
used to draw up development plans containing the agreed HR development measures and
training requirements. The development plans are then entered into the IT-based talent and
performance management system where they are stored and managed. Employees are also
offered targeted training measures which are available via our eLearning platform.

Leadership development
One of our most important leadership principles for our managers is commitment to their
own continual personal and professional development, and to the continued development of
their employees. This includes both technical skills development and personal growth. It
also involves developing an awareness for the principles of our Code of Conduct so that
managers can lead by example and better communicate the requirements of the Code.

57

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

To advance the Group strategy and further develop the company’s leadership culture, higher
level executives take part in cross-functional and cross-divisional programs focused on
developing a more holistic approach to management and further developing their own
personal management style. Focusing on training methods such as reflection, feedback and
coaching, we have for many years used a module-based series of international, Group-wide
development programs for this particular target group. Through active participation in these
programs, the members of the Board of Management play a central role by sharing their
own management experience.
All other managers and employees have access to development opportunities through the
development programs offered by their respective business divisions and the Group-wide
Certified initiative.
Training effort
In 2015, our employees each spent an average
1.4 days in various further education and
training measures. These measures are
days spent by employees in various
naturally available to employees who work
further education and training
measures
part-time. The only requirement is that they
must have an indefinite employment contract.
Other than in previous reports, because this indicator is not used to measure the
effectiveness of our training measures, we will no longer provide data on the costs involved
in conducting apprenticeship programs and providing further education and training
measures.

1.4

Because demand for online training continues to grow due to the flexible and targeted way it
can be used, the broad range of training offerings covering specialist subjects and language
lessons will be expanded on an ongoing basis and made available in many different language
versions. In addition, all employees in Germany will have the opportunity to take part in an
open seminar program which covers the categories of management skills and knowledge,
and soft skills.

Recruiting young employees
The number of applications received Group-wide continues to rise. More and more
applicants are using our online jobs platform. This gives candidates information about
career opportunities with our company and allows them to submit their application online.
We train our young employees according to the applicable norms, standards and guidelines
in the respective country and prepare them for their future role in professional life.
While the structure of university-level education is relatively uniform around the world,
there are significant differences between the vocational training systems in the different
countries and regions. In many regions, apprenticeship training takes the form of on-the-job
training. In Europe, training is mainly through vocational schools and colleges. Austria,

58

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Denmark, Germany and Switzerland have special dual systems which combine on-the-job
training at a company or organization with classroom learning at a state vocational school.

Vocational occupations in Germany
Depending on their level of education and
individual interests, at our company in
Germany, secondary school graduates can
average number of employees in
choose from over 15 different officially
apprenticeships in 2015
recognized apprenticeships and ten integrated
degree programs which combine university studies with fixed periods of work practice. In
2015, an average 4,006 employees in Germany were apprentices.

4,006

In 2015, we hired 2,375 new apprentices and integrated degree program students in
Germany. We also plan to offer 2,450 new apprenticeship and study positions in 2016.
Integrated degree program students can pursue Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science and
Bachelor of Engineering degrees. Graduates with these qualifications are in demand within
our company and have the opportunity to take on management responsibility in a relatively
short amount of time.
In 2014, we received some 22,500 applications for apprenticeship positions in Germany. This
matches the number from the previous year. With some ten applications per apprenticeship
position, we are able to fill our open spots with qualified, achievement-oriented young
people. The dropout rate is low compared to other companies in the industry, at roughly 5%.
In 2015, over two-thirds of all apprentices who completed programs with us were hired into
full-time positions. We also offer part-time positions to those interested. This maintained
the previous year’s high hiring rate.
We have also collaborated with the international student organization AIESEC since 1996 to
provide internships and many other networking opportunities for outstanding university
students. This helps strengthen our competitive position in the war for talent.

Trainee programs
We have established several trainee programs for university graduates. The trainee program
GROW (Graduate Opportunities Worldwide) develops outstanding recent graduates with
Bachelor or Master’s degrees to become future specialists and managers within our
company. For the duration of the 18-month program, GROW trainees are supported by a
mentor who provides them with regular feedback and career planning support. In 2015, 43
participants were selected from a pool of over 3,400 applicants.

59

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH
Having truly motivated and empowered employees is the prerequisite to being able to
deliver top-quality service and performance to our customers. Because of this, we make it a
top-priority to provide our employees with a working environment that ensures their safety
and, at the same time, helps maintain and improve their health and well-being. Both aspects
– safety and health – are equally important if we want to become and remain Employer of
Choice.
Employees: Health Management

Our goals and action measures in the area of occupational safety and health management
are clearly defined in our Corporate Health Policy. In addition to this, our Occupational
Health & Safety Policy Statement makes clear both our understanding of occupational
safety, and standards we have established to achieve safety goals. Road safety is also
important for a transport and logistics company like ourselves. That is why we have laid out
seven safety rules in our Road Safety Code.
Occupational health and safety at Deutsche Post DHL Group is integrated into the Group's
quality management system and, in Germany, complies with the ISO 9001 standard. Groupwide, we apply OHSAS 18001, the internationally recognized standard for occupational
health and safety.

Managing occupational safety & health
Each Group division has its own organizational and management structure dedicated to
occupational safety and health. Cross-functional topics are discussed by the Operations
Board, a committee made up of division executives under the leadership of the CEO, which
among other things is also responsible for managing and developing occupational safety
KPIs. In the reporting year the Operations Board met five times to discuss and approve the
following measures in the area of occupational safety:
Development and implementation of the OHS Policy Statement within the Group

60

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Alignment of methodology for accident rate calculation to international standards
Implementation of OHSAS 18001
Improvement of coverage rates for recording key performance data
Formulation of effective targets for reducing the work-related accident rate
These measures will now be implemented by the responsible parties in each division, with
support from our occupational safety experts.
The Group-wide Occupational Health & Safety Committee facilitates dialogue and
collaboration between occupational safety experts in the different divisions. It defines crossdivisional regulations and standards, identifies accident black spots, develops appropriate
prevention measures, and lays the groundwork for decisions made by the Operations Board.
Health Management is led by the Chief Medical Officer (CMO). The CMO maintains direct
contact to important external institutions and organizations, analyzes where action
measures are required and provides consulting and/or decision-making support as needed
to help the Group prepare for possible health threats and the associated economic
challenges. In addition, the CMO advises executives on the implementation of health
measures, and heads Corporate Health Services in Germany. As part of the Central Health
Working Group – an internal committee which plays a key role in our system for promoting
employee health – the CMO also presents an annual health report and regularly reports to
the HR Board.
Outside of Germany, the CMO supports in the development and implementation of targeted
local health promotion activities. To help in both design and execution, we use data made
available through the local insurance providers that already work with us as part of our
global insurance program. We also make use of the country profiles published by the World
Health Organization (WHO). This allows us to develop and offer health measures tailored to
regional needs.

Sickness rate & accident statistics

 PwC

The main performance indicator in the area of occupational health and safety is the accident
rate (LTIFR), which we aligned with international reporting standards in 2015 and are now
reporting Group-wide for the first time.

Sickness rates
For the reporting year, the sickness rate among
employees Group-wide remained nearly
unchanged at approximately 5%. Workplace
accidents accounted for 0.3% of the total
sickness rate. In Germany the sickness rate is

61

5.1%
sickness rate

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

mainly a result of the aging workforce and the associated overall increase in chronic illness –
a trend common to all industrialized countries.

Accident data as main performance indicator

4.0

15.6

Group-wide accident rate

working days lost per accident

As announced, we intensified our efforts during the reporting year to enhance the
transparency of accident data. For the first time, we are now able to publish accident
statistics for the Group as a whole. Over the course of the reporting year, data collection
methods and reporting formats were harmonized across the Group and aligned with
international standards. Accident data are now centrally collected and are discussed
regularly within the Operations Board. Temporary workers are covered in the workplace
accident statistics for 2015 (coverage rate: 65%); subcontractors are not.
As a result of our efforts to create greater transparency, we have aligned our external
reporting to reflect the new calculation method. This means that we no longer report
accident rates for our principal company Deutsche Post AG in Germany (coverage rate:
34%). Thanks to the central framework for collecting and reporting global data, our
coverage rate is nearly 100%. We report the following indicators:
Accident rate (workplace accidents per 200,000 hours worked)
Number of working days lost due to accidents
Number of fatalities due to workplace accidents
The Group-wide accident rate in the reporting year was 4.0, with 15.6 working days lost per
accident.

Fatal accidents
This report marks the first time we are reporting the number of fatal workplace accidents
Group-wide. Until now, our data has only allowed us to report this information for
Deutsche Post AG, our principal company in Germany.
In the reporting year, six employees died in workplace accidents or due to injuries suffered
as a result of a workplace accident.
One workplace fatality is one too many! The safety and health of our employees is our
number one priority. We analyze workplace accidents and their causes and use this
information to further optimize our prevention measures. To help us do this, in several
countries we deploy camera systems in accordance with data privacy regulations. The most

62

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

common cause of fatal accidents is human error – this includes negligence while
maneuvering and shunting vehicles, careless driving, and the disregard for safety rules.
We are committed to intensifying our efforts in the area of prevention and shall continue to
improve on the already high safety standards at our operational sites and facilities.
Additional training measures are also being expanded as are our efforts in the area of
employee screening and instruction.
Complete accident statistics can be found in the Annex of this report.

Accident prevention & occupational safety
All of our activities in the area of occupational health and safety aim to heighten employee
awareness on the subject of safety and possible workplace hazards – not only for their own
protection, but also for the safety of others. This includes hazards outside our area of
responsibility. To safeguard the health and safety of our employees, we make sure the
equipment they use is safe. We do this by conducting work safety and occupational health
inspections of technical equipment and vehicles considered for purchase.
We systematically assess the working conditions of our employees for risks and potential
dangers. These evaluations rate the working environments of delivery personnel, drivers,
machine operators and warehouse personnel, for example, as potentially dangerous.
Workplace inspections and audits are carried out on a regular basis. We also conduct safety
training measures to raise awareness of safety issues among our employees. Compliance
with statutory and operational regulations is overseen by management systems.
In the reporting year, a pilot project was conducted at our DHL site in Eindhoven,
Netherlands, to raise awareness among employees for the safety risks associated with
materials handling. The risk of injury was significantly reduced as a result.
And in 2015, we certified all of our drivers in Greece in road safety according to ISO 39001,
with the goal of reducing the number of road traffic accidents.

Dangerous goods transport
As a leading logistics company, we also specialize in the safe and proper transport and
warehousing of potentially dangerous goods and substances in accordance with current
regulations and our general terms and conditions. When transporting dangerous goods,
employee safety and environmental protection are our top priorities.
Employees involved in the handling and transport of dangerous goods undergo regular
training in accordance with international and local regulations and are provided with all
necessary information. In addition, we offer our drivers special driver training, often
conducted “in-house” by our own trainers.

63

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, our dangerous goods trainings meet not only the
ADR standard, which applies to the European Union and several of its bordering countries,
but also conform to the more comprehensive SQAS standards (Safety & Quality Assessment
System). We continually update and revise the dangerous goods transport regulations that
apply to our customers to ensure alignment with the most recent legal requirements, and
publish them by product and transport carrier categories.

Training for managers
Our managers bear great responsibility for the well-being of our employees. Inspecting the
working conditions of staff, correctly assessing risk levels and initiating suitable measures to
minimize risk are among their most important managerial tasks. For this they receive
support in the form of guidelines, recommendations and consulting from our occupational
safety experts. We also work to continually fine-tune and improve the safety training we
offer to managers, so that we continue to increase their awareness for the importance of
occupational safety and prepare them to carry out their occupational safety responsibilities.

International occupational safety week
The effectiveness of occupational safety measures depends largely on the behavior of
employees themselves. To raise employee awareness for occupational safety issues, as well as
their own safety in the workplace, we conducted a week-long safety campaign from April 27
– 30, 2015 in the days surrounding the International Labour Organization’s World Day for
Safety and Health at Work. Across the Group numerous individual activities and trainings
focused on road and depot, driver trainings, bicycle safety, practical tips for securing cargo,
as well as safety checks for equipment such as roll containers and delivery bicycles.

Health management
We provide employees with a healthy work environment and offer a wide range of activities
designed to encourage healthy lifestyles and help avoid risk factors. We reach a large portion
of our employees worldwide through international health-promotion campaigns and bestpractice initiatives. In addition we support our managers and executives with opportunities
such as the web-based training program Leadership and Mental Health, which addresses the
relationship between leadership, psychological health and stress management.
Another focus of our health management is prevention programs in the area of chronic
illness. These are supplemented by initiatives for preventing, detecting and fighting
infectious diseases such as influenza, Ebola or MERS. We evaluate health risks on a country
by country basis so that we can provide tailored medical support. We also provide
educational support for HIV and AIDS prevention initiatives.
In countries where there are no state insurance schemes available, we offer prevention
programs through local health providers. These programs are designed to meet local needs

64

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

and are adapted to local practices. Their primary aim is the prevention and mitigation of
illnesses.
Deutsche Post DHL Group was recognized several times in 2015 for its exemplary health
management.

Occupational diseases
Our employees work hard in challenging roles. Our health management, with its manifold
activities and preventive measures, aims to prevent occupational diseases and work-related
illnesses. We also help our employees prevent chronic ailments. In Germany, the statutory
accident insurance recognized 20 cases of occupational diseases. This is due in large part to
amendments made to the German Ordinance on Occupational Diseases in the reporting
year, which now includes skin disease caused by natural ultraviolet irradiation in its list of
officially recognized occupational diseases. Prevention measures and activities addressing
this health issue have been in place within the Group for several years already.
In Germany, employees have the option of consulting an employee support service
counselor to help deal with conflicts in the workplace, traumatic events, health problems or
other personal problems. The counselors establish contact with medical specialists and
external counseling centers and rehabilitation facilities, provide consulting to employees in
crisis situations, and are qualified to serve as emergency first responders and addiction
counselors.
When implementing health and workplace improvement measures we also take advantage
of the experience and knowledge of other areas within the Group. As an example we
developed an E-Trolley in 2015 designed to make mail delivery by foot both more effective
and less strenuous. Its electric-powered engine allows larger mail volumes to be transported
safely. Development of the E-Trolley drew on our own knowledge and experience from the
field of e-mobility.

Assessing the risk of lifestyle diseases
Deutsche Post DHL Group covers health
insurance and medical treatment costs for its
employees in several countries. Knowledge
risk assessments were conducted in
gained from the pilot project “Risk assessment
16 countries
of lifestyle diseases” – conducted in Mexico,
China and the United Arab Emirates and completed in 2014 – was integrated into our
prevention work, thus achieving one of our targets for 2015. Health risks continue to be
mainly in the area of non-communicable or chronic disease. Risk assessments were
conducted in 16 additional countries over the course of the reporting year. Insights gained
from the results of these assessments are integrated into the Group’s Global Health & WellBeing Program and are used to design tailored measures for fighting disease.

16

65

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

To continue to improve our understanding of lifestyle diseases and their risks, we are
involved in a number of health networks, such as Enterprise for Health, the Business
Leadership Forum to Target Depression in the Workplace, the German Society of
Occupational and Environmental Medicine (DGAUM e.V.), and serve on the supervisory
boards of private and statutory health insurance companies. We also contribute to renowned
prevention networks such as the Komen Breast Cancer Foundation or the Deutsche
Herzstiftung (German Heart Foundation).

66

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

INTERVIEW

MELANIE KREIS
Board Member for Human Resources

»Certified is a truly unique initiative that has the power to
change the culture of our company in a fundamental way.
With this broad-based, high-quality program, we give
participants – meaning employees worldwide – specialist
knowledge and show them the importance of the role they
play in the company as a whole.«

INTERVIEW WITH MELANIE KREIS
Melanie Kreis is the Board Member for Human Resources at Deutsche Post DHL Group. In
an interview, she outlines the priorities and main focus areas in HR management, describes
the hopes she has for the Group-wide Certified initiative, and sketches out opportunities for
young people interested in pursuing a career in our company.
2015 was your first full year as Member of the Board for HR. How did you find it?
Which events would you say were most important?
2015 was a very intensive and eventful year – a year that was marked by great progress in the
area of HR. We were able to make a significant contribution to the success of the Group, not
least by settling the wage dispute, which was a top priority issue for us in Germany in first
half of 2015. We secured an agreement for some 130,000 employees, giving us a more
competitive pay structure while facilitating long-term growth. To put it briefly, we dealt with
many and varied issues, and are now seeing the fruits of our work. I am extremely proud of
the global HR team, whose dedication and expertise help shape the work we do around the
world.
What will be the focus of your HR activities in 2016?
At the start of the year, the HR Board, the highest HR decision-making authority in the
Group, discussed the common priorities for the next twelve months. 2016 did not bring any
radical changes in the underlying business of the divisions we support, so there was no need
to fundamentally adjust our HR priorities. We will, however, be making some changes in
one or two areas. Greater focus will be placed on the issue of data quality in 2016, for
example, as we are increasingly faced with the need for reliable HR data on a global and

67

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

cross-divisional basis to enable enhanced HR analytics. We will also be working to intensify
employee engagement. Our Certified initiative, which we will use to turn our global
workforce into certified experts and specialists, plays a key role and 2016 marks a decisive
phase in its implementation.
You mentioned Certified, an initiative designed to make your employees the best in the
industry. How do you plan do to that?
Certified is a truly unique initiative that has the power to change the culture of our company
in a fundamental way. With this broad-based, high-quality program, we give participants –
meaning employees worldwide – specialist knowledge and show them the importance of the
role they play in the company as a whole. This makes them more motivated, helps them
identify better with the company and strengthens the business at the same time. What also
makes the Certified initiative special is that although its various programs are tailored to the
specific needs and business operations of the divisions, they are all based on an underlying
structure, with linking elements and modules. We aim to certify 80% of our employees by
2020.
How does divisional HR management differ to centralized HR? What are the priorities
there?
Our divisional HR teams concentrate on providing tailored solutions to support operative
business. The issues faced can differ from division to division and from region to region.
This is especially the case regarding short and long-term workforce planning, and when
looking for ways to motivate and develop our employees at local level. These are extremely
challenging tasks. The centralized HR teams deal with issues of strategic, Group-wide
importance. This includes areas such as pay structure, cross-divisional talent management,
personnel activities concerning our middle and upper management, health management
and diversity management. In all of this, it is important that divisional and centralized HR
departments work hand-in-hand – something we did well in 2015, not least because all
divisions and departments are represented on the HR Board.
The Group aims to improve its attractiveness and reputation as an employer through
responsible business management. What issues do you see as most important, both for
employees and for job applicants?
We see that employees and applicants alike are placing increasing importance on corporate
responsibility. We are well able to meet their expectations and receive positive feedback
regarding our activities as a responsibly managed business. This is because we focus on
highly topical issues such as disaster management, education and environmental protection.
Our HR-related activities are also well received. This includes our UPstairs scholarship
program in which we help employee children to pursue higher levels of education. And with
our current Refugee Aid Initiative, we are helping to manage the refugee crisis in Germany.
This undoubtedly makes us attractive to potential applicants and increases employee
engagement. We are extremely pleased at the positive response, which is also reflected in the
results of our Employee Opinion Survey. We had good feedback once again in 2015: in the
area of corporate responsibility, we achieved an approval rating of 75%.

68

Deutsche Post DHL Group

EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

What would you say to young people who are considering a career in logistics with
Deutsche Post DHL Group?
They can expect to find a wide range of positions in which they can develop their own
potential and also contribute to society. As the leading logistics services provider and as one
of the biggest employers in the world, Deutsche Post DHL Group offers many exciting
development opportunities. We have employees in all kinds of positions: engineers,
controllers, warehouse specialists, IT specialists, couriers and pilots. They can pursue very
different careers within the Group and that includes the possibility of going abroad to work
in foreign countries. Plus, as a logistics service provider, we not only deliver goods from A to
B. We also make a key contribution to economic and social growth. By enabling and
organizing the global flow of trade, we play a key role in value creation. And by connecting
people and businesses, we create opportunity and foster prosperity worldwide.

69

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

fu ture fo cu sed
[adjective];
forward-thinking, visionary

70

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

WHAT DOES FUTURE FOCUSED MEAN FOR US?
Through ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders and as part of our resilience management
process, we systematically identify opportunities, trends and challenges. This enables us to
develop new business areas and markets, which in turn helps us improve our corporate
responsibility performance while minimizing financial, environmental and social risk.

IN THIS CHAPTER
72
73

CODE OF CONDUCT

DATA PROTECTION

Management approach & targets
Management system

SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT

Management approach & targets
Centralized procurement
Supplier Code of Conduct
Subcontractor management
78

81

83

SECURITY MANAGEMENT

Global IT platform
85

OPPORTUNITY & RISK ASSESSMENT

87

INTERVIEW WITH KEN ALLEN

COMPLIANCE

Management approach & targets
Management system
Transparency in pursuing company interests

INTERVIEW WITH KEN ALLEN
»We are committed to being the world leader in
international express delivery, which in turn means
playing a central role in facilitating and moving global
trade.«
READ INTERVIEW ON PAGE 87 →

71

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

OUR CODE OF CONDUCT  PwC
The Code of Conduct has been an integral part of our corporate culture since 2006
connecting the Group across divisions and regions around the world. It is guided by the
principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compact and
takes into account widely recognized legal standards including applicable anti-corruption
conventions and legislation.
The Code of Conduct, which establishes the expectations for the ethical behavior of our
staff, provides the guiding principle for all of our company’s business practices. It addresses
all aspects of our daily work, from quality, customer relationships and standards on cooperation and integrity in our operating practices, to corporate responsibility and the
environment.
Deutsche Post DHL Group policies
PRINCIPLES1

KEY GROUP POLICIES

Universal Declaration of Human Rights
UN Global Compact

1
2

Policies

Internal Policies

Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct2
Declaration of Conformity with the German
Corporate Governance Code
Environmental and Energy Policy
Paper Policy
Corporate Health Policy
Occupational Health & Safety Policy
Road Safety Code
Stakeholder Engagement Guideline
Data Privacy Policy

Anti-corruption Policy
Business Ethics Policy
Competition Compliance Policy
Privacy Policy for International Data Transfers
Corporate Procurement Policy
Investment Policy
Guideline of the use of biofuel

The International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work from 1998, as well as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises are accounted for in our Code of Conduct
The term suppliers also refers to our transportation subcontractors.

As such, it is the foundation for all other Group policies as well as regional guidelines and
rules of conduct. Adherence to the Code of Conduct is monitored by our Compliance
organization. Violations can be reported through multiple channels, including a dedicated
Compliance Hotline. The Code is available in 21 different languages.
We regularly review our Code of Conduct and receive advice from the Group’s Integrity
Board to ensure that our Code of Conduct is in line with changing political and social
requirements. The Integrity Board met once during the reporting year.
We provide online training to educate employees about the Code of Conduct; the training is
currently available in 21 different languages.

72

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT  PwC
Management approach & targets
The Supplier Code of Conduct forms the basis for supplier relations and is an integral
component of our contracts with suppliers. The Code places our suppliers under obligation
to observe the strategic goals and values of Deutsche Post DHL Group and to ensure that
their own business partners and subcontractors adhere to our standards as well.
We select our suppliers and transport service providers by way of a multi-step evaluation
system. To improve both the quality and the objectivity of this process, we will additionally
look at external supplier evaluations and define appropriate thresholds.
In existing contractual relations with suppliers, we place importance on further
development and training with the aim of heightening their awareness to our standards,
thus enabling us to maintain a lasting partnership with them. The most important
informational material is provided in the supplier’s respective language.
We also instruct and inform our employees, taking every opportunity to sensitize them to
the risks that can arise in the procurement process and to the need to observe and adhere to
our Corporate Procurement Policy. We regularly revise our training offerings and review
our procurement policy as part of an ongoing process to ensure it remains up to date and
meets current needs.

KPIs & targets
A rigorous and sustainable supplier management system plays a vital role in the business
success of Deutsche Post DHL Group. As the new materiality analysis we conducted in 2015
shows, this is an opinion our stakeholders share. KPIs have been defined for the key areas
shown below. We do not disclose internal management parameters as this is sensitive
business information.
KPIs and targets
Focus area

Action

Target

Supplier Code of Conduct

Check for completeness and
currentness

In 2016, align with the Group Code of
Conduct and translate into various
languages

Supplier management

Improve supplier evaluation process

By 2020, develop supplier evaluation
criteria and define minimum
thresholds

Corporate Procurement Policy

Integrate environmental and social
standards into the supplier selection
process

By 2020, roll out these standards as
binding selection criteria and
communicate the new policy version
within the Group

73

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Centralized procurement & supplier management

 PwC

At the operational level, the Corporate Procurement organization supports the divisions in
purchasing high quality goods and services, reducing spending and making cost-effective
investments in a way that is both in line with our Group policies and regardful of
environmental aspects.
Deutsche Post DHL Group procurement expenses in 20151

1

 PwC

De-centrally procured transport services account for approximately 90% of our purchased transport volumes.

Supplier management is performed centrally by the Corporate Procurement organization
and starts right at the beginning of the value creation chain. This ensures that the Supplier
Code of Conduct applies to all our suppliers and that our standards are applied and adhered
to by all involved in every stage of our own supply chain. We see our suppliers as more than
just transport service providers or external agents who deliver the goods we need. They are
also a valuable source of ideas that can be used to introduce improvements at Deutsche Post
DHL Group.
We support our suppliers by providing them with our knowledge and expertise, and we offer
them an interactive training module on our Supplier Code of Conduct and environmental
and social standards. We also give our road freight subcontractors access to our
procurement contacts to assist them, for example, in the procurement of new, more efficient
vehicles.

New procurement platform
In the reporting year, we focused on making our procurement processes more efficient and
transparent. The various procurement processes were standardized and integrated into the
existing purchasing platform. Internal processes were significantly improved as a result.
Supplier management is now linked to this new, centralized procurement platform. This
results in clear improvements regarding transparency and enables strategic management of
procurement responsibilities right across the Group. It also helps us perform monitoring
and evaluation in a standardized way.

74

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Supplier evaluations include a third-party due diligence screening for suppliers who meet
certain of the risk criteria contained in our Anti-corruption Policy. By taking this approach,
we can ensure that they meet the Group’s supplier selection requirements and support both
our environmental goals and our social standards.
In the section on Shared Value, we report in detail on the environmental aspects of various
procurement activities, including the global procurement of electricity from renewable
energy sources.
Employee development
The pilot phase of our Security and Compliance Awareness Workshop (SCAW) was
successfully concluded in 2015. The workshop has now been integrated into our training
offerings as part of a seminar on applying legal standards and guidelines.

Supplier Code of Conduct

 PwC

The Supplier Code of Conduct is an integral part of our supplier management system and of
the contracts we enter into with suppliers. It applies to suppliers as well as to transportation
subcontractors and other services providers. The Code explicitly encourages suppliers to
ensure that their own business partners and subcontractors adhere to our standards as well.
We are developing and enhancing our Supplier Code of Conduct as part of an ongoing
process. In the reporting year we began revising the Supplier Code of Conduct, also aligning
it with our own Code of Conduct. The revised version will be adopted in 2016.
To enable suppliers to familiarize themselves with our standards before entering into
contract negotiations, we offer them access to an interactive training module via our
websites. This is available not only in our standard business languages (German and
English), but also in Spanish and Chinese. The Supplier Code of Conduct is available for
download in 26 language versions.

»Our Supplier Code of Conduct reflects our company
culture and fittingly expresses the values embodied in
Deutsche Post DHL Group. This is the main reason why our
suppliers and business partners should sign it.«
MICHAEL NIESSEN
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

75

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Standardized tendering process
We select our suppliers and transport service providers by way of a multi-step tendering
process. In addition to our own evaluation process, we also look at independent, external
supplier reviews. As a result, we work solely with suppliers with whom we have gained
positive experience in evaluating our own sustainability performance and whose processes
we believe to be credible and trustworthy.
We want to use our findings to further enhance the supplier evaluation process by, for
example, taking account of factors specific to the countries in which our suppliers operate.

Developing existing supplier relationships
Some of our suppliers possess competencies that are of strategic importance for our current
or future business. These include innovators from the fields of green technologies and IT. We
confer regularly with these partners, exchanging ideas and information about current
developments, and collaborate on projects focused on driving innovation and developing
new business models.
To intensify our relations with strategic suppliers, we invited some 370 international
participants to a DPDHL Group Supplier Day on May 4, 2015. At the event, strategic
supplier representatives met with members of our corporate divisions to conduct intensive
discussions and participate in diverse presentations and workshops.

Responding to non-compliance
Because we trust our suppliers and business partners to comply with the terms of our
contractual agreements, we conduct compliance tests on a random basis. Suppliers are
selected on the basis of their economic significance and the results of a risk assessment. To
enable informed decisions, key Group departments such as HR and Compliance are
involved in the process.
If, upon further investigation, a violation of our Supplier Code of Conduct is confirmed, the
supplier in question must bindingly commit to address and remedy noncompliant behavior
as quickly as realistically possible. Follow-up evaluations are conducted. If the supplier fails
to meet our requirements, either in part or in full, further action is taken; in some cases, this
can mean the termination of a business relationship.

Subcontractor management
The procurement of transport services is largely performed de-centrally by our divisions.
This is because subcontractor selection and the decision to award a contract are closely
related to local business operations and needs. The Supplier Code of Conduct is also used as
a binding component of contracts awarded in decentralized procurement.

76

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

This ensures that the transportation subcontractor’s carbon emissions become integrated
into our own environmental goal of achieving a 30% improvement in carbon efficiency by
2020 based on 2007 figures. This is why harmonizing emissions calculation methodologies
worldwide is a key component of our environmental program – and why we want to involve
our subcontractors in our decisions and activities right from the start. We work alongside
our transportation subcontractors in initiatives to reduce fuel consumption and lower
greenhouse emissions.
The aim is to achieve like-for-like comparability of company emissions information within
the industry, as this creates the basis for informed decisions on transportation
subcontractors. We are currently collaborating with our major customers, suppliers and
industry peers to develop a framework for harmonizing emissions calculation
methodologies worldwide. To this end, Deutsche Post DHL Group participates in the Global
Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC), an independent worldwide initiative dedicated to
coordinating the process of harmonizing emissions calculation methodologies. GLEC
members include the major logistics companies, key account customers, representatives of
industry-led initiatives, small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) and research institutes.

Air and ocean freight
Unlike our express business, in our air freight operations we have no Group-owned aircraft.
We operate solely as an agent between customer and freight forwarder.
When selecting subcontractors, we consider environmental criteria and take three key
factors into account:
1. The company’s efficiency, which we monitor on a monthly basis.
2. Transparency in fleet composition.
3. The company’s participation in industry-led initiatives such as the Airfreight Carbon
Initiative.
To ensure we can track and verify a subcontractor’s environmental performance, the
outcomes of the above checks are entered into the Carrier Scorecard, which is then used in
the overall evaluation.
Our entire ocean freight operations are carried out by transportation subcontractors. We
have no Group-owned container ships. One of our most important tools in selecting a
shipping company is the Green Carrier Scorecard.
Companies are evaluated based on the following criteria:
1. Cooperation: The provision of carbon efficiency and environmental performance data
via the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG).
2. Carbon efficiency: The company’s efficiency by trade lane against the industry average.
3. Transparency: Verification of data by an independent third-party.

77

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

4. Engagement: The company’s participation in industry-led initiatives and notable
involvement in environmental projects and initiatives.
Each year shipping companies are issued a GoGreen Carrier Certificate that summarizes the
results of the evaluation.

Road freight
In our road freight operations, subcontractor management poses a far greater challenge than
with air and ocean freight. This is largely due to the fact that the supplier market is
significantly more fragmented. In 2013, the road freight market in Europe amassed sales of
some €65 billion. With a market share of 2.6%, Deutsche Post DHL Group is the secondlargest provider in the road freight sector.
To improve subcontractors’ greenhouse gas emission efficiency, we have joined a number of
industry-led initiatives whose work focuses on determining the environmental performance
of road freight companies and developing a standardized method for calculating emissions
of road freight operations.
We are also able to influence the efficiency of our road transport subcontractors by
supporting them in their efforts to improve their efficiency and, among other things, by
giving them access to our procurement contacts to assist them in the purchase of new, more
efficient vehicles.

COMPLIANCE  PwC
Management approach & targets

 PwC

As a globally active logistics provider, we operate in countries with very different political
systems, laws, regulations and cultural values. In accordance with our own understanding of
compliance and responsible business practice, we ensure that our employees behave in a way
that adheres to national laws and regulations, that they identify with the corporate values of
Deutsche Post DHL Group and apply our ethical standards in a binding way no matter
where they are in the world. Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires that our business
partners adhere to these same high standards.
We place particular importance on combating corruption. As a member of the World
Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), we have agreed to
translate the six PACI principles into concrete and measurable actions.
Through targeted communication and regular training, we help our employees and business
partners to both understand and adhere to our compliance policy and rules. We also require
them to report any and all violations of applicable laws, policies and regulations.

78

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Compliance is an integral part of our corporate culture and is lived out at all levels of the
Group. Our managers serve as role models. We expect them to lead by example in both
behavior and values, foster both the corporate culture and the principles of Deutsche Post
DHL Group in everything they do, and communicate these to our business partners.

KPIs and targets

 PwC

Compliance is a prerequisite for business success worldwide. Our materiality analysis, which
we revised in 2015, shows that this perception is shared by our various stakeholder groups.
As a materiality issue, compliance is managed according to predefined indicators. As this
information involves sensitive data, we do not disclose this data externally.

»A company that adopts and promotes high ethical
standards in its business activities and makes compliance
an integral part of its corporate culture has a clear
competitive advantage. I see compliance as an investment
in the future.«
DR. GORDON WEBER
CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER

Compliance organization & reporting

 PwC

The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) is responsible for the compliance management system
at Deutsche Post DHL Group and reports directly to the Board Member for Finance. The
CCO is assisted by the Global Compliance Office, which establishes Group-wide standards
for compliance management, supports the corresponding activities of the divisions, and
serves as the Compliance Office for Corporate Center and Global Business Services. Each of
the four operating divisions has a Compliance Officer who has recourse to additional local
resources and regularly presents a report to the divisional Board of Management member.
The officers’ activities and the content of their reports are incorporated into the Chief
Compliance Officer’s reports to the Board of Management as a whole and to the Finance and
Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.

Compliance management system

 PwC

One of the most important functions of our compliance management system is the
identification of potential compliance risks. Together with analysis of the company’s current
risk profile, this is of fundamental importance in further aligning and developing the
system. Risk analyses are conducted regularly in all divisions and regions. The findings of

79

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

these analyses are used to establish suitable measures to prevent compliance-related
violations. Key measures include the evaluation of business partners with regard to
compliance, coordination of the system for reporting potential violations of law or policy,
including the respective sanctions if deemed necessary, and the development and
implementation of compliance training and communication measures.
Elements of the compliance management system

 PwC

The subject of compliance is a fundamental
part of the audits which Corporate Audit
performs in all business divisions and
regular audits
departments. Corporate Audit also inspects the
management processes within the compliance
organization on a routine basis. The results of these inspections are documented and
reported regularly to the Board of Management together with recommendations for
improvement. In this reporting year, some 245 regular audits which were either directly or
indirectly related to compliance were conducted across the Group. A number of ad hoc
audits were also performed for specific reasons. The audits supplement the Group-wide
monitoring system and support ongoing compliance activities as well as the identification of
compliance risks. They provide the basis for ongoing further enhancement of our Groupwide compliance program.

245

Transparency in pursuing company interests

 PwC

When it comes to political lobbying, transparency is a top priority for Deutsche Post DHL
Group. Our Group-wide Anti-Corruption and Business Ethics Policy lays down the rules
regarding donations and gifts made to political parties and governmental institutions,
stating that:

80

Deutsche Post DHL Group

»

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Employees are not authorized to make contributions to political parties and
their affiliated organizations, to governmental authorities or to any other
public institution on behalf of the Group. Such contributions include financial
donations and other gifts of monetary value.

«

TAKEN FROM SECTION 9 OF DEUTSCHE POST DHL GROUP’S ANTI-CORRUPTION AND
BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY
This policy applies across the entire Group and thus in all regions and countries in which
Deutsche Post DHL Group operates. We maintain correct and lawful relations with all
governmental and supervisory authorities, operating at all times in a straightforward,
transparent manner and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Through the
EU Transparency Register, we voluntary report on the type, scope and financing of our
lobbying activities within the EU.
The policy does not, however, prevent our employees from acting within applicable law, such
as that in the US, to organize and manage so-called Political Actions Committees.

Violations: Reporting and confidentiality
Employees can report potential compliance violations through a special 24-hour web
application, or by calling our Compliance Hotline, which is available in 150 countries and in
30 different languages. Internal communication channels are used to ensure that employees
know about the reporting systems available to them as well as whom to contact within the
local compliance organization. Compliance violations can be reported anonymously (where
legally permitted) or by providing contact information. Reported compliance violations are
handled professionally and confidentially. The Chief Compliance Officer reports relevant
violations to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board’s Finance and Audit
Committee.

DATA PROTECTION  PwC
Management approach & targets

 PwC

High data protection standards are integral to the Deutsche Post DHL Group brand and
play an important business role. This is reflected in our updated materiality analysis (revised
in this reporting year) which shows that our stakeholders consider data protection to be of
key importance to our business success.
In our growth market eCommerce as well as in international logistics, customers place great
value on compliance with data protection rules and regulations.

81

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Our standards are laid down in our Data Privacy Policy, which applies throughout the
Group. Regular implementation checks, ongoing revision of our standards, and data privacy
and protection training for our managers and employees ensure that the provisions the
policy contains meet prevailing legal requirements.
As the leading postal and logistics services provider with 12,000 locations in more than 220
countries and territories, we must often observe what can be very different data protection
rules and regulations. As there is no universally binding data protection law in place, with
support from legal counsel, we conduct regular checks in all the countries in which we
operate to ensure that both our own Data Privacy Policy and prevailing national rules and
regulations are complied with. In places where no data protection regulations exist at the
present time, we apply our own Group-wide standards.

KPIs & targets

 PwC

Our data protection management system is designed to further sensitize our managers and
employees to the importance of data protection and to ensure our Data Privacy Policy is
implemented at all times across the Group.
In 2016 we plan to review the possibility of including a module on data protection in the
Group’s Certified initiative. Given the sensitive nature of our data protection indicators, we
do not disclose this data externally.

Data protection management system

 PwC

Combined with an effective data protection management system, high data protection
standards are an effective tool in securing customer loyalty and winning new business.
Our data protection management system is designed to further sensitize our managers and
employees to the importance of data protection and to ensure our Data Privacy Policy is
implemented at all times across the Group.
To achieve greater transparency and improve comparability, in this reporting year we have
made standardized data protection monitoring a central component of our data protection
management system and have integrated it into all processes in all company divisions. We
have also introduced a reporting process for data privacy violations.
To sensitize our managers and employees to the importance of data protection, our data
protection management system includes web-based training on a variety of data protection
issues. These include employee data privacy and customer data privacy. Data Privacy Policy
training is compulsory for all middle and upper management.

82

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

»Data privacy is a top priority at Deutsche Post DHL Group.
That applies to our digital offers, our e-commerce solutions
as well as to our traditional mail services. We also pursue
high standards internationally. As a multinational company,
we face a particular challenge in the international transfer
of data. A data protection law that is the same around the
world does not exist. This is why we apply our own Groupwide standards.«
GABRIELA KRADER
CORPORATE DATA PROTECTION OFFICER

Data Privacy Policy
Our corporate Data Privacy Policy lays out uniform, appropriate and globally applicable
data privacy and protection standards for safeguarding personal data. We also have other
data protection rules in place which, based on our corporate Data Privacy Policy, focus on
specific areas such as the processing of personal data, direct marketing and eCommerce
activities.
The implementation of our Data Privacy Policy is regularly evaluated by the supervisory
authority – the German Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of
Information. The 2015 audit yielded no findings.

SECURITY MANAGEMENT  PwC
For a globally operating logistics company like Deutsche Post DHL Group, success hinges
on a stable and secure business environment as well as on security within its various modes
of transport, be it by air, road or sea. Globally integrated supply chains are exposed to any
number of risks and are often the target of criminal activity, including organized crime,
terrorism, piracy and internet crime.
In our efforts to provide our employees, business partners and customers with a high degree
of security and safety, Deutsche Post DHL Group operates a comprehensive risk-based
security management system. Continuous monitoring and further development of our
security measures make for an efficient and effective process which enables us to make our
global supply chains more resilient and increase the level of trust that customers and
employees place in our products and services. In this way, we improve our performance as
provider of choice, thus contributing significantly to the corporate strategy and the business
success of Deutsche Post DHL Group.

83

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

»With our comprehensive and robust Security Risk
Management System Deutsche Post DHL Group is well setup to counter global security challenges. If customers think
of security in logistics, they should think of DPDHL Group!«
FRANK HELMUT EWALD
HEAD OF CORPORATE SECURITY

Taking account of the security requirements of all our divisions and business models, we
analyze the potential security risks for the Group worldwide. In doing so, we adhere to
international standards. As part of an ongoing process, we identify security risks, analyze
them with regard to their potential impact and, after careful evaluation, take appropriate
steps to mitigate them. Our security management system is embedded in the Group’s
comprehensive management approach and is compliant with legal and regulatory
provisions.

Sensitizing employees to security risks

 PwC

With special training programs, we ensure that our employees are aware of the security risks
involved in the area in which they work and are able to respond in an appropriate way. For
example, we instruct them on the applicable standards for their place of work and on the
Group’s compliance policy. Our security policies expressly include the protection of personal
rights and adherence to legal requirements. This promotes a security culture which is both
accepted throughout the Group and complies with prevailing law.

Global IT platform

 PwC

Integral to our security management system is the continuous monitoring and evaluation of
the global security situation and the preparation of forecasts and analyses to facilitate
responsible business activities in regions considered a security risk. With the help of our
security experts, we have developed a global IT security platform – Resilience 360 – which
allows strategic analysis of potential security risks in our global supply chains. Resilience 360
also provides visibility regarding our global supply chain routes and links up the sites
involved, allowing information on security-related incidents from both internal and external
sources to be processed in near real time. Where security-related disruptions occur, the tool
serves as a communication platform in the event of a security issue, allowing us to contact
and share information with the respective parties along the entire supply chain. Customers
can also use Resilience 360 to monitor their own supply chains and make them more secure,
giving them an important leg up on the competition.

84

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Broad-based exchange
Deutsche Post DHL Group also maintains close and collaborative dialogue with security
authorities and represents the Group’s interests in national and international bodies and
institutions that deal with security issues. We can use our vast experience to help develop
security policy solutions. By implementing Group-wide crime prevention measures and
investigating security-related incidents, we safeguard our employees, the assets entrusted to
us by our customers, as well as the Group’s tangible and intangible assets.

OPPORTUNITY & RISK ASSESSMENT  PwC
As an internationally operating logistics company, our business is subject to a wide range of
influences and impacts. This presents both the opportunity to develop new business areas
and markets. It can also give rise to risks regarding our reputation, our compliance
standards and our financial stability.
Our Group-wide resilience management process is designed to systematically identify
potential opportunities and risks at an early stage. The process not only provides important
insights into potential benefits for the Group but enables us to take necessary measures to
protect our business, our employees and our customers from potentially negative impacts.
This strengthens our competitive position in the market. A logistics company that is able to
maintain operations, enabling undisrupted supply and sale of goods and services, even in
critical situations, is the partner of choice for businesses in industry and trade. Innovative
solutions for increased supply chain security represent huge market potential for our
company.
Opportunity and risk management process

Strategic issue management

 PwC

 PwC

Our strategic issues management process involves the use of an intelligent monitoring
system which tracks public debate on an array of global issues relating to topics such as
world trade, sustainability and future technologies, as well as stakeholder perceptions of
topics with high opportunity/risk potential. This includes real-time media monitoring,
entailing continuous observation and analysis of more than 20,000 online media and social

85

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

media sources. The insights gained in this process flow into our business and
communications strategies, and are also used in planning and managing our corporate
responsibility activities.

Health risks

 PwC

To reduce the number of health-related insurance claims, we systematically analyze our
insurance risks according to country and division. When identifying the areas involved, we
work together with local insurance providers as part of a global insurance program or make
use of the country profiles published by the World Health Organization (WHO).

Financial opportunities & risks

 PwC

Two important goals in our resilience management process are to identify and embrace
opportunities in a timely way and to mitigate risks. The anticipated impacts of potential
incidents, developments and trends are considered in all our business planning.
Opportunities and risks are defined as potential deviations from projected earnings. Our
Group-wide opportunity and risk management system helps us achieve these goals. In the
first step of the process, CR-related opportunities and risks from areas such as litigation and
personnel are recorded and measured.
Each quarter, managers estimate the impact of future scenarios, evaluate the opportunities
and risks for their divisions and departments, and present both planned measures and those
already implemented. Queries are made and approvals are given on a hierarchical basis to
ensure that different managerial levels are involved in the process. Opportunities and risks
can also be reported at any time on an ad hoc basis.
The early identification process links the Group’s opportunity and risk management with
uniform reporting standards. We continuously improve the IT application used for this
purpose. The opportunity and risk report for the reporting year is part of the Group’s
Annual Report 2015.

86

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

INTERVIEW

KEN ALLEN
Board Member for Express

»We are committed to being the world leader in international
express delivery, which in turn means playing a central role in
facilitating and moving global trade.«

INTERVIEW WITH KEN ALLEN
Ken Allen is a Member of the Board of Management and head of the Express division. In an
interview, he explains how DHL Express contributes to the development of sustainable
global trade, talks about what his division is doing to drive employee engagement, and
provides insight into the future of the express business.
With its Group strategy, Deutsche Post DHL Group claims to be provider, employer and
investment of choice – as well as to become a benchmark company for responsible
business. How would you define being the benchmark for a responsible Express
business?
It all comes down to purpose. If your business is built around a true purpose, then it is
highly likely that you will need a strong, in-built sense of responsibility towards all your
stakeholders to be successful, whether you put a ‘Corporate Responsibility’ label on it or not.
In our case, we are committed to being the world leader in international express delivery,
which in turn means playing a central role in facilitating and moving global trade. To
achieve this, we recognize that we need to lead across all aspects of the business, and this
also includes taking the initiative on environmental and social issues in the markets in
which we operate. We weren’t just the pioneers in the international express industry. We
were also the first international logistics company, for example, to introduce a measurable
target for carbon efficiency. And through our Disaster Response Team partnership with the
UN, we are typically among the first logistics operators to enter and provide support in
delivering goods to locations hit by natural disasters.

87

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

How does DHL Express manage to balance economic and ecological interests despite an
increasingly demanding business environment? Do you see more customers especially
asking for eco-friendly shipment solutions?
In a business which is built around connecting customers’ products across continents in the
shortest possible timeframe, there is indeed something of an inherent conflict between
economic and ecological interests. Our services create tremendous added value for the
world economy and, through our role in global trade, we contribute to prosperity and
improved living conditions. At the same time, we want to ensure that this value isn’t
compromised by any negative impacts our transport activities have on the environment.
One of the main ways to achieve this – aside from investments in clean technology – is
through increasing efficiency in everything you do, which benefits all stakeholders. We do
see more customers, particularly those that are looking to contract with an express provider
for the long-term, incorporating environmental and social factors into their choice of
suppliers. This tells me that everyone recognizes a shared responsibility to the environment
throughout the supply chain and makes me optimistic that we will see even greater
investment and innovation in this area in the future.
Maintaining a motivated workforce is essential for a company that expects its
employees to go the extra-mile for customers. Which actions does DHL Express take to
increase employee engagement and satisfaction?
This is one of the areas in which I take most pride as a senior executive, and where we have
seen direct, positive impact on our business. We have invested significant time and resource
in increasing employee engagement and satisfaction within the Express division. We
recognize that it is our people – through their daily interactions with our customers – who
turn investments into assets. We have institutionalized employee recognition through
initiatives such as Appreciation Weeks and Employee of the Year events, and we have
supported mentoring and coaching through a focus, for example, on the leadership
development of supervisors working with the front line. At the center of it all is the Certified
International Specialist development and engagement program, which we introduced
globally in 2010. This program has been so successful in driving engagement, and in turn,
performance, at DHL Express, that the Group has incorporated the Certified concept into its
corporate strategy.
Which sustainable innovations do you think are most likely to shape the future of the
Express business?
The international express business has developed over many years into a highly competitive
market. This has meant that the main players now typically seek differentiation through
what we would call ‘incremental innovation’ – small, marginal changes which, when
translated over a global network, can have a huge impact. An example of this would be
technologies that make your routings more efficient, which can generate massive savings,
improve service and also have a positive impact on your environmental footprint. At the
same time, the world is still a diverse place, with huge differences and imbalances in terms of
infrastructure, regulations, and economic and social development. This suggests to me that
the opportunity is there for additional innovations that could fundamentally transform the
way we move shipments across borders. We’re open to that and continuously looking for

88

Deutsche Post DHL Group

PRINCIPLES & GUIDELINES

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

ways to disrupt our own business. On the environmental front, for example, breakthroughs
in fuel and transportation technologies could have a huge impact on our industry. One of
the reasons why we are so closely involved in the FIA Formula E electric racing
championship is that we are interested in seeing whether it can support a commercial
breakthrough in electric vehicle technology.
Ten years from now – how do you expect the business to evolve?
In a world changing as fast as it is today, it’s difficult to predict exactly how our business will
look within five years, let alone ten. One thing is for certain, however: global trade will
remain an important driver of the world economy, and there will therefore still be strong
demand for international express delivery services throughout the world. It’s through our
efforts to ensure a sustainable business today that we will ensure that DHL continues to play
a positive role in that story tomorrow and a decade from now.

89

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

to geth er
[adjective];
in the spirit of partnership, co-active, side by side

90

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

WHAT DOES TOGETHER MEAN TO US?
Our global reach and local presence in nearly every country around the world puts us in an ideal
position to address societal needs. Our programs are organized and implemented at local level in
close collaboration with leading international organizations. The outstanding team spirit shown in
our employees’ volunteer initiatives helps to improve people’s lives in a lasting way in countries
around the world.

IN THIS CHAPTER
92

MANAGEMENT APPROACH & TARGETS

93

MEASURING ENGAGEMENT

94

DISASTER MANAGEMENT

97

IMPROVING EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY AND EMPLOYABILITY

99

COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT

91

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

MANAGEMENT APPROACH & TARGETS
Corporate citizenship is a core component of our corporate responsibility strategy. We are
the world's leading transport and logistics company, and we want to leverage the know-how
of our employees in a way that makes a positive contribution to society and the
environment.
We work in close collaboration with established partner organizations to ensure the
professionalism and sustainable impact of our programs and activities.
Our corporate citizenship activities focus on:
Improving disaster management at airports (GoHelp)
Promoting educational opportunity and employability for young people, especially those
from disadvantaged socio-economic backgrounds (GoTeach)
Supporting local environmental and community service projects initiated by our
employees.
In addition, the Group has been involved in refugee aid efforts in Germany since 2015.

KPIs & targets
Our engagement on behalf of society and the environment supports the Group’s objective to
become a benchmark company for responsible business. At the same time, our corporate
citizenship activities have a positive effect on the company’s image and reputation, as well as
on employee motivation and loyalty. Among other metrics, since 2014 we also measure the
success of our corporate activities with the help of the internationally recognized LBG
framework, and provide reporting – both internally and externally – on the latest
developments in this area. We have defined the following KPIs and targets for our main
corporate citizenship focus areas:
KPIs and targets
Focus area

KPI

Target

Employee community involvement

We want to motivate as many
employees as possible around the
world to get involved as volunteers

In 2016 we want to increase the
number of employees participating in
Global Volunteer Day

We plan to continuously expand and
improve our refugee relief activities in
Germany
Disaster management

We want to conduct at least one DRT
training and at least one GARD
workshop in each of the three main
regions

Conduct 3 DRT trainings and 3 GARD
workshops in 2016

Improving education and employability

As part of the cooperation with SOS
Children’s Villages and Teach For All,
we want to expand activity in the
partner countries and deepen our
impact

In 2016 we plan to extend our
GoTeach partnership with Teach For
All another three years (until 2019)

92

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

DEFINING AND QUANTIFYING CORPORATE
CITIZENSHIP ACTIVITIES
The LBG framework is one way we systematically assess our social/environmental
engagement, and we do this along the following three dimensions:
Input: Amount of money invested, monetary value of time donated by employee
volunteers, in-kind donations and administrative expense.
Output: Number of individuals reached or supported, or number of activities and
offerings.
Impact: Short and long-term changes among supported individuals/groups (community
impacts) as well as changes within the company (business impacts) resulting from the
corporate citizenship activity.
All activity falls into one of the following categories:
Charitable contributions in the form of one-time donations
Investments in local communities through long-term, strategic involvement/partnership
with non-profit organizations
Commercial initiatives in the form of business-related advertising or sales/marketing
measures that also deliver community benefit

»With our corporate citizenship program, we promote
projects that match our business portfolio. We are logistics
experts, so disaster management is a natural fit. Our
commitment to improving educational opportunity and
employability focuses primarily on socially disadvantaged
children and teens. As mentors, our employees provide their
own personal insights on navigating the first initial steps
into the working world with success.«
RALF DÜRRWANG
HEAD OF CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP

93

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

In order to be measured by the LBG model, the activity must benefit a non-commercial
partner. Social programs for the benefit of a company’s own employees or the company itself
cannot be measured, nor can any expenditures resulting from regulatory control.
In the reporting year, we were able to continue improving the quality of the data. New
activities were identified and some existing activities were newly evaluated. Thus the
percentage of long-term strategic involvement, i.e. investments in local communities,
increased to 60% in 2014 (2013: 38%). The percentage of charitable contributions reached
16% (2013: 12%) and the percentage of commercial initiatives was roughly 25% (2013: 40%).

DISASTER MANAGEMENT: GOHELP
The Group’s global GoHelp program includes all emergency relief measures in the wake of
natural disasters as well as disaster preparedness measures in disaster-prone regions.
Our GoHelp program leverages Deutsche Post DHL Group’s logistics expertise and global
logistics network to support the United Nations, making us part of a global humanitarian
system. The strategic partnership between our company and the UN now extends over ten
years. Any contributions and services provided by the Group through GoHelp are free of
charge.
We support airports in two different ways. Our Get Airports Ready for Disaster (GARD)
workshops prepare airports in disaster-prone regions for the possibility of a disaster-related
emergency response. When disaster does strike, our Disaster Response Teams (DRTs) are
deployed to ensure that the arriving relief supplies are managed efficiently and received by
the authorized aid organizations so that the most urgent items get to where they are needed
most. Both GoHelp programs (GARD and DRT) are very well received and respected both
inside and outside the company.

94

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Corporate citizenship

Americas

10

Europe

SOS partner
countries

4

1

Teach For All
network partners

SOS partner
country

2

Teach For All
network partners

GARD workshop

Dominican Republic

GARD workshop

Macedonia

GARD plus initiative

Dominican Republic

DRT training

Turkey

DRT deployments

Brazil, Chile, Guatemala

DRT trainings

Guatemala, Peru

DRT regional team

Panama

Other regions

Asia Pacific

12

3

SOS partner
countries

SOS partner
countries

4

Teach For All
network partners

DRT training

Bahrain

GARD workshop

India

DRT regional team

Dubai

DRT deployments

Nepal, Vanuatu

DRT training

Philippines

DRT regional team

Singapore

95

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Disaster preparedness: Get Airports Ready for Disaster
We developed the Get Airports Ready for Disaster (GARD)
program based on more than ten years of experience in
disaster management. In cooperation with the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), GARD helps
prepare airport personnel and local disaster management
authorities for the logistical challenges associated with
disaster relief efforts.
Our activity here focuses on multi-day GARD workshops
during which instructors work with participants to conduct
risk analyses and develop tailored emergency response
plans. This also involves close collaboration with other local
institutions, including relief organizations. The follow-up
module “GARD plus” includes a test run of recommended
measures six to twelve months after the initial GARD
workshop. This ensures that emergency response plans remain up-to-date and can be
deployed immediately.
In the reporting year GARD workshops were conducted for a total of over 70 participants at
four airports in the Dominican Republic, India and Macedonia. A GARD plus workshop
was also conducted in the Dominican Republic in 2015.

Disaster relief: Disaster Response Teams
In cooperation with the United Nations Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA), we
have established a network of over 400 trained DHL
employees who serve in our Disaster Response Teams
(DRT) on a volunteer basis. We have three regional DRTs
located in Dubai (for deployment in the Middle East and
Africa), Panama (Americas) and Singapore (Asia Pacific).
When called upon by the UN, DRTs can be deployed to
disaster areas within a maximum of 72 hours.
In March 2015 a devastating cyclone struck the island
nation of Vanuatu in the South Pacific. Volunteers from the
Asia Pacific DRT provided logistics support at the airport,
coordinated incoming aid and prepared the goods for
further transport. DRTs were also deployed to Nepal
following the massive earthquake in April of 2015. Working at the Tribhuvan International
Airport in Kathmandu, four teams with a total of 33 employee volunteers helped process
some 2,000 tonnes of relief supplies and ensure delivery to aid organizations on the ground.
In Brazil, Chile and Guatemala DRTs were deployed to assist local flood relief efforts.

96

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

When deployed in the wake of a natural disaster, DRT volunteers face a number of
challenges. They not only engage in hard physical work, but must often cope with poorly
organized relief efforts. We provide regular follow-up trainings to make sure our DRT
volunteers are prepared. In 2015 over 170 employees took part in these trainings. We are
planning to hold at least one training in each of the three DRT deployment regions in 2016.

GOTEACH: IMPROVING EDUCATIONAL
OPPORTUNITY AND EMPLOYABILITY
The goal of our Group-wide GoTeach program is to improve educational opportunity and
employability of young people, especially those from disadvantaged socio-economic
backgrounds. There are several good reasons for doing this. First, as one of the world’s
largest employers, we rely on access to highly qualified employees around the world.
Education is a key contributor to Deutsche Post DHL Group’s productivity and innovation
capacity. Secondly, in today’s rapidly changing world, education promotes greater stability
and prosperity – both for individuals and for the societies and markets in which we conduct
business. In this way GoTeach supports one of our primary goals as a company: to become
Employer of Choice. At the same time it helps build and maintain a stable market
environment.
When it comes to our GoTeach activities, our employees share not only their time but their
own individual skills and experiences. Our strategic, global partners are SOS Children’s
Villages and the educational network Teach For All.

Partnership with SOS Children’s
Villages
Deutsche Post DHL Group’s global collaboration with SOS Children’s Villages dates back to
2010 and today includes partnerships in 26 countries. The main focus of the Group’s
involvement is to provide support to young people between the ages of 15 and 25 as they
make the transition to working life. Along with financial support for educational programs
and youth facilities, we focus our activities on career guidance, teaching basic professional
skills and providing young people with first exposure to the work environment.
In the reporting year we established two new partnerships with organizations in Nigeria and
Tanzania, and conducted an extensive evaluation of our partnerships around the world. The
goal of the evaluation was to gain a clearer picture of our local collaboration efforts and how
they impact the lives of both young people and participating employees. The results of the
evaluation prove the efficacy of our partnership model.
At the heart of the GoTeach partnership with SOS Children’s Villages is the direct contact
and exchange between the young people and our employees, many of whom become role

97

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

models – a fact confirmed by 85% of the young people participating in the 2015 evaluation
survey. The support we provide is always tailored to the local conditions and opportunities
available in the individual countries. This individualized support significantly improves their
employability and ability to grow into independent, self-supporting young adults.
In the reporting year, more than 1,000 employees devoted over 15,500 hours of their time to
our partnership with SOS Children’s Villages. Some 2,000 young people in our 26 partner
countries benefited from support activities carried out in 2015. More than 140 young people
took part in work placements within the Group and at least 12 were offered employment
contracts. In 2015 all partner countries took part in one of three regional conferences held
in Africa, Central/South America and Asia. Conference participants agreed to expand
involvement in the active partner countries in 2016 and to use the results of the partnership
evaluation to continue to improve the quality and positive impact of the Group’s
involvement.

Partnership with Teach For All
2015 marked the fifth year of Deutsche Post DHL Group’s partnership with the global
educational initiative Teach For All – an organization working to provide every child,
regardless of their parents’ socio-economic status, with access to quality education. To this
end, Teach For All partner organizations recruit and develop exceptional university
graduates and young professionals to teach in high-need schools. During their teaching
service, participants in the program receive training and support from the partner
organizations. Teaching assignments are full time and last for two years. Even after
completing their active assignments, Teach For All teaching participants continue to work
throughout their lives to expand opportunity for children.
As part of our partnership we support the global organization Teach For All as well as ten
network partner organizations in Argentina, Bangladesh, Chile, Ecuador, Germany, India,
Malaysia, Peru, the Philippines and Spain. Our newest partnerships, with the national
organizations Teach For Bangladesh and Teach For Malaysia, were launched in March 2015.
Our support includes financial donations, in-kind donations and the time and energy
donated by our employees. In the reporting year some 1,300 employees took part in 103
partnership activities. Of these, some 90 employees volunteered their free time to serve as
mentors, supporting both teaching participants and students in their personal and
professional development.
In the reporting year Deutsche Post DHL Group received Teach For All’s “2015 Tiger
Award” for the Group’s longstanding commitment and financial support, which has helped
build a strong foundation for the organization’s worldwide network. With our continued
support, the Teach For All global network grew from 35 to 39 independent partner
organizations in the reporting year.

98

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
We expressly encourage employees to volunteer in their local communities, because we feel
that volunteering on behalf of society and the environment benefits not only our partner
organizations, but also the individual employees who donate their time and energy.
Volunteer work opens our employees to new and different perspectives; this strengthens the
bonds between them and makes a significant contribution to a more engaged and motivated
workforce. Moreover, employee community involvement supports the company’s strategic
goal to act responsibly with regard to the environment and society in all areas of our
business.

Global Volunteer Day
Since its inception in 2011, Global Volunteer Day (GVD) has become a major component
and driver of employee volunteer work across the Group. GVD provides a platform for
employees to realize community projects in close collaboration with independent local
organizations and charities. Volunteer work in the context of GVD is not limited to a single
day or single project, but is designed to promote lasting ties between our employees and the
many local non-profits and charities in which they are involved.
In the reporting year over 110,000 employees provided support to non-profit projects in
their communities as part of the GVD program; 78,000 (2014: 77,000) of these employees in
114 different countries worldwide took active part in local projects, contributing more than
260,000 volunteer hours in more than 2,000 individual projects. Employee participation in
GVD – and the diversity of GVD projects – continues to grow year to year.
2015 marked the first time GVD participation levels were measured using the LBG model.
Reconciliation between the previous and the new method is presented in the Annex to this
report.

Living Responsibility Fund
We also provide financial support to local community projects in which our employees are
involved as volunteers. The Living Responsibility Fund (LR Fund), which is fed by Group
funds, provides financial support to local partner organizations to help them expand their
scope of activity together with our employee volunteers. In order to qualify for financial
support, at least two Group employees must devote 50 hours of their time to the project over
the course of one year. Our goal is to support employees who demonstrate lasting
commitment to social or environmental causes and serve as models for their fellow
colleagues. Each year a jury consisting of representatives from all board departments across
the Group selects projects for funding. Projects in which employees invest more than 400
hours are eligible to receive a maximum of €4,000. The exact figure depends on the number
of hours volunteered by employees over the course of the application year. In 2015, 79
employee projects in 31 countries received financial support through the LR Fund. A total of
4,600 employees volunteered approx. 39,000 hours of their time to these projects, or the

99

Deutsche Post DHL Group

SOCIETY & ENGAGEMENT

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

equivalent of approx. 4,900 eight-hour work days. In the reporting year the LR Fund granted
a total of €212,000 in financial support.

Employees supporting employees
Our internal relief fund “We Help Each Other” (WHEO) is testament to the team spirit and
solidarity among Deutsche Post DHL Group employees. WHEO is funded by individual
employee donations or larger employee donation drives organized at the local level.
WHEO’s goal is to provide financial support to Deutsche Post DHL Group employees who
are victims of a natural disaster. In the reporting year 52 employees in six countries received
financial support from the fund. Among the beneficiaries are 38 DHL employees in Nepal
who were affected by the devastating earthquake that shook the country in the spring of
2015.

Refugee aid in Germany

1,000

100

internships for refugees in Germany

volunteer coordinators act as local contact
persons

Since September 2015, Deutsche Post DHL Group has been actively involved in refugee aid
in Germany. The Group works closely with highly experienced aid organizations such as the
“Aktion Deutschland Hilft” alliance, SOS Children’s Villages, Stiftung Lesen and Teach First
Deutschland. We see our involvement in refugee aid as a longer-term commitment. For the
first year the Group has earmarked a total of €1 million for refugee aid. Our focus is on
cultural integration, with an emphasis on language acquisition and vocational preparation
and training.
As one of the largest employers in Germany we will also offer up to 1,000 internships to give
refugees exposure to the German working world and provide them with opportunities for
integrating into the German labor market. In addition, we want to encourage up to 10,000
employees to get involved in their local communities. We have deployed 100 volunteer
coordinators across Germany to act as local contact persons for employees and relief
organizations. In addition, we met with federal and state-level representatives in 2015 to
discuss the utilization of Group property for refugee housing, as well as the deployment of
employees to support with administrative tasks.

100

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

ef fi cient
[adjective];
effective and productive, designed for cost-effectiveness

101

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

WHAT DOES EFFICIENT MEAN FOR US?
The alignment of economic and environmental targets calls for sustainable management practices
that secure our company’s competitiveness and enhance our customers’ business success. We
improve efficiency and develop green solutions along the entire supply chain.

IN THIS CHAPTER
103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH & TARGETS

118 EMISSIONS
Local air pollutants

105 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROGRAM
107 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

120 NATURAL RESOURCES
122 GREEN PRODUCTS
Standardized products
Tailor-made solutions

109 EFFICIENCY MANAGEMENT
Air transport
Road transport
Networks
Buildings

127 INTERVIEW WITH JÜRGEN GERDES

INTERVIEW WITH JÜRGEN GERDES
»There's no doubt that logistics has an impact on the
environment. But here again, as the market and
innovation leader, we can, want and must be a very clear
role model. And we’re doing just that.«
READ INTERVIEW ON PAGE 127 →

102

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Management approach & targets

 PwC

Logistics is a major growth industry. As global commerce grows and e-commerce continues
to boom, the demand for logistics solutions will only increase in the future. The effects of
this extend far beyond our company's own success. Our logistics solutions connect people
and regions to one another, and facilitate economic growth and prosperity. At the same
time, our business activity has a considerable impact on the environment. This is due largely
to climate-changing greenhouse gas emissions, but also to local air pollutants and noise
pollution. We acknowledge our special responsibility to the environment – and we act on
this strong sense of responsibility through our Group-wide environmental protection
program.
Our activity in the area of environmental protection is guided by the Shared Value
proposition – the notion that we can contribute to society and the environment while, at the
same time, contributing to the success of our business. The success of this approach is
evidenced by the progress we’ve made in improving carbon efficiency, which is at the heart
of our climate protection goals. We want to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions for every
letter, every parcel, every tonne of freight and every square meter of warehouse space by
30% by the year 2020. Since indirect emissions account for a large portion of the Group’s
overall carbon footprint, this target not only applies to the emissions generated by our own
fleet, but also to those generated by subcontracted transport services. As of the reporting
year, our climate protection measures have already resulted in a carbon efficiency
improvement of 25% compared to the 2007 baseline.
To achieve our climate protection goals by 2020, we have and will continue to develop and
implement tailored action measures designed specifically for the given region and area of
operations. These include measures to:
Improve our fuel efficiency
Optimize our networks and routes
Improve energy efficiency in our buildings
By applying efficiency measures to our vehicle fleet, we are also able to reduce emissions of
local pollutants and – with the deployment of electric vehicles, for example – reduce noise
pollution in dense urban areas. Another focal point of our Shared Value proposition is
developing new, more eco-friendly logistics solutions. Green logistics solutions are
increasingly important for our business; they not only help meet the needs and expectations
of our customers, but – as with our Green Optimization services – also improve the
efficiency of our own operations. To underscore the significance of green solutions, we have
made green logistics solutions an integral part of our corporate strategy.
We are also involved in a number of initiatives to achieve greater transparency and
comparability in the area of greenhouse gas emissions data collection and reporting. We see
this as another way to make a lasting contribution to lowering fuel and energy consumption,
and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We will also be supporting the climate agreement
reached during the 2015 UN Climate Change Conference in Paris (COP21) to hold the

103

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

global temperature increase to well below 2 °C. Our CEO Dr. Frank Appel was one of over
40 signatories to an open letter directed toward governments participating in COP21, asking
for the adoption of uniform and binding climate-protection targets.

KPIs & targets

 PwC

We regard environmental protection as a continuous and dynamic process. As part of our
materiality analysis, we regularly review the relevance of identified focus areas and the
implemented action measures. The materiality analysis conducted in the reporting year
largely affirmed the focus of our environmental protection efforts – energy efficiency and
climate change. At the same time, other environmental factors such as local air pollutants
and noise pollution have gained considerably in significance.
The Carbon Efficiency Index (CEX) is the key performance indicator for measuring the
progress of our environmental protection program and activities. We have not yet set
separate targets for managing local noise and reducing air pollution. This is because the
measures we implement to improve our carbon efficiency also contribute to reducing noise
and the emission of local air pollutants. Additionally, in contrast to greenhouse gas
emissions, there are already extensive legal standards and requirements in place in most
cases, such as the European Union's exhaust emissions standards or noise pollution
regulations. We always meet and often surpass these standards.
We have met our targets for 2015:
We achieved our goal of improving our carbon efficiency by at least one percentage point
over the previous year.
The wide-scale implementation of an energy management system based on the ISO 50001
standard at sites within the EU was completed in the reporting year.
We continued to rollout the use of electric vehicles in our delivery operations both in
Germany and in other European countries.
We implemented smart metering systems throughout Germany to improve the efficiency
of our buildings.

104

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

KPIs and targets
Focus area

KPI

Target

Energy efficiency and climate change

Carbon Efficiency Index (CEX)

Improve CEX by at least one index
point over previous year

Local air pollutants and noise

We plan to give this area special attention with the goal of developing relevant
targets and reviewing the applicability of existing KPIs for this area.

Rollout of energy management system

We plan to continue the implementation of an energy management system based
on the ISO 50001 standard at sites within the EU and expand our own 6-Step
Approach to environmental management to include the aspect of energy
management.

Efficiency measures
Buildings: Rollout energy consumption
and monitoring systems

We will begin implementation of smart metering technology at relevant sites
throughout Germany.

Buildings: Continue rollout of lighting
systems

We will upgrade all of our mail sorting centers in Germany to LED lighting by
2019.

Buildings: Modernization of heating
systems

We plan to upgrade the heating systems in our parcel centers, replacing them
with energy-efficient block heat and power plants.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROGRAM
Improving carbon efficiency and reducing air and noise pollution are the focus areas of our
Group-wide environmental protection program GoGreen. This includes not only the direct
emissions generated by our own fleet, but also the indirect emissions from our
transportation subcontractors, which account for the largest share of the Group’s overall
emissions.

»We've been leading the way in green logistics since 2008,
when we became the first logistics company to set a
climate protection target. We offer customers eco-efficient
logistics and transport solutions that not only improve the
transparency of their emissions, but help reduce or offset
them. While demand for such services is high, we hope that
even more customers answer the call of the Paris climate
conference and strengthen the link between environmental
protection and business opportunity.«
KATHARINA TOMOFF
HEAD OF SHARED VALUE

105

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

The focus areas of our GoGreen program are defined in our Group-wide Environmental and
Energy Policy; our environmental management system, in turn, ensures implementation of
this policy. Other Group policies designed to help achieve our environmental protection
goals include our
Investment Policy: Requires that new acquisitions offer greater carbon efficiency or ecofriendliness than existing assets.
Biofuel Policy: Prohibits the use of biofuels that negatively impact local food production
in the countries where they are produced.
Paper Policy: Requires us to purchase recycled paper whenever certified recycled paper is
available on the local market. The policy is available for download.
The Group’s Environmental Policy was revised in the reporting year and reissued as the
Deutsche Post DHL Group Environmental and Energy Policy. The policy was modified to
reflect the introduction of an energy management system based on the ISO 50001 standard
as well as our increased focus on local air and noise pollution as material issues for our
operations.
In 2015 our stakeholder survey also addressed other environmental issues, such as water
consumption, waste production, recycling and biodiversity. As a logistics service provider,
Deutsche Post DHL Group uses only a limited amount of natural resources such as water
and wood, and does not generate significant amounts of waste. Nor do our facilities and
operations have a significantly negative effect on biodiversity. Independent of our
environmental protection priorities and main action areas, we of course always act in
accordance with existing environmental laws and regulations.

Fuel and energy efficiency
Our goal is to increase fuel and energy efficiency to the point where higher transport
volumes do not necessarily translate into increased emissions. A comparative analysis of the
various modes of transport we use – including air, road, rail and ocean – reveals that air
transport produces the greatest share of both greenhouse gas emissions and the local air
pollutant sulfur dioxide (SO2). In the case of ground transport, greenhouse gas emissions
and fine particulate air pollution (PM10) emerge as the most relevant factors. For our
operations, this means constant attention to route optimization, as well as modernizing our
aircraft and renewing our road vehicle fleets.

106

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Efficiency principle

Thanks to these measures we were still able to decrease our greenhouse gas emissions in the
reporting year despite transport volumes remaining nearly as high as in 2014. This is
reflected in our main performance indicator, the Carbon Efficiency Index (CEX). In the
reporting year we were able to improve our carbon efficiency by one percentage point over
the previous year, meeting our 2015 target.

Green products
Our customers also benefit from our expertise in environmental protection. Our DHL
GoGreen Solutions help customers optimize the environmental efficiency of their own
business processes. More and more customers today expect eco-friendly transportation
services and will award their business to providers who have environmental management
systems and measures in place. In this way we make a positive contribution not only to
society and the environment, but – in the spirit of Shared Value – also to the success of our
company and that of our customers.

Employee training
Our employees also play a critical role in realizing our environmental goals, which is why we
revised our interactive training program and made it available on our Group-wide elearning platform in the reporting year.

ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
We have made environmental awareness an integral part of our day-to-day business. Using
our 6-Step Approach, an internal process based on the ISO 14001 standard, we are engaged
in a continuous improvement process – constantly developing and implementing
improvement measures to help us achieve our environmental targets. We also apply the
6-Step Approach to sites that are not (yet) ISO-relevant.

107

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Site definition

We occupy approximately 12,000 sites worldwide, including
office buildings, mail and parcel centers and logistics
warehouses; these also include Packstation machines and
drop-off points. Only 75% of these sites are eligible for ISO
certification and just 5% of these sites are owned – and thus
managed – by the Group.

External certifications are conducted only at larger sites and
sites with standardized processes – and according to their
relevance for the business and the amount of fuel and
energy they use. The decision for or against external certification also depends on the
requirements of the given business model. If we operate a facility for one of our Supply
Chain customers, for example, the customer will decide whether the site undergoes
certification or not.
In the reporting year some 5,175 out of 9,259 ISO-relevant
sites were certified according to ISO 14001. This represents
56% of our sites. Additional countries in Europe received
certification in the reporting year, among them Turkey.
PwC

ISO 14001 sites



In 2015 we prepared our sites in the European Union for
EN 16247-1 energy audits and largely completed
implementation of an energy management system
according to the ISO 50001 standard. Ultimately, it is
operations management that decides which sites undergo
an audit or which are certified. Some of our sites in Austria,
Denmark, Germany, Ireland and Italy have already received ISO 50001 certification.
PwC



108

 PwC

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

ISO 14001 sites
Worldwide

5,175

Americas

Europe

Other regions

Asia Pacific

658

6,887

451

1,263

ISO 14001-relevant sites

ISO 14001-relevant sites

ISO 14001-relevant sites

ISO 14001-relevant sites

Of these 12% (81 sites) have been certified

Of these 68% (4,708 sites) have been
certified

Of these 13% (59 sites) have been certified

Of these 26% (327 sites) have been certified

Number of employees

18,896

Global hub Singapore

1,825

Number of employees

Global hub Cincinatti (USA)
Global hub Leipzig (Germany)
Number of employees

78,027

Vehicles
Number of employees

Vehicles

5,080

Vehicles
Vehicles

73,843

326,979
81,190

With this we have achieved our targets for 2015 and are also in full compliance with the
corresponding EU standards and national regulations. By certifying according to the ISO
50001 standard, we far surpass the EU’s minimum legal requirements. In the coming year
we will also expand our 6-Step Approach to include energy management.

EFFICIENCY MANAGEMENT
We rely on either our own fleets and properties or those of our subcontractors to provide
our transportation and logistics services. In the area of ocean and rail freight, we work
together with subcontracted shipping and rail companies. To ensure and continuously
improve the efficiency of our own fleets and buildings, we implement a comprehensive
energy efficiency management system that includes the use of innovative, efficiencyenhancing technologies. In addition to this, our Group-wide Investment Policy requires that
new acquisitions offer greater carbon efficiency or eco-friendliness than existing assets. As a
result, an increasing number of vehicles and buildings already feature advanced efficiency
technologies.

109

4,245

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Our efficiency measures are guided by two basic principles: “burn less” and “burn clean”.
“Burn less” measures help us reduce the energy and fuel consumption of our operations. We
then turn to “burn clean” measures to capture additional emissions savings. This approach
also has a positive impact on local air and noise pollution levels.

Climate protection: efficiency improvement measures
Burn less (Reduction of energy consumption)

Aircraft

Renewal of air fleet

Vehicles

Reduction of energy consumption
Optimized aerodynamics
Engine modifications
Expanded use of telematics systems
Use of hybrid drive systems

Buildings

Intelligent lighting and control systems
Efficient heating and cooling solutions
Energy-efficient building design

Burn clean (Use of alternative energy sources)

Aircraft

Use of alternative fuels (currently not
applicable; involvement in research
initiatives, such as aireg e.V.)

Vehicles

Use of alternative energy sources
Use of alternative fuels
Use of "green" electricity for electric
vehicles

Buildings

Increased use of purchased energy from
renewable sources and on-site generation
of "green" energy
Use of natural resources (daylight and rain
water harvesting)

Reducing energy/fuel consumption (burn less)
As a rule there is no single efficiency-improvement method or measure that can be applied
to all areas of operation in a way that is suitable, practicable and cost-effective. Instead, we
continually develop and test new measures for improving our own energy and fuel
consumption. Additional efficiency gains can be achieved through efficient route and
network planning, and multi-modal transport.

Using sustainable energy/fuel sources (burn clean)
At the same time, we strive to increase our use of cleaner-burning fuels to meet our energy
needs – we do this by using electricity from renewable sources in our buildings and
alternative fuels in our vehicle fleets. Choosing fuels that have been produced sustainably is
important to us. As laid out in our Group-wide policy governing the use of liquid biofuels
issued in 2010, we therefore prohibit the use of biofuels that negatively impact local food
production in the countries where they are produced.

110

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Air transport
As a leading provider of international express services, Deutsche Post DHL Group maintains
a fleet of over 250 dedicated aircraft comprised of 182 cargo planes and a number of smaller
feeder aircraft. Our air fleet serves approximately 500 airports worldwide via 19 main
regional hubs and three global hubs in Leipzig, Cincinnati and Hong Kong.
At 1,300 million kg, the kerosene consumption within our own fleet in 2015 was slightly
more than in 2014. Air transport thus comprised approximately 69% of our direct
greenhouse gas emissions (GHG Protocol Scopes 1and 2). Air transport is also the main
source of the local air pollutant sulfur dioxide (SO2). Based on the materiality analysis, our
stakeholders regard all of these aspects as relevant for the Group and its operations. Our
“burn less” measures help us address them – such measures include the continuous
modernization our air fleet, for example. In 2015 we deployed the first tranche of Boeing
757 aircraft in Europe, which are more efficient, have greater cargo capacity and are
equipped with improved technology. This improves the environmental friendliness of our
fleet while reducing repairs and improving the working conditions for flight personnel. At
present, 66% of our jet aircraft meet the highest noise standards prescribed by the
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
Deutsche Post DHL Group aircraft fleet in 2015

1
2
3

Classification issued by the Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection (CAEP); the higher the CAEP class, the more stringent the requirements.
Includes 12 aircraft without classfication.
International Civil Aviation Organization’s noise standard classification

In keeping with our “burn clean” approach, we also support the use of alternative aviation
fuels. At present, however, the alternative aviation fuels currently available on the market do
not meet the high sustainability standards established by the Group with regard to liquid
biofuels. We are currently working together with other companies as part of the Aviation
Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany e.V. (aireg) to advance the development of
alternative aviation fuels.
In the reporting year we began simulating the potential fuel consumption of individual
aircraft types based on various flight routes to understand the impact of biofuels on our
fleet. The resulting data will be fed into the airegEM research partnership project.

111

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Road transport
Our road vehicle fleet consists of approximately 92,000 vehicles worldwide. We implement a
wide range of measures to improve the carbon efficiency of our operations – many of these
measures also improve the fuel-efficiency of our road fleet. These are first tested for their
effectiveness before being rolled out on a larger scale. Solutions here focus mainly on
aerodynamics and eco-chiptuning technologies, but also include lightweight vehicle design
and telematics.
Deutsche Post DHL Group vehicle fleet in 2015

Along with technical modifications made to conventional fuel vehicles, we have also
increased our efforts to deploy alternative drive technologies and alternative fuels as a way to
further reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. This includes mainly electric and natural gas
powered vehicles for short distances, as well as sustainably produced, advanced generation
biofuels for long-haul transport. Out of approximately 92,000 road vehicles deployed
worldwide, we have already enhanced approximately 13,500 vehicles with some 22,500
technical modifications (several different modifications can be made to a single vehicle).
Efficiency-enhancing technologies in the road fleet1

1
2

One single vehicle can be modified with more than one optimization measure.
Data includes 1,569 measures implemented on subcontractor vehicles.

112

Deutsche Post DHL Group

Fuel use for road transportation1

1

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

 PwC

Covers consumption data for our own vehicles only.

A detailed overview of individual efficiency measures as well as a multi-year overview of the
fuel use data can be found in the Annex of this report.

Local air pollutants and noise pollution
Road transport generates not only greenhouse gas emissions but also more localized air
pollutants, including mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and particulate
matter (PM10). While minimizing greenhouse gas emissions remains a top priority, reducing
local air pollutants has become an increasingly important environmental challenge in the
area of road transport – not least because of the low-emission zones (LEZ) established by
many cities today, which permit access to low-emission vehicles only.
Road transport: Emissions of local air pollutants1,2

 PwC

1

Emissions of local air pollutants from road transport are calculated based on actual consumption data; for emissions from air transport, these calculations are based on route
profiles. Emission factors published in the EMEP/EEA Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Guidebook (2013) as well those published by the US Environmental Protection Agency were
applied.
2 Emissions data covers our own road vehicles only.

By continuously upgrading and renewing our worldwide fleet in accordance with the latest
emission standards, we ensure continuous optimization of our local road transport emission
levels. Already today more than 48,000 of our road vehicles in Europe meet Euro 5 or Euro 6
standards. Moreover, many of the efficiency measures for reducing greenhouse gas
emissions – including the use of electric vehicles, natural-gas powered vehicles or fuel
efficiency technologies – also have a positive impact on emissions of local air pollutants.

113

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Vehicle emission standards over time and vehicles by emission class

1

EURO 2 comprises 18 vehicles.

As shown in our most recent materiality analysis, our stakeholders are also concerned with
noise pollution and have identified its reduction – alongside the reduction of local air
pollutants – as a material issue for the Group. We are therefore committed to working
closely with our stakeholders to find ways of operating that generate less noise. Our ongoing
investment in electromobility as well as the use of bikes in our delivery operations are also
ways in which we are helping to reduce noise pollution in urban areas.

Major projects
In the reporting year we implemented numerous measures to continue enhancing our road
vehicle fleet. Measures included the continuation and further expansion of ongoing projects,
as well as testing and evaluating new technologies for future deployment.
Deploying low-emission drive technologies for our urban mail and parcel delivery services
was one of our main focus areas in 2015. Our subsidiary StreetScooter GmbH, for example,
launched the first small-scale production run of the “StreetScooter”, an electric vehicle
developed in-house, producing a total of 500 StreetScooters in the reporting year. The first
StreetScooters were also introduced to neighboring European countries – we clearly met our
2015 targets with these achievements.
In 2015 we tested various alternative (either emission-free or low-emission) drive systems
for use in delivery operations.
In the UK we made revisions to our series hybrid truck and expanded its energy storage
system. Thanks to these changes, the combustion engine is now used only intermittently
to power the generator that charges the electric motor’s battery while driving. This means
complete emission-free operation for portions of the truck’s routes.
In France we are participating in pilot projects on fuel cell technologies to extend the
range of electric mail and parcel delivery vehicles.

114

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

In China, we have partnered with a manufacturer of electric vehicles to test vehicles of
various sizes, from small cars and vans to trucks.
In Barbados we conducted tests of electric vehicle use to identify potential applications for
small island nations.
The reporting year also saw progress in “burn less” measures. Our focus here was on
renewing our road vehicle fleet with more efficient models and fuel-efficient tires, as well as
further expansion of telematics systems for fuel-efficient driving. We also tested new
technologies such as hydraulic hybrids for pick-up and delivery at postal outlets in urban
areas.

Networks
Additional efficiency gains can be achieved through efficient route and network planning,
and by switching to other modes of transport (e.g. from road to rail freight).
Route planning
In 2015 we fitted an additional 2,750 trailers with GPS systems; this added to the 22,000
trailers and swap bodies already equipped with GPS. GPS allows our dispatchers to
retrieve real-time information about current location and routing for each truck, and to
take advantage of any extra load capacity available. This allows us to plan our routes more
efficiently and achieve better load-capacity utilization.
Network optimization
In the area of freight transport, our Rail-China project expanded our intermodal network
between China and Europe. Rail transport produces 96% fewer carbon emissions than air
transport. Based on 2015 freight volumes, this translates into an emissions saving of
151,401 tonnes of CO2.
We also initiated our very own “Maritime Silk Road”, a new multimodal solution
combining ocean and road freight for shipments between Europe, Asia, Northern Africa
and the Middle East. This service makes the ocean freight option even more attractive for
our customers.
Our increased use of courier bikes in cities for the delivery of express items has also
helped drive efficiency gains. Thanks to our efforts in the reporting year, our bike courier
network now spans 50 cities in eleven different European countries. We also tested the use
of a special transport bicycle for the delivery of larger items and plan to expand use of this
bicycle in 2016.

Buildings
Deutsche Post DHL Group occupies approximately 12,000 sites worldwide, including office
buildings, mail and parcel centers and logistics warehouses. Approximately 5% of these

115

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

properties are owned by the Group. To improve energy management in our buildings, we
inspect and evaluate each site individually and develop tailored efficiency concepts, which
include the use of smart lighting technologies and intelligent control system upgrades for
heating and cooling (burn less), as well as electricity generated from renewable energy
sources such as wind, hydropower, solar and biomass (burn clean). All solutions are
designed to be commercially viable with the occupation period of each building, depending
on whether the property is leased or owned.

62%

2.4%

electricity from renewable energy sources

reduction in energy consumption

62% of electricity used at our sites is generated from renewable energy sources. In Belgium,
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, the
UK, and the US, we have attained more than 90% green electricity usage, meaning that
hardly any conventional energy sources are used in our sites in these countries.
Our use of renewable energy sources in 2015 allowed us to avoid 0.45 million tonnes of
greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time we reduced total energy consumption in our
buildings and facilities by 2.4% compared to the previous year.
We work continuously to increase the use of energy from renewable sources in other
countries as well. And in countries where renewable energy is not yet available, we are active
in promoting and establishing its use. In the reporting year we were once again recognized
for our efforts in this area.
In addition to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions and improving energy efficiency, we
are also intent on reducing noise pollution. At the sites located in or near residential areas,
our local management works closely together with residents and other stakeholders to
ensure that noise pollution caused by our business activity is reduced to an acceptable
minimum.

Major projects
We rely primarily on intelligent technologies such as smart LED lighting, smart metering
and energy-efficient heating and cooling systems to help us “burn less”. At the same time, we
use electricity generated from renewable energy sources such as wind, hydropower, solar
and biomass to “burn clean”. In both of these areas we implemented numerous measures
over the course of the reporting year.
Energy consumption and monitoring systems:
In 2015 we met our target of rolling out smart metering technologies in Germany. They
were implemented for measuring electricity, gas and water consumption at eight locations
in Germany. These systems will be installed nationwide starting in 2016 with completion
planned for the end of 2017.

116

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Lighting systems:
The T5 fluorescent lighting with daylight and occupancy control found in our sites
around the world were upgraded with LED lighting, which offers improved efficiency and
cost-effectiveness. In 2015, we installed LED lighting at 25 sites in Europe and Asia
Pacific. Further LED projects are planned for 2016, with the core initiative being the
upgrade of all our mail sorting centers in Germany to LED by 2019.
Energy-efficient heating systems:
In 2015, ten sites in Germany were fitted with combined heating and power units (CHP).
25% of the electricity requirement at these sites will now be generated by the CHP units.
In addition, the thermal discharge (waste heat) will generate up to 50% of the hot water
needed to heat the operational areas. Similar systems will be installed at all the remaining
parcel centers by 2019.
New construction projects are an ideal opportunity to integrate energy efficiency solutions
right from the start. These include enhanced office glazing and shading, daylight harvesting,
rapid rise doors and dock seals, rainwater harvesting and photovoltaic and thermal
installations.
In 2015 we completed construction of a 20,000 square meter facility at our Rugby site in the
UK. Several energy efficiency measures were implemented in the new building project,
including an energy-efficient lighting system with daylight and occupancy controls and a
rainwater harvesting and treatment system. The project earned a rating of “very good” from
BREEAM, a sustainability certification program in the UK. Technology assessments were
also carried out and pilot projects prepared during the reporting year. These included the
evaluation of on-site power storage in batteries and the use of reflective membrane coatings
on roofs to improve the carbon and energy efficiency of the cooling/air-conditioning
systems.
Energy use at Deutsche Post DHL Group 2015

1
2

 PwC

Including electric vehicles
Also includes quantities of gasoline and diesel for auxiliary power generators

A multi-year overview can be found in the Annex of this report.

117

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

EMISSIONS  PwC
The reporting of our emissions and efficiency improvements is based on recognized and
proven calculation methods. Our greenhouse gas emissions are calculated based on the
guidelines outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and are in accordance with both the EN
16258 standard and the requirements of the European Emissions Trading System (EU-ETS).
Our environmental reporting system is not, however, limited to greenhouse gas emissions.
We also collect data on local air pollutants. As it happens, the larger part of our carbon
efficiency improvement measures also reduces local air pollutants. We were once again
recognized in 2015 for our strategic approach to sustainability and the transparency of our
greenhouse gas emissions.

Development of greenhouse gas emissions
At 27.95 million tonnes of CO2e, our greenhouse gas emissions for 2015 decreased just
slightly over the previous year. Further details and a multi-year overview can be found in the
Annex of this report.
Group CO2e emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3)

CO2e emissions1 by source

1

 PwC

Scopes 1 to 3

118

 PwC

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Subcontracted transportation (scope 3) was responsible for the largest share of our
emissions in 2015 – 21.9 million tonnes of CO2e. This figure includes 0.05 million tonnes of
CO2e from business travel. The slight decrease in scope 3 emissions is due in large part to
decreased tonnage in the air freight business.
To offer one consistent set of financial and greenhouse gas related figures for Deutsche Post
DHL Group, we are using the control approach as outlined in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statement.
Carbon efficiency target met
In the reporting year, we achieved an overall carbon efficiency improvement of 25% against
the 2007 baseline for our business operations. This improvement of one percentage point
over the previous year meets our target for 2015. Driving the efficiency gain are our
continued efforts in the modernization of our aircraft and the improved utilization of our
networks.
Development of Carbon Efficiency Index

 PwC

Our networks already operate at a high level of efficiency and our fleets and buildings use
state-of-the-art technologies. For this reason, tangible efficiency gains will be increasingly
difficult to achieve in the future. We do, however, expect to improve our carbon efficiency by
at least another one index point in 2016.

Local air pollutants

 PwC

Fuel combustion generates not only greenhouse gas emissions but other local air pollutants
as well, including mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and particulate matter
(PM10). While most of these emissions result from our transport of goods by air, local air
pollutants are also produced by our road transport operations. We work to minimize local
air pollutants by modernizing our fleet of aircraft and road vehicles and updating the
heating systems in our buildings. We are also doing our part to minimize local air pollutants
and noise in urban areas by increasing the share of electric delivery vehicles in our fleet and
through our increased use of courier bikes.
The emissions produced by our fleet are calculated using recognized calculation
methodologies and based on national and international fleet averages.

119

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Our total local air pollutant emissions have increased just slightly over the previous year.
This increase is due in large part to the increased utilization of our aircraft. These emissions
did not increase in proportion to shipment volumes, however. This is due to the fact that we
deploy more modern and emissions-efficient aircraft. As in 2014, road transport emissions
continued to decrease slightly over the reporting year. This trend is reflected in the
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions across the road transport business.
Emissions of local air pollutants in 20151,2

 PwC

1

Emissions data covers our own aircraft and road vehicles only.
Emissions of local air pollutants from road transport are calculated based on actual consumption data; for emissions from air transport, these calculations are based on route
profiles. Emission factors published in the EMEP/EEA Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Guidebook (2013) as well those published by the US Environmental Protection Agency were
applied.
2

Further details and a multi-year overview can be found in the Annex of this report.

NATURAL RESOURCES
We also take a critical look at our use of natural resources such as wood and water, and are
committed to protecting biodiversity. Although these non-carbon factors are not considered
significant environmental impacts from our day-to-day business operations – our use of
natural resources is relatively low as is our production of waste, and our operations also have
very little impact on biodiversity – we report on them nonetheless as they are regarded as
material issues by our stakeholders.

Wood and water
In accordance with our Group Paper Policy, we make sure that only recycled paper products
are procured and used within the Group. The only exceptions to this rule are if technical
requirements cannot be met with recycled paper, or if recycled paper cannot be procured in
the local market.
Our Paper Policy, together with our efforts to reduce the amount of paper we use, helps
lower the demand for wood. This in turn helps reduce the consumption of energy and water
associated with paper production and helps prevent the deforestation of tropical rainforests,
primeval forests and ancient forests under protection. We are also committed to reducing
the amount of packaging materials used in our operations and are working closely with
experts and our customers to do so. One such project undertaken in the reporting year with
a customer and a manufacturer of packaging machines has led to the development of a

120

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

system that produces tailor-made cardboard boxes for each individual shipment. This not
only saves packaging material but reduces transport costs as well.
Due to the nature of our core business, we do not consume significant quantities of water.
Water is mostly used for drinking and sanitation at our facilities and is obtained primarily
from municipal suppliers and discharged into public sewage systems. For these reasons
water consumption and waste water disposal are not significant environmental aspects for
the Group. This is why we do not record and report global water use data. However, we have
included data on the water consumption at our facilities in Germany, as provided to the
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), in the Annex of this report.
Nevertheless, sites with environmental management systems do work to implement
measures to minimize their use of water. And when constructing new buildings, for
example, we seek to install water recovery systems and water-efficient sanitary installations
where possible.

Waste and recycling
As a logistics provider, we generate waste from the packaging materials used for transport,
such as pallets, plastic shrink wrap and cardboard boxes. Our offices also produce paper
waste, something which can often be reduced, if not entirely avoided. Increasingly digitized
processes are helping us do this. We are also committed to recycling used materials
wherever possible, thereby making our own contribution to the circular economy.
Our aircraft, road vehicles and IT equipment must be maintained and ultimately disposed
of. Since we lease most of our vehicles and aircraft, most of the time their maintenance and
decommissioning or scrapping is handled by the manufacturer or other third-party
providers. A similar approach is also applied to the maintenance and disposal of our IT
equipment. Our maintenance and disposal contracts include explicit instructions for our
partners to ensure compliance with responsible environmental practices and processes.
We offer customers integrated waste recycling solutions for their logistics flows through
DHL Envirosolutions. The approach offers the two-fold benefit of reducing costs while
minimizing the environmental footprint of their business activities.
Waste is not a priority issue for the Group and is therefore not managed centrally. Data is
collated and audited locally by the environmental management systems on site, allowing for
a more effective tracking of measures and their savings effects.

Biodiversity
Our offices and facilities are predominantly located in areas zoned for urban or industrial
use. It is therefore unlikely that our operations or services significantly impact protected
areas or endanger protected plant or animal species. Nevertheless, our operations do have an
impact on ecosystems and on biodiversity, be it through our greenhouse gas emissions and
local air pollutants, the use of natural resources or other operations-related factors, such as

121

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

the unintentional spreading of invasive non-native species. For this reason, our
environmental management system accounts for biodiversity impacts when designing
measures and initiatives.
One such example is our Policy on the Usage of Liquid Biofuels, which accounts for
biodiversity in the countries where biofuels are produced. Another example are our terms
and conditions, which explicitly prohibit the use of our network to transport protected,
threatened or endangered plant and animal species. The Group takes part in anti-wildlife
trafficking initiatives, providing employees with workshops and training.

GREEN PRODUCTS
We offer customers a wide-ranging portfolio of eco-friendly products and develop
environmentally sustainable logistics solutions under the brand name DHL GoGreen
Solutions. By developing “green” solutions, the Group not only contributes to the
environment and society, but creates value for our company as well as for our customers. We
offer standardized solutions as well as customized support for environmentally-optimized
logistics solutions. Customers can use our standardized products to calculate or offset their
emissions:
Carbon Reports: We help customers gain a deeper understanding of the environmental
footprint of their transport and logistics-related activities. Customer emissions are
measured using the same carbon accounting standards applied to our own emissions
calculations. Carbon Report calculation methods undergo a third-party verification
process.
Climate-neutral products: Customers can offset their transport and logistics-related
emissions through contributions to our climate protection projects. Emissions are
measured using the same carbon accounting standards applied to our own emissions
calculations. Calculation methodologies as well as the emissions offset undergo a thirdparty verification process.
Our Green Optimization products help customers reduce greenhouse gas emissions and
other environmental impacts through individual, tailor-made logistics solutions.

122

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Green products offered by Deutsche Post DHL Group

Standardized products: Carbon Reports
Our Carbon Report products provide customers with detailed information about the
greenhouse gas emissions generated by their transport and logistics services. The calculation
methods applied are compliant with the GHG Product Standard and undergo an annual
third-party verification process. In the reporting year, the annual audit was extended to
include additional services in the product family, such as Track & Trace. Customers can
choose between the standard report format and the interactive reporting tool called the
Carbon Dashboard, which allows customers to simulate efficiency scenarios.
In the reporting year, we recorded a total of 4.6 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions
through our Carbon Report products. There is growing demand for these products among
customers in the Express and Global Forwarding, Freight divisions. Emission transparency
is particularly important to our customers in the Global Forwarding, Freight division – as
shown by the fact that 20% of the division’s carbon footprint is from emissions recorded
through customer reports. A multi-year overview can be found in the Annex section of this
report.

123

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Carbon Reports: CO2e emissions reported for customer shipments1,2

1
2

Calculation methodologies verified by the independent audit organization Société Générale de Surveillance (SGS).
Based on the GHG Protocol Product Lifecycle Accounting and Reporting standard.

Achievements in 2015: The external audit applied to our calculation methods was
expanded in the reporting year to include additional Carbon Report products, including
the Carbon Report used in our Supply Chain division. The automatic calculation method
used in the Global Forwarding, Freight division for applications such as Track & Trace
also obtained third-party verification.

Standardized products: Climate-neutral products
With our climate-neutral GoGreen products, customers can fully offset transport and
logistics-related greenhouse gas emissions. Our calculation methodologies are based on the
GHG Protocol Standard and are subject, together with the emissions offset, to annual
verification through an independent third-party. 2015 marked the tenth anniversary of our
verified climate-neutral services.
We offset the emissions through contributions to climate protection projects in the areas of
energy efficiency, renewable energy and reforestation – the majority of these projects are
Gold Standard certified, including our own project in Lesotho. The project involves the
distribution of efficient stoves that use up to 80% less firewood. The collaboration with
Fairtrade International was launched in the reporting year. The new Fairtrade Climate
Standard will be applied to our project in Lesotho starting in 2016, making us one of the
first companies to receive this carbon credit certification.
We transported more than two billion climate-neutral shipments in the reporting year.
These shipments accounted for 10% of volumes in Post - eCommerce - Parcel division and
3% of Express volumes worldwide. While demand for GoGreen mail products decreased
slightly, we did see significant growth in the use of climate-neutral express and parcel
products. As a result, some 253,000 tonnes of CO2e were offset in the reporting year. A
multi-year overview can be found in the Annex section of this report.

124

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Climante-neutral products: Customer emissions offset1,2

1

Based on the GHG Protocol Product Lifecycle Accounting and Reporting standard.
Data audited by SGS (closing March 2016).
Includes 386 tonnes of CO2e from Corporate Center/Other.
4 In addition to shipment-related emissions, data also includes emissions from passenger transportation (Postbus).
2
3

Tailor-made solutions: Green Optimization
With Green Optimization, the most innovative product in our GoGreen portfolio, we offer
customized logistics solutions by analyzing every link of the customer’s supply chain. We
uncover opportunities for optimization that help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and
minimize the environmental impacts of their logistics processes, enabling a circular
economy.
Eco-friendly products: Green Optimization

125

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Reducing greenhouse gas emissions
We review the customer’s entire logistics supply chain – from road freight and warehousing
to network design and carrier management – to identify potential environmental and
economic efficiency levers. The results are tailored strategies for creating more efficient and
environmentally sustainable logistics. Green Optimization focuses on both green efficiency
gains as well as savings potentials.
Project example: In 2015 we launched the “GoGreen Regional” pilot, a concept for
reinvesting earnings directly into local environmental projects. As agreed with selected
customers in Duisburg and Essen, the more items they ship with our GoGreen services,
the more we will invest in our electric delivery fleet in their area. We plan to expand
GoGreen Regional to other metropolitan areas in Germany over the course of 2016.

Enabling the circular economy
With our services, we apply circular economy principles to help customers achieve
environmental performance improvements that go beyond the reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions. The focus is on optimizing the consumption of natural resources and avoiding
waste. Services include reverse logistics, waste management and extended producer
responsibility. These are available through our DHL Envirosolutions offering, for example.
Our company became a member of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s “Circular Economy
100” initiative in recognition of our efforts in this area. The circular economy is also
included as one of the focus trends in the DHL Trend Report “Fair and Responsible
Logistics”, published in 2015.

126

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

INTERVIEW

JÜRGEN GERDES
Board Member for Post - eCommerce - Parcel

»There's no doubt that logistics has an impact on the
environment. But here again, as the market and innovation
leader, we can, want and must be a very clear role model.
And we’re doing just that.«

INTERVIEW WITH JÜRGEN GERDES
Jürgen Gerdes is a Member of the Board of Management and head of the Post - eCommerce
- Parcel division.
In an interview, he spotlights the dedication shown by employees in the Post - eCommerce Parcel division, explains what his division is doing to drive employee motivation, and points
to developments he believes will shape the future of the postal and logistics sector.
The collective bargaining dispute in the Post - eCommerce - Parcel division had a
significant impact on the year 2015. What are your most important take-aways from
that experience?
One thing that really left a lasting impression was the unbelievable dedication and
commitment of the vast majority of our workforce that did not take part in the labor
dispute. After all, in a country like Germany, at the end of the day the mail must go out. And
I say that with all due respect to collective bargaining disputes, which ultimately can have an
effect on a company’s operations. But residents and businesses put their trust in our service.
We were only able to maintain this service – with certain limitations of course – because
thousands of willing employees multiplied their efforts. I have to say, at the end of 2015 – an
admittedly difficult year – I was more convinced than ever that our organization is a strong
one.

127

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

For a service provider with employees who come into direct contact with customers
millions of times a day, improving employee relations and satisfaction are essential –
especially during and after a strike. What do you do to improve motivation and loyalty?
Generally speaking, our employees are highly satisfied and motivated. We know that
because we ask them on a regular basis. And that doesn't surprise me. If you know even a
little about the parcel and logistics industry, then you know that working conditions at
Deutsche Post DHL Group are by far the best in the business, regardless of whether you are
talking about equipment, collective agreement conditions, transition to retirement or
anything else for that matter. We came out on top of an independent review of precisely
these conditions. That said, it goes without saying that we never stop trying to get better.
That begins with the communication. For example, we have offered Deutsche Post TV
nationwide at our German facilities in order to deliver more up-to-date and comprehensive
information to our operations personnel, who do not sit in an office at a computer. Also, as
in past years, I will be going on several tours throughout Germany in order to speak to and
take questions from some 20,000 staff members in town hall meetings. We are also
preparing to take a number of actions as a result of our 2015 employee opinion survey. And
we have started to send our entire staff to two-day training sessions to become “PeP
Experts”. I am absolutely convinced that all of these efforts will help continue to strengthen
staff loyalty within our company.
The mail and parcel market is changing rapidly. What impact does this have on
employment at Deutsche Post DHL Group?
It is true that things are getting more complex in the Post - eCommerce - Parcel division –
and, by the way, more and more international. The number of new business units is on the
rise. This has led many young people, who might not have been considering the broad field
of logistics, to see us as a very attractive employer. But that also means that we have to offer
equally attractive employment opportunities. And that’s what we’re doing. Right now we
have 18 apprenticeship and 12 degree programs, including highly appealing dual degree
opportunities that provide an ideal blend of theory and practice. There are many business
and IT traineeships, and we make executive MBA programs possible. And, of course, we
can’t forget our “work horses” who drive our vital operations engine. In fact, last year we
again increased the number of traineeships to over 2,000, many of which are for courier,
express and postal services specialists.
A productive innovation culture is essential for companies in the postal and logistics
sector. What developments do you feel are leading the way to the future of transport
and the delivery of goods and information?
Deutsche Post has a strong tradition as an innovation pioneer. That’s why we know full well
that we cannot simply follow the defining megatrends of our times. Instead, we aim to study
them closely in order to anticipate and help shape them. For example, if you look at the
demographics in our country or various aspects of work and life in our society, it becomes
clear that we can meet arising needs by taking an extremely customer-centric approach and
delivering innovative services precisely when they are needed. Our online services such as
Allyouneed and AllyouneedFresh, preferred time-definite delivery, Packstation and car drop
delivery services, etc. etc. etc. are great examples of this. Another very important area is

128

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ENVIRONMENT & SOLUTIONS

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

online communication, where people are demanding more and more security and
convenience. We've taken the lead here as well, for example with our E-Post platform and its
broad service portfolio as well as our SIMSme instant messenger. And, of course, we are
always looking into the future. For example, we've done extensive testing of our
Parcelcopter.
E-commerce is a significant driver of stability and growth for Deutsche Post. What are
you doing to combat the environmental impact of the expanding transport business?
There's no doubt that logistics has an impact on the environment. But here again, as the
market and innovation leader, we can, want and must be a very clear role model. And we’re
doing just that. For instance, our internally developed StreetScooter delivery vehicle will set
the standard for e-mobility for some time to come. But that’s just one of many examples.
Environmental aspects guide all of our research and development activities. Take, for
example, the Paketkasten, a mailbox for parcels, which is one of our latest innovations. So
far the general public has been slow to recognize the environmental benefit of this service.
Namely, that when you can guarantee the delivery of a parcel, regardless of whether the
recipient is at home or not, you avoid a second or perhaps even a third attempt to deliver to
that address and spare the recipient a drive to the post office to pick it up. When you look at
the big picture and consider the millions of parcels that are delivered every day, you see that
even these things – or perhaps especially these things – can make a huge difference for the
better.

129

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

ANNEX
About this report
The Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 (CR Report), which also serves as our Advanced
Level Communication on Progress (COP) for the UN Global Compact, was prepared in
accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting
at the Core Level. Report content on material topics was reviewed by an independent third
party. Audited content has been marked accordingly.
The CR Report, which covers the period from January 1 until December 31, 2015, is
published annually and appears concurrently with the Group’s Annual Report. The
information in the report applies to the consolidated group in 2015 as described in Note 2 of
the consolidated financial statements. A complete list of the Group’s shareholdings can be
found in the Investors section of our website. Finance figures contained in this report reflect
those found in the Annual Report 2015.
The CR Report 2015 was published March 9, 2016 online as well as in PDF format in both
German and English.

Data measurement techniques, bases of calculations
Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations for data, including
assumptions and techniques underlying estimations, are accounted for at the appropriate
sections herein.
Changes within this parameter over the previous year are duly noted and the effects
explained. Adjustments to prior-year figures are marked accordingly.
Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol standard. Scope 2 emissions are reported in accordance with the “Scope 2
Guidance” using both the site-based and market-based methods. Unless explicitly stated
otherwise, reported data is based on the latter method. Our data is also prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the European Emissions Trading System (EU-ETS)
and the EN 16258 and ISO 14064 standards.

Independent third-party review
This report was reviewed by the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). Content
marked with the PwC icon PwC has been reviewed. Information regarding the scope
and outcome of the audit can be found in the Assurance Report.



The following non-financial indicators were verified with reasonable assurance by PwC as
part of the independent audit of the Management Report: Accident statistics (Group),
sickness rate (Group), workforce structure, employee turnover (Group).

130

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Our greenhouse gas emissions calculations were verified in an independent audit in
accordance with ISAE 3410 with reasonable assurance as part of the PwC audit of the
Management Report.
Carbon offset data is verified annually by the audit firm Société Générale de Surveillance
(SGS).

Explanation of terms used
We use the term “employees” to refer to our workforce. Unless otherwise noted, “headcount”
is used to refer to our employees in quantitative terms; unless noted otherwise, this data is as
of year-end (December 31, 2015).

Previous reports
The Group has been reporting on the environment, HR matters, sustainability and corporate
responsibility since 2003. The CR Report 2014 was published March 11, 2015. All of these
reports can be found on the Deutsche Post DHL Group website archive.

Additional publications
Our Corporate Responsibility Brochure provides an overview of the Group’s main CRrelated activities. The brochure can be downloaded in PDF format from the corporate
website; a print version of the brochure call also be ordered from the same site.

Editorial responsibility
Deutsche Post AG – Headquarters – Corporate Department for Corporate Communications
and Responsibility, 53250 Bonn / Germany

Contact
Your opinion is important to us. Please feel free to mail us your questions and suggestions.

Online design & development
nexxar GmbH, Vienna

131

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Employees
Workforce structure
Number of employees at year end

Headcount
Full-time equivalents

2

2012

20131

2014

2015

+/− %
vs. 2014

473,626

479,690

488,824

497,745

1.8

428,129

434,974

443,784

450,508

1.5

316,331

316,071

322,440

326,979

1.4

By region
Europe

201,425

203,607

205,731

208,740

1.5

Americas

of which Germany

75,243

78,728

76,230

78,027

2.4

Asia Pacific

64,888

67,473

72,121

73,843

2.4

Other regions

17,164

17,418

18,033

18,896

4.8

By division
Post - eCommerce - Parcel

176,871

197,545

200,868

206,686

2.9

Express

92,862

75,490

79,896

87,453

9.5

Global Forwarding, Freight

45,128

44,903

47,079

44,737

-5.0

145,293

148,565

148,329

147,650

-0.5

13,472

13,187

12,652

11,219

-11.3

Supply Chain
Corporate Center/Other
1 Adjusted
2 Excluding apprentices/trainees

Number of employees (yearly average)
2012

2013

2014

2015

+/− %
vs. 2014

Headcount

472,321

478,903

484,025

492,865

1.8

Hourly workers and salaried
employees

424,950

433,647

440,973

451,882

2.5

42,461

40,321

37,963

35,669

-6.0

Apprentices and trainees

4,910

4,935

5,089

5,314

4.4

Full-time equivalents

428,287

435,218

440,809

449,910

2.1

Civil servants

132

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Employee satisfaction
Staff costs at year end (in €m)
20121

20131

20141

20151

+/− %
vs. 2014

Staff costs1

17,770

17,776

18,189

19,640

8.0

Wages, salaries and compensation

14,179

14,300

14,583

15,723

7.8

Social security contributions

2,094

2,110

2,164

2,300

6.3

Retirement benefit expenses

984

883

965

1,031

6.8

Other employee benefits

513

483

477

586

23.1

1 According to Note 14, Notes to consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report

Results of Employee Opinion Survey (in %)
2015

Participation

73

Approval rating
Customer Centricity & Quality

79

Employee Engagement

73

Active Leadership1

73

Future & Strategy

69

Communication

74

Teamwork

83

Learning & Development

79

Job Fulfillment & Workplace

77

Continuous Improvement

65

Group Responsibility

75

Performance Enablement

80

1 Relevant for executive bonus payments

133

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Year-on-year results of Employee Opinion Survey (in %)
2012

2013

2014

20151

80

77

77

–

Customer Promise

81

82

82

–

Employee Engagement

72

72

72

72

69

70

71

72

Strategy

72

73

74

–

Communication

69

70

71

–

Learning & Development

70

70

71

–

Cooperation

79

79

79

–

Living First Choice

66

67

68

–

Corporate Social Responsibility

70

71

72

–

EOS Follow-up

60

61

62

–

Working Conditions

77

78

79

–

Participation
Approval rating

Active Leadership

2

1 Due to a change in the questionnaire the indicators for 2015 are not directly comparable to the previous year.
2 Relevant for executive bonus payments

Diversity management
Employees by gender at year end (in %)
20121

20131

2014

2015

Female employees

36.8

35.8

35.9

35.5

Male employees

63.2

64.2

64.1

64.5

40.1

39.6

39.3

38.7

Female employees by region
Europe

45.7

45.4

45.2

44.3

Americas

of which Germany

30.8

28.1

30.2

32.0

Asia Pacific

29.8

29.7

29.7

28.8

Other regions

21.0

21.5

23.5

22.3

2012

2013

2014

2015

14.3

14.3

14.3

14.3

Supervisory Board

30.0

30.0

35.0

35.0

Upper and middle management

18.5

19.6

19.3

20.7

–

–

21.1

20.6

1 Adjusted

Women in management positions at year end (in %)

Board of Management1
2

of which in Germany

1 7 members in all. CEO Dr. Frank Appel assumed the Management Board position for Global Forward, Freight in personal union effective April 27, 2015
2 20 members in all: 10 shareholder representatives, 10 employee representatives

134

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

HR development and planning
Employee turnover (in %)1

Group

20121

20131

20142

2015

10.6

12.1

12.6

13.6

planned

5.6

5.8

6.1

6.6

unplanned

5.0

6.3

6.6

7.0

4.7

6.3

6.9

8.0

By region
Europe

2.7

2.5

3.0

3.4

Americas

of which Germany

28.5

30.1

29.5

31.1

Asia Pacific

20.8

20.1

19.6

19.2

9.9

14.0

15.4

15.4

Other regions

1 Based on survey of all organizational units. 2015 figures cover 97% of employees (headcount); 2014: 95%, 2013: 88%, 2012: 77%
2 Adjusted

Management placements at year end (in %)

Group

20121

20131

20141

2015

85.9

87.4

86.9

81.1

1 Adjusted

Number of apprentices and trainees (yearly average)
2012

2013

2014

2015

+/− %
vs. 2014

Headcount

4,910

4,935

5,089

5,314

4.4

Germany

3,953

4,060

4,066

4,006

-1.5

2012

2013

2014

20152

+/− %
vs. 2014

1.6

1.4

1.5

1.4

-6.7

Number of training days1

Training days per employee

1 Based on survey of all organizational units. 2015 figures cover 78% of employees (headcount); 2014: 76%, 2013: 69%, 2012: 67%
2 Includes online trainings

Occupational safety & health
Sickness rate (in %)1

Group

2012

2013

2014

2015

5.2

4.8

4.9

5.1

1 Based on survey of all organizational units. 2015 figures cover 97% of employees (headcount); 2014: 94%, 2013: 90%, 2012: 73%

135

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Work place accidents
We made significant strides in improving the transparency of our workplace accident data in
2015. For the first time ever we are now able to report complete accident statistics for the
entire Group. The data collection methods and reporting formats across the Group were
harmonized and aligned with international standards. The positive development in our
accident numbers are due in large part to the improved coverage rate.
Our workforce carries out a wide range of tasks and duties, a fact that is reflected in our
workplace incident statistics. The risk of accident is the higher among employees in our Post
- eCommerce - Parcel division, for example, than in our logistics divisions (Express, Global
Forwarding, Freight and Supply Chain).
The 2015 workplace accident data were part of the external audit. 2013 and 2014 data were
not included in the review.
PwC



Work place accidents1
2013

2014

20152

4.7

4.2

4.0

n. a.

n. a.

6.3

n. a.

n. a.

10.2

Americas

n. a.

n. a.

1.4

Asia Pacific

n. a.

n. a.

0.3

Other regions

n. a.

n. a.

0.8

10.8

10.1

10.0

n. a.

n. a.

4.0

Express

4.0

3.5

2.8

Global Forwarding, Freight

1.9

1.0

0.9

Supply Chain

0.8

0.7

0.8

Corporate Center/Other

0.6

0.5

0.5

Working days lost per accident

14.4

14.2

15.6

Fatalities resulting from workplace accidents

n. a.

4

6

2

1

2

LTIFR (incidents per 200,000 hours worked)
By region
Europe
of which Germany

By division
Post - eCommerce - Parcel
of which PeP not incl. mail and parcel
last mile delivery Deutsche Post AG

Deutsche Post AG
1 Coverage rates – 2013: 83%; 2014: 92%; 2015: 96%

2 Temporary workers were also included for the first time in our workplace incident statistics with a coverage rate of 65%

136

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Environment
Aircraft
Jet aircraft - by noise standards
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

+/− %
vs. 2014

147

155

168

170

176

182

3.4

Chapter 4

69

80

100

110

117

122

4.3

Chapter 3

75

73

67

59

59

60

1.7

20

17

15

9

3

0

–

3

2

1

1

0

0

–

Total aircraft

Equipped with hush
kits
No classification

Jet aircraft - by nitrous oxide (NOx) emissions standards
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

+/− %
vs. 2014

147

155

168

170

176

182

3.4

CAEP/6

49

59

71

80

84

90

7.1

CAEP/4

36

36

33

32

39

46

17.9

CAEP/2

34

34

39

39

39

34

-12.8

No classification

28

26

25

19

14

12

-14.3

Total aircraft

Vehicles
Road transport: Vehicles by Euronorm class 2015
Euro 6

Euro 5 + EEV

Euro 4

Euro 3

Euro 2

Total

4,592

43,640

17,205

829

18

Trucks

2,094

4,972

564

281

16

Vans

265

30,802

16,334

538

2

Cars

2,233

7,866

307

10

0

137

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Road transport: Efficiency measures vehicles
2014

2015

Total

DPDHL
Group
fleet

Subcontractor
fleet

19,019

17,599

3,349

Electric & fuel cell
Hybrid

Total
Number of alternative drive
systems

Liquid biofuels
Compressed natural gas (CNG)
Biogas
Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)
Ethanol
Bioethanol
Dual fuel
Other Efficiency-enhancing
technologies

Total

DPDHL
Group
fleet

Subcontractor
fleet

1,420

22,508

20,939

1,569

1,976

1,373

4,418

2,886

1,532

406

346

60

937

881

56

326

325

1

372

372

0

1,026

0

1,026

1,187

0

1,187

815

767

915

864

363

144

403

184

222

221

420

419

191

173

18

184

166

18

36
12
219
0
1

40
11
219
0
1

15,670

15,623

47

18,090

18,053

37

Advanced aerodynamics

1,701

1,673

28

1,907

1,880

27

Eco-chiptuning & speed limiting
systems

6,768

6,768

0

6,963

6,963

0

Telematics

6,874

6,864

10

8,942

8,932

10

276

267

9

278

278

0

51

51

0

0

0

0

Lightweight design
Other

Energy and fuel use
Buildings: Energy use (million kWh)
2012

2013

2014

2015

3,127

3,393

3,247

3,113

1,737

1,824

1,697

1,690

745

1,056

1,040

1,056

992

768

657

634

Natural gas

864

952

951

806

Heating oil

2

242

248

308

305

District heating

185

202

189

195

Total
Electricity
of which 100% "green" electricity

1

Standard electricity

District cooling
Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)

8

8

8

1

91

159

94

116

1 Includes electric vehicles
2 Also includes quantities of gasoline and diesel for auxiliary power generators

138

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Fuel use for transportation1
2011

2012

2013

20142

2015

Air transport (kerosene)

million
kg

1,019.1

1,059.0

1,151.0

1,188.0

1,312.8

Road transport
(total liquid road fuels)

million
liters

476.4

472.3

450.2

447.6

449.1

Gasoline

37.4

37.0

19.3

20.6

21.0

Biodiesel

1.5

1.8

0.7

1.0

1.4

Bioethanol
Diesel

1.2

0.3

0.0

0.0

0.1

435.3

432.3

429.6

425.1

426.1

Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)

million kg

1.0

0.9

0.6

0.9

0.5

Road transport
(total gaseous road fuels)

million
kg

1.4

2.2

3.2

4.4

4.9

Biogas

0.2

0.4

0.2

0.2

0.2

Compressed natural gas (CNG)

1.2

1.8

2.9

4.2

4.7

1 Covers consumption data for our own aircraft and vehicles only
2 Adjusted

Greenhouse gas emissions
CO2e emissions Group-wide (million tonnes)

Total
Scope 1

2013

2014

2015

28.31

29.03

27.95

5.13

5.22

5.60

Scope 2

0.49

0.44

0.45

Scope 3

22.69

23.36

21.90

CO2e emissions by division (million tonnes)
20141

2013

2015

Total

Scope
1

Scope
2

Scope
3

Total

Scope
1

Scope
2

Scope
3

Total

Scope
1

Scope
2

Scope
3

28.31

5.13

0.49

22.69

29.03

5.22

0.44

23.36

27.95

5.60

0.45

21.90

Post eCommerce Parcel

1.56

0.49

0.07

0.99

1.60

0.48

0.08

1.04

1.67

0.48

0.08

1.11

Express

8.18

3.77

0.13

4.28

8.66

3.89

0.12

4.64

9.24

4.29

0.13

4.82

Global
Forwarding,
Freight

16.69

0.16

0.05

16.47

16.47

0.16

0.05

16.26

14.77

0.14

0.05

14.58

Supply Chain

2.18

0.68

0.20

1.31

2.56

0.68

0.16

1.72

2.57

0.67

0.15

1.75

Total2

1 Adjusted
2 After consolidation of scope 3 emissions from intercompany business activities, including Corporate Center/Other

139

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Carbon efficiency (index points)1
2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

0

2

7

13

16

18

20

24

25

0

17

15

18

24

24

25

26

26

0

8

20

26

28

30

34

35

37

0

0

2

8

9

10

12

17

17

0

-3

-5

10

19

26

23

27

32

Group
Post - eCommerce Parcel2
Express

3

Global Forwarding,
Freight4
Supply Chain

5

1 Previous years’ figures have been adjusted due to a correction in the Global Forwarding, Freight division's external reference data.
2 Main reference base: CO2e per liter (physical volume)
3 Main reference base: CO2e per tonne-km
4 Main reference base: CO2e per tonne-km or TEU (20-foot equivalent units)-km
5 Main reference base: CO2e per square meter of warehouse space and CO2e by revenue from transportation services after adjusting for inflation

GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance
Our scope 2 emissions, which are found in the Annex to this report, are calculated in
accordance with the “Scope 2 Guidance” using both the site-based and market-based
methods. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, reported data is based on the latter method.
Our data is also prepared in accordance with the requirements of the European Emissions
Trading System (EU-ETS) and the EN 16258 and ISO 14064 standards.
Scope 2 CO2e emissions in 2015 (million tonnes)
Scope 2
market-based method

Scope 2
location-based method

Group1

0.45

0.90

Post - eCommerce - Parcel

0.08

0.26

Express

0.13

0.19

Global Forwarding, Freight

0.05

0.07

Supply Chain

0.15

0.32

1 Includes Corporate Center/Other

140

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Scope 3 CO2e emissions (million tonnes) by GHG category
Activities included/
excluded

Calculation
Methodology

2.5

This category includes
emissions from the
production of goods and
services purchased by us
and not otherwise
included in categories
2-8.

Emissions in this
category were
calculated using
financial data and
environmentallyextended input output
(EEIO) models taken
from the DEFRA
reporting guidance.

0.6

0.7

This category includes
emissions from the
production of capital
goods acquired in the
reporting year.

Emissions for all
additions to our
balance sheet were
calculated using
financial data and
environmentallyextended input output
(EEIO) models taken
from the DEFRA
reporting guidance.

3. Fuel- and energy-related
activities (not included in
scope 1 or scope 2)

1.1

1.3

This category includes
emissions from the
extraction, production
and transportation of
fuels and energy we
purchased and reported
in scopes 1 and 2. It
also includes
transmission and
distribution losses for
the generation of
electricity, district
heating and cooling.

Emissions were
calculated using
primary data for fuel
and energy use
collected from all
DPDHL entities
globally and emission
factors provided in the
IPCC Guidelines, the
International Energy
Agency, the EN 16258
standard or the
DEFRA reporting
guidance.

4. Upstream transportation
and distribution

27.8

26.6

of which transportation and
distribution

22.9

21.9

This category includes
emissions from
transportation services
purchased by us which
are not already reported
in scopes 1 and 2. It
covers our global
operations across all
business units.

Emissions were
calculated using data
from operational and
business intelligence
systems. We used
emission factors from
NTM for air transport,
the Clean Cargo
Working Group
(CCWG) for ocean
transport and the
Handbook Emission
Factors for Road
Transport (HBEFA) for
road transport.

4.9

4.7

This category includes
emissions for fuel- and
energy-related activities
of our subcontracted
transportation partners.
Exceeding the minimum
requirements of this
category, we report on
these emissions to fulfill
the requirements of the
EN 16258 standard and
better compare the total
GHG efficiency of own
and subcontracted
transports.

As value chain
partners usually do
not disclose fuel types
used, emissions were
calculated assuming
most common fuel
types (Air transports:
Jet A-1; Road
transports: Diesel;
Maritime transports:
HFO) and emission
factors provided in the
EN 16258 standard.

Category

2014

2015

1. Purchased goods and
services

2.7

2. Capital goods

fuel- and
energyrelated
activities for
upstream
transportation
and
distribution

141

Reviewed
by PwC

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Category

Activities included/
excluded

Calculation
Methodology

2014

2015

not
reported

not
reported

This category is currently
not reported, as – due
to the nature of our
business – limited
quantitative and
management relevance
are expected.

0.05

0.05

This category includes
emissions from business
travel from our global
workforce via airplane.
Emissions from business
travel using company
cars are included in our
scopes 1 and 2.
Currently, we do not
report on emissions
from business travel via
buses, trains, private or
rental cars as sufficient
reliable information to
measure the emission
source is not available.

Due to limited data
availability for 2013,
we extrapolated data
reported by our main
travel agencies from
previous years.

0.5

0.7

This category includes
emissions from
employee commuting
for our global workforce
in vehicles not already
included in scopes 1 and
2.

Emissions for
employee commuting
were calculated using
global headcount data
and national statistics.

not
applicable

not
applicable

This category is not
applicable. The
operation of leased
assets is included in our
scopes 1 and 2.

not
reported

not
reported

This category is currently
not reported. All third
party transport services
purchased by us are
included in category 4.
Cases where transport
services are performed
by third parties which
are not purchased/
controlled by us were
estimated and excluded
due to limited
quantitative and
management relevance.

10. Processing of sold
products

not
applicable

not
applicable

This category is not
applicable to our
business, because we do
not offer intermediate
products for further
processing.

11. Use of sold products

not
applicable

not
applicable

This category is not
applicable to our
business as a provider of
services.

12. End-of-life treatment of
sold products

not
reported

not
reported

This category is currently
not reported, as – due
to the nature of our
business – limited
quantitative and
management relevance
are expected.

13. Downstream leased
assets

not
reported

not
reported

This category is currently
not reported. Emissions
were estimated and
excluded due to limited
quantitative and
management relevance.

5. Waste generated in
operations

6. Business travel

7. Employee commuting

8. Upstream leased assets

9. Downstream
transportation and
distribution

142

Reviewed
by PwC

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Calculation
Methodology

Reviewed
by PwC

2013

2014

2015

Mono-nitrogen oxide (NOx)

32,518

31,965

34,075

Road transport

18,178

17,625

17,694

Air transport

14,340

14,340

16,381

1,825

1,771

1,930

675

621

615

Air transport

1,150

1,150

1,315

Particulate matter (PM10)

1,195

1,129

1,157

Road transport

976

911

907

Air transport

219

218

250

Category

2014

2015

not
reported

not
reported

not
applicable

not
applicable

14. Franchises

15. Investments

Activities included/
excluded

This category is currently
not reported. Emissions
were estimated and
excluded due to limited
quantitative and
management relevance.
This category is not
applicable to our
business.

Local air pollutants
Local air pollutants (in tonnes)1,2

Sulfur dioxide (SO2)
Road transport

1 Emissions data covers our own aircraft and road vehicles only.
2 Emissions of local air pollutants from road transport are calculated based on actual consumption data; for emissions from air transport, these calculations are based on route
profiles. Emission factors published in the EMEP/EEA Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Guidebook (2013) as well those published by the US Environmental Protection Agency were
applied.

Water consumption
Water use at facilities in Germany (million m3)

Water consumption

143

2012

2013

2014

1,102

1,363

1,097

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Green products
Carbon Report: Reported CO2e emissions for customer shipments by division1
CO2e2 IN TONNES

CO2 IN TONNES

Total
Post - eCommerce - Parcel
Express

2012

2013

2014

2015

1,278,297

2,195,062

3,660,516

4,583,553

77,391

85,745

104,601

101,387

57,026

124,557

195,503

382,079

Global Forwarding, Freight

945,212

1,898,075

3,240,606

4,088,872

Supply Chain

198,668

86,685

119,806

11,215

1 Calculation methodologies verified by the independent audit organization Société Générale de Surveillance (SGS)
2 Based on the GHG Protocol Product Lifecycle Accounting and Reporting standard

Climate-neutral products: Customer emissions offset
CO2 IN TONNES

CO2e IN TONNES

2012

2013

20141

20151.2

Total

179,889

193,760

255,113

253,4343

Post - eCommerce - Parcel

143,806

148,692

189,471

185,2354

31,377

42,769

56,600

59,260

3,721

986

8,560

8,485

316

120

83

68

Express
Global Forwarding, Freight
Supply Chain

1 Based on the GHG Protocol Product Lifecycle Accounting and Reporting standard
2 Data audited by SGS (closing March 2016)
3 Includes 386 tonnes of CO2e from Corporate Center/Other
4 In addition to shipment-related emissions, data also includes emissions from passenger transportation (Postbus).

144

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Economics
Key figures (in €m)
20111

20121

20131

2014

2015

Revenue

52,829

55,512

54,912

56,630

59,230

Post - eCommerce - Parcel (until
2013 MAIL)

13,973

13,972

15,291

15,686

16,131

Express

11,691

12,778

11,821

12,491

13,661

Global Forwarding, Freight

15,118

15,666

14,787

14,924

14,890

Supply Chain

13,223

14,340

14,227

14,737

15,791

Corporate Center/Other

1,260

1,203

1,251

1,345

1,269

Consolidation

-2,436

-2,447

-2,465

-2,553

-2,512

Profit/loss from operating
activities (EBIT)

2,436

2,665

2,865

2,965

2,411

Post - eCommerce - Parcel (until
2013 MAIL)

1,107

1,048

1,286

1,298

1,103

Express

916

1,110

1,083

1,260

1,391

Global Forwarding, Freight

440

514

478

293

-181

Supply Chain

362

419

441

465

449

Corporate Center/Other

-389

-423

-421

-352

-351

0

-3

-2

1

0

1,716

1,697

1,747

1,876

2,024

€m

16,730

17,770

17,776

18,189

19,640

%

31.7

32.0

32.4

32.1

33.2

Consolidation
Other key figures
Capital expenditure (capex)
Staff costs
2

Staff cost ratio
Tax rate

3

Dividend distribution
Payout ratio
Dividend per share
Dividend yield
Number of shares carrying
dividend rights

%

23.7

20.2

14.0

15.5

16.4

€m

846

846

968

1,030

1,0314

%

72.7

51.6

46.3

49.7

66.9

€

0.70

0.70

0.80

0.85

0.854

%

5.9

4.2

3.0

3.1

3.3

million

1,209.0

1,209.0

1,209.0

1,211.2

1,212.8

1 Adjusted
2 Staff costs/revenue
3 Income tax expense/profit before income taxes
4 Proposal

145

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Corporate Citizenship
As of 2015 we are also using the LBG model to measure employee participation in Global
Volunteer Day. According to the new framework, only those employees are counted who
have taken active part in a GVD project and whose participation is directly reflected in
official volunteer hours and project numbers. Employees who contribute in the form of
monetary donations will no longer be accounted for in GVD participation statistics. Their
contributions will be captured in the figures on charitable gifts.
Global Volunteer Day 2015 – Number of employees

Global Volunteer Day 2015 – Volunteer hours and number of projects

146

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Assurance report
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report
To Deutsche Post AG, Bonn
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the sustainability
information marked with PwC in the online version of the Corporate Responsibility
Report of Deutsche Post AG, (hereafter the “CR Report”), Bonn, (hereafter the “Company”)
for the period 1 January to 31 December 2015.1



Management’s Responsibility
Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the
Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance with the criteria as set out in the G4
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter the
“GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the information to be assessed.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare
the Corporate Responsibility Report as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for
individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances.
Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems
and processes relevant for the preparation of the Corporate Responsibility Report, which is
free of material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors.
Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control
We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding independence as well
as other ethical requirements.
The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in
particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered
Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”)
as well as the joint opinion of the Wirtschaftsprüferkammer (Chamber of German Public
Auditors; WPK) and the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in
Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control for audit firms (“Gemeinsamen
Stellungnahme der WPK und des IDW: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der
Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”: “VO 1/2006”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive
system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and
regulatory requirements.
Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability information marked with
PwC in the Corporate Responsibility Report based on our work performed.



Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on external sources of
information or expert opinions, referred to in the Corporate Responsibility Report.

147

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews
of Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we
plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any
matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the sustainability
information marked with PwC in the Corporate Responsibility Report has not been
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.



In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than
for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained
than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the
practitioner's judgement. This includes the assessment of the risks of material misstatements
of the sustainability information in the Corporate Responsibility Report with regard to the
GRI-Criteria.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures:
Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability organization and of the
stakeholder engagement
Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Corporate Responsibility Report
regarding the preparation process, the underlying internal control system and selected
sustainability information
Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information of the Corporate
Responsibility Report
Comparison of selected sustainability information with corresponding data in the
consolidated financial statements and in the group management report
Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability information in the Corporate
Responsibility regarding the sustainability performance
Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes
us to believe that the sustainability information marked with PwC in the Corporate
Responsibility Report of the Company for the period 1 January to 31 December 2015 has
not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.



Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the
further development of the Company's sustainability management and sustainability
reporting:
In the reporting year the Company has updated the materiality analysis and reports for
most of the identified material sustainability the corresponding key performance
indicators. We recommend to the Company to develop key performance indicators for all
remaining material sustainability aspects.

148

Deutsche Post DHL Group

ANNEX

Corporate Responsibility Report 2015

Restriction on Use and Distribution
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with Deutsche Post AG. The
audit has been performed for purposes of Deutsche Post AG and is solely intended to
inform Deutsche Post AG about the results of the audit. The report is not intended for any
third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility
towards third parties.
Munich, February 26, 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Hendrik Fink
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

ppa. Axel Faupel

1

Our engagement applied to the German online version of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 (http://cr-report2015.dpdhl.com), which describes the
sustainability performance of the Company. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German - the German text is authoritative.
Statements as well as expert opinions in the report were not in scope of our engagement.

149

