Sustainability Report
2016

E.ON at a glance
We are an international, privately-owned energy company
headquartered in Essen, Germany. We realigned our
company in 2016 in response to the fundamental changes
ongoing in the energy markets. With our business areas
of renewables, energy networks and customer solutions,
we are tackling current market developments head on: the
increasing global significance of renewables, the development of smart energy networks for distributed-energy
solutions, and customers` changing needs.

30 million

power and gas customers
in our European markets
and in Turkey

13 billion kWh
of electricity generated
by our renewables

1,078 thousand km
of power and gas networks1)

1) including our power networks in Slovakia
(49-per cent minority shareholding)

In addition to our three core business areas, we are also
active in the area of nuclear power in Germany managed
by our separate operating company PreussenElektra.
However, this is not a strategic business segment for us.
The conventional generation and energy trading
businesses were combined into a distinct company,
Uniper, as of 1 January 2016.
In the 2016 financial year, we had around 43,000 employees and our sales were around EUR 38.2 billion. We are
active in eight countries across Europe via our regional
units: Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Romania,
Sweden, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. We
are also active in the US in the area of renewables and are
part of a joint venture in Turkey.

Contents
4
7
8
11
13
15
19
23
26
29
31
32
38
45
52
55
57
58
65
68
70
71
72
81
88
92
96

Foreword
Strategy and governance
Strategy and objectives
Sustainable Development Goals
Sustainability structures
Good corporate governance
Compliance and anti-corruption
Responsible lobbying
Human rights
Crisis management
Energy solutions
Renewables
Efficiency improvements
Security of supply
Climate-friendly mobility
Key figures
Customers
Customer satisfaction
Customer health and safety
Data protection
Key figures
Employees
Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunity
Employee development
Working conditions
Key figures

100
101
106
114
117
118
123
124
130
133
134
136
138
139
141
144
160
162
166
169
172

Environment
Carbon footprint
Environmental management
Key figures
Supply chain
Supplier management
Stakeholder
Stakeholder engagement
Community involvement
Nuclear power
Nuclear safety and security
Radioactive waste
Appendix
About the Report
Materiality analysis
GRI index
UN Global Compact
ESG key figures
DVFA/EFFAS-KPIs
Assurance Report
Ratings and rankings

Foreword

4

Dear readers,
2016 was an important year for us. It was not only a year in which we were
fully focused for the first time on the three business areas of renewables,
energy networks and customer solutions, but also a year in which we
realigned our sustainability strategy. We were guided in this by our corporate strategy, the needs of our stakeholders and the new energy world.
In addition, we created a new focus for our future sustainability activities.
We want to make sustainability part of our DNA, and let this be seen in
everything we do, at all levels and in every business area.

Corporate sustainability management

Dr. Johannes Teyssen,
Chairman of the Management Board

Sustainability is one of our top priorities. To me it is particularly important
that we systematically put the new E.ON on a path toward sustainability
right from the outset and see to it that our employees are on board with us
on this. In a series of workshops our sustainability team worked together
with employees from all relevant departments and with stakeholders from
a wide variety of fields to define new corporate priorities with respect to
sustainability. These were subsequently discussed with external experts. A
central department draws on action plans in evaluating our progress in this
area and regularly reports to, and consults with our Governance Council on
these matters. This report provides you with more information on this issue.

Foreword

5

Responding to energy trends

Focusing on the customer

Our business areas reflect major energy trends: More and more customers want customised energy plans, while ever more energy is being
generated with renewables and conventional power grids are increasingly
being converted into smart grids. We are helping shape this fundamental
­transformation by providing innovative and increasingly digital products
and services. We want all our customers – families, craftsmen and tradespersons, small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and large companies,
people in urban and rural settings – to be able to take advantage of these
new opportunities.

We see ourselves as a partner to our customers – including in achieving our
sustainability goals. In order to be able to develop better, more customised
solutions, we need to understand our customers and their needs. Through
Group-wide "Customer Immersion Sessions," all employees have an opportunity to interact with our customers. In 2016, for instance, we held 166
sessions where we engaged in direct dialogue with over 1,000 customers.
I was one of the many employees who had an opportunity to get to know
some of our customers in person during several of these sessions.

E.ON is the first major European energy supplier to orient itself wholly
around the new energy world. We have all the necessary skills to make this
strategy a reality:
• We are one of the leading companies in the renewable energy market.
By 2025, 80 per cent of our installed capacity is supposed to come from
renewable sources. This is how we are making a significant contribution
to climate protection.
• 30 million customers in major markets in Europe and Turkey already
rely on our competitive energy products. Thanks to our local presence,
our open exchange with all stakeholders and our strong position in the
energy markets, we know our customers' needs and can implement
technical advances quickly so that we are able to offer our customers
exactly what they want.
• More and more customers are seeking a sustainable, customised and
independent energy supply. In response, we offer a wide range of
innovative products and services, from solar systems, battery storages
and efficiency planning, to lighting concepts and heating systems.
• Our increasingly smart grids allow our customers to purchase green
electricity or sell any surplus from the green electricity they generate
themselves. This is how we are creating a platform that lets our customers take advantage of a variety of innovative energy services – ones that
involve much more than just consuming energy or feeding the energy
they produce into the grid. Other services include flexible demand management, virtual power plants, electric mobility and efficient storage.

Sustainable energy solutions
Many companies and cities are committed to climate protection and
resource efficiency. And we have the experience and skills to help our
customers in industry, commerce and the public sector become more
sustainable and more climate-friendly. Important elements in this include
renewables, local heating and cooling, electric mobility, district heating,
energy efficient buildings and smart grids. We are demonstrating what we
are currently making possible in Hyllie, the smart city district of Malmö,
where we played a role in developing one of the first carbon free residential and commercial areas in the world. In 2016, one of E.ON Connecting
Energies' efficiency projects received the "Energy Efficiency Award" from
the German Energy Agency (dena). We applied several measures to help
glass manufacturer Pilkington Automotive realise energy savings of around
40 per cent.

Foreword

Responsibility to employees, society and the environment
In addition, there are still other issues that have been, and continue to be,
important to us. We apply established standards and comprehensive measures in the areas of environmental protection as well as occupational health
and safety. For example, we offer training courses, conduct campaigns to
promote employee health and have introduced externally certified environmental and safety management systems in all our units.
Unfortunately, there were also setbacks, however: the company is mourning
the deaths of four employees in 2016.
At our subsidiary PreussenElektra we are aware of the great responsibility
we bear for operating and dismantling German nuclear power plants. Clear
safety guidelines and an effective management system ensure that the
impact on people and the environment is minimised. The careful maintenance of our plants and the expertise of our employees make it possible for
our power plants to contribute to environmental protection by generating
climate-friendly, reliable and affordable electricity in Germany.

Recognition of our performance on sustainability
One of our great achievements in 2016 was being listed once again in the
Dow Jones Sustainability Index, both in Europe and globally, after not
appearing there for several years. We are pleased that we were able to show
significant improvement in economic and environmental categories. In
addition, E.ON was again among the major companies that received an A- in
climate reporting from the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). The quality,
handling and transparency of CO₂ data were appreciated.

6

For us, it goes without saying that as a long-standing member of the United
Nations "Global Compact" we support its ten principles. Moreover, we
still actively participate in econsense and the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development (WBCSD).
All of this is important to us. But what is crucial for us in the wake of our
realignment is that we can combine success in business with the principles
of sustainability. Because we want to pursue sustainability not just for
ourselves, but also to be the partner of choice of our customers, offer shareholders attractive returns and improve the quality of life in the communities
where we live and work. We are on the right track. See for yourself by taking
a look at our redesigned Sustainability Report.

With best wishes,

Johannes Teyssen

Strategy and
governance

Since 2016, we have focused on
renewables, energy networks and
innovative customer solutions. This
strategic realignment also results
in new priorities in our sustainability programmes. We want to
take an active role in shaping the
energy world of tomorrow and to
promote sustainable growth. Clear
organisational structures and good
corporate governance help us to
achieve this. This includes ensuring conduct in compliance with law,
safeguarding human rights and
representing our interests to policy
makers in a fair and transparent
manner.

Strategy and governance
Strategy and objectives

8

Our future is
sustainable
We are now strategically focused on meeting the challenges of the new energy world and on sustainable growth. From 2016 onwards we are focusing on
the business areas of renewables, energy networks and innovative customer solutions. Sustainability is a fundamental element in all these areas. We aim
to embrace sustainability even more consistently in everything we do. With this goal in mind, we have set new priorities for our work on sustainability and
redefined our responsibilities. The goal: we aim to make further developments in all relevant areas of operation and become a pioneer in our sector.

Realise our sustainable potential
Sustainability is firmly established in our business strategy. Our core business offers solutions for key demands of the sustainable energy world: we
are developing energy sources such as wind and solar power, and thereby
contributing to the battle against climate change. Our energy networks
distribute power from these renewable sources, which are increasingly
decentralised. Using intelligent solutions we are also helping our customers
to save energy.
A consistently implemented business focus on sustainability also offers
further potential, opening up new business opportunities for further

growth. For example, we are developing new digital solutions which reduce
energy consumption. Sustainability also helps us reduce business risks,
making us stronger for the future. By improving our networks to suit
decentralised electricity generation, for example, we are also reducing the
risk of outages and damage to our reputation.
For these reasons we will integrate sustainability into our business
processes even more thoroughly in future. It is a priority for us to promote
a sustainable approach to the way we work and think, throughout the
company.

Strategy and governance
Strategy and objectives

Shared concepts: our focus areas
At the beginning of 2016 we held workshops with more than 60 employees from different areas of expertise and staff levels, to discuss what
sustainability means in practice for us at E.ON. The conclusions were
then discussed with external stakeholders. As a result we have identified
five new focus areas which will form the basis of our plans for the future.
These focus areas are consistent with our new business strategy, our
vision and our brand identity.

We listen to our customers and treat them fairly
We identify and understand customer needs. It is important
that we serve all members of society fairly and with respect.

We help customers optimise their energy usage
We help our customers reduce their energy consumption, costs
and CO₂ emissions. We develop innovative solutions to achieve
these goals. We also help our customers understand their
consumption profile and identify opportunities for savings.

9

We build up and integrate renewable generation capacity
We increase installed renewables capacity. We work to reduce the
cost of renewables. Our distribution networks deliver electricity
to our customers and thus enable the use of renewable energy.

We protect the health and safety of our customers and colleagues
We provide a safe workplace for staff and contractors. We look
out for the mental wellbeing of our people. We aim to protect the
health and safety of customers who use our energy solutions.

We foster diversity and inclusion in our workforce
We are committed to building a diverse workforce. We ensure
equal opportunity in our appointment procedures. We value every
member of staff and respect differences.

Strategy and governance
Strategy and objectives

Shared framework, individual actions
The five focus areas are applied throughout the company and form the
framework for our work on sustainability. All regional and international
business divisions develop their own measures and targets to contribute to
these priorities. They develop their own action plans. In the first half of 2017
we aim to define sustainability goals for the whole company, based on these
action plans.
In addition to the five focus areas each division will also consider any further
aspects of sustainability which are important in their particular business
environment. In our procurement structures, for example, we will develop
specific guidelines for sustainable supply chain management and define
indicators for monitoring.

10

this way each unit can devise measures and targets which are appropriate
for their particular context and optimise their integration into existing
processes.

Getting better all the time
We want to be pro-active in creating a more sustainable energy world for
the future. These action plans will help us to continually develop our work
towards sustainability. We will make regular assessments of our progress in
implementing the plans. We will also provide transparent reporting on our
progress. We aim to strengthen dialogue with our stakeholders even further
in the future – for example amongst expert networks or in direct discussion
with our colleagues.

The same applies to our subsidiary PreussenElektra, which controls the
operation and dismantling of our German nuclear power plants – an area
which in terms of our new corporate strategy is no longer a key part of our
core business. Here too we will work on sustainability through an action
plan – though with a different focus.
Our central representatives for sustainability – the Sustainability Council
and the Sustainability Department – assist regional and international
business units to create their plans and will track their progress. However
it is the responsibility of each unit to develop and implement these plans. In

“Strategy and objectives“ reviewed

Strategy and governance
Sustainable Development Goals

11

Our contribution
to SDGs
In 2015, the United Nations (UN) created the "Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development," an approach by which the international community can address
global challenges. The Agenda 2030 is aimed at facilitating economic progress and prosperity – in a manner consistent with social justice and in keeping
with ecological limits to growth.
We support the wide-ranging Agenda 2030 and its 17 goals – the so-called Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With the entry into force of the SDGs
in January 2016, all countries and social actors are called upon to contribute to the Agenda's sustainability goals. We, too, endorse the SDGs and we are
working to make a contribution toward achieving the following specific objectives:

Ensuring that everyone has access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern forms of energy
We are encouraging the further development of renewable energy. This is how we are helping design a path to a
climate-friendly and sustainable supply of energy. Our distribution grids form the basis for this effort since they not
only receive the electricity that is generated and distribute it to our customers; they also demonstrate new ways to
improve the local power supply and make it more flexible. We are working, for example, on optimising our energy
networks, so that households as well as business and industry can continue to be provided with a reliable supply
of energy. We also offer assistance to vulnerable customers – because energy should be equally available to all
without interruption.

Learn more:
Renewables
Security of supply
Customer satisfaction

Immediately take action to combat climate change and its impacts
In addition to developing renewable energy – one of our core areas of growth – we also help our customers achieve
their own climate goals. Because it is only through the use of climate-friendly generation technologies that the
goals for CO₂ emissions reduction can be realised. Our array of solutions help our customers in business, manufacturing, the public sector as well as our residential customers reduce their energy consumption and thereby lower
their CO₂ emissions. Through the range of products we offer in the area of electromobility, we are also helping to
make transportation and trade more climate-friendly.

Learn more:
Renewables
Efficiency improvements
Climate-friendly mobility
Environmental management
Carbon footprint

Strategy and governance
Sustainable Development Goals

In addition, we are making a further contribution to the following SDGs through our five new focus areas:

SDG

Our contribution

Learn more

We provide healthier living for people of all ages and we
foster their wellbeing.

Occupational health and safety
Customer health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunity

We promote gender equality and we enable women the
same access to leadership positions as men.

Diversity and equal opportunity
Employee development

We support the establishment of sustainable and reliable
infrastructure and we encourage sustainable industrialisation and innovation.

Efficiency improvements
Security of supply
Climate-friendly mobility
Crisis management

We want to help cities and communities achieve sustainable development and use intelligent concepts to reduce
their energy consumption and lower their CO₂ emissions.

Renewables
Security of supply
Efficiency improvements
Climate-friendly mobility

We encourage the sustainable consumption of energy and
we are reducing our own consumption of resources.

Efficiency improvements
Environmental management
Supplier management
Stakeholder engagement

12

Strategy and governance
Sustainability structures

13

Clearly defined
sustainability structures
Our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) is responsible for our sustainability programmes throughout the company. He is supported by a proven organisational
structure: the Sustainability Council is an expert committee which assists him, composed of senior executives from different areas of the company. Our CEO
Johannes Teyssen has held the position of CSO and Chairman of the Sustainability Council since 2016, and communicates regularly with the Supervisory
Board. In 2016 we also created a new Sustainability team, which functions principally as a generator of ideas and advice on sustainability.

Our steering committee
The Sustainability Council, founded in 2013, guides and supports our sustainability programmes at company level. It helps with strategic positioning
and ensures that our approach to sustainability is consistent with our
vision, enterprise strategy and brand identity. The Council also continues
to develop our sustainability programmes and promote them within the
company. Where company guidelines refer to sustainability, the Council
provides advice and helps to make decisions about necessary changes. It
also deals with engaging external stakeholders and building up partner-

ships. The Council meets up to four times a year – or more frequently if
necessary – and reports to the Board of Management twice a year. In 2016
five meetings took place, the first four were concerned with defining our
new strategy for sustainability programmes.
Members of the Sustainability Council include representatives of Group
Management as well as global and regional units and our support functions. Any member may present their own agenda items and report on
measures and progress in their business unit. Members also have an
important role as sustainability ambassadors within the company.

Strategy and governance
Sustainability structures

14

Central sustainability team
Digression: Our HSE Organisation
Our central sustainability team was newly established in 2016. Together
with the Health, Safety, Security & Environment (HSSE) teams, it forms a
specialist unit. The team prepares discussion documents for the Council,
makes recommendations, supports planning and implementation of
sustainability programmes and monitors progress. It also provides advice
for any member of staff or department on sustainability issues. It gathers
data and results from across the company and is responsible for our sustainability reporting.

In the area of Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) we look back on an organisational structure that has grown over many years. The Board of Management is responsible for our HSE
activities and both monitors and develops them constantly. The HSE Governance Council
and the Group Management HSE Office act as advisory committees. HSE committees and
teams of experts in each location devise guidelines to ensure compliance with standards in
their business unit. These expert teams also take the lead in operational implementation.

On site planning and implementation
The management team in each business unit – or where appropriate, the
local support staff – are responsible for implementing sustainability programmes. Their responsibilities include the development of action plans,
achieving ongoing improvements and integrating sustainability principles
into their business processes.
To improve communication with the central sustainability team for individual business units and support staff, we have nominated local contacts
to act as a link. They oversee and coordinate the status of action plans and
support local projects and initiatives.

„Sustainability structures“ reviewed

Strategy and governance
Good corporate governance

15

Transparent and
responsible management
In order to remain successful going forward, we must manage our company transparently and responsibly with the goal of generating value over the long
term. To achieve this goal, we rely on effective corporate structures and clear lines of responsibility based on the principles of good corporate governance.
To this end, we integrate aspects of sustainability directly into our business processes.

Our corporate governance system: good corporate
governance applied Group-wide
By "corporate governance system" we mean the entire system we use
to manage and oversee our company. Under the so-called dual system,
which is standard in Germany, responsibilities are clearly separated from
one another: Our Board of Directors takes care of management, while the
Supervisory Board exercises overall supervision of E.ON SE. Both bodies
work together efficiently and report to one another in a transparent manner.
Our corporate governance system complies with the "German Corporate
Governance Code" (GCGC) and ensures that corporate and shareholder
interests are protected. In addition, the code requires that management
decisions be easy for stakeholders to understand and guarantees Supervisory Board independence. In 2016, the E.ON SE Supervisory Board consisted
of five female and thirteen male representatives from eight countries. As
stipulated in the German Stock Corporation Act, the Board seeks to maintain
an equitable balance between shareholder and employee representatives.

Anchoring sustainability issues at management level
The Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors at E.ON SE bear management and supervisory responsibility for core sustainability issues. The Chief
Sustainability Officer (CSO) regularly provides information to both bodies
on significant actions, events and metrics relating to sustainability. CEO
Johannes Teyssen assumed the role of CSO in 2015. The CSO also chairs
our Sustainability Governance Council (SGC), the central body for managing
and monitoring our sustainability activities. We also established an organisational structure in the area of Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) – the
HSE Governance Council.
We want to encourage all executive-level management at E.ON to deal
proactively with sustainability issues. The variable annual salary (short-term
incentive) that E.ON pays managers is linked to performance parameters
related to sustainability. We use measurable criteria to monitor the achievement of objectives – for example, the effectiveness of efforts to increase

Strategy and governance
Good corporate governance

the proportion of women in management positions or improve our Net
Promoter Score (NPS), ​​which we use to measure customer satisfaction. The
goal agreements for the board as a whole, as well as for individual members
incorporate, are among other things, objectives in occupational safety as
an element of sustainable corporate management. In our Annual Report,
we provide a transparent overview of the compensation that our Board
members receive.

Incorporating sustainability issues in risk management
Business-related actions always involve risks, such as those posed by
regulatory requirements, for example. We use systematic risk management
to respond to any potential adverse effects. Our risk management system is
embedded throughout our entire organisational and operational structure.
It consists of multiple modules, which are explained in detail in our Annual
Report.

16

Our risk tools take into account more than just financial risks. They also
cover indirect financial risks, which can only be represented in numerical
values indirectly, partly, or not at all. These principally involve risks in the
areas of environment, social affairs and governance & integrity (Environment, Social and Governance – ESG) that may crop up in connection
with our business activities. They can have direct adverse effects, such as
penalties due to violations of the law, or longer-term consequences, such as
damage to the company's reputation.

Internal policies for embedding sustainability
We use binding guidelines to define framework conditions and minimum
standards for our business processes. These have the character of directives
and are continuously reviewed in order to respond to changing stakeholder
requirements.

Applying our guidelines

Management
Framework Policy
Management
Group Policies

Business Governance
Group Policies

Unit Policies

Business Directives

Define the roles, responsibilities and
organisational structures for our global units,
regional units, support functions, and
management functions.
Describe special operational business
processes for our entire company (such as the
Planning and Controlling Manual, the Data
Protection Policy and the Travel Policy)
Apply within a global unit, a regional unit or
support function
Contain specific functional directives for
the respective unit

Corporate policies apply throughout the entire
E.ON Group. This includes all individual companies in which we hold a majority stake, as well
as projects and partnerships for which we bear
operational responsibility. Our contractors and
suppliers are also required to meet our minimum
standards. Corporate policies do not automatically apply to joint ventures with co-equal
partners. However, they do form the basis for
guidelines adapted to local circumstances.
You will find information on policies and guidelines relating to our sustainability activities in
the respective areas of activity contained in this
report. In addition, an overview of all the policies
and guidelines is also available in our
Sustain­ability Channel.

Strategy and governance
Good corporate governance

17

Frameworks and commitments
We want to meet expectations with respect to company management by applying internationally accepted ethical, social and environmental principles,
which we orient around external regulations and flesh out with reference to our specific business processes.

Self-Commitment by the E.ON Board of Management (2006)

We are hereby confirming our social responsibility in the company management.

Commitment to the ten priciples of the Global Compact of the
United Nations (since 2005)

This is the largest initiative worldwide for sustainable management. We hereby commit to observing
human rights, work and environmental standards and participate in the fight against corruption.

Luxembourg Declaration (2009)

We are committed to the effective promotion and implementation of operational health in accordance
with European standards.

Seoul Declaration (2009)

We are committed to rolling out a culture of prevention for workplace health and safety.

Code of Responsible Conduct for Business (2010)

Together with other globally-active German companies, we are committed to a success and value-driven
management in the sense of the social market economy. Included in this are the concepts of fair competition, social partnership, the performance principle and sustainability.

Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate
Governance Code (since 2002)

The Board of Directors and Supervisory Board of E.ON SE issue a compliance declaration annually under
Section 161 of the German Corporation Act regarding the German Corporate Governance Code.

Declaration of compliance with the German Sustainability
Code (since 2012)

Every year we publish the sustainability performance of E.ON SE in accordance with the criteria of the
Council for Sustainable Development (RNE), a specialist committee commissioned by the German federal government.

Strategy and governance
Good corporate governance

18

Shared commitment with partners
For us, good corporate governance also means that we cooperate with other companies, organisations, policy makers, scientists and other stakeholders in
working on towards sustainable development. In 2016 we were involved, among others, in the following alliances and initiatives:

World Energy Council (WEC) (since 2006)

The WEC is active worldwide in advocating for affordable, stable and environmentally friendly supply of energy. Its
membership includes government administrations and agencies as well as businesses, academia and non-governmental organisations. The European section of the WEC is currently led by our board member, Leonhard Birnbaum.
The WEC organises the World Energy Congress every three years. It was last held in Istanbul in 2016. There, we
participated in discussions on the future design of the energy system.

World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD) (since 2006)

This business alliance does important work at the intersection of international policy making and private enterprise. The focus here is on the issues of energy and climate change, preserving ecosystems and promoting sustainable development. We also collaborate in various working groups of the WBCSD.

econsense – Forum for Sustainable Development of
German Business (since 2000)

econsense brings together leading global companies and German business organisations to share experiences with
other companies, develop common positions and cooperate in promoting social discourse. We are also involved in
various working groups, including on issues relating to supply chain sustainability, climate and environmental
protection and assessing sustainability efforts.

Climate Change Program of the CDP (since 2007)

We participate in the Climate Change Program run by the independent information service provider CDP (formerly
known as the Carbon Disclosure Project). In addition, we also participate in CDP forums on climate protection. We
are thereby able to communicate our strategy to a wider audience and learn from other organisations.

UN CEO Water Mandate (UN WM) (since 2015; transferred to Uniper)

This public-private initiative of the United Nations Global Compact has set itself the goal of improving how companies around the world manage their water use. With the transfer of conventional generation services to Uniper in
2016, our membership in the UN WM was also transferred to Uniper. This decision was motivated by the fact that
our new focus has meant that we use significantly less water. As a result, water consumption no longer plays a
significant role for us.

Strategy and governance
Compliance and anti-corruption

19

Lawful conduct
The foundation for responsible corporate management is consistent compliance with the law. Conducting ourselves in conformity with the law (compliance)
is crucial to society's acceptance of our corporate activities: only by strictly monitoring compliance with standards, dealing transparently with any infractions and taking action against them will we be able to secure the long-term confidence of our stakeholders. Violations result not only in fines and penalties,
they also lead to a decline in confidence among shareholders and customers as well as loss of sales. Negative headlines also diminish our reputation among
potential employees. By dealing openly and honestly with any possible incidents, however, we are able to build trust and forestall stricter government
regulations.

Group-wide provision for compliance
Our goal is to identify the risk of potential rule violations in a timely manner so as to systematically prevent them from occurring. We have therefore introduced a Group-wide package of measures and processes that together form our Compliance Management System (CMS).

Responsibilities
Our Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) bears Group-wide responsibility for compliance. He provides our Board of Management with a quarterly report containing an overview of
recent developments and incidents. Each unit also has its own Compliance Officer (CO), who reports to the CCO. Any violations are reviewed by our Compliance Audit Department and by the Compliance Department at Group level. Our business units, in consultation with these two departments, have independent authority to implement corrective
actions and impose sanctions.

Strategy and governance
Compliance and anti-corruption

20

Internal guidelines and policies
Management Group Policy Compliance
(2013; updated in 2016)

The policy sets out basic compliance structures, roles and responsibilities.

Business Governance Group Policies
Preventing Insider Trading (2013) and
Intermediary Agreements (2015)

These two corporate policies specify the rules of conduct and processes for the following compliance issues:
• Educating employees about rules on insider information and the rules of conduct
• Preventing breaches of anti-corruption policies that may arise when intermediaries, consultants and other third parties are
commissioned to bring about a business transaction or to carry out a project

E.ON Code of Conduct (2013)

Our Code of Conduct requires all Group employees to conduct themselves in a lawful and responsible manner. It includes
explicit rules and guidelines for:
• dealing with business partners, third parties and government agencies
• avoiding conflicts of interest
• handling information as well as company property and resources
• issues concerning environment, occupational safety and health
We immediately take corrective action against violations of the Code of Conduct and impose sanctions accordingly. Our board
has declared a "zero tolerance commitment" in this regard.
The Code is supplemented by practical tools for day-to-day situations at work: Using a checklist our staff can check whether
their actions comply with the code of conduct. Two guidelines also provide detailed information on antitrust law and
benefits.

Programmes
Code of Conduct E-Learning-Programme
(since 2010)

This online programme is mandatory for all new employees. It explains the substance of the E.ON Code of Conduct. All new
employees at E.ON must have a basic understanding of compliance risks. Our priority is that they should know how to avoid
risks and whom they can turn to in case of questions. Employees in areas without internet access receive training offline.

Code of Conduct Refresher E-LearningProgramme (since 2015)

This online programme is intended to remind our employees of the contents of the Code of Conduct. It is divided into three
modules, each of which covers a specific topic in the Code of Conduct. The first module deals with the Code of Conduct in general. The second module addresses anti-corruption and money laundering. And the third module focuses closely on the issues
of conflicts of interest and intermediaries.

Strategy and governance
Compliance and anti-corruption

21

Procedures
Compliance risk assessments and
“necessity checks”

We apply these checks in examining which activities are at particular risk of certain compliance violations. Based on the results,
we then determine which measures are needed to deal with them. Extensive risk assessments take place every three years.
"Necessity checks" are more compact and are conducted in the interim as needed. The risk assessments and "necessity checks"
are controlled, monitored and conducted by the Compliance department at Group level in coordination with the COs in each
business unit.

“Compliance Check” for suppliers (since
2015)

We also check prospective suppliers to ensure they meet our compliance standards. Among other things, we examine whether
a supplier has been referred to in the media in connection with compliance-related issues such as corruption, as well as whether or not the supplier appears on sanction or terrorism lists. We use an extensive questionnaire to clear up any lingering doubts
about whether a supplier is conducting its affairs in accordance with our values and
​​
principles. These checks are mandatory for
all new contracts.

Compliance notices

Our employees can anonymously report any wrongdoing and violations of laws or policies, either through our internal reporting
channels or via a Group-wide "whistleblower" hotline. We operate the hotline in collaboration with an external law firm. All
notices are reviewed by our CCO in cooperation with the relevant departments at E.ON. We comply with all data protection
requirements in this process.

Progress and measures in 2016
Our CMS was successfully certified under the internationally recognised
Standard IDW PS 980. The certification pertained to the conception and
suitability of our CMS. This means that our CMS is suitable in terms of the
principles and measures it applies at E.ON for avoiding compliance risks
within the Group.

Group-wide risk assessment
In 2016, we conducted a wide-ranging compliance risk assessment. COs
at our global units selected executive-level employees for interviews,
conducted either in writing or in person, about compliance issues. Based
on the information provided, we were able to get a general picture of the

current status quo, pinpoint potential compliance risks and identify possible
improvements. A compliance risk assessment will be conducted approximately every three years.

Development of a compliance action plan
We developed a compliance action plan for each business unit in 2016. This
action plan establishes specific measures each needs to implement in 2017
to ensure compliance. They are based on the results of our Group-wide
compliance risk assessments and other performance indicators on compliance, such as the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI). We use the action plan
to define Group-wide, risk-specific minimum standards that must be met by
all units.

Strategy and governance
Compliance and anti-corruption

Group-wide compliance training plan
In addition, we also developed a Group-wide compliance training schedule in
2016. This indicates which employees have to take which specified training
courses and when. The nature and frequency of the training sessions
depends on which compliance risk the employees in a particular department
are subject to, as well as what responsibility they bear in their role within
the company. Depending on the type of training involved, the compliance
department either at corporate level or in the relevant unit is responsible for
conducting the training.

Online refresher course
By the end of 2016, employees from all business units were able to successfully complete our compliance refresher e-learning programme. For
pedagogical purposes, the training was divided into three modules. In
total, 53,340 employees were invited to participate, and 44,259 of them
completed all three modules. On average, considerably more than 80 per
cent of employees took part, and in most units the participation rate was
over 90 per cent. In 2016, we also introduced a refresher programme on
antitrust law. Of the 8,741 employees invited to take part, 7,571 completed
the e-learning programme. This corresponds to a participation rate of 86 per
cent.

Surveys on compliance culture
In 2016, we surveyed 11,000 employees anonymously on the issue of
compliance culture through Pulse Check. About 75 per cent of employees
indicated that misconduct is addressed openly by the company and followed
up on. In addition, 600 executives took part in an anonymous survey as
part of a compliance risk assessment. The finding was that the majority of
managers have a good understanding of the principles of good governance
and integrity.

22

Compliance notices1)
2016

2015

Fraud or violations of internal
policies

46

50

Conflicts of interest

13

12

Other

16

13

Total

75

75

1) The reported number of notices refers to cases on central files that resulted in investigations and which were
determined not to be erroneous.

No fines for non-compliance
In 2016 no fines were imposed on us for anticompetitive behaviour,
non-compliance with environmental laws and policies, or failure to comply
with any other laws and regulations.

Activities in countries with corruption risks
According to the International Corruption Perception Index (CPI) from
Transparency International, we are directly involved in six countries that are
below the threshold of 60 points. In 2016, we generated 14.6 per cent of our
earnings (EUR 6.2 billion) in these countries. We had supplier relationships
with companies in 22 countries in this category and transacted 11.8 per cent
of our purchasing volume in the non-fuel sector (EUR 791 million) with
suppliers from countries in this category. We apply a "compliance check" for
suppliers in order to safeguard against potential risks.

Strategy and governance
Responsible lobbying

23

Transparency
in lobbying
The energy sector is heavily influenced by social trends and political decisions. For us it is crucial that we adequately represent our business interests to
policy makers. Advances in climate protection, for example, often require extensive investments in efficient energy technologies. For long-term investments
like these we need to be able to plan with certainty. Doing so requires the right policy environment - both nationally and internationally. We advocate
publicly on behalf of our positions. This prevents any suspicion of improper influence from ever arising, which in turn avoids injury to our reputation.

Clear rules for interactions with policy-makers
As a major energy provider, we advocate for our interests through political discussion. We also offer our professional expertise in assisting with
decision-making processes. In addition, we participate in a variety of discussions on the topics of energy, environmental and climate policy.
We of course always adhere to national and international guidelines for political advocacy.

Internal guidelines and policies
Business Governance Group Policy
Stakeholder Management (updated in
2014)

This Group-wide policy formulates clear internal rules for participation in public policy development and for our interactions with
stakeholders. It defines responsibilities, processes and tools, as well as standards for information sharing. For example, we insist
that our Group representatives follow our policy on information transparency. They may not release false, misleading or overly
selective information.

Guidelines on benefits (updated in
2013)

This annex to our Code of Conduct defines principles for accepting and offering benefits when interacting with business partners, competitors and government agencies. The guideline stipulates that no or cash benefits or benefits in kind may be given to
government agencies or policy makers. Employees may only accept benefits such as gifts or invitations to events – where there is
no inference that these are being given in return for any special consideration.

Strategy and governance
Responsible lobbying

24

External Obligation
EU-Transparency Registry (registered
since 2011)

The register lists organisations and self-employed individuals who influence decision-making in the EU. By registering we are
acknowledging the code of conduct contained therein, which sets out principles for a transparent advocacy policy.

Initiative
Involvement in associations

In order to safeguard our interests, we are also involved with the following national and international associations:
• Smart Energy Demand Coalition und European Distribution System Operators for Smart Grids – European associations to
encourage smart networking and digitalisation in the energy sector
• WindEurope – a network for wind energy stakeholders, energy providers, research institutions and associations
• Deutsche Unternehmensinitiative Energieeffizienz e. V. – multi-sector network of pioneering businesses and organisations in
the field of energy efficiency policy
• Deutscher Bundesverband der Energie- und Wasserwirtschaft (BDEW)
• Swedenergy – private association of companies involved in the production, sale and trading of electricity in Sweden
• Romanian Federation of Associations of Energy Utility
• Energy UK – British Energy Industry Association representing 90 suppliers as well as electricity and gas producers for
residential and business customers
Through the BDEW we are also represented in the following networks and associations:
• Eurelectric or Eurogas – advocacy organisation for the European electricity and gas industry
• Bundesverband der Deutschen Industrie e. V. (BDI) and its European umbrella organisation Businesseurope

Progress and measures in 2016
In 2016, we once again involved in political decision-making processes. This
applies in particular to the following new legislation and rulings:
• Adoption of the new Combined Heat and Power Act (CHP Act) in
Germany
• Revision of the German Renewable Energy Act (amendment of the REG)
• Development of the "Green Paper on Energy Efficiency" and the
"Discussion Paper 2030" from the Federal Ministry of Economics and
Technology (BMWi)

•

•

Adoption of the EU's "winter package", including the Renewable Energy
Directive, the Energy Efficiency Directive, the Energy Performance of
Buildings Directive, the Governance Directive as well as the Directive on
the Internal Electricity Market
Decisions on final disposal of nuclear waste

Our positions on these issues were appended to statements by European
and national associations and used in speeches by board members and in
press releases.

Strategy and governance
Responsible lobbying

Developing an industry guideline on "third-party
aggregators"
In the course of the energy transition, policy makers, administrators and
the energy industry are addressing the question of how to ensure a stable
power supply in the future, given the increasing proportion of fluctuating
generation methods from wind and sun. It will also mean that the production, storage and consumption of energy will need to be coordinated in order
to prevent imminent network congestion and to benefit economically from
price differences in energy. This was also the subject of discussion at energy
industry associations in 2016.
There was also concern about the rights and obligations of the so-called
aggregators. These are service providers whose business model involves
"aggregating" (i.e. bundling) load and/or production in order to manage it to
suit demand. In 2016 we were involved in developing the industry guideline
on "third party aggregators”. Energy associations agreed on a concept for
better integration of third-party aggregators in the energy market. The aim
is to increase flexibility of supply to the market and ensure a level playing
field – i.e. a comparable and fair starting point for all market participants. It
also aims to establish standardised processes for all. The proposed solution
constitutes, in our view, an acceptable initial compromise. The next step
is to see which guideline content will be taken and codified by the Federal
Network Agency.

Reliable framework for climate protection
Together with national and European industry associations, we are calling
on countries, despite their different interests, to develop consensual solutions for climate protection. We need a functional international framework
which can create the necessary incentives for investment in low-emission
technologies. That is why we continue to support a significant strengthen-

25

ing of the European emissions trading system. Currently, the system does
not fulfil its intended control function due to the low price of certificates and
the consequent lack of investment incentives. Only when the emission of
carbon dioxide comes at a significant price will there be sufficient incentive
to avoid producing such emissions – as well as the investment security
required for these measures. European commitment alone is not enough,
however. Ultimately, we need an international commitment to the removal
of subsidies for fossil fuels, along with a global CO₂ market that can promote
the best technologies for avoiding carbon dioxide emissions. We therefore
support the (uniform) pricing of CO₂ around the world.

Commitment to the implementation of the Sustainable
Development Goals
In 2016 Germany became one of the first out of 22 states to produce a
voluntary implementation report on Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs). In this report the German government highlights the adoption of
its "Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development" as an important milestone
in the recent history of the United Nations (United Nations - UN). Through
econsense, the Forum for Sustainable Development of German Business,
we were involved in drafting the report. Amongst other things, we took part
in internal workshops as well as workshops with governments and NGOs
which explored the contribution businesses can make to the 17 SDGs.

Strategy and governance
Human rights

26

Safeguarding
human rights
All our processes must ensure that human rights are fully respected. Human rights violations have serious consequences for those affected, result in serious
damage to our reputation and can also mean losses in sales.

Clear commitment and binding standards
We want to ensure that human rights violations are prevented. We have been advocating for human rights for many years. We are committed to complying with
external standards and have also drawn up our own set of policies and guidelines. In dialogue with our stakeholders and through membership in various industry
initiatives we seek to stay informed about the current state of discussion. This makes it easier for us to identify steps our company needs to take in this regard.

Responsibilities
Our Human Rights Policy provides for the designation of a key representative at Group level for human rights related topics – the Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO). E.ON CEO
Johannes Teyssen assumes this responsibility. In the areas of sustainability and justice, we also have designated employees who deal professionally with human rights issues
– such as current applicable law, for example.

Internal guidelines and policies
Human Rights Policy Statement of
the E.ON Group (2008)

This Group-wide statement obliges employees and business partners to provide adequate working conditions and respect human
rights. Through this statement, we acknowledge the "Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations" (UDHR), the
principles of the "UN Global Compact" (United Nations - UN) and the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO).
In accordance with the statement's provisions, we also incorporate human rights considerations into our procurement processes.

Strategy and governance
Human rights

Supplier Code of Conduct (formerly
“Principles of Responsible Procurement”, 2008; revised 2016)

27

The Supplier Code of Conduct contains binding Group-wide standards on the subject of human rights, working conditions, environmental hazards and ethical business practices. The Code is mandatory for all non-fuel suppliers; suppliers of uranium and solid
biomass1) also pledge compliance through contracts.1)
1) with the exception of biomass suppliers from Sweden

Procedures
Risk Assessment

Suppliers with an annual contract value of more than EUR 5 million undergo a risk analysis (risk assessment) every two years.
Human rights aspects play a role in this as well.

„Whistleblower“ hotline

Our staff can anonymously report misconduct as well as violations of law or policy – including with respect to

human rights.

Initiatives
“United Nations Global Compact”
(member since 2005)

The world's largest initiative for responsible corporate governance is explicitly committed to the protection of human rights. We
have been participating in the working group "Business and Human Rights" since 2013.

econsense – Forum for Sustainable
Development of the German Economy
(member since 2005)

econsense brings together leading global companies and German business organisations. In 2016 we participated in the working
group "Supply Chain Management”, amongst others, to develop a training module on the issue of human rights in the supply
chain.

Progress and measures in 2016
By 2015 we had already undertaken a systematic analysis to determine the
biggest challenges we face in complying with human rights in our value
chain. In addition, we also examined how to detect possible human rights
violations at an early stage so that we could respond accordingly. Based on
the findings of this Human Rights Capacity Assessment, we implemented
several measures within the Group in 2016. For example, in 2016 we conducted an analysis of our top suppliers. Together with the external service

provider, EcoVadis, we examined how well these suppliers were performing
in terms of upholding human rights.

Participation in the “National Action Plan”
The "National Action Plan for Business and Human Rights" (NAP for Business and Human Rights) was adopted by the German Federal Government
in December 2016. This aims to facilitate the practical application by all

Strategy and governance
Human rights

stakeholders of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
The plan also highlights the duties and responsibilities of government and
business. It is designed to cover the period 2016 to 2020. In the course
of creating the action plan, we participated in a hearing on reporting and
transparency.

High position in a human rights ranking
Between 2014 and 2016 the research firm Vigeo Eiris, specialising in
environmental, social and governance integrity (ESG), evaluated and rated
more than 3,000 companies with respect to human rights. The focus was
on the five topics: "Human rights in society", " Employees’ labour rights ",
"Non-discrimination and promotion of diversity at workplace" and "Human
rights in the supply chain”. A number of rankings were compiled as part of
this study. Overall, we scored second place in ratings of the top 30.

28

Strategy and governance
Crisis management

29

Preparing for crisis
As an energy supplier as well as an operator of distribution and generation facilities, we have a responsibility to prevent whenever possible crises from
occurring at our company and in our sphere of influence. Because, ultimately, stakes are high: the safety and health of our employees and local residents,
a healthy environment, a reliable supply of electricity and gas and our standing in the community at large. Not all events can be predicted and prevented.
However, if such an eventuality does occur, it is our responsibility to manage the situation professionally.
We also have a responsibility to prevent crises and disasters outside the Group and to resolve them as quickly as possible. As an energy supply company, we
have the know-how to supply electricity to rescue teams, medical facilities and emergency shelters working in disaster areas and to assist with reconstruction afterwards.

Our crisis management
Through sound preparation and early intervention, it is often possible to prevent crises from occurring in the first place. However, we cannot rule out in
principle that a crisis caused by "force majeure”, human or technical failure, or by deliberate attacks may occur. Our crisis management therefore includes
various organisational measures that help protect us against significant risks. We also need to have preventive regulations and plans in place so that when
confronted with acute situations we are able to take fast, efficient and well-defined counter- and protective measures.

Responsibilities
Alongside our so-called standard structure – i.e. the daily management of our company – we at E.ON also have a crisis structure in place. At the centre of this crisis structure
are our crisis teams, which operate at site, company and corporate levels. They work together as part of a tightly linked network and have extensive powers in times of crisis.
For day-to-day operations, so-called Incident & Crisis Managers have been designated in all management units and at Group level, who are responsible for preventive crisis
management and for preparedness in the event of a crisis. This also involves organising realistic exercises and providing training for crisis teams.

Strategy and governance
Crisis management

30

Internal guidelines and policies
Business Governance Group Policy
“Incident & Crisis Management” (2013)

This directive defines binding Group-wide structures and processes for the prevention and sustainable management of crises. Its
main objective is to protect human life, the environment, our business and property.

Procedure
Regular training and realistic crisis
exercises

Our compulsory training is designed to provide the best possible preparation for handling emergencies. Crisis management team
exercises attempt to simulate various emergency situations as realistically as possible in real time. In addition to scheduled exercises, "availability tests" are also regularly conducted. They are geared toward testing the reaction times of our crisis teams at any
time of day or night.

Partnership
E.ON Energy Assistance (since 2012)

In cooperation with the Federal Agency for Technical Relief (THW), we are also actively involved with efforts outside the company
directed at disaster prevention and relief.

Progress and measures in 2016
Crisis team in Turkey
On the night of July 15, 2016 there was a coup attempt in Ankara and
Istanbul. In Turkey, our operations are handled through Enerjisa, a 50/50
joint venture with the Turkish Sabancı Group. Immediately after receiving
the first reliable information about the coup attempt, we convened the
E.ON crisis team. Working with the crisis team at Enerjisa, we kept close
tabs on the situation and took appropriate measures to minimise risks. This
included temporary travel bans. An Enerjisa employee was slightly injured
by an explosion in Ankara, but all other employees, as well as all employees
dispatched to Turkey, together with their families were safely out of danger.

Energy solutions

We offer innovative solutions for
the new energy world. Through
the further expansion of renewables, we are contributing to a
climate-friendly power supply. Our
distribution networks are geared
towards decentralised generation
so that a safe and stable supply
can be ensured even during periods
when the feed-in from renewable
sources fluctuates. We also help
our customers save energy by offering intelligent solutions – thereby reducing costs and emissions.

Energy solutions
Renewables

32

Renewables: the
cornerstone of
climate protection
GRI aspects
Energy, emissions, research and development

Approximately 40 per cent of all global greenhouse gas emissions result
from energy production. The rapid and extensive expansion of renewables
is therefore one of the most important cornerstones of climate protection. It not only reduces carbon emissions, it also makes countries less
dependent on energy imports. Climate protection is now no longer only a
matter of concern for environmental groups – the international community
and govern­ments of individual countries are also setting clear targets for
reducing CO₂ emissions. Many cities and companies are developing their
own climate strategies. All this requires determined and collective action by
all market players.

We want to contribute to change national and international energy markets
and promote the energy transition. At the same time, the growing global
demand for renewables is giving rise to new business opportunities,
resulting in increased demand for our expertise in project development and
in operational excellence. Thanks to our years of experience we are able to
offer more customer-focused solutions. In parallel we are closely monitoring
our core technologies and continue to invest in technological innovations.
Altogether, these factors give us a competitive advantage and will allow us
to capitalise on changes in an increasingly competitive and fast-evolving
market.

Energy solutions
Renewables

33

Expanding renewables, encouraging technological innovation
Renewables are a key component of our strategy. It’s part of our significant commitment to help Europe and North America move toward a climate-friendly
energy supply. The focus of our investments is in particular on medium and large-scale onshore and offshore wind farms. But we also build our position in
solar energy, especially in conjunction with innovative battery technologies. In addition to these large projects in the gigawatt range, we are also developing
solutions for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) and residential customers to support them generate their own green electricity and become energy
independent. We develop, construct and operate assets and offer a full range of operations, maintenance and asset management third-party services.
In all our projects, it is important for us to have as little impact on the
to actively involve our stakeholders in what we do.

environment as possible and to preserve the biodiversity. Furthermore, we also seek

Innovation plays a major role in the further expansion of renewables. We focus primarily on technologies that will help us to reduce the cost of energy
produced by wind and solar systems. We also investigate how renewables can be used more effectively – for example in combination with new storage
technologies. We are convinced that only market-driven innovations can ensure a sustainable, secure and environmentally-friendly supply of energy.

Responsibilities
Our global unit ‘E.ON Climate & Renewables' (EC&R) has held responsibility for major projects in the renewable energy sector since 2007. It develops, builds and operates
large facilities, such as offshore and onshore wind farms, solar parks and energy storage systems. EC&R is currently active in Germany, the United Kingdom, Poland, Denmark,
Sweden and the United States of America.
The Chief Operating Officer – Commercial has the overarching responsibility for our solar solutions and associated battery storage solutions for mid-sized companies and
private customers. An additional cross regional team coordinates our solar activities in the various regions. A sales and operations representative is assigned to each region,
which allows us to adjust our solutions to our customers’ needs and local requirements.
Innovation projects in the field of renewables are coordinated centrally by our "Innovation" unit. Within it, the Renewables Innovation team is responsible for renewable energy
topics.

Energy solutions
Renewables

34

Policy framework
A variety of current national and international regulatory regimes and frameworks helps to support the expansion of renewables.
Decisions on European climate and
energy targets for 2030 (2014)

As part of its climate and energy targets for 2030, the European Union set the goal of increasing the share of renewables in final
energy consumption to at least 27 per cent by 2030.

United Nations climate change conferences in Paris COP21 and Marrakesh
COP22 (2015 and 2016)

At the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris (COP21), 195 countries committed for the first time to combat climate
change. The agreement included the ambitious goal of limiting global warming to two degrees Celsius. The Paris Agreement was
ratified at the COP22 in Marrakesh. For the first time, countries presented climate protection plans that specify concrete targets
and measures. Energy produced by renewables with low CO₂ emissions play an important role in achieving these. Following the
COP22, Germany adopted the “Climate Protection Plan 2050”.

Renewable Portfolio Standard
(Ongoing)

In the United States the renewable portfolio standard (RPS) is a state-by-state policy that sets hard targets for renewables in the
near- and long-term to diversify electricity supply, spur local economic development, reduce pollution and save consumers money. Today, 29 states and the District of Columbia have renewable portfolio standards, and seven states have renewable energy
goals.

German Implementation Report on the
UN Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) (2016)

In its voluntary implementation report, the German Federal government emphasised the importance of Agenda 2030 for the
Sustainable Development of the UN. The report presented German approaches to all 17 objectives of the Agenda by 2030 at the
latest, including targets and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

External commitments and obligations
Declaration of the WindEurope association (2016)

By signing this declaration, we, along with other companies in the wind power industry, are committing to the goal of cutting the
costs of energy from offshore wind farms. We want thereby to contribute to wind energy being able to compete globally with
other energy sources. We also call on politicians to create the appropriate framework conditions that give us investment security.

Energy solutions
Renewables

35

Procedures
Co-investment in start-ups (since 2012)

We regularly invest in companies with cutting-edge business models or products. This gives us access to new business models
and allows us to participate in enhancing the value of these companies. In the process, we focus amongst other things on tech­
nologies in the area of renewables. Thus far, we have participated in start-ups in the US, Europe and Australia.

Collaborative efforts with research
institutions and universities

We take part in research projects with universities and research institutions. The goal is to amass over the long term the expertise
needed to meet the needs of tomorrow’s energy world. The E.ON Energy Research Centre at RWTH Aachen plays a key role in this
regard. There we conduct research mainly on renewables, smart grids and efficient building technologies.

Objectives and performance review
In the future, we will continue to draw upon our many years of expertise to
complete projects on time and within budget. In 2016, renewable energy
facilities owned by us generated 13.0 terawatt-hours (TWh) of electricity,
an increase of 1.2 TWh compared to the previous year (2015: 11.8 TWh). Of
this, 9.4 TWh were generated by onshore and solar plants – 0.5 TWh more
than in 2015. Our offshore wind parks generated 3.6 TWh of electricity; in
the previous year they generated only 3 TWh.

Overall, the generating capacity of renewable energy facilities – regardless
of whether they were owned by us or only operated by us – amounted
to more than 5.3 gigawatts (GW) at end of 2016. Of this, capacity from
facilities owned by us amounted to 4.6 GW. Most of that – 3.5 GW – was
onshore and solar capacity; 1.1 GW was offshore capacity.

Management approach reviewed

Making Gaziantep greener

Progress and measures in 2016

We help cities become smarter and climate-friendlier. The next one is Gaziantep, a city in southern
Turkey with a population of around two million. The project is called KRITA, a Turkish acronym for
“critical infrastructure management in smart cities.” Designed by Enerjisa, our joint venture in Turkey,
KRITA is the first Smart City Demonstration project in the Turkish distribution sector. It will bring
state-of-the-art renewables, energy-storage, lighting, metering, and e-mobility technology to Masal
Park, a public space in the city centre. The project runs from 2015 to 2018.

In 2016, our investments in renewables exceeded the 10-billion-euro mark.
We have invested this amount in new renewable capacity since EC&R was
established in 2007, more than any other German energy company. Our
portfolio puts us among the top-ranked companies internationally as well:
we are currently the world´s number two offshore wind company according
to a ranking by the independent organisation 4C Offshore – and in onshore
we are ranked 12th.

Energy solutions
Renewables

36

New onshore wind farms

Expanding our offshore portfolio

We reached a milestone in 2016 with the completion of the Colbeck's
Corner onshore wind farm in Texas (USA). Construction began in 2015 and
was concluded on schedule in 2016. We were able to significantly reduce
construction costs so that the budget for the project was below that of
the Pyron wind farm, built by E.ON in 2009. The 112 turbines can generate
enough energy to supply 64,000 households with carbon-neutral electricity. The project is the 20th wind farm that we have put into operation in the
United States. Altogether, the wind power projects we have completed in
North America have a total capacity of 3.1 gigawatts. This makes us one of
the largest operators of onshore wind farms in the US.

By 2015, the Humber Gateway and Amrumbank West offshore wind farms
had entered operation. In 2016 we continued to pursue our activities on the
high seas. Earlier this year we were able to lay the initial foundations for
the Rampion wind farm in the British North Sea. In 2016, our project in the
Arkona Basin north-east of Rügen likewise transitioned from the planning to
the construction phase. We are constructing this wind farm in partnership
with the Norwegian energy company Statoil. Upon completion, both projects
together will generate 785 MW of electricity. They are capable of supplying
700,000 households with power. In all, this amounts to savings of up to 1.8
million metric tonnes of CO₂ per year. The offshore wind farm Rampion is
expected to be completed in 2018; the commissioning of Arkona is planned for
the year 2019.

Helping cities get greener
Under our climate agreement with the City of
Malmö in Sweden, Hyllie, a district on the south
end of the city, will get all of its energy from renewable or recycled sources by 2020. We’re more
than halfway there. At year-end 2016, renewable
or recycled energy already provided 100 per cent
of Hyllie’s heating and cooling and 70 per cent of
its electricity. Also, Hyllie was connected to the
E.ON Customer Energy and System Optimisation
platform, which manages energy flows based on
price and renewable energy. The lessons we learn
in Hyllie benefit our other sustainable-city projects
in Stockholm and elsewhere.

Investments in a game-changing technology for wind energy
We are investing in the development of a game-changing technology to
produce power from wind: we invested in the British start-up company
Kite Power Solutions (KPS). The start-up plans to harvest wind energy in
altitudes up to 450 metres by using a sail comparable to kite surfing. We
believe that this system has the potential to transform the global offshore
wind energy market. Compared to conventional wind turbines, kite-powered plants can be produced at lower cost, and are easier to both install and
maintain.

Energy solutions
Renewables

37

Storing solar energy
Greener grooves
Pohoda, an open-air festival held since 1997, is Slovakia’s biggest annual music event. For three days
each July, some 30,000 festival-goers enjoy more
than 160 musical acts of all genres as well dance,
visual art, theatre, and film. Since 2012, Pohoda,
which means “relax” in Slovak and Czech, has been
powered in part by 19 solar panels provided by
ZSE, our Slovakian subsidiary. In 2016 ZSE added a
hybrid solar-diesel generator, a lower-carbon alternative to fully diesel-powered generators. Thanks
to ZSE’s green solutions, Pohoda has applied for an
environmental award.

Since April 2016, we offer private customers in Germany a comprehensive
solution for them to produce, store and use solar energy. "E.ON Aura"
consists of a photovoltaic system, a battery and an intelligent energy
management app. This enables our customers to store surplus electricity
and use it whenever they need it. The app monitors electricity generation
and consumption, allowing a household to cover as much as 70 per cent of
its energy needs.
In the US, we are planning to install a 10-MW battery for a large customer.
It will be used to capture excess energy from a solar park belonging to the
American utility company, Tucson Electric Power. The power generated by
solar will compensate fluctuations in electricity production. The battery is
scheduled to be installed during the first half of 2017.

Energy solutions
Efficiency improvements

38

Energy efficiency:
innovations for
climate protection
GRI aspects
Emissions, energy, research and development

Energy efficiency is and continues to be important to our customers.
Businesses, public sector organisations, as well as private customers, are
looking for innovative solutions to save energy. This is mainly due to rising
energy costs and stricter regulatory requirements.

the energy is needed. Therefore, these systems are extremely efficient.
The trend towards digitalisation also opens up new opportunities. Smart
mea­suring systems – so-called smart meters – enable us to analyse
consumption data in real time.

The potential savings are high, especially in industry, commercial and the
public sector. Our 2016 study on trends in private sector energy management showed that half of the companies in Germany are interested in
decentralised systems, such as combined heat and power plants (CHP).
The latter produce heat and electricity at the same time, directly where

We see energy efficiency technologies as an important growth market. They
constitute a key element in fighting climate change, as they not only help
lower energy consumption and costs, but they also reduce CO₂ emissions.

Energy solutions
Efficiency improvements

39

Investing in the future market of energy efficiency
We aim to be our customers' preferred partner for efficient energy solutions. We supply integrated energy systems to customers in the commercial, industry
and public sectors. These include systems for decentralised electricity and heat generation, as well as energy efficiency measures, such as optimised lighting
and air conditioning.
We offer digital power management solutions to both business and private customers, which help them to visualise their energy consumption and see how
they can reduce it. With the help of apps, individual consumers can see what impact their use of electronic appliances has on their energy consumption and
carbon footprint. We are creating the underlying structures needed for these digital applications through the progressive introduction of smart meters. In
some regions we have already started the introduction of smart meters, in others we are in the process of doing so.
We will continue to invest in this growing market segment in coming years. To further expand our portfolio in energy efficiency and decentralised energy
supply, we track technological developments closely and participate in innovative start-ups and development projects.

Responsibilities
Our business unit E.ON Connecting Energies provides integrated, tailor-made energy solutions for customers in commercial, industry and the public sector (“B2B” customers).
We are actively implementing these solutions in Germany, the UK, France, Italy, Russia, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Romania and Hungary. Our
Connecting Energies unit is responsible for our overall supply management and the design of technical solutions. Direct contact with customers generally takes place via our
regional sales units.
These regional units are also responsible for the development and distribution of digital energy management solutions. They adjust their services, such as apps that record
energy consumption, to meet regional requirements. A cross-regional team coordinates activities. The overall responsibility for our customer-oriented business models,
including our energy management solutions, lies with our "Chief Operating Officer – Commercial".
In Sweden, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania, the respective Distribution System Operator (DSO) is responsible for installing smart meters. In the UK, our
distributor is handling installations. In Germany, this responsibility lies either with the network companies or our E.ON Metering unit. At the corporate level, the introduction
of smart meters is overseen by our smart meters Rollout Committee (ESMC).
Our "Innovation” section is responsible for technical innovations. This is where the "innovation hubs" work to develop new business models for decentralised approaches to
energy supply and energy efficiency.

Energy solutions
Efficiency improvements

40

Policy framework
Energy efficiency is an important cornerstone of Europe’s energy and climate policy. By 2020, the European Union (EU) aims to reduce primary energy consumption within the
EU by 20 per cent compared to the projected use of energy in 2020.
European Energy Efficiency Directive
(2012)

This directive aims to establish a common framework for achieving the EU's 20 per cent goal. It requires member states to set
national energy efficiency targets for 2020. It also requires various measures, including mandatory energy audits at large companies and the transparent collection of data on consumption. In many countries the guidelines have already been converted into
national law. In Germany, the requirements were incorporated into the Energy Services Act of 2015.

European Energy Performance of
Buildings Directive (2010)

This directive contributes to the objectives of the Energy Efficiency Directive. It establishes efficiency requirements for new and
existing buildings. These include requirements for building components such as heating systems that consist of boilers, pipes and
control systems.

European Single Energy Market
Directive (2009)

This directive stipulates that, insofar as it is technically and financially feasible, all customers are to be equipped with smart
electricity, gas, water and heating meters. These meters must allow current consumption figures to be viewed at any time. In
this way the EU hopes to create incentives for greater energy efficiency. Some member states have already converted the EU
recommendations into national law and set a clear goal of equipping 80 per cent of consumers with smart meters by 2020. In
Germany too, under the 2016 "Law on digitalising the energy transition", all customers who have a minimal consumption of
6,000 kilowatt-hours or who themselves feed at least 7 kilowatt of electricity into the grid are to be equipped with smart meters.
The stipulation need only be implemented by 2032 however.

Programmes and projects
Strategic energy partnerships

When developing decentralised energy systems and efficiency solutions for business customers, we aim at establishing longterm energy partnerships. In this way we can help businesses to lower their energy and operating costs over the course of several
years. We begin with a comprehensive appraisal of the current situation. After that we optimise the consumption of processes
and facilities. We then build a smaller, decentralised generation solution which efficiently covers the reduced energy needed.

”Saving Energy Toolkit“ (since 2013)

The toolkit gives our customers in the UK an overview of their personal energy consumption and allows them to compare it with
similar households. Furthermore, we provide personalised advice on how to save energy. A similar consulting package is also
available for small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the UK.

Energy solutions
Efficiency improvements

41

Apps for private customers

We offer our private customers a way to monitor their energy consumption using an app. The apps are adapted to the needs of
each country. Examples include:
• "E.ON App" – previously "100Koll"(launched 2014)
The app visualises energy consumption data for customers in Sweden in a clear and informative manner.
• "E.ON SmartCheck" (launched 2015)
Customers in Germany can use this platform to receive early warnings regarding high energy consumption that may result in
supplementary payments and/or a higher energy bill.

"EniM" (German: Einführung intelligenter Messsysteme – EnIM ) (since 2014)

This key programme is designed to pave the way for the introduction of smart metering systems in Germany. It feeds into the
mandatory installation of smart metering systems as required by law in Germany.
The project plan is to replace the minimum number of meters as required under German law by 2020. There are similar projects in
every region where we are responsible for introducing smart meters.

Procedures
Co-investment in start-ups (since 2012)

We are investing in start-ups that are developing smart solutions for the energy market of tomorrow. In future this will allow us
to assist our customers even more in both saving and making more intelligent use of energy. Since 2014 we have invested, for
instance, in the US start-up AutoGrid Systems and the German start-up Thermondo. AutoGrid is involved in intelligent data management. Thermondo is a one-stop provider of efficient heating solutions.

:agile incubator (since 2013)

This programme promotes young business ideas and thereby complements our activities in the area of innovation promotion.
The incubator began as a programme for employees but now each quarter selects and supports ten projects by entrepreneurs
and students. Each project receives individual support in terms of funding, coaching, engineering expertise and consultation in
marketing and sales. Business ideas can be tested together with interested E.ON customers.

„Partnerships with research institutions“ see page on

renewables

Objectives and performance review
Our stated objective is to put in place pioneering energy solutions for the
energy world of today and tomorrow. We are taking responsibility for
significantly reducing our customers' environmental footprint, while also
lowering costs.

In our B2B projects monitoring data is gathered for various success indicators. These include, for example, energy savings in kilowatt-hours per
year, cost reductions in per cent as well as the annual reduction in CO₂. The
results show that we are able to achieve savings for our business customers
in every area.

Energy solutions
Efficiency improvements

In the next ten years we want to install about 14.2 million smart meters.
By the end of 2016, we had already installed more than one million smart
meters. In addition, we installed over one million first-generation smart
meters for our Swedish customers between 2004 and 2009. This first
generation does not fulfil all current EU requirements for smart meters.
The new, second generation is also to be introduced in Sweden by 2025.
Altogether by 2026, we want to install 85 per cent of the smart meters
planned for our customers E.ON-wide.

42

In the UK there have been delays in the roll-out of smart meters. These
delays were partly the result of technical problems at the Digital Communications Company (DCC), which is responsible for the smart meter
information infrastructure. An additional challenge is that electricity and
gas smart meters must be installed at the same time.

Management approach reviewed

Progress and measures in 2016
Better lighting for better learning
When kids read books in half-lit rooms, their
parents tell them to “turn on a light or you’ll hurt
your eyes.” Whether or not this is a medical fact,
children definitely need well-lit classrooms to learn
effectively. This isn’t always the case in some Romanian schools. So in 2014 E.ON România began
upgrading the lighting in classrooms, hallways, and
gymnasiums. In 2016 it installed a total of 15,000
energy-saving LED lights in nine schools. Altogether, it improved the learning environment for 6,500
kids and teachers in 2016, while also enabling
schools to reduce their energy bills. In total, around
20,000 people have benefited from the project
since its launch.

In 2016 we expanded both our B2B business and our digital solutions in the
field of energy efficiency. With the help of our industry and commercial
projects business customers have saved between 20 and 40 per cent in
energy costs in recent years. This resulted in a total of approximately 31.8
gigawatt-hours in energy savings in 2016. This corresponds to an emission
reduction of approximately 10,822.9 metric tonnes of CO₂.
We carried out energy projects for numerous well-known business customers. These included setting up decentralised, integrated energy solutions for
the US consumer goods giant Procter & Gamble and the Belgian company
Promat. In 2016 we also put a cogeneration plant (CHP) into operation at
Italian beverage company Acqua Minerale San Benedetto. This allowed us
to reduce energy costs by 15 per cent and save 17,300 metric tonnes of CO₂
per year. In 2016, we expanded our B2B business into additional markets,
including Hungary and Sweden.

Award-winning energy efficiency project
In November 2016, the German Energy Agency (dena) honoured one of our
efficiency projects with an Energy Efficiency Award. The project for the
glass manufacturer Pilkington Automotive was honoured for its "systematic

Energy solutions
Efficiency improvements

and successful development of potential energy savings". We introduced
various measures to improve efficiency in the lighting, air conditioning and
ventilation systems as well as heating and power supply. These measures
reduced energy costs for building services by 40 per cent. The Energy
Efficiency Award is an international award presented by the Federal Minister
of Economics and Technology (BMWi) which honours outstanding energy
efficiency projects in industry, trade and commerce.

Increasing energy efficiency
We developed a project to make Sabancı University
in Istanbul more energy efficient and sustainable by
promoting the use of clean energy. Under a ten-year
agreement, Enerjisa, our joint venture in Turkey has
designed, installed, and will maintain 2.8 megawatts of
on-site cogeneration and solar capacity. This capacity
meets 85 per cent of the university’s electricity, heat,
and hot water needs, reduces its carbon emissions by
67 metric tonnes a year, and will cut its energy bill by
7.5 million Turkish lira over the ten-year span.

Recognition for Saving Energy Toolkit
In February 2016, we were honoured for our “Saving Energy Toolkit” at
the seventh European Smart Energy Summit, where hundreds of industry
experts meet each year. The toolkit offers our British customers a personalised overview of their energy consumption and allows them to compare
it with similar households. In addition, customers can use the toolkit to test
which areas of their household have the highest energy consumption. More
than 1.2 million customers have registered with the platform so far and
more than half of them have used the consumption test.

Launch of the "E.ON Marketplace" initiative
Working with Enervee, an American company and E.ON strategic co-investment project, we developed the online platform "E.ON Marketplace" for the
UK market. The platform was launched in 2016 and is the first of its kind in
UK. It allows customers to compare household appliances and consumer
electronics with respect to energy efficiency and price, for free. Customers
can purchase their preferred appliance directly on the platform. The aim
is to support consumers make purchasing decisions. The platform can be
accessed by the general public for free at marketplace.eonenergy.com

Sweden and United Kingdom: more efficient heating
Many Swedish detached family homes use too much energy due to inefficient heating systems. In 2016, we developed a product to replace old,

43

inefficient heat pumps, targeted at customers with high levels of energy
consumption.
In 2016, the UK government enacted an Energy Efficiency Plan. We are
helping to implement these guidelines with a range of new products and
services that help our customers reduce their energy consumption. These
include more efficient hot water boilers, as well as grants for insulation and
boiler upgrades.

Enhanced digital apps
In 2016, we redesigned the Swedish App "100Koll" and renamed it into the
"E.ON App". It is now available to all our customers in Sweden. The app
provides an overview of current consumption and compares it with past
years. It also offers new additional features, such as an overview of your
contract and the ability to change information about your residence using
the app. In addition, the user interface has been personalised. Users are now
automatically provided with information tailored to their specific products
and rates.

Energy solutions
Efficiency improvements

We have also expanded our German App "Smart Check" to include additional functions. Among other things, our customers now have a fun and
easy way to learn more about energy and their energy consumption.

Introduction of smart meters continued

Installed smart meters by region (thousands)
2016

2015

1,000

1,000

800

580

Romania

240

165

Slovakia

20

18

Hungary

10

10

Germany

30

26

4

4

2,104

1,8031)

Roll-out regions
Sweden

In 2016 we developed a strategy for the introduction of smart meters in
Germany. Internal approval is expected in spring 2017. Using this strategy,
we will be able to factor in the requirements of the law on digitalisation
of the energy transition, as adopted in Germany in 2016. The introduction
of smart meters is an important prerequisite for many digital efficiency
systems. The strategy defines a clear framework for intelligent measurement systems and thereby puts us in a position to accelerate the
development of these solutions, which are currently in various stages of
development – from conception to pilot projects. The launch of these customer solutions is linked to the widespread introduction of smart meters.
In Romania in 2016, we launched a pilot project in the Moldova region. By
the end of the year, we had installed more than 235,000 smart meters
there, making us the market leader in this region. The results of this project
were positive: for example, network losses could be reduced because the
regular exchange of data allowed early detection and quick eradication of
irregularities in the network. However, the Romanian regulator has decided
to limit the installation of smart meters over the next two years. We will,
therefore, initially concentrate on developing new solutions based on smart
meter technology. In 2016, we surveyed our customers about their needs
and used the findings to develop a new smart home system, which uses an
app to control various installations like thermostats and smoke detectors.

44

United Kingdom
Pilot regions

Czech Republic
Total
1) Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Energy solutions
Security of supply

45

Ensuring the future
power supply
GRI aspects
System efficiency, access, research and development

Our customers expect us to provide them with reliable energy. Power
outages can damage our reputation. We create trust when we resolve
power disruptions quickly and keep our customers closely informed about
these efforts.
We also want to ensure a secure power supply going forward. The challenge
we face is that electricity is increasingly not being generated centrally at
large power plants, but from decentralised sources – by solar systems on
our customers' rooftops, for example, or in large wind parks. As a result,
electricity is fed into our networks from many different points. Moreover,
depending on the weather, the amount of wind or solar power can fluctuate.

Already, one-third of the distributed generating capacity in Germany is
connected to our networks.
In order to provide for optimum distribution of electricity generated from
decentralised sources, we must expand our networks. At the same time, we
also need systems that are better able to manage the supply and demand
for electricity. To do so, we rely on so-called smart grids, which are capable
of transmitting not only electricity but also data. This allows us to better
control the generation, distribution and storage of energy. This technology
forms the basis for a variety of new business models, which we are using to
gear up for the sustainable energy world of tomorrow.

Energy solutions
Security of supply

46

Measures to provide for a secure power supply
As part of our corporate strategy, we set ourselves the goal of orienting our distribution networks around a decentralised supply of power. To this end, we are
combining existing conventional grids with smart grids. This will help ensure a safe and reliable supply of power in the future.
Our efforts at innovation also include developing new solutions for the intelligent distribution and storage of energy. We believe that battery storage will play
a key role in levelling out the fluctuating supply of renewable energies. Battery systems can react quickly in the event of over- or under-supply, storing energy
or feeding it into the grid as needed. Energy storage systems are already part of our broad portfolio of integrated energy solutions.

Responsibilities
Each regional distribution system operator has a so-called network control centre as part of its network operations unit, which is responsible for the safe and reliable operation of distribution systems. Should there be a major area-wide disruption to the power supply, our crisis management manages responsibilities and processes.
Innovation projects in the field of energy networks are coordinated by our central office for innovation. There, the "Innovation Hub: B2B/Distribution" is responsible for the
design and development of smart grids.
Battery storage systems for customers in the commercial, industrial and public sectors are overseen by our business unit
tial customers, on the other hand, are developed and distributed by our regional units.

E.ON Connecting Energies. Batteries for residen-

Internal guidelines and policies
As network operators, we must comply with the requirements of the respective national regulatory authorities in various countries. These require us to take certain measures
to maintain a safe and reliable supply of power. Outages must be limited to certain times. Our regional grid companies are responsible for implementing these guidelines in the
countries we serve. They do so in compliance with their respective internal operating guidelines.
Business Governance Group Policy “Incident and Crisis Management” (2013)

This corporate policy regulates basic structures and processes to prevent or manage emergency situations and crises. This includes how we deal with major area-wide disruptions, such as regional or national power outages.

External commitments and initiatives
EDSO for Smart Grids (member since
2016)

We are a member of the network "EDSO for Smart Grids" (European Distribution System Operators – EDSO), which brings together leading European distribution network operators. Our common goal is to push ahead with the development of smart grids
and work to provide a secure supply of power in Europe.

Energy solutions
Security of supply

47

Programmes
Investment and maintenance
programmes

To ensure a reliable power supply we have to expand our networks wherever necessary and keep them in proper working order.
As part of this, we always take care to ensure the high quality of networks while making efficient use of our financial resources.
The measures in this regard are implemented independently by our various units. However, the level of investment is approved by
central corporate entities.

Procedures
Utilisation monitoring (in trial since
2012; in regular operation since 2014)

We apply utilisation monitoring (German: Auslastungsmonitoring – ALM) to manage the utilisation of our networks – in other
words, the circuits and substations. For this purpose, we use special measuring devices. If there is an overload, we can switch off
the systems automatically within seconds. Before the introduction of the ALM, we had to manually request that operators temporarily reduce plant output. Currently, the ALM is being used by our subsidiary HanseWerk in Germany.

Virtual power plant (since 2013)

We developed a virtual power plant in order to interconnect several decentralised plants for electricity generation and consumption
into a so-called "cluster". Wind turbines and photovoltaic systems, for example, are joined together in clusters. This helps us balance
fluctuations in supply and demand and thereby stabilise the electricity grid.

Adjustable local power transformers
(initial pilot projects 2010; in regular
operation since 2014)

The decentralised generation of power from renewable sources can lead to voltage fluctuations in the distribution networks. Our
adjustable local power transformers (German: Regelbare Ortsnetztransformatoren – RONTs) help compensate for these voltage
fluctuations. The RONTs measure the voltage levels in the transformer and compare them with a fixed set point. If the levels
compared do not match, the transformer automatically regulates the voltage to the set point. So far, they are mainly being used in
our German networks.

„Partnerships with research institutions“ see page on

renewables

Objectives and performance review
One of our most important goals is to ensure a reliable supply of energy to
our customers. The "System Average Interruption Duration Index" (SAIDI)
shows the average outage time per consumer per year. We calculate this
value for all scheduled and unscheduled outages in our distribution networks. This shows us how reliably we are able to supply our customers with

power. There are strict legal targets for SAIDI in some countries we serve. If
we do not meet these requirements, we may have to pay fines or compensation. We compare our SAIDI results once a year with our competitors across
all regions.

Energy solutions
Security of supply

In 2016, the average outage per person per year was reduced compared to
the previous year in almost every region. As in previous years, a European
comparison shows that availability of power was highest in our German
distribution networks. One reason for the comparatively high outages in
Romania is that over 80 per cent of the power networks there is above
ground and therefore more vulnerable to weather conditions. In 2016, a
customer in Germany was affected on average by about 0.6 interruptions.

SAIDI power (minutes per year)1)
13 25

37

Germany

41
17 24
30

48

91

SAIFI power (interruption per customer)
121

Sweden

2016

236
29

207
121

178

Hungary

210
151

59

179 44

unscheduled

total

Germany

0.1

0.5

0.6

Sweden

0.2

1.3

1.5

Hungary

0.4

0.9

1.3

Czech Republic

0.6

0.6

1.2

Romania

0.7

5.7

6.4

Slovakia

0.5

1.7

2.2

223

Czech
Republic

260
212

48

178

426

604

Romania

649
218
106

431

In 2016, we invested around EUR 1.4 billion in our power and gas networks in
Germany, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania. The network
investments in our holdings in Slovakia (49 per cent minority interest) and in
Turkey (50/50 joint venture) are not included here. Over the next two years
(2017/2018), we plan to invest EUR 2.8 billion in the further expansion of our
power and gas networks.

79

185

Slovakia

179
111

2016 scheduled

scheduled

57

68

2016 unscheduled

1) Possible variations in totals through rounding of numbers

2015 scheduled

2015 unscheduled

Management approach reviewed

Energy solutions
Security of supply

49

Progress and measures in 2016

Investment in smart grids

We continued to expand our networks in 2016. In every country, we are
progressively replacing overhead lines with underground cables. This prevents weather-related interruptions – caused by trees, for example, which
may fall onto overhead power lines during a storm. We are also continuing
to automate low and medium-voltage grids. This allows us to correct errors
faster and reduce downtimes.

In 2015, we carried out the strategic sub-project "smart grids". On the basis
of the results, we developed an investment plan to promote smart grids
covering the years 2016 to 2018. During this period, six per cent of our
total network investments will be used to gradually make the networks
"smarter".

Our power distribution networks by country (thousand kilometres)
A grid of their own
2016
Germany

349

Sweden

136

Hungary

85

Czech Republic

65

Slovakia

38

Romania

81

Total

754

More reliable networks thanks to RONTs
By the end of 2016 we had installed 250 RONTs in the German distribution
network. These help us compensate for voltage fluctuations. We are also
conducting pilot testing of RONTs in the Czech Republic and other countries.
However, we do not anticipate widespread deployment in other countries in
the near future. The technology is now market-ready and is also being used
by our competitors.

In 2016 the roughly 150 residents of Simris in southeast Sweden became the country’s first 100-per cent renewable community. Simris
typically draws about 2.1 gigawatt-hours of power from the grid each
year. But during a three-year trial starting in 2017, it will rely solely
on a wind turbine, solar panels, batteries, and a renewable-fuelled
backup generator during controlled periods. This will make Simris our
first autonomous microgrid and reduce its climate impact to almost
zero. The trial is one of the ways E.ON supports Sweden’s quest to be
the world’s first fossil-free industrialised country.

Smart meters for smart grids
So-called smart meters installed at the customer's location are an important component of smart grids. They can both receive digital data – for
example current electricity rates – as well as transmit data – such as power
consumption. We have been making intensive efforts for several years now
in preparation for the use of smart meters. As part of these efforts, we are
developing and implementing a plan for the communication infrastructure
they will require. A new law has been in place in Germany since August of
2016 concerning the digitisation of the energy transition. It regulates the
introduction of smart meters and also accelerates the expansion of smart
grids in Germany.

Energy solutions
Security of supply

Major federal government project
Off-grid autonomy
Power intake from renewable sources is irregular. How can the German
energy networks be adapted to accommodate it? The project "ENSURE"
(New Energy Structures for the Energy Transition; German: neue Energienetzstrukturen für die Energiewende) supported by the German Federal
Ministry of Education and Research has been seeking an answer to this
question since 2016. As a core project partner, we have joined in the search
and are developing technical solutions for the networks of the future.

Developing energy-aware systems
Smart Energy Aware Systems (SEAS), an international
project consisting of 33 partners in seven countries,
aims to develop and test systems for deftly balancing
energy production and consumption in real time. It will
explore pioneering business models and networked
solutions that enable energy systems to become
smarter and more aware, so that they can integrate
microgrids, energy-smart buildings, and active customers. Enerjisa, our joint venture in Turkey, is the project’s
microgrid demonstrator and has set up a microgrid at
the Gazi Teknopark Campus in Ankara.

Construction of a large-scale battery storage system
In 2016, we received the order to build a large-scale battery storage system
for the British network operator National Grid. It is designed to cushion fluctuations in the network caused by the intake of wind and solar energy. The
10-megawatt battery is one of the first of its kind in the United Kingdom
and will help secure the power supply to industry, commercial and private
households.

Some farms and rural households in our service
territory in Hungary are a long way from our
network. Connecting them would be costly. So
we developed an innovative alternative: a small,
on-site container that provides 100 per cent green
energy. Energy from the container’s rooftop solar
panels can be consumed or stored in batteries. If
the batteries are fully charged, the solar power is
used to produce hydrogen that runs a fuel cell. The
container meets the average residential demand
(4,000 kilowatt-hours per year) and can store up to
15 days of backup energy.

50

Energy solutions
Security of supply

Ensuring a reliable gas supply
The wholesale gas business, together with energy trading, was passed to
Uniper in early 2016. Therefore, responsibility for providing for diversified
procurement routes now lies with Uniper. However, we continue to be
responsible for the reliable operation of our gas distribution networks,
through which we supply our customers with gas. That is why we are
continually working to see that they are maintained and improved as well
as expanded wherever needed. In Romania, for example, we are replacing
about 300 to 400 kilometres of gas pipelines each year in order to avoid gas
leakage. This not only improves the security of supply but also reduces
emissions.

Our gas distribution networks by country (thousand kilometres)
2016
Germany

58

Sweden

2

Hungary

18

Czech Republic

5

Slovakia

–

Romania

21

Total

104

51

Energy solutions
Climate-friendly mobility

52

Climate-friendly
mobility
Mobility is a major cause of CO₂ emissions: In Germany alone the traffic and transportation sectors were responsible for 18 per cent of CO₂ emissions in
2014. Electric drives provide for clean mobility and greater independence from fossil fuels. We expect strong growth in this market segment as vehicle
batteries become increasingly more efficient, allowing manufacturers to better satisfy customer demands. Moreover, the environment for electromobility
has been improved through laws like those in Germany, such as the Electromobility Act (German: Elektromobilitätsgesetz – EmoG, the Charging Station
Provision (German: Ladesäulenverordnung – LSV) and the Funding Guideline on Electromobility Charging Infrastructure (German: Förderrichtlinie Lade­
infrastruktur für Elektromobilität), with funding of EUR 300 million through 2020.

Electromobility as a strategic focus
Electromobility will be an important strategic focus for us going forward.
We already have many years of experience in this field and a broad portfolio of solutions. These include charging stations, which can be used to
charge vehicles with green electricity, or monthly flat rates for unrestricted
mobility. The customer pays a monthly fee and can then – depending on the
nature of the contract – recharge without restriction at home, at work or at
public charging stations. Our goal is to offer the owners of electric vehicles
comprehensive service. That is why we provide, among other things,
convenient locations for charging stations, where innovative charging
technologies can be installed and operated.

We are already pursuing a number of projects and activities that contribute
to encouraging the wider adoption of electromobility. We currently operate
more than 2,500 publicly accessible charging points in Germany, Denmark
and Sweden and continue to expand our charging network. Thanks to our
partnership with the platform "e-clearing.net", drivers of electric cars in
Scandinavia can already use their navigation systems to access an up-todate list of all E.ON charging stations. We are also progressively converting
our company fleet to electric vehicles. And our guests, customers and
employees can charge their electric vehicles free of charge in our parking
lots.

Energy solutions
Climate-friendly mobility

53

Cooperations and initiatives
“HanseE“ (since 2015)

This German development project in the Hamburg metropolitan region examines the requirements that charging stations have to
meet along with the demand for charging points both today and in coming years. We are involved in the construction of up to 50
charging points in the city and surrounding communities, six of which were erected in 2016. The project as a whole is scheduled
to run for three years and is funded by the German government at around EUR 1.6 million.

“FAST-E“ und “EAST-E“ (since 2016)

The goal of these two complementary projects is to build and operate nearly 300 quick-charging stations in Germany, Belgium,
the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The project is the largest private-sector initiative in Central Europe aimed at expanding the
charging infrastructure there. With a total investment volume of around EUR 18 million, "FAST-E" is also the largest infrastructure project for electric vehicles funded by the European Union (EU). E.ON participates through its regional units in Eastern
Europe.

Progress and measures in 2016
Denmark is one of the most developed e-mobility markets in Europe. We
supplied more than 300,000 charges, making us the market leader there in
2016. We have gained extensive experience in Denmark and are drawing on
information gained from an analysis of customer behaviour there to develop
optimal service and price models for other markets. In the fall of 2016 we
began establishing a charging network in the United Kingdom and Sweden.
In both countries we offer various e-mobility products to municipalities and
individual customers.
We are converting our own vehicle fleet to electromobility as well and began
trading in 4,500 passenger cars and utility vehicles for electric vehicles in
2016. Since then, 150 electric vehicles have already been procured. Other
parts of the company will follow.

Partnership with Sixt Leasing
In 2016, we launched a partnership with Sixt Leasing. Together we offer a
comprehensive package in Germany, which includes a leasing arrangement
for electric vehicles, including charging station, maintenance service and

green electricity rates from E.ON. Businesses and the public sector can even
use this model to convert entire vehicle fleets to environmentally friendly
mobility – including charging infrastructure and services.

A GREAT idea
For alternative-fuel vehicles to gain mass acceptance, they
need a dense and convenient charging and fuelling infrastructure. That’s what Green Regions with Alternative Fuels
for Transport (GREAT) will do for the motorways that link
Hamburg, Copenhagen, Malmö, Stockholm, and Oslo. Between 2016 and 2018, GREAT will install 70 high-capacity
charging stations for electric vehicles and three CNG/LNG
fuelling stations for trucks. As part of our commitment to
decarbonise Europe’s vehicle fleet, E.ON Sverige is deploying
50 of the project’s fast-charge stations in Sweden and E.ON
Biofor 2 will install two of the CNG/LNG stations.

Energy solutions
Climate-friendly mobility

Strategic partnership with Clever
Working together with the Danish e-mobility service provider Clever, we
intend to establish a network of ultra-fast charging stations along Europe's
main traffic arteries. To set this in motion, we entered into a strategic
partnership with Clever in 2016. More specifically, we are planning the construction of several hundred ultra-fast charging points, which will be placed
along motorways at 120 to 180 kilometres intervals. The first high-capacity
charging station is to be put in place in 2017. E.ON and Clever have invited
other partners to join the initiative. Initial talks are underway.

Helping consumers czech out electric vehicles
Electric vehicles (EVs), which have great potential for
reducing carbon emissions, are still fairly novel in the Czech
Republic. The past four summers, we’ve helped Czech
consumers become more acquainted with them by promoting the rental of electric bikes, scooters, and cars at several
locations nationwide. Depending on the vehicle type, we
offer a rebate of 10 to 30 per cent. The response has been
great. Many people tell us our programme encouraged them
to try an EV for the first time. To make longer EV journeys
viable, we also set up a fast-charge station on the motorway
between Prague and Brno.

54

Energy solutions
Key figures

55

Key figures
Renewables
2016

20151)

1,3572)

1,481

13.0

11.8

Onshore wind and solar

9.4

8.8

Offshore wind

3.6

3.0

Production capacity renewables - pro-rata view (GW)

4.6

4.4

Onshore wind and solar

3.5

3.3

1.1

1.0

Onshore wind/solar

94.22)

95.8

Offshore wind/other

96.72)

94.5

24.9

13.83)

Sales of renewables (€ in millions)
Renewable energy generated by our own power plants - pro-rata view (billion kWh)

Offshore wind
System availability (percentages)

Proportion of renewables to total generation (percentages)
1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
2) Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report
3) Figures not adjusted for discontinued operations (i.e. not adjusted for Uniper)

Energy solutions
Key figures

56

Efficiency improvements
2016

2015

Installed smart meters in the regions (in millions)

2,1

1,81)

Energy savings by commerce and industry (GWh)

31.8

–

10,822.9

–

2016

2015

Length of power distribution networks (thousand kilometres)

754

755

Length of gas distribution networks (thousand kilometres)

104

105

Network losses during transmission and distribution of electricity (percentages)

4.6

4.7

2016

20151)

142)

20

Reduction of CO₂ emissions in commerce and industry (metric tonnes)
1) Prior-year figures have been adjusted.

Security of supply

Research and development

Research and development expenses (€ in millions)
1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
2) Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report

Our customers are our top priority. True to
our brand promise, "Let's Create a Better
Tomorrow", we want to work with our
customers in shaping the future. We listen
closely to what they have to say in order to
better understand what they expect from us
in a decentralised, green and interconnected
energy world. New products such as solar
systems and battery storage are installed
directly on the customer's property, which is
also why we are putting so much emphasis
on security. The security of our customers is
as important to us as the protection of their
personal data. And it's gaining in importance
as a result of increasing digitisation.

Customers

Customers
Customer satisfaction

58

The customer
company
GRI aspect
Product and service labelling

Having a reliable supply of electricity and gas is one of the basics of our
everyday lives and there is a great deal of competition between companies
for customers in this market. In order to remain successful, we need to keep
our customers' trust. That's why we have to listen to them very carefully
and take their concerns very seriously – because that is the only way we will
be able to find out where improvements need to be made.

Global trends like sustainability and climate protection, digitisation and
technological innovation are altering the energy landscape. At the same
time our customers’ energy needs are changing. We want to understand our
customers’ needs and strive to partner with them. Only then we will be able
to transform innovative ideas and new technologies into value-enhancing
energy solutions that allow our customers to benefit from a decentralised,
green and interconnected new energy world.

Customers
Customer satisfaction

59

Putting our customer first
We have shifted our focus from products to people. Our focus on the new energy world and our commitment to put customers at the centre of everything we
do served as the starting point for our new brand idea, “Let’s Create a Better Tomorrow”. One of our central values describing how we do business is “Putting
our customer first”. We want to build on what matters to our customers: brilliant experiences and smarter, sustainable solutions. These key brand promises
shall enable our customer businesses to be distinctive in our chosen markets.

Responsibilities
Chief Operations Office
Chief Operations Office – Commercial (COO-C) coordinates all marketing activities to bring the repositioned E.ON brand to life. COO-C supports the launch and scale of customer solutions with leading customer insight and management information and drives customer experience. COO-C is an integrated function and serves all entities within the
E.ON Group and supports all commodity and new solutions businesses in all customer segments.
Customer experience teams as local customer satisfaction ambassadors
Our customer experience teams in the markets serve as ambassadors on matters relating to customer satisfaction. Working in their respective sales territories, they are the
direct contacts to our Group-wide customer experience organisation and advocate on behalf of related projects and activities. These teams are currently in place in Germany,
the United Kingdom, Italy, Romania, Sweden, the Czech Republic and Hungary. They regularly share information about successful measures and service improvements.
Center of Competence Customer Experience
In 2014 we launched the Center of Competence (CoC) Customer Experience. This is a Group-wide forum for exchanging experiences and examples of successful projects. The
CoC supports and advises our board and our global corporate functions regarding all changes affecting the interests of our customers.
Customer insights and trends
We have a thorough consideration of trends that shape tomorrow’s behaviours and attitudes. For both our commodity and non-commodity solutions business we pursue an
insight-driven innovation process based on constant test and learn iterations to deliver the best customer experience possible. Gaining a deep understanding of our customers’
needs and attitudes is vital to identify opportunities to improve people’s lives with tailored products and services. Consumer studies and broad market research help us detect,
for instance, needs around digital products or perceptions about new service offerings in photovoltaic and e-mobility. In this context we learn a lot about customer’s perceived
benefits but also concerns. We disseminate this knowledge in our organisation. Qualitative and quantitative findings reinforce these concrete learnings as we apply advanced
data analytics and modelling techniques. This way we enhance our customer communications and service offerings along the customer lifecycle.

Customers
Customer satisfaction

60

Internal guidelines and policies
Customer experience principles

Our customer experience principles describe how we aim to shape the dialogue with our customers. These are:
• We will get to know you and treat you like a person
• We will speak your language and make it simple
• We are the experts so you do not have to be
• We will always be honest in our intent
• We will respond to your needs as they change over time
• We will empower you and help you become a better energy user
Our Group-wide principles serve as a general framework. Each of our markets use this framework adjusted to their market and
customers’ requirements. Like this we take differing situations, needs and priorities of the specific regions into account. We define
the regional principles according to a standard Group-wide process. Since March 2015, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Sweden, Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic have developed their bespoke principles on customer satisfaction.

Programmes
NPS (Net Promoter Score) programme
(since 2013)

We continuously strive to increase customer satisfaction and move ideas forward. We measure progress using so-called Net
Promoter Scores (NPS). These scores measure whether our customers recommend us to their friends and families. The NPS helps
us find out what issues are important to customers and gives us insights of where we need to improve. It also makes it possible
for us to compare our performance with that of our competitors. Since 2013, we have been gradually introducing the NPS programme. The NPS programme is used by units in Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Romania, Sweden, the Czech Republic and
Hungary. The markets set their own targets in consultation with COO-C. They report progress to the Group board on a quarterly
basis. Since 2014 management incentives remuneration dependent on the NPS values of the country in which their unit operates
in order to focus more on customer satisfaction.

Internal NPS (iNPS) programme (since
2014)

Even employees who have no direct contact with customers make an important contribution to customer satisfaction. The
internal NPS (iNPS) programme aims to sensitise all employees about how important customer satisfaction is for our success as
a whole. It was first introduced in 2009 in specific divisions and was rolled out across the Group in 2014. So far the programme is
being implemented in IT, human resources, supply chain management and finance.

Customers
Customer satisfaction

Customer First programme (20142016)

61

The aim of our Group-wide Customer First programme was to match sales and marketing even more closely with the needs of our
customers. The project which had an initial phase of three years was launched in 2014. It assisted with collaboration between our
markets. Numerous concrete measures were drawn up to improve our customer service and our range of products.
The programme entered a new phase at the end of 2016 and will be embedded in the business. Customer demands continue to
increase. The regulatory landscape has become tougher and market conditions are now more competitive. That is why we will
continue with the steps already begun and integrate them into our other activities aimed at increasing customer satisfaction.
Customer First wants to identify opportunities to create new initiatives across our markets with the goal of shaping E.ON into a
customer-led business.

Customer immersion programme (since
2013)

The customer immersion programme puts employees directly in contact with individual and business customers. This helps us
understand the customer's perspective so we can better gear our products and services to their needs. These encounters are not
meant to initiate specific actions but to foster a better understanding of, and commitment to our customers. The programme has
been offered in all markets since 2015. Customer immersion is managed at the Group level by the global customer immersion
function within COO-C since 2016.

Assistance for vulnerable customers

Some customers are especially vulnerable like the elderly or disabled as well as low-income individuals and patients dependent on
life-support equipment for example. For them it is especially important that their supply of electricity or gas not be terminated.
That is why we offer these customers special assistance. In regions where no public aid is available we assist them if they are having difficulty making payments. In some cases we join with partners to provide pre-financing for insulating residential properties
or develop incremental payment plans.

Individual rates

By providing customised rates and payment models we give our customers a chance to have greater control over their energy
bills. These offers vary from country to country depending on customer needs and statutory requirements. Some examples
include:
• Rates with price limits or fixed price products that give customers the means to plan for the long term.
• Products tailored to customer preferences such as tracker prices that adjust to match falling market prices.
• Rates evenly distributed across the year in order to avoid higher bills during cold winters
• Credits for reaching specific energy saving goals
• Pre-payment models like the intelligent pay as you go power meters in the UK.

Easy to read bills

The price and bills that are easy to understand are important keys to customer satisfaction. Customers often have difficulty
understanding how energy prices are drawn together from costs, fees, and taxes. That is why in most markets we designed
residential customer bills that are shorter and easier to understand. In the UK for example we cut bills down from seven pages to
a single page. We also offer electronic billing. This helps protect the environment and reduces costs.

Customers
Customer satisfaction

Objectives and performance review

We analyse changes in NPS every three months. At the same time we
identify which factors currently have a strong influence on customer
satisfaction. This lets us adapt our activities to current customer needs.
Each quarter we conduct review discussions with our markets during which
we evaluate the results. We jointly identify which measures should be
undertaken to achieve the regional NPS target.

We calculate the NPS to measure our performance in customer loyalty. It
is a key performance indicator (KPI) for our success because we can only
expand our business when our customers are satisfied and then recommend
us to others.
To calculate the NPS, we ask our customers the question: "On a scale of
zero to ten, how likely is it that you would recommend E.ON to a friend or
colleague?" Depending on the response, we divide the participants into
the categories: "detractors" (0-6), "passives" (7-8) and "promoters" (9-10).
The NPS is calculated by deducting the percentage of detractors from the
percentage of promoters. This produces a score between 100 (very good)
and -100 (very poor).

How likely is it you would recommend us to a friend?
Extremely likely

10

Not at all likely

9

8

7

6

5

%

4

–

%

62

3

2

= Net Promoter® Score (NPS®)

1

0

Customers
Customer satisfaction

Our NPS results for residential customers have declined in 2016 compared
to the previous year in five out of the six markets in which NPS is measured.
Residential competitors that are best in class (BiC) or our next-best competitor slightly improved their NPS in four out of six markets. Our global
residential NPS declined slightly in 2016 closing the year with same score
compared to the BiC competitors.
Our global NPS results for small and medium-size enterprises (SME) customers in 2016 show slightly better scores than 2015. Our global SME NPS
has improved in three out of six regions. Global BiC competitor NPS declined
compared to 2015.

Residential NPS

2014

Our Italian market has been successful in improving NPS for both residential
and SME markets in 2016.
The COO-C global customer experience function assists as needed. All NPS
results are published Group-wide each quarter. The goal is to become the
leading No1 energy solutions company in all our markets. As such so we also
need to achieve the position as the customer company. It is paramount to
be and become a customer-led business, a business that focuses on growth,
embraces a digital first agenda, innovates and turns innovation into market
success.

SME NPS3)

2015

Average E.ON NPS

63

1)

2016

2014

2015

2016

Average Best in Class

2)

1) Equal weighting of the countries’ Top-Down NPS results (Germany, UK, Sweden, Czech Republic, Italy, Romania);
excludes Hungary, Slovakia and Turkey
2) Best in Class (BiC) refers to respective NPS values of the best or next best company from the group of
comparable competitors; best in class based on regional competitor benchmarking set in Regional Units
3) Average based partially on interpolated NPS; NPS is fully reported every six month

Management approach reviewed

Customers
Customer satisfaction

64

Progress and measures in 2016
Adjustments to the customer immersion programme
In 2016 we decided to put together a uniform Group-wide approach to
customer immersion. Up to now each of our markets had its own individual
way of handling these encounters between employees and customers. With
the global customer immersion function there is now a central responsible
body at Group level. In 2016 we aligned across all markets and had three
experience shares. Training sessions on customer immersion were given
to all markets. We held 166 meetings with customers Group-wide in 2016.
About 2,000 employees and some 1,000 customers took part.

Enabling vulnerable customers help themselves
About 350,000 households in Germany have their electricity cut off each year. The consequences are often dramatic and never good. A new programme by E.ON Deutschland
is designed to help. It enables vulnerable customers to avoid disconnection by paying off
their energy-bill debt in small instalments. It also works closely with the Federal Employment Agency and a number of not-for-profit debt counselling services. The aim is to find
the right solution for each customer so that all of them can keep their energy costs under
control. For good. A programme brochure is available in 14 languages.

Current measures of our Chief Operations Office - Commercial
Live Chat
In May 2016 we introduced the Live Chat channel
in the United Kingdom, offering customers instant
answers to their queries. The response was immediate and positive, with many customers preferring
to chat to us online rather than contacting us by
phone or email. We conducted more than 2,000
chats with customers in the first week alone and
75,000 by year-end. 80 per cent of chat customers
are satisfied or very satisfied with their chat, and
88 per cent say the chat resolved their query. We’re
extending Live Chat to mobile devices and anticipate more than 170,000 chats in 2017.

In 2016 COO-C offered a new training session on designing great experience
for our customers, with more than 1,000 participants. The training made use
of a design thinking approach, a method of finding creative ways of performing a task. In addition we drew on customer feedback to recalibrate the
customer journey touch points and our interactions. Our customer experience
principles were incorporated within the new brand positioning and promise.
Journey owners developed dashboards to track performance against customer and business key performance indicators. Every market has a team of
journey managers. On a continual basis we are capturing learnings from the
customer and designing and implementing better ways of experiencing our
products. These improvements are tracked using NPS.
In 2016 we updated the top customer issues which we use to identify our
customers' main concerns. At a tactical and strategic level we have mechanisms to improve customers' lives. In 2017 we strive to increase the speed and
impact of these changes so customers feel the improvement sooner.

Customers
Customer health and safety

65

Safety
comes first
GRI aspect
Customer health and safety

In 2016 we realigned our strategic focus. Since then, we have been providing
our customers not only with a dependable supply of electricity and gas; we
have also been offering a broader range of products and services relating to
energy. These include solar systems, battery storage, heating solutions and
lighting concepts. Many of these products bring us into direct contact with

our customers: Our solar panels, for instance, are mounted on their roofs,
and our storage systems, such as the E.ON Aura battery, are installed in
their utility rooms or basements. The health and safety of our customers is
always one of our top priorities.

Customers
Customer health and safety

66

Setting Group-wide standards
Safety precautions have been firmly rooted in our company for many years, through comprehensive policies, standards and processes including, for example,
the issue of workplace safety. This means: safety is always our top priority. This same obligation also applies to new products we offer our customers. In doing
so, we set uniform standards, thereby ensuring that our products are safe throughout their life cycle. We of course meet relevant legal requirements and safety
regulations. In case of innovative products, where the legal requirement might be behind the current state of technology, we strive to meet additional standards.
Furthermore, we perform occasional safety tests in our own testing lab. In addition, we subject certain products to specific risk assessments to identify potential
safety issues that may not be covered by our suppliers’ assessments.

Responsibilities
"B2C/B2SME solution management and innovation", together with the health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) and the sustainability organisation at our central office
in Essen (Germany) are working closely with the product development and Health, safety and environment (HSE) organisations in our regions. They are also dealing with the
issue of customer health and safety. Our regional units are familiar with specific local circumstances and needs and are therefore in a position to sell our customers the right
products.

Partnerships
E.ON contractors

In the planning and construction of new photovoltaic systems in Germany, we only work with selected installation partners.
Thanks to a nationwide network, E.ON contractors are available to our customers right where they live. Our regional service partners have years of experience and adhere to the latest technical standards. They also continue to assist our customers even after
installation, by providing professional maintenance services.

Programmes and projects
Product recalls

Should basic, safety-related problems arise with our products, we must be able to ensure that the product can be recalled immediately.
For our new E.ON Aura battery we keep a record of which batch was delivered to which customers so that we can promptly contact customers if safety-related problems arise. We work continuously at improving these processes.

Customers
Customer health and safety

67

Development of product concepts/
ideas

In developing our products, we strive to take safety and health aspects into account right from the start. In developing our E.ON
Aura storage system we factored in not only mandatory standards but also the safety guidelines for lithium ion home storage
systems. This was a key criterion in selecting a manufacturer. Compliance with the provisions of the safety guidelines was confirmed by testing at an accredited testing institute. In addition, we work continuously to improve safety throughout the whole life
cycle of the product, including for example installation and maintenance.

Safety testing of new products

Upon request of our regional units we conduct safety tests on new products in our testing lab. This gives us the opportunity to
obtain a comprehensive assessment of the safety of the products we sell.
In 2014, for example, internal testing of a batch of smart-plugs1) from the Far East that were intended to be included as part of
a market launch showed that supplier had deviated from the contract and used a material which did not meet specifications as
regards to non-flammability. As a result, the launch was postponed until a non-defective batch was delivered and the defective
batch had been destroyed.
1) Smart-plug-products allow customers to have control over all their home electronics. We have been distributing these products since 2014.

Dialogue with contractors

We work with selected installation partners during the planning and construction of photovoltaic systems or storage solutions.
We engage in a continuous dialogue with these partners in order to ensure that all requirements are being complied with. For
example, we train our partners in the installation of E.ON Aura battery systems and verify proper installation through random
spot checks.

Prequalification of service providers

Based upon certain criteria, our service providers for customer solutions undergo a defined Pre-qualification process. Service
providers dealing in hazardous activities, such as work on electrical systems, are also evaluated in terms of their HSE performance.

Objectives and performance review
Up to now, we have not been collecting information on health and safety-related incidents affecting our customers.
We are currently developing a process to plan in product safety right from
the beginning. It specifies what requirements must be met and relates to the

entire life cycle of the product, from the idea to recycling. Going forward,
our HSE Group policy will also incorporate the issue of product safety –
including aspects of product safety that relate directly to the customer. As
all processes, this is subject to continuous improvement.

Management approach reviewed

Customers
Data protection

68

Protecting data by
ensuring IT security
The energy sector is undergoing structural change. Along with the changing political and regulatory environment, increasing digitisation is one of the
central drivers of this transformation. Innovations such as smart grids, smart meters and virtual power plants offer us and our customers a wide range of
new opportunities. Using smart metering systems, residential customers and businesses can better control their energy consumption and increase energy
efficiency. Digitisation gives us an opportunity to create new business models and to tap into new areas of activity for our employees. At the same time,
however, this creates increased demand for data protection given that we are increasingly collecting our customers' individual consumption data.
Lawmakers have responded to these fundamental developments and initiated efforts aimed at improved data protection: The General Data Protection
Regulation of the European Union (EU GDPR), adopted in 2016, standardised EU-wide rules on the processing of personal data by private companies and
public authorities. It will take effect in all member states in May of 2018. In Germany, the government is planning a comprehensive data protection reform
on this basis. The German law on digitisation of the energy transition adopted in 2016 also contains an extensive set of rules on data protection and security.
It provides us with a framework for the operation of smart metering systems.

Implementing high standards of data protection
The confidential handling of data from customers, partners and employees in conformity with law plays an important role for us. The issue of data protection
has been firmly established at our company for many years through appropriate guidelines, standards and processes. To prepare ourselves for the forthcoming EU GDPR, which will take effect as of 25 May 2018, we are currently examining and improving our processes.
In principle, we review the data protection aspects of all new products prior to use. To protect the personal data of our customers, we draw on privacy policies in easily understandable terms together with various anonymisation techniques, pseudonymisation and encryption. The goal is to provide all customers
with transparency regarding the purpose and legal basis for processing their data.

Customers
Data protection

69

Responsibilities
Data protection is decentralised at E.ON: all Group companies set up their own rules in this regard independent of each other while taking into account applicable legal requirements. All incidents relating to data protection law, such as customer complaints, are therefore dealt with in a decentralised manner as well. Data protection officers regularly
exchange information.
Our Group data protection officer bears overall responsibility at Group level. His duties include coordination of data protection activities within the Group.

Internal guidelines and policies
Business governance Group policy on
information security (updated 2014)

This policy describes how we ensure the confidentiality, availability and integrity of information throughout the Group. Eight
business directives that took effect on 1 December 2014, flesh out the Group policy, particularly with regard to defending against
cyber-attacks. They provide our employees with detailed instructions.

Business governance Group policy on
data protection (2015)

This directive regulates data protection structures for E.ON Group companies in Germany. It creates greater transparency with
respect to our data privacy activities.

Programmes
"EniM" programme (German: Einführung neuer intelligenter Messsysteme – EniM)

Our "EniM" programme was established to implement smart metering systems as required under German law and to prepare for
their introduction. At our "EniM" laboratory in Hamburg we conduct extensive device and system testing. We test all metering
systems currently on the market in Germany, including as regards their data security aspects.
Specifically, we subject the software required to operate a system to extensive testing. We look for security loopholes and vulnerabilities. This is how we ensure that all devices and systems comply with the stringent safety requirements of the Federal Office
for Information Security (German: Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik – BSI). The systems used to control smart
meters remotely (smart meter gateway administration) are in addition certified in accordance with ISO 27001 – including the
supplementary requirements of the BSI. Issuance of the certificate is expected in April 2017.

Employee training

Our employees are regularly trained in data protection every two to three years. All new employees receive appropriate training, usually within their first year. The training courses are tailored to meet specific requirements in each country: in Germany, for example,
participation in training is voluntary. In addition to basic data protection requirements, special topics are also addressed as needed, if
requested by individual departments.

Customers
Key figures

70

Key figures
Customers
2016

20151)

21.43)

22.7

Power sales (billion kWh)

143.43)

147.2

Gas sales (billion kWh)

146.53)

170.4

22,3683)

25,614

Number of power and gas customers (millions)2)

Sales customer solutions (€ in millions)
1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
2) Excluding customers in Turkey (50/50 joint venture)
3) Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report

Employees
Only with satisfied and healthy employees we
can achieve our goals. That's why we provide
working conditions that minimise health hazards
and help to avoid accidents. We see the diversity
of our workforce as an opportunity. This necessarily involves dealing with each other both
honestly and respectfully. By providing attractive
working conditions we are guaranteeing that we
will be able to retain qualified and enthusiastic
employees going forward. Targeted promotion
and advanced training also play a role in this
regard.

Employees
Occupational health and safety

72

Occupational
health and
safety standards
GRI aspect
Occupational health and safety

Health and safety are essential elements of our corporate culture. A harmful
incident can pose a threat to human health and can also result in property
damage and damage to the environment, lost working hours, and damage
to a company’s reputation. High safety standards are a prerequisite to
obtaining operating permits and are required in many business relationships. Special care is particularly required in high-risk activities involving
electricity and gas networks, operations at customer locations, as well as in
the installation and operation of solar power plants and wind farms.

Our goal is to avoid harmful incidents and workplace accidents and to minimise health hazards. We also seek to promote the health of our employees
and help them remain productive over the long term. This presents us with
certain challenges. Demographic change, for instance, means that we have
to take into account the changing needs of an aging workforce. Maintaining
the employability of older or chronically ill employees is becoming increasingly important. The rapid pace of change, both in the workplace and in the
marketplace can also prove stressful for employees. This means that we
need to take the concerns of our employees seriously, identifying health risk
factors early on, and taking appropriate preventive measures.

Employees
Occupational health and safety

73

Pre-emptive approach to health and safety
With respect to safety, we apply a “zero tolerance for accidents” principle, which involves taking a pre-emptive approach. We continuously adapt our
precautionary approach to preventing accidents so as to take account of the latest challenges. To do so, we focus not only on our own employees, but also
on employees from our partner companies who perform work on our behalf. All Group-wide entities are required to put in place an occupational health and
safety management system. This allows us to implement occupational health and safety practices (OHS) systematically, efficiently, and effectively.
Our pre-emptive approach also applies to the health of our employees. The healthcare systems in the countries in which we operate vary greatly. But
regardless of the location, it’s always the same diseases which are the most frequent causes of incapacitation: musculoskeletal conditions, psychological
disorders, and respiratory infections. The same applies to diseases most often resulting in death: cardiovascular disease and cancer. An up-to-date company
health policy must therefore place an emphasis on preventing these diseases. In order to put effective measures in place as widely as possible we exchange
information across borders and engage in mutual learning.
The health and safety of our employees is closely linked to our concern for potential negative impacts on the environment. Our activities in the area of health,
workplace safety, and environmental protection (Health, Safety and Environment – HSE) are therefore all managed centrally.

Responsibilities
Our CEO Johannes Teyssen also serves as chairman of our HSE Council. This is an international body consisting of top executives, representatives of works councils, as well as
some HSE department heads. It deliberates on strategic objectives for the company as a whole as well as on current incidents such as accidents. Our business units draw up
their own annual plans for continuous improvement in HSE. For more information on our HSE organisation, see the chapter on “Strategy and governance”

Principles and policies
E.ON Health, Safety and Environment Policy Statement (2013; revised
2014)

Our goal: We want to avoid all accidents and proactively improve the health of our employees. Our policy statement emphasises
this and is valid Group-wide.

Internal guidelines and directives
Management Group policy HSE (2013;
revised 2015)

The Group policy defines structures and processes relating to HSE issues. This includes roles and responsibilities, management
concepts, and reporting lines.

Employees
Occupational health and safety

Business governance Group policy HSE
management (2013)

74

Describes minimum requirements and management tools aimed at avoiding physical and psychological injury in the performance
of work-related duties. In addition, it requires that all E.ON units1) establish externally certified occupational health and safety
management systems that accord with the international standard OHSAS 180012).
1) “Exceptions are allowed if the level of risk borne by a management unit in performing routine and non-routine activities / work processes is low.” ( Business Governance Group
Policy HSE management, page 7)
2) henceforth ISO 45001

Business directives

These contain specific, binding business and procedural directives on how certain parts of the Group policy HSE management are
to be implemented. For example, the business directive “Incident management” sets out specific requirements on how incidents
are to be reported and investigated as well as how to put improvement measures into effect. The business directive “International
employee protections” prepares our employees for periods abroad and informs them of any relevant health and safety risks.

Business governance Group policy
procurement (revised 2016)

This Group policy ensures occupational health and safety standards in the supply chain. It defines processes for identifying risks
in the provision of services. Depending on the risk involved, new suppliers undergo a qualification procedure and are required to
eliminate deficiencies. Depending on the size of the supplier, we sometimes also require certification under OHSAS 180011) or
carry out audits.
1) henceforth ISO 45001

Group agreement "Health" (2015)

This agreement was reached between company management and the Group works council in Germany. It aims to help create a
health-conscious work environment and to promote the health of each employee. In doing so, four areas of activity were defined:
corporate health management, drug prevention and intervention, integration management, and employee counselling.

External commitments and initiatives
“Luxembourg Declaration” (subscribed
2009)

With this declaration we undertake a commitment to implement an effective workplace health promotion programme which
complies with EU standards.

“Düsseldorf Statement” in response to
the Seoul Declaration (signed 2009)

In this statement we are committed to establish a culture of prevention for health and safety in the workplace.

“Enterprise for Health” (EfH)

This network of international companies is committed to developing a collaborative corporate culture and an up-to-date occupational health policy.

Employees
Occupational health and safety

75

Procedures
“HSE Improvement” Plans (HSE IP)
(since 2010)

These plans are a management tool which we use to improve continuously our activities with respect to HSE. All plans include
specific, one-year targets for each management unit. Progress is monitored on a regular basis through so-called management reviews. Since 2013, standards for handling accidents as well as goals in the field of health promotion and environmental protection
have been incorporated. The implementation of individual HSE IP targets has been a component in the variable remuneration of
executives since 2014.

“Prevent!” Incident management system (since 2013)

This online system compiles a central record of incidents involving risk and accidents involving E.ON employees and our partner companies. The incidents or accidents that are recorded are systematically analysed with the results being used to initiate
preventive measures. Serious accidents must be reported through the system to HSE Group management within 24 hours. The
system is used amongst others in Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Romania, Sweden, Slovakia, the Czech Republic.

Internal HSE-audits

We regularly perform audits to check the effectiveness of the HSE management systems being used by our units to ensure that
they meet the standards defined in our corporate policies and directives. Following every fatal accident, and in some cases following serious accidents as well, separate internal audits are also conducted.

Programmes
H&S courses and training

Our Center of Competence for Global Learning provides a uniform Group-wide training catalogue of special training courses in the
field of health and safety. This also includes programmes in the area of mental health. In addition there are also country-specific
plans and training centres. Employees from partner companies can also participate in the training sessions. In some cases the
courses are compulsory, depending on the kind of activity involved.

Employee counselling on health-related
questions

In dealing with health issues our employees can turn to the “Employee Assistance Programme” (EAP). It is available to employees
in Germany as well as in the United Kingdom, Sweden, the Czech Republic, and Hungary. EAP is an independent, external, strictly
confidential counselling service. It also seeks to prevent psychological stress.
Employees traveling abroad can contact a global, multilingual hotline with their health-related questions and requests for assistance.

Employees
Occupational health and safety

Group-wide safety campaign “Safety
F1RST!” (since 2011)

76

With this campaign we are seeking to raise employee awareness of safety issues and drive home our three core safety rules:
• We take care of our colleagues
• We stop unsafe work
• We learn from near hits and mistakes
Through easy-to-understand comics and videos as well as the high visibility of “Safety F1RST!” logos we seek to call our employees’ attention to the rules.

Objectives and performance review
We use findings from audits to assess our performance in health and safety.
Figures on work hours lost, accidents, and hazardous events help us to
determine underlying causes and provide comprehensive risk analysis. This
helps us see which areas need improving and where we need to come up
with preventive measures.
The audit results for 2016 were positive. A key finding from the audits was
that some sites need to work even harder on disciplined implementation of
written safety requirements. This will require action in particular on the part
of our senior management. That’s why, going forward, we will be expanding
special training programmes for managers.

With respect to health management, we measure success by our ability to
reach out and provide our employees with information and by how successful we are in getting them to participate in activities. In autumn 2016,
for instance, we once again carried out a nation-wide campaign for cancer
prevention and early diagnosis. This involved making an immunological stool
test for bowel cancer available to our employees and their families. The
programme is targeted in particular at employees over the age of 45, as well
as employees who, according to their family history have an increased risk of
intestinal cancer. 73 per cent of the 2,672 employees who requested a test
returned it for analysis. The Felix Burda Foundation, which is dedicated to
the prevention of bowel cancer, considers a return rate of over 50 per cent
to be a very good outcome.

Our accident rate since 2013 has remained at a consistently low level
(see also “Progress and measures”). However, recent years have seen a
near stagnation of key indicators. We are working hard to further reduce
accidents.

Management approach reviewed

Employees
Occupational health and safety

Progress and measures in 2016
Based on our performance in HSE in 2015, we put together a new threeyear plan at the beginning of 2016 – the "HSE Roadmap 2016 to 2018",
which also takes into account our company’s strategic realignment. The
plan was created in collaboration with HSE managers at all units together
with the HSE Council. It defines strategic ambitions, objectives, and
actions in the area of HSE. Core working groups were established for all
measures.
In the area of employee health, 2016 was focused mainly on reinforing the
Group-wide exchange of information. In addition, a number of campaigns
aimed at preventive healthcare were once again held. These included

Responding right
Our first safety objective is to prevent
accidents from happening. But the
fact is, a perfect safety record is
impossible to sustain indefinitely. So
we need to know what to do in an
accident or emergency. Responding
correctly and promptly can save lives
and protect property. With this in
mind, E.ON România partnered with
two of the country’s most respected
medical and safety institutions to
design a new first-aid, safety, and
crisis-response course. 500 employees and contractors completed the
course in 2016, honing their first-aid
skills and learning how to handle a
variety of crisis.

77

the nation-wide campaign “Getting in Shape” aimed at encouraging our
employees to exercise more and thus prevent musculoskeletal diseases. The
concept was developed by the umbrella organisation for occupational health
insurance (BKK), with companies conducting the campaign through various
activities and internal measures.

Internal exchange on health issues bolstered
In addition to the existing bodies involved in occupational health management (BGM), in Germany we launched a new interface feature in 2016:
“Betriebsärzte@eon”, which complements the existing occupational health
care required by law. “Betriebsärzte@eon”, is a group of senior company
doctors from all of our units in Germany. They regularly exchange information with German teams of experts in occupational health management
to jointly plan, conduct, and evaluate health practices. In addition to the
ongoing day-to-day dialogue, twice-yearly meetings are also held.
We also exchange information internationally on successful projects and
activities. Our “health team E.ON”, established in 2016, comprises health
managers from all regional units outside Germany as well as our global
units. Together they analyse on-site health services and familiarise themselves with the various structures which arise due to differing laws and
supply structures. The aim is to learn from successful examples in other
countries. For example, we have implemented many effective mental health
measures in the UK; E.ON Sweden, on the other hand, is expert at re-integrating employees following prolonged illnesses (occupational reintegration
management – BEM).

Training and raising employee awareness
At the end of 2015 we launched a new training programme for senior management. Using videos and role-playing exercises, they are trained better to
identify HSE risks and to sensitise their employees. Since the programme
was introduced, 36 training sessions have been held with over 500 participants in seven different countries.

Employees
Occupational health and safety

In 2016 we once again offered special online training to employees traveling to so-called high-risk countries, and also held a Group-wide safety
day. We used workshops, lectures, and other activities to inform our
employees about workplace health and safety measures, fire protection,
and other issues.

78

TRIF combined1), 2)
2016
20153)

2.5
2.4
2,4

Flu vaccination campaign with an advanced vaccine
In 2016 we conducted a flu vaccination campaign at all our sites in Germany,
offering a new vaccine that provides better protection along with increased
tolerance. A vaccination station was set up for two weeks in the atrium
of our headquarters in Essen. Employees could receive their vaccination
without having to make an appointment, and participation was encouraged
through a raffle. More than 300 employees took part. Vaccinations continued to be available from the in-house health services until the end of the
year. About 2,000 employees took advantage of this offer. The campaign
will continue in 2017.

1) Total Recordable Injury Frequency – The number of work-related accidents and occupational diseases per million
hours worked, including fatal accidents, workplace and business travel accidents, with and without days lost,
which required medical treatment or where work was only possible in an alternative position or where only a
limited amount of work was possible
2,5
2) Unlike from the general approach of reporting, our safety reporting includes companies in which E.ON holds less
than a 50 per cent stake but over which E.ON has operational control.
3) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations
(i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

TRIF combined by business unit1), 2)
2016
Renewables

5.7

Exploration & Production3)

0.0

German

2.5

Other EU countries4)

2.5

Corporate Functions/other5)

1.2

Statistical trends in accident figures

Non-Core-Business (PreussenElektra)

2.4

An essential element in evaluating our performance in the area of occupational safety is the “Total Recordable Injury Frequency Index” (TRIF) which
measures the total number of recorded accidents (not including first aid
accidents). We have been measuring this figure since 2010. In 2011 we
began to incorporate the figures of our contract partners and their employees (combined TRIF).

E.ON Group

2.5

96.5 %

– that’s how high the health quotient was for
our employees in 2016. It represents the number of days actually
worked in relation to the number of hours set by contract. At 96.5
per cent, the figure was kept high in 2016 (2015: 96.5 %).

1) Total Recordable Injury Frequency – The number of work-related accidents and occupational diseases per million
hours worked, including fatal accidents, workplace and business travel accidents, with and without days lost,
which required medical treatment or where work was only possible in an alternative position or where only a
limited amount of work was possible
2) Unlike from the general approach of reporting, our safety reporting includes companies in which E.ON holds less
than a 50 per cent stake but over which E.ON has operational control.
3) The Exploration & Production unit was sold in the spring of 2016. Up to that time, no TRIF-related accidents were
recorded.
4) UK, Sweden, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Italy
5) E.ON SE, E.ON Business Service, E.ON Connecting Energies

Employees
Occupational health and safety

Since early 2016 our units have been setting their own voluntary targets
for combined TRIF. Drawing on these individual figures, we established a
Group-wide target value of 2.5, which we were able to reach at the end
of 2016. Overall, however, the figure fell off slightly. The above-average
TRIF combined in the area of renewables is due to the fact that in 2016
large offshore and onshore wind farm projects were undertaken and two
offshore wind farms were put into operation. In one case, the start-up took
place under difficult conditions. Accident reporting rose as a consequence.
However, the majority of reported incidents did not involve serious
accidents.
For E.ON employees, the figure increased from 2.3 to 2.5. There are differing
reporting cultures in our units. The accident numbers refer only to all
reported accidents. We assume that the slight increase for the TRIF is in
part due to the fact that we intensified our efforts to encourage regional
units to report every accident. The corresponding number for our contractors stood at 2.6 and was therefore identical to the previous year (2015: 2.6).

LTIF employees1), 2)
2016

1.9

20153)

1.9
2,4

1) Lost Time Injury Frequency – work-related accidents resulting in lost time per million hours worked
2) Unlike from the general approach of reporting, our safety reporting includes companies in which E.ON holds less
than a 50 per cent stake but over which E.ON has operational control.
3) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations
2,5
(i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

We measure accidents at work resulting in lost working hours through
the “Lost Time Injury Frequency Index” (LTIF). For our own employees this
number remained constant in 2016, compared to last year. For our contractors, the value in 2016 was 2.1 per million hours worked and therefore
slightly higher compared to the previous year (2015: 2.0). This was due
to the increased number of reports of “minor” incidents resulting in lost
working hours.

79

Near misses1)
2016

3,634

20152)
Contractors

824
4,757

4,458
2,241

6,998

Employees

1) Unlike from the general approach of reporting, our safety reporting includes companies in which E.ON holds less
than a 50 per cent stake but over which E.ON has operational control.
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations
(i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

In logging accidents subject to a reporting requirement we also draw on
documentation of near miss incidents. These include incidents which could
have resulted in injury. In 2016, the number of reported near misses, which
totalled 6,998 last year, fell to 4,458 (employees and affiliated companies).
This decline can be attributed to the fact that, since 2016, “Remarks” – i.e.
the mere observation of unsafe conditions – are no longer recorded as near
misses, but are instead reported separately.

Managers walk the talk for safety
Ensuring our colleagues and contractors’ safety is our top
priority. That’s why it starts at the top: our senior managers
are in a unique position to serve as role models and to shape
the company’s safety culture. In 2016 all of E.ON Hungária’s
senior managers participated in safety walks and talks at
company facilities. The safety visits enable managers to
meet regularly with employees in the field and to establish an ongoing dialog with them. For employees, the visits
demonstrate that our commitment to safety extends from the
equipment room to the board room.

Employees
Occupational health and safety

Fatal workplace accidents
Despite our intensive safety measures four of our employees died tragically
in 2016. Two accidents occurred due to electrical incidents at network operators in Germany and the Czech Republic, another occurred in Germany at
the Grohnde nuclear power plant when hot steam escaped from an auxiliary
boiler at the plant while work was being conducted on it. As a consequence
a long-time employee suffered fatal scalding. Another employee was killed
in a traffic accident in the UK. Following fatal accidents we immediately
launch an investigation to retrace the exact course of events. The aim is to
identify the causes and to take all necessary measures to prevent similar
accidents from occurring in the future.

80

Non-core business: occupational health and safety
at PreussenElektra
Our subsidiary, PreussenElektra (PEL), is responsible for the operation,
decommissioning, and demolition of our nuclear power plants. During all
phases of the work process, our primary concern is the safety and health
of our employees, the employees of our partner companies, as well as
environmental protection. Our high standards for workplace health and
safety as well as environmental protection also apply to PEL. All our nuclear
power plants are certified under international environmental standards ISO
14001 or EMAS. Our HSE management systems are regularly recertified.
We are hoping to use process and organisational reviews to achieve further
improvements on an ongoing basis. In addition, we systematically implement special HSE improvement plans and work to enhance prevention and
training measures.
The experience that we have gained through the operation and decommissioning of our facilities helps us to further improve our processes and
procedures in occupational safety. They contribute to the high level of safety
at our nuclear power plants. In close cooperation with the Employer’s Liability Insurance Association for Energy, Textiles, Electrical and Media Products
(BG ETEM) and with other power companies, we have developed solutions
for effective occupational health and safety during plant decommissioning
and demolition, which have been summarised in the form of guidelines.
Despite all efforts to ensure high standards in occupational safety, one
of our employees was fatally injured as a result of a tragic accident in the
non-nuclear part of the Grohnde power plant in August 2016. The improvements that were derived from the accident investigation are currently being
implemented.

Employees
Diversity and equal opportunity

81

Diversity as
an opportunity
GRI aspect
Diversity and equal opportunity

The people who work for us are very diverse: they differ in terms of their
countries of origin, their age, gender, religion and their cultural and social
backgrounds. We want to encourage this diversity and use it to our advantage. Studies show that mixed teams provide better performance and
generate higher earnings than groups that are very similar. Diversity is also
a central driver for creativity and innovation, allowing us to respond even
more effectively to the specific needs and requirements of our customers.

Our commitment to diversity also helps us to cope with the effects of
demographic change, i.e. the increase in the average age of the population
in industrialised nations. A company that expressly advocates diversity is
an attractive employer and is able to prevent future shortages of qualified
employees as a result.

Employees
Diversity and equal opportunity

82

Holistic approach to promoting diversity
Diversity and integration form the essential foundations for our vision and our values. Responsible conduct and openness provide our basis for putting
diversity into practice. We want to offer equal opportunities to all our employees, to encourage and to make the most of individual differences. Encouraging
diversity and equal opportunities is also a focus in our new sustainability strategy.

Responsibilities
One person is responsible for diversity on a full-time basis at Group level. This individual represents an interface with other corporate divisions and proposes the implementation of Group-wide measures. There are also local representatives in all regional corporate entities who implement actions related to diversity. There is also representation
for the severely disabled for the purposes of communicating and supporting measures related to disability and inclusion. This responsibility is exercised locally by trusted
representatives and local representative bodies for the severely disabled in the individual corporate entities.

Internal guidelines and policies
Joint ”Diversity and integration” declaration of principle (2016)

Through this declaration, we commit to create a diverse and integrated work environment in which every employee is able to
develop their potential. The declaration was jointly signed by the E.ON Management Board and E.ON SE works council in 2016.

Recruitment and hiring policy (2015)

We want to open up targeted opportunities in the Group for promoting women. The Group-wide policy states that at least one
man and one woman will be on the list of candidates in each case when recruiting for a new management position.

Group integration agreement (2016)

The Group integration agreement was signed by executive management, by the Group works council and by Group representation for the severely disabled. It is aimed at driving operational integration and health provision across the entire company. The
policy creates uniform framework conditions for treating all employees with respect and appreciation.

External commitments and statements
Statement of the DAX 30 companies
(signed 2011)

With this statement, we reaffirm our commitment to equal opportunities between women and men in professional life and
undertake to promote and involve women on a systematic basis.

“Diversity Charter” initiative (signed
2008)

The Diversity Charter is a German corporate initiative aimed at encouraging diversity in companies and institutions. By signing
this, we are showing our commitment towards creating a work environment that is free from prejudice.

Employees
Diversity and equal opportunity

83

Programmes, networks and initiatives
Cooperation with Femtec (since 2007)

We are cooperation partners to the Berlin-based career platform for women in engineering and natural sciences. Together we
develop innovative programmes for female pupils, students and graduates aimed at inspiring them to take up a technical career
and at facilitating their entry into the profession. In addition, we discover young talents that we wish to encourage every year
through this cooperation.

“Female Mentoring” programme (since
2015)

The programme prepares female junior employees in Germany for management positions in a targeted manner. Every participant in the programme is supported by an experienced management employee who provides advice, coaching and support for
their career alongside their actual managers. Participants have been shown to feature above-average development and have
demonstrated their ability to take up a technical or management career.

“Äntligen Jobb” (“A job at last”) (since
2015)

This initiative from E.ON Sweden enables the provision of trainee places to unemployed university graduates who were not
born in Sweden. The trainees are able to develop a deeper understanding of Swedish culture, language and the employment
market, and thereby increase their chances of securing a job in the future.

“Womenergy" women's network (2007,
updated 2016)

This internal Group forum is aimed at encouraging the exchange of knowledge and experience among female employees. It
also offers advice on professional and career-related issues. The focus is on mutual support and encouraging the presence and
influence of women within the company.

Further initiatives and networks

We are also a member of numerous national and international networks and initiatives, including:
• "Catalyst": a global community aimed at improving opportunities for women in companies
• Mercer’s Vanguard Diversity Network: a network for exchanging experiences related to diversity in human resource
management
• Recruitment Industry Disability Initiative (RIDI): promotes equal employment entry level opportunities for disabled people
• “Wir zusammen” (We together) initiative: an initiative in German industry aimed at integrating people who have been forced
to flee war and persecution
• “Komm, mach MINT.” network initiative: an initiative aimed at further inspiring women to take up careers in the natural
sciences and mathematics
• LGBT Network UK: an internal network in the UK for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees
• Stonewall: UK initiative aimed at providing support to the LGBT community (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender)
• Equilibrium Mentoring programme: a cooperation initiated by E.ON in the Czech Republic with the British Chamber of
Commerce aimed at promoting talented female management staff
• Father network: the project is aimed at highlighting the compatibility of career and family life to male employees. Presentations, workshops and father/child activities are some of the items offered as part of this
• The BAME: Black Asian Minority Ethnic network in the UK. The network provides a platform for discussions related to
ethnic differences

84

Employees
Diversity and equal opportunity

Objectives and performance review
The basic principle is that we want to increase the proportion of underrepresented groups throughout the Group with new hires. Each regional entity
also sets its own priorities in its work aimed at encouraging diversity within
the company.
In terms of equal opportunities, we have set ourselves the objective of
increasing the proportion of female managers within the company. Each
regional entity has specific targets for this that are reviewed on a regular
basis. E.ON SE and other E.ON companies in Germany are subject to the
German Act on Equal Participation of Women and Men in Leadership
Positions in the Private and Public Sector from 1 May 2015. We are committed within this framework to specific objectives related to the proportion of
women in leadership positions in Germany. We go further than the statutory regulations with this in order to cover all levels of management. Our
objectives are as follows:
• Our objective is for the proportion of women at the first management
level in Germany to rise to 23 per cent by 30 June 2017.
• Our objective is for the proportion of women at the second management
level in Germany to rise to 17 per cent by 30 June 2017.
• We want to achieve a 30 per cent share of women in the Supervisory
Board by 2018.
• We want to achieve a 20 per cent share of women in the Management
Board by 2021.

Within the context of our voluntary objective to increase the proportion
of women in leadership positions at E.ON, we review the current status
twice annually and report on this in the Annual Report. We were able to
increase further the proportion of women in leadership positions in 2016.
This is partly attributable to our comprehensive measures aimed at developing the careers of female managers, such as the mentoring programmes.

Ratio of women among management (percentages)1)
15.7

2016

19.6
15.4

20152)

E.ON Germany

18.4

E.ON Group

1) Including board members/managing directors and apprentices
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations
(i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

The proportion of women in the Supervisory Board is currently 27.8 per
cent. The next regular elections are not until 2018. We want to achieve the
30 per cent share of women in the Supervisory Board by then at the latest.

Management approach reviewed

Employees
Diversity and equal opportunity

Progress and measures in 2016
We implemented numerous measures once again in 2016 aimed at encouraging diversity in our company. One of these included increasing our internal
communication efforts: a separate page on the topic of diversity was set up
on our intranet.
We provided subtitles for our Group videos so that those with impaired
hearing can understand them. Training sessions were also held for the
purposes of raising awareness of diversity among our employees. The issue
of diversity was a regular item on the agenda for discussions with the works
council at E.ON SE.
There were also numerous actions implemented within the scope of our
cooperation, initiatives and networks. As part of our cooperation with
Femtec, female students worked on a case for E.ON for four months in our
innovation studio, involving exciting and pioneering projects for the world of
energy for tomorrow.

Ratio of women among total workforce by business unit (percentages)1)
2016

Actions for the annual International Women's Day
Numerous events were held at E.ON on 8 March 2016 to mark International
Women's Day. The aim was to show appreciation for the many women
working for the company and to provide an opportunity for exchanging
information and/or for networking.
The proportion of women as a share of the total workforce was 32.1 per cent
as at 31 December 2016. This represents a slight increase on the previous
year.

20152)

Energy Networks3)

20.1

21.5

Costumer Solutions4)

43.0

39.4

Renewables

21.0

22.7

Corporate Functions/other5)

45.2

45.5

Core Business

33.1

32.9

Non-Core-Business (PreussenElektra)

13.2

12.4

–

35.8

32.1

32.0

Other (divested operations)
E.ON Group

E.ON took part in pride parades in the UK and Sweden aimed at drawing
attention to rights and diversity in the LGBT community.

85

1) Including board members/managing directors and apprentices
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations
(i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
3) Figures include: Germany, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden
4) Figures include: Germany, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Romania, Sweden, UK, ECT
5) Figures include: E.ON SE, EBS (IT+EBUS), Other

Employees
Diversity and equal opportunity

Photo exhibition on living with disability and illness
An unusual photo exhibition took place between April and May 2016 at
our head office in Essen. The exhibition featured portraits of people with a
disability or serious illness, including some of E.ON colleagues. The photos
focused on the individual's beauty and deliberately avoided highlighting the
illness or disability. As such, we wanted to raise awareness of this by providing an unbiased look at other people. Additional texts below the images
provided further details on the lives and medical histories of the individuals
shown. The exhibition enjoyed a very positive reception. It has been created
as a travelling exhibition and is available to all of E.ON's regional entities.
There were 934 severely disabled people or individuals with an equivalent
disability at the German E.ON companies in 2016. This figure had fallen on
the previous year, both in absolute terms as well as in relation to the share
of the overall workforce. The share of severely disabled persons, however,
still remains above the overall German average of 4.7 per cent (as at 2015
according to the Federal Employment Agency).

Integration of refugees into the employment market
The large number of refugees coming to Europe in search of safety and a
better future presents us with a historic challenge. However, it also provides
major opportunities if these people can be integrated successfully into our
society. We believe that integration will succeed primarily as a result of
access to education and the employment market.

97

– Our workforce was made up of so many different
nationalities in 2016 (2015: 96).

86

Proportion of employees with severe disability (percentages)1)
2016

20152)

Energy Networks3)

6.3

6.5

Costumer Solutions4)

3.9

4.4

Renewables

0.2

0.0

Corporate Functions/other5)

3.1

3.3

Core Business

5.1

5.3

Non-Core-Business (PreussenElektra)

7.8

7.8

Other (divested operations)

0.0

0.0

E.ON Group

5.4

5.7

1) Excluding board members/managing directors
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations
(i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
3) Figures include: Germany
4) Figures include: Germany, ECT
5) Figures include: E.ON SE, EBS (IT+EBUS), Other

Together with our German subsidiaries Avacon, Bayernwerk, E.DIS and
HanseWerk, we have taken over the sponsorship of the German project
"Durchstarten mit Energie" (Get started with energy). The programme
provides support to refugees in finding employment. The initial focus in the
courses that prepare individuals for professional life is on developing their
knowledge of German and on supporting job searches. Participants with
a good knowledge of German can then start an apprenticeship at E.ON. In
applicant training sessions we provide information on the interview process
in Germany and on how to complete application forms.

87

Employees
Diversity and equal opportunity

Promoting discussions between young and old
Young and older employees have been able to discuss their capabilities and
knowledge with each other since 2016 as part of our “Reverse Mentoring"
programme. The aim is to create cross-generational understanding and to
encourage networking. The programme is currently available to employees
of E.ON Business Services (EBS) and of our regional entities in Sweden and
the UK. There are plans to extend the programme to all entities.
As at year-end, the average age in the E.ON Group was 42. This is comparable with average ages at other DAX 30 companies. The age structure
of E.ON's employees reflects the demographic shift of people of working
age in Germany: around 18 per cent of our employees were 30 years old or
younger in 2016, with 55 per cent between 31 and 50 and around 27 per
cent older than 50.

Age profile total workforce in 2016 (percentages)1)
under 20

15,4
18,4

21–25
26–30

15,7
19,6

31–35
36–40
41–45
46–50

Awards for diversity
We received the Total-E-Quality Award for the third time in a row in 2016:
the honour was awarded to us for our exemplary human resources policy
commitment to diversity and equal opportunities. In Sweden we were
awarded the 2016 prize for best multi-generational employer.

51–55
56–60
over 60
0
Men

2

4

6

Women

1) Including board members/managing directors and apprentices

8

10

12

Employees
Employee development

88

Promoting talent,
boosting development
We also want to continue competing in the future and to develop new areas of growth. We rely primarily on our employees' knowledge and expertise for
this. Our goal is to employ the right people in the right positions in the Group at all times. The current changes in the energy market also represent new
challenges for our human resources management. Yet, at the same time, increasing digitalisation also presents the opportunity to attract employees from
different and more diverse talent pools.

Integrated approach to further training
We want to find the right employees for our company, recruit them and develop their capabilities in a targeted manner. We need effective HR management
in order to achieve this. We ensure that we also have sufficient numbers of qualified professionals available in the future, based on various development
programmes. Our Group-wide talent management opens up attractive career prospects, in particular to qualified expert staff and future leaders. In addition
to focusing on "traditional" management careers, we also want to enable employees to embark on individual and flexible career paths and have career paths
for experts and project managers.
Offering further learning opportunities for our employees is the cornerstone of our human resources management. We want our employees to be able to
decide for themselves on the content, duration, location, pace and methods for their further training. We encourage a culture of learning for which employees
assume responsibility for themselves based on a wide range of extra-occupational programmes, courses, workshops and materials for self-study.
Responsibilities
Since 2013 our Global Learning Center of Competence (CoC) offers virtual learning as well as training sessions and publishes a Group-wide further training catalogue for this.
The Business Service Center in Berlin is responsible transactional activity related to learning.
Encouraging and developing our employees is one of E.ON management staff's key tasks. They receive support from various tools for this: our leadership guide, for example,
provides assistance with preparing and holding employee feedback talks.

Employees
Employee development

89

Internal guidelines and policies
"International transfer policy" (2011)

This policy governs temporary deployments of our employees abroad. The average length of a deployment abroad is between
two and three years.

Procedures
Procedure for global recruitment of
management staff (revised 2015)

The aim of the procedure applicable across the entire Group is to optimise the placement of management positions, ensure
greater transparency in the recruitment process and promote equal opportunities. The "Placement Conference" is the main
element here, where HR representatives from various divisions within the company have the opportunity to discuss open positions and potential candidates.

Talent reporting and management review
process

We monitor the diversity and success of our talent pools every quarter. In addition, we conduct an annual management review
process that reviews our talent and succession strength.

Programmes and projects
E.ON training initiative (since 2003)

The initiative contributes towards the Germany-wide training pact. It supports young people in transitioning from school to
work, based on school projects, internships and training courses. It also includes programmes for refugees.

E.ON Graduate Programme (EGP)

The EGP recruits highly qualified graduates for a 24-month programme. The trainees spend time at three to six placements in
various company entities and departments during this programme. This way, they can get to know our company from different
perspectives. The EGP is offered in six countries (Germany, the UK, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania).

Additional educational and further
training courses

The following courses are just a selection of what is on offer:
• getAbstract: The largest range of abstracts from professional, management and career manuals globally is available to our
employees free of charge.
• Talent Breakfast: This event facilitates exchange and discussion between talents and management staff in Germany.
• Entry-level programme for university graduates: This trainee programme is tailored to the needs of the regional suppliers. It
provides training to trainees in various specific disciplines.

Employees
Employee development

Progress and measures in 2016
We also successfully implemented various efforts in 2016 with the aim of
recruiting qualified talents in our Group and of ensuring continuous further
training for our employees. Every employee took part in an average of 1.7
days of classroom training in 2016 (measured against the average workforce
as a whole) and EUR 811 per employee was spent on training. Our "E.ON
Graduate Programme" was one of the most sought-after opportunities at
entry level, with 64 trainees starting the programme in 2016 across the
entire Group. We received over 3,500 applications.
Our attractiveness as an employer was also confirmed by external
validation in 2016. This included being named "top employer" once again
in Germany by the Top Employer Institute. This certification also takes
account of our talent strategy along with the various learning and development opportunities.

"Learning Take Away Days" – our new innovative training
format
We offered a different training format in 2016 at several sites in Germany
and Romania in the form of the "Learning Take Away Days". The format
consists of 25 short learning elements each lasting 90 minutes. This way
we offer all employees “Grab & Go” learning sessions. It was a major success
with over 1,000 employees participating. The training is targeted to improve
daily productivity. The sessions saw Senior Vice Presidents learning alongside our apprentices.

Learning app provides updates on further training courses
We introduced a new "Learning Management System" in 2016 with our
learning app. Among other things, our employees can use this tool to
get updates on our diverse further training courses and book, cancel and
earmark their own internal training sessions. The app is aimed at encouraging all employees to engage in continuous further training.

90

Personal and professional development using the new model
of competence
In 2016, we adopted the new Group-wide model of competence grow@E.ON,
which had been in development since 2015. It provides a summary of the
skills that our employees and managers require across all departments and
countries. We defined some core skills for this applicable to all employees.
Additional requirements were also defined e.g. for management staff and
project managers. Topics such as the focus on customers and responsibility
are given greater priority than before. The model ensures transparency in
terms of our expectations of our employees and provides concrete assistance
with personal and professional development. The new model of competence
forms the basis for employee development as well as for selecting applicants
and recruitment. grow@E.ON is being implemented in stages. We are
currently developing an accompanying e-learning course that all employees
will undergo by the middle of 2017.

New "2020 Leadership" programme
The new strategic direction for our company provides new challenges for
our management staff. We continued to implement a development programme in 2016 in conjunction with internationally renowned supplier Duke
Corporate Education with the aim of providing transformational learning.
A 3.5-day training module forms the centrepiece of the programme. Current
issues were worked through in active learning units, including for example:
how do I convey E.ON's new vision, values and objectives to my employees?
How do I establish an understanding for customer relationships and drive
digitalisation forward?

Employees
Employee development

91

E.ON Abroad
The pilot project "E.ON Abroad" was launched in the reporting year by
E.ON Germany. Trainees and students on dual study programmes had the
opportunity to acquire international career skills in Romania between June
and November 2016. They spent around six weeks at each of the various
departments in order to gain an insight into local processes.

Apprentices in Germany
2016

971

2015

990

1)

1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations
(i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

We employed a total of 971 trainees and students on dual study programmes
in Germany at year-end. This corresponds to a training quota of 5.3 per cent
(previous year: 5.5 per cent). We took on 90 per cent of these trainees in
2016 after they had completed their training (previous year: 89 per cent).
As in the previous year, the number of apprentices offered permanent and
temporary contracts is very high (274 of 303 = 90 per cent, previous year
331 of 370 = 89 per cent). This helps us counteract skill shortage.

1) Kennzahlenerhebung gemäß Konzernabschluss ohne nicht fortgeführte Aktivitäten (d. h. bereinigt um Uniper)

Employees
Working conditions

92

Shaping change
Globalised markets and a growing shortage of skilled workers in Europe mean that creating attractive working conditions is more and more important for
companies. This is the only way that they will be able to recruit qualified and motivated employees and retain them over the long term. Staff management
also needs to adjust to a more global work environment and to changes in employee age structure in the industrialised nations as a result of demographic
change. The year 2016 marked E.ON’s new strategic direction. Our job is to support our employees through changes, create attractive working conditions
and account for changes in employee requirements.

Flexible working models, attractive remuneration
We want to create optimum working conditions so that our employees work effectively and are able to achieve the optimum balance between their careers
and private lives. Flexible work-time models have been in place at our company for some years. We also provide support through various programmes for
periods when employees are exposed to greater pressures in their private lives.
We appreciate high achievement as this motivates our employees. Attractive remuneration as well as additional occupational benefits are therefore a matter
of course for us. We also have different reward and remuneration mechanisms aimed at ensuring appreciation of particular achievement.

Internal guidelines and policies
Group "Working Hours" work agreement
(2015)

Among other things, the agreement in Germany states that all employees have the opportunity of working remotely from
home. They can also take advantage of longer periods of downtime (sabbaticals). A flexible working policy operates through
E.ON.

Employees
Working conditions

Overall "Family and Career" work agreement (2010; revised 2011)

93

The work agreement defines how we encourage part-time and remote work and the offers that we make to our employees at
E.ON for childcare, maternity protection, parental leave, sabbaticals and providing care for other family members. It also governs our cooperation with the pme family service and states how our employees are able to take advantage of this service.

Cooperation
pme family service

In conjunction with our cooperation partner pme, we offer our employees in Germany access to various advisory offers and
services related to combining career and private life. Among other things, we provide support with organising and financing
care services and also offer psychosocial support.

Programmes and projects
Support with getting back into work

We support our employees with getting back to work following longer absences, e.g. as a result of parental leave or illness.
We give employees on parental leave the opportunity to provide holiday or sickness cover if they wish as a way of following
the latest developments in the company. Our employees in Germany can also extend their parental leave by a fourth year.

Care for children and relatives in need of
care

We provide subsidised childcare places for young children in cooperation with day-care centres and crèches. We also arrange
ad-hoc care in emergencies and offer a comprehensive holiday programme for our employees' children in cooperation with the
pme family service.
Employees with relatives in need of care can obtain advice on inpatient and outpatient care. We place nurses, senior citizen
carers and home help in cooperation with the pme family service.

Employee involvement

We involve our employees closely in corporate processes. For this we have established the following measures:
• mandatory appraisal reviews
• regular employee surveys (the Pulse Check)
• the "Ask the Board" discussion forum where all employees are regularly invited to chat live with the Management Board
• various blogs that allow employees to discuss issues with managers and colleagues

Occupational benefits

Aside from employee salaries, the social and other benefits that we provide include:
• occupational pension scheme
• employer-funded Group accident insurance, which provides cover during out-of-work hours as well as for accidents at work
or when travelling to and from work
• individual asset formation based on employee share programmes

Employees
Working conditions

Progress and measures in 2016
E.ON's new strategic direction was the predominant theme in our
staff management activities for 2016. The existing E.ON business will be
continued by the two independent companies E.ON and Uniper as part of
this new direction. We want to provide the best possible support to our
employees with any changes and have defined three priorities for our staff
management activities: preparing employees for what is to come, creating
new opportunities and appreciating their performance.

Agreement on the new strategy
A "joint declaration" on E.ON's new structure was agreed in November 2014
between the Management Board of E.ON, the SE works council and the
Group works council (co-determination). The following agreements made in
the joint declaration have been complied with:
• There has been no reduction in headcount following the Uniper spin-off.
• We have adhered to existing wage agreements and works agreements.
• Pension agreements remained unchanged.
• Ongoing staff development and training measures have continued.
• Co-determination was comprehensively incorporated into the project
work at an early stage within the scope of the well-established cooperation between the company and bodies with right of co-determination. A
project advisory panel was set up for this consisting of leading co-determination representatives from Germany and other European countries.

Restructuring our processes: the Phoenix programme
Following the successful spin-off of Uniper the focus now is on the company's new structure. We launched the Phoenix programme in 2016 in
order to make E.ON fit for the future. It is aimed at optimising structures
and processes, reducing bureaucracy and complexity, ensuring freedom to
make decisions, increasing speed and agility and increasing proximity with
the customer. The result is a leaner company. As part of the programme,
the Management Board also set clear savings targets that we are aiming

94

at through improvements to company structure: we want to reduce costs
in the order of EUR 400 million on a sustainable basis by 2018. The programme is not focused on reducing headcount, although we cannot rule
this out. For this reason, recruiting activity will be limited during the period
of change in the interests of all employees. Given the rapid pace of change
in the markets and increased competition, we need to implement our
transformation quickly and consistently. We are working closely with our
co-determination committees in the Phoenix project. We have laid the foundation for this with the resolution on a joint document on the fundamental
points. The early involvement agreed for the project advisory panel is also
particularly significant here in terms of developing constructive solutions
jointly for which both sides will be responsible.

Revision to our "People Strategy"
Our "People Strategy" describes how we capitalise on our employees'
potential as effectively as possible in order to achieve our corporate
objectives. It became clear in early 2016 that we would need to scrutinise
and adapt this strategy against the background of E.ON's new structure. We
therefore revised our "People Strategy" over the course of the year. It now
focuses more closely on the five values in our corporate vision – “Putting
Our Customer First”, “Working Together”, “Improving & Innovating”,
“Winning Together” and “Acting Responsibly and with an Open Mind”. We
have produced a film aimed at sparking enthusiasm for the changes among
our employees, and which conveys the messages of the "new E.ON" with
emotion. The film was cited as a good example in a study by Promerit AG
of how companies can inform and inspire their employees in the event of
changes.

Employees
Working conditions

New intranet platform introduced
More than 43,000 colleagues across the entire Group have been able to
access our new intranet platform "Connect" since November 2016. It is
similar to a social media platform: our employees are able, for example, to
come together in groups to engage in discussion and cooperation. More
than 1,000 of these "communities" have been formed since its introduction.
The human resources division also has its own closed discussion platform
known as the "Global HR Community". This provides the latest news,
information and opportunities for discussion specifically for the HR team.

Employee survey – Pulse Check
With the fourth Pulse Check, which was carried out at the end of 2016, we
once again surveyed our employees on different aspects of our work, including our vision and strategy, our work with customers and teamwork, the
sense of responsibility as well as general potential for improvement. More
than 11,000 employees took part in the survey. Issues were evaluated on a
scale of 1 (very poor) to 5 (very good). Our scores for the different categories
were between 3.5 and 4.3. The results of the check were communicated
internally in order to highlight potential areas where action is required and
to derive potential measures for improvement.

95

Employees
Key figures

96

Key figures
Employees (general figures)1), 2)
2016

20153)

43,138

43,162

Energy Network4)

16,814

14,932

Customer Solutions5)

19,106

20,860

Renewables

1,082

913

Corporate Functions/other6)

4,102

4,237

Core Business

41,104

40,942

Non-Core-Business (PreussenElektra)

2,034

1,998

–

222

Group employees
Employees by business unit

Other (Divested operations)7)
1) Excluding board members/managing directors and apprentices
2) Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report
3) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
4) Figures include: Germany, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden
5) Figures include: Germany, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Romania, Sweden, UK, ECT
6) Figures include: E.ON SE, EBS (IT+EBUS), Other
7) Including: Poland, Italy, Denmark and several other countries

Employees
Key figures

97

Occupational health and safety
2016

20151)

TRIF combined2), 3)

2.5

2.4

E.ON employees

2.5

2.3

Contractors employees

2.6

2.6

E.ON employees

1.9

1.9

Contractors employees

2.1

2.0

Near miss incidents E.ON employees and contractors employees2)

4,458

6,998

E.ON employees

3,634

4,757

824

2,241

4

2

96.56)

96.5

LTIF2), 4)

Contractors employees
Number of fatal accidents E.ON employees and contractors employees2)
Health rate E.ON employees (percentages)5)
1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
2) Unlike from the general approach of reporting, our safety reporting includes companies in which E.ON holds less than a 50 per cent stake but over which E.ON has operational control.
3) Total Recordable Injury Frequency – The number of work-related accidents and occupational diseases per million hours worked
4) Lost Time Injury Frequency – work-related accidents resulting in lost man hours per million hours worked
5) Including board members/managing directors and apprentices
6) Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report

Employees
Key figures

98

Diversity and equal opportunity1)
2016

20152)

Ratio of women among total workforce (percentages)3)

32.1

32.0

Ratio of women among management across E.ON Group (percentages)4)

19.6

18.4

Ratio of women among management in Germany (percentages)4)

15.7

15.4

Number of employees with severe disabilities in Germany5)

934

970

6

6

5.4

5.7

97

96

2016

20152)

Apprentices in Germany

971

990

Apprentices – ratio in Germany (percentages)

5.3

5.5

Number of apprentices with a severe disability in Group companies located in Germany5)
Proportion of employees with severe disability in Germany (percentages)5)
Number of nationalities
1) Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
3) Including board members/managing directors and apprentices
4) Including board members/managing directors
5) Excluding board members/managing directors, including apprentices

Employee development1)

1) Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

Employees
Key figures

99

Working conditions
2016

20151)

Employees with full time contracts (percentages)2)

92

91

Employees with permanent employment contracts (percentages)2)

95

96

3,5173)

3,937

Employees with collective bargaining agreements (percentages)

84

84

Turnover rate (percentages)2)

5.3

3.5

14.23)

14.3

New hires (headcounts)

4,451

4,207

New hires (FTE)

4,346

4,042

67

67

2,8393)

2,995

Employees with part time contracts

Average length of service (years)2)
New hires

New hires permanent employment contracts (percentages)
Personnel costs (€ in millions)
1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
2) Including board members/managing directors and apprentices
3) Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report

Environment
As an energy company, we play
a key role in climate protection.
This is because the production
and use of conventional energy produces large amounts
of greenhouse gases. We
publish our CO₂ footprint and
provide explicit reporting on
what measures we are taking
to reduce it. As part of our
environmental management
programmes, we also take into
consideration what possible
impacts our operations may
have on the environment and
biodiversity. Our goal is to reduce our resource and energy
consumption and see to it that
our plants and grids do not
pose a threat to species and
habitat diversity.

Environment
Carbon footprint

101

Key role in
climate protection
In 2016, the United Nations (United Nations - UN) climate conference in Marrakech ratified the Paris climate agreement from the previous year. For the first
time, more than 190 countries made a joint pledge to limit global warming to well below 2°C – a clear signal in favour of climate protection. This two-degree
goal can only be achieved if ambitious measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are taken worldwide. Carbon-neutral energy production will play a
central role in this effort. Approximately 40 per cent of all greenhouse gas emissions worldwide are caused by the production of energy.
As an energy company we have a major responsibility in climate protection. The transfer of conventional power generation business to Uniper on January 1,
2016, and our new strategic focus on renewables renewables have resulted in significant reductions in direct CO₂ emissions from our power and heat generation. However, indirect emissions caused by the consumption of electricity and gas by our customers remain high. We intend to apply innovative energy
solutions efficiency improvements that will help our customers reduce their energy consumption. One of the reasons climate protection is a key issue for
us is that worsening climate change can have a negative impact on our business, as extreme weather can cause interruptions or outages at our power plants.
Violent storms can adversely affect the operation of wind turbines, for example.

Transparency in climate reporting
To demonstrate the progress we are making in climate protection and to
provide for direct comparison with our competitors, we have been reporting
transparently on our CO₂ emissions for a number of years. Starting in 2004
we began releasing information on CO₂ emissions from power generation
through the independent, non-profit organisation CDP (formerly: Carbon
Disclosure Project). This is now the fifth year that we have published the
E.ON Group's entire carbon footprint.

In 2016, we were again recognised for our climate reporting by the CDP
as one of the leading companies in the DACH region (Germany, Austria,
Switzerland). CDP acknowledged the quality, processing and transparency
of data that we publish in the annual CDP report on climate change. With a
rating of A-, we are an industry leader in the "Leadership Index", which only
ten per cent of surveyed companies from all industrial sectors manage to
achieve. The CO₂ data that we provided was evaluated by an independent
body.

Environment
Carbon footprint

CDP is one of the largest associations of international investors. Each year,
companies from around the world are asked to publish their CO₂ emissions
as well as their strategies for dealing with climate change. The CDP rating
measures the transparency and detail of a company’s CO₂ reporting.

Comprehensive CO₂ accounting
In calculating our CO₂ emissions, we include the entire value chain –
everything from our suppliers to the end user. In addition to CO₂ emissions
from our power and heat generation, we also include CO₂ emissions from dayto-day business operations not directly related to the generation of power.

At the end of 2016 our total direct and indirect CO₂ emissions stood at around
83.43 million metric tonnes of CO₂.
The globally recognised WRI / WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard serves as the basis for calculating
emissions. CO₂ plays by far the most important role in our greenhouse gas
emissions. Other greenhouse gases such as sulphur hexafluoride (SF₆) or
methane (CH₄) are also important, but they occur only in smaller quantities
in relation to direct CO₂.

Carbon footprint (total CO₂ equivalents in million metric tonnes)
0.02 Business travel
0.03 Employee commuting

75.46

0.03 Fuels combustion
0.06 Owned transport

4.61

Scope 1

1.70 Power and
heat generation
2.82 Fugitive emissions

3.36

Scope 21)

102

0.212) Upstream processes
of purchased fuels
1,26 Transmission and distribution
losses (other network operators)
3.33 Puchased goods/capital goods

0.05 Buildings electricity
consumption (obtained
externally)

27.20 Gas consumption of end
users3)

0.25 Operational electricity
consumption (obtained
externally)

43.41 Electricity consumption of
end users3)

3.06 Transmission and
distribution losses

Scope 3

1) For reasons of materiality, the calculation does not include internal consumption by district heating, however it does include relevant transmission and distribution losses from
electricity and district heating. These result in the largest percentage of Scope 2 emissions.
2) Figure estimated on the basis of previous year values
3) Figures include private, commercial and industrial customers

Environment
Carbon footprint

Direct emissions from our power generation (Scope 1)
Scope 1 comprises emissions from our own plants and facilities used for
example in electricity generation, including CO₂ emissions of methane and
nitrous oxide ( GRI index G4 EN15).
Scope 1 (total CO₂ equivalents in million metric tonnes)
2016

20151)

Generation of power and heat

1.70

77.09

Fugitive emissions

2.82

2.76

Fuels combustion

0.03

0.08

Owned transport

0.06

0.06

Total

4.61

79.99

1) Figures not adjusted for discontinued operations (i.e. not adjusted for Uniper)

Our Scope 1 emissions in 2016 totalled 4.61 million metric tonnes of CO₂.
This value dropped significantly compared to previous years. The reason for
this is related to the transfer of the conventional generation business to a
separate company on January 1. By focusing on electricity generated from
renewables, the figure for CO₂-emissions from the generation of power
and heat fell to 1.7 million metric tonnes. According to the "Greenhouse
Gas Protocol“ and DEFRA environmental reporting guidelines, there are no
direct CO₂ emissions from renewables and these are therefore set to a value
of "0“. The residual amounts of 1.7 million metric tonnes can be attributed
to emissions from facilities such as gas plants for heat generation and from
cogeneration plants that we still own. With respect to these facilities, we
distinguish between those with a capacity of over 20 megawatt, which are
included under the European Union Emission Trading System (EU ETS), and
those with a capacity below 20 megawatt, such as cogeneration plants
(CHP facilities). For emissions from our installations included in the EU-ETS

103

we were required to produce certificates amounting to 1.2 million metric
tonnes CO₂ in 2016. Based on the average price of CO₂, this corresponded to
a market value of EUR 7 million.
In addition, 2.82 million metric tonnes resulted from fugitive emissions produced mainly by gas leaks in our networks. We aim to avoid future leakage
by continuously modernising our gas lines. To reduce emissions from fuel
used in company vehicles (owned transport), we began electrifying our
fleet in 2016.
We no longer report the CO₂ intensity of power generation, because these
values are minimal owing to the reduction in emissions from the production
of power and heat, as previously mentioned, which means they are no longer
significant for us.

Environment
Carbon footprint

Indirect emissions associated with our electricity and heat
consumption (Scope 2)
Scope 2 describes emissions we can influence indirectly. These are caused
for example by the generation of electricity that we acquire for the operation of our facilities, or by losses through the distribution of power in our
own networks.
Scope 2 (total CO₂ equivalents in million metric tonnes)1)
2016

20152)

Internal energy consumption in business
operations (obtained externally)

0.25

0.46

Transmission and districution losses3)

3.06

3.19

Energy consumption by E.ON buildings
(obtained externally)

0.05

0.04

Total

3.36

3.69

1) For reasons of materiality, the calculation does not include internal consumption by district heating, however it
does include relevant transmission and distribution losses from electricity and district heating. These result in the
largest percentage of Scope 2 emissions.
2) Figures not adjusted for discontinued operations (i.e. not adjusted for Uniper)
3) Figures for upstream CO₂ emissions were determined by geographic region ("location-based" method).

Our Scope 2 emissions in 2016 of 3.36 million metric tonnes of CO₂ were
slightly lower than for the previous year. Compared to our other indirect
emissions, this amount is of little relevance. But we want to achieve
improvements here as well: In order to minimise losses in the transmission
and distribution of electricity, we are investing in the optimisation of our
power networks. Besides that, we are also seeking to improve the energy
efficiency of our buildings.

104

According to the "Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance", which was
expanded in 2015, the figure for the electricity procured under Scope 2 is
determined in two ways. In the "location-based" method, emissions are
calculated based on emission factors for specific geographic regions, that
is, without taking into consideration a company's specific energy mix. In the
"market-based" approach, on the other hand, actually occurring emissions
are calculated using an emission factor that takes into account contracts
with energy suppliers. If the exact origin of externally purchased electricity
and the associated emission factor cannot be precisely determined, the
so-called residual mix factor is used. This reflects greenhouse gas emissions
that cannot be clearly assigned to a particular source and is in some cases
significantly higher than the regional energy mix factor. In the table below,
we report for the first time those emissions caused by transmission and
distribution losses, which account for the majority of our Scope 2 emissions,
using both methods. In our carbon footprint, we use the value determined
by the "location-based" method.
Scope 2 GHG Protocol Guidance (total CO₂ equivalents in million metric
tonnes)
2016
Transmission and distribution losses (location-based)

3.06

Transmission and distribution losses (market-based)

4.201)

1) A large part of the losses in the transmission and distribution of electricity in Sweden were offset by the purchase
of green electricity.

Environment
Carbon footprint

105

Other indirect emissions (Scope 3)
Cleaner commuting
Scope 3 includes other indirect emissions that occur in connection with our
business activities. They result chiefly from electricity and gas consumption
by our customers, but also, among other things, from the procurement of
materials and from transmission and distribution losses of electricity in
networks operated by other companies.
Scope 3 (total CO₂ equivalents in million metric tonnes)
2016

20151)

Electricity consumption of end users2)

43.41

55.31

Gas consumption of end users2)

27.20

45.15

Purchased goods/capital goods

3.33

3.883)

Transmission and distribution losses
(other grid operators)

1.26

2.72

0.214)

9.405)

Employee commuting

0.03

0.03

Business travel

0.02

0.02

75.46

116.51

Upstream processes of purchased fuels

Total
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Figures not adjusted for discontinued operations (i.e. not adjusted for Uniper)
Figures include private, commercial and industrial customers
Including procurement of fuels
Figure estimated on the basis of previous year values
Including coal

Our Scope 3 emissions in 2016 totalled 75.45 million metric tonnes of
CO₂. The majority of Scope 3 emissions results from the consumption
of electricity and gas by our customers. These emissions also make up
the major part of our whole carbon footprint now. The decrease in CO₂

The transport sector alone emits around 18 per
cent of Germany’s carbon. Employee commuting
accounts for a big part of this. Better mobility management could therefore make a significant contribution to climate protection. To find promising
ways to improve ours, in 2016 we participated in
Mobil.Pro.Fit.®, a project conducted by B.A.U.M.,
Europe’s largest network of sustainability-minded
companies. We surveyed the employees at three
of our facilities in Germany regarding their mobility
needs, preferred means of transport, and suggestions for improvements. We then took a wide
range of steps – more charge points for electric
cars, home office arrangements, shower facilities
for bike commuters, discounts on public-transport
passes, and climate-awareness days – to make
commuting to E.ON greener.

emissions from gas consumption can be attributed primarily to the fact
that the spin-off of the energy trading business to Uniper included the
transfer of the gas wholesale operations. The decrease in emissions from
end use of electricity is mainly a result of the 3.6 billion kilowatt-hours
drop in electricity sales during the 2016 reporting year. Reducing CO₂
emissions attributable to our customers was brought into greater focus
as a result of our realignment. That's why we are developing new solutions that can help our customers use less energy. In addition, we are of
course also working to reduce Scope 3 emissions that do not result from
our customer's use of electricity and gas. Our travel policy, for instance,
encourages the use of carbon-neutral means of transportation. In 2016,
we began providing a shuttlebus for employees who commute between
Dusseldorf and Essen.

Environment
Environmental management

106

Resource conservation,
environmental protection
With the growth of the world's population, global consumption of valuable resources is also on the rise. Policymakers have responded to these developments with ambitious legal requirements, particularly in Europe: Since 2008, the European Waste Framework Directive, for example, sets clear
requirements for the prevention and recycling of waste. The EU energy efficiency directive from 2012 aims at reducing energy consumption across Europe.
With this in mind, we continuously analyse our own resource and energy consumption and identify potential savings. By doing so, we fulfil legal requirements, save resources, reduce our carbon footprint and cut costs.
Another focus of our environmental management programmes involves reducing the environmental impact of our business activities. In further expanding
renewable energy, it is important to take into account environmental regulations so as to preclude the possibility, for example, that offshore wind turbines
could pose a threat to fish species. The expansion of renewables goes hand-in-hand with the further expansion of our energy networks. Here, too, we need
to bear in mind any potential effects on the environment and ensure that our operations pose no danger to species and habitat diversity. Only by pursuing
ecologically sustainable development will we be able to secure public acceptance of these projects.

Applying the principle of prevention to environmental management
We want to be an environmentally responsible energy partner. For us this means keeping our environmental impacts as small as possible and offering our
customers energy-efficient solutions. And here the preventative principle embodied in the United Nations (UN) is of crucial importance to us – that's why we
are constantly working where possible to see that environmental damage does not occur. Through our energy solutions we are already making a significant
contribution to resource-efficient power generation and helping our customers save energy. But we also want to continuously reduce our own energy consumption as well. We also take care to make efficient use of resources like fresh water and office supplies and to avoid waste. In doing so, we also ensure that
all legal requirements are being met. We have also defined environmental standards of our own, which apply Group-wide and which we require our partners
comply with as well.
For us, human health and safety is closely related to environmental protection. This is why we have taken a forward-looking approach to the management of
health, safety and environment (HSE) by consolidating everything under one roof.

Environment
Environmental management

107

Responsibilities
Our board and senior HSE management teams share responsibility for our performance in HSE. They are responsible for our strategies and promote continuous improvement. In addition, all employees are actively involved in HSE activities and are committed to making sure we achieve our goals. You can find a description of our HSE organisational structure in the chapter on sustainability structures.
Despite all the precautionary measures we take, environmental incidents cannot be entirely ruled out. When such incidents occur, our
system sees to it that the impact is kept to the minimum possible.

incident and crisis management

Principles und policies
E.ON Health, Safety and Environment Policy Statement (2013; revised
2014)

Through this declaration of principles, we commit, among other things, to reducing our ecological footprint and ensuring
operational efficiency. We examine a facility's entire life cycle – from planning up to decommissioning. This is how we seek to
achieve the most efficient use of resources.

Internal guidelines and policies
Management Group policy HSE (2013;
updated in 2015)

This policy defines roles, responsibilities, management concepts and reporting lines to HSE that apply Group-wide.

Business governance Group policy HSE
management (2013)

This Group directive defines minimum requirements and management tools for standardised processes relating to HSE. It obligates all global and regional units1) to introduce an externally certified environmental management system that complies with
the international standards ISO 14001 or EMAS.
1) "Exceptions are allowed if the level of risk borne by a management unit in performing routine and non-routine activities/work processes is low." (Business governance Group
policy HSE management; p. 7)

Business governance Group policy
procurement (updated in 2016)

This directive defines processes by which we identify HSE risks when purchasing a service or product. New suppliers undergo
a qualification process based on risk. Any deficiencies must be eliminated. Depending on the size of the supplier, we require,
among other things, certification under ISO 14001 or EMAS III or we conduct HSE audits.

Environment
Environmental management

108

External frameworks and commitments
Ten Principles of the United Nations
“Global Compact” (since 2005)

With our affirmation of the "Global Compact" principles, we have committed to comply with environmental protection standards.

Procedures
Environmental impact assessments
and monitoring

We continuously register potential environmental risks in the planning, construction and operation of our power plants and
energy networks. We also conduct regular environmental impact assessments (EIA). We consistently meet the requirements
set by public authorities and consult where necessary with external environmental experts. EIA findings must be given due
consideration by all project managers.

“Prevent!” incident management system (since 2013)

Our units use this online system to detect incidents that involve risk as well as environmentally relevant events. This lets us
analyse the events systematically and develop specific measures to minimise risks. We differentiate between four levels of environmental incidents based on certain characteristics: 0 (no actual damage), 1, 2 and 3 (serious impact). All serious incidents are
subject to a 24-hour reporting requirement. Serious incidents include, for example, irreparable damage to protected habitats.

Central approval platform for the
construction and operation of plants
(since 2012)

With the aid of this platform, we can evaluate regulatory changes at the national, European and international levels that may
potentially have an impact on our systems. Each regional unit has designated a contact person. This person uses the platform
to publicise legally relevant changes that have a major impact on our business. The contact person also assesses the challenges
we face as a consequence of these changes.

Projects to increase the energy efficiency of E.ON buildings

We identify potential energy savings by evaluating our energy consumption and analysing our needs. Recommendations for
energy savings projects are promulgated as a result. These also include assessments of cost effectiveness. Based on these
recommendations, we then draw up plans for appropriate efficiency measures.

Environment
Environmental management

109

Progress and measures in 2016
Making networks safer for birds
In 2016 we concentrated mainly on evaluating the current state of the
environmental and energy management systems at our global and regional
units. We also set specific targets for 2016-2018 regarding environmental
and energy management. These objectives include introducing by 2018 an
environmental management system that complies with ISO 14001 and a
general energy management system in all units (either per ISO 50001 or DIN
EN 16247-1). In 2016, 95 per cent of our companies were already certified
under ISO standard 14001. We also want to encourage all employees to get
involved in environmental protection and energy efficiency at the company.
We have listed all our goals in the HSE work programmes for 2016-2018.

Energy management systems implemented in accordance
with ISO 50001
In 2016 we introduced energy management systems compliant with ISO
50001 at all E.ON companies in Germany. This will help us identify potential
energy savings and systematically improve our efficiency. To this end, all our
companies have formulated their own energy efficiency targets. Some of
these energy management systems were certified externally during 2016.
Prior to this, our own employees – so-called internal auditors – performed
audits to determine whether we fulfilled the requirements of the ISO standard. These employees received training in the requirements of the standard
using web-based seminars.
With the introduction of energy management systems, we are meeting the
requirement to implement the EU directive on energy efficiency under the
German Energy Services Act (EDL-G). In 2016, we introduced and successfully certified energy management systems per ISO 50001 in the Czech
Republic and Hungary.

Power lines pose a big hazard to birds. We put the
lines up, so it’s on us to make them safer wherever
we operate. In partnership with the Czech Society for Ornithology (CSO), we’re identifying the
segments of our Czech distribution system that
are crucial for bird conservation so that our safety
measures – like bird-diverting line markers – do
the most good. We’re also involving bird-watching
enthusiasts in this effort. ZSE, our subsidiary in
west Slovakia, works closely with Raptor Protection Slovakia (RPS) and has supported RPS’s
flagship project, LIFE Energia (lifeenergia.sk), since
2003. The project encompasses equipping power
lines with bird-diverting markers to reduce raptor
collisions, mounting nest boxes on power pylons,
and rehabilitating injured raptors.

Improvements in Group-wide dialogue
In 2016, we established a Group-wide competence network of energy
experts. It allows employees responsible for energy management at our
various units to engage in an exchange of ideas. This dialogue has already
led to the distillation of working priorities with respect to energy efficiency.
During the reporting period, moreover, the E.ON energy team formed working
groups to deal with the collection of our energy data. The energy team is
made up of energy coordinators with our companies in Germany. Among
other things, the working groups are seeking to improve the user-friendliness
of data systems. In 2017 we plan to continue the international dialogue
between our environmental experts. In addition, we would like to establish a
network for employees to identify relevant environmental issues.

Environment
Environmental management

110

Energy efficiency buildings enhanced
Smarter schools
In order to reduce our energy consumption, we must focus on increasing
the efficiency of our buildings. The increased use of LED lighting makes a
contribution in that regard. Since 2016 intelligent LED lighting systems have
been used in selected locations in the UK, Italy, Hungary and Romania. In
addition, we have also introduced advanced building energy management
at a site in the UK, resulting in annual savings of more than EUR 76,000 in
electricity costs. In 2016, we installed a system at our headquarters in Essen
that lets us display in real time the energy consumed by lighting, ventilation,
elevators and other building technology and equipment. This provides us
with better control of our energy consumption and lets us better manage
cost trends. The system is currently in trial mode. In order to encourage our
employees to save energy, our subsidiary, E.ON Germany will conduct a
motivational campaign, "mission E", put together by EnergieAgentur.NRW.

Kids go to school to get smarter. We’re helping them
find ways to make their school buildings smarter too.
In partnership with ŽIVICA, a leading Slovak environmental organisation, ZSE launched a programme to
encourage schools to conduct practical and educational activities that reduce their energy use, shrink
their carbon footprint, and have a positive impact on
the surrounding environment. In 2016 the programme
involved five schools in west Slovakia that implemented
a total of ten energy-saving and environmental projects.
ZSE and ŽIVICA are extending the programme to other
schools in 2017.

Efficiency of wind parks increased
Compared to conventional generation plants, renewables are associated
with lower CO₂ emissions and other harmful discharges. However, the
efficiency of existing wind farms can be further improved. Particularly in the
case of onshore wind parks, replacing old systems with new ones (so-called
repowering) can increase output. In 2016, we made the decision to replace
several of the systems at two German wind parks that were already more
than 15 years old. This repowering effort will more than double the performance of one of the wind farms, while increasing the performance of the
second more than threefold. This will increase energy output by a factor
of six and eight, respectively. Meanwhile, the number of wind turbines is
reduced. We are continually examining other ways to improve the efficiency
of our existing wind farms.

Taking the entire life cycle into consideration
In 2015 a revised version of the international environmental management
standard ISO 14001 was issued. It now calls on companies to look at the
entire life cycle of its systems. It calls for attention to be focused above
all on those processes that take place outside a company, over which the
company can nevertheless exercise guidance and influence. To meet these
new requirements, we developed an evaluation methodology in 2016,
which we then tested at our companies in Germany. During an initial phase,
this allows us to examine which parts of the life cycle of the activities or
departments observed lie within our sphere of influence. The method is to
be implemented Group-wide in 2017 through the relevant environmental
expert working groups.

Environment
Environmental management

Air emissions

111

NOx emissions (metric tonnes)1)

The transfer of conventional generation operations to Uniper on January 1,
2016 resulted in significant changes in terms of our air emissions. Coalfired power plants, for example, which were transferred to Uniper as part
of conventional generation business, had been the main source of sulphur
dioxide (SO₂), nitric oxide (NOx), dust and mercury. The remaining amounts
of SO₂- and NOx being emitted into the air can be attributed to gas-fired
facilities for heat generation, such as communal heating and cogeneration
plants (CHP), which we still own.

1,990.8

2016
39.4

197.3

142.6

801.8

495.0

835.9

20152)
150.5

In accordance with our reporting approach, last year's figures were
adjusted to reflect discontinued activities now controlled by Uniper.

840.8

111.5

Germany

47.8

Czech Republic

Hungary

Sweden

United Kingdom

1) Possible variations in totals through rounding of numbers
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted
for Uniper)

E.ON Woods
Environmentalists say “plant a tree, save the
planet.” E.ON Italia is doing its part. Since 2011,
E.ON Italia has planted a tree for each new customer who signs up for a gas supply product
called E.ON Green Gas. Customers can also use
loyalty points to have trees planted. Reforestation offsets carbon emissions, promotes
biodiversity, and beautifies the landscape.
“I boschi E.ON” (E.ON Woods) now consist
of more than 28,000 trees in nine areas around
Italy. E.ON Italia aims to reach 60,000 trees by
the end of 2017, making E.ON Woods one of
Italy’s biggest reforestation projects.

NOx emissions rose to 1990.8 metric tonnes in 2016, up from 835.9 metric
tonnes in the previous year. However, this seemingly significant increase by
more than double can be traced primarily to changes in data collection. In
2016, plants under 20 megawatt, such as CHP plants, which are not part of
the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS), were included in
the survey for the first time. The comparability of the two values is therefore limited. The actual trend cannot be assessed reliably until next year.

Environment
Environmental management

Waste reduction

SO2 emissions (metric tonnes)1)
3.8

68.0

2016

Hazardous and non-hazardous waste as well as ash, slag and gypsum
likewise were previously produced in substantial quantities through
conventional generation operations. This is why we no longer report on
the quantity of ash and slag as well as gypsum. However, hazardous and
non-hazardous waste still occurs, both in our business operational – and
project-related activities – such as in network operations or during the
dismantling of our German nuclear power plants. In handling waste, we
differentiate between waste for disposal and recovered waste.

307.7
0.1

112

235.7

12.4 0.8

20152)

376.4
355.8

7.5

Hazardous waste (metric kilotonnes)
Germany

Czech Republic

Hungary

Sweden

United Kingdom

1) Possible variations in totals through rounding of numbers
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations
(i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

The total amount of SO₂ discharged in 2016 stood at 307.7 metric tonnes,
which was 68.7 or 18.2 per cent below that of the previous year. The
decrease is due to E.ON's transfer of a large thermal power plant in the
Czech Republic. SO₂ emissions rose in Sweden and the UK, which as with
NOx emissions can be attributed to a change in data collection.

2016

21.5

20151)
Recovered

18.2

6.2

27.7
14.0

32.2

Disposed

1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for
Uniper)

The total amount of hazardous waste dropped to 27.7 metric kilotonnes in
2016, marking a 14.2 per cent reduction over last year. In all, 77.6 per cent of
accumulated hazardous waste was recovered.
The increase in the amount of recovered waste by 3.2 metric kilotonnes can
be attributed primarily to the outage of the biomass power plant Stevens
Croft in the UK in 2016. As a consequence, some power plant components
had to be replaced and miscellaneous maintenance work carried out.
Therefore, the amount of recovered waste arising from business operations
increased. The reason for the sharp 7.8 metric kilotonnes drop in disposed
waste is related to the decline in hazardous waste incurred from the dismantling of nuclear power plants by our operating unit PreussenElektra.

Environment
Environmental management

Non-hazardous waste (metric kilotonnes)
2016

21.1

20151)
Recovered

7.8

In 2016, the cost of water use for nuclear power plants totalled around EUR
22 million. Water system maintenance costs amounted to EUR 4.8 million.
Contractors are also expected to manage water responsibly. This is required
through binding supplementary terms for goods and services.

28.9
39.4

113

10.7

50.1

PE collates water data in an overall water balance. This provides an overview of water withdrawal and discharge.

Disposed

1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for
Uniper)

The amount of non-hazardous waste fell in 2016 by 42.3 per cent compared
with the previous year to 28.9 metric kilotonnes. 72.9 per cent of that was
recovered. The sharp decline in both – recovered and disposed waste – can
be attributed, again, primarily to the fact that less non-hazardous waste was
generated by our activities in nuclear decommissioning in both operational –
and project-related operations in 2016.
Information on radioactive waste can be found in the chapter on
power.

nuclear

Non-core business: water management at PreussenElektra
Our previous conventional generation business – including hydropower –
has been under Uniper's control since the start of 2016. Because of this,
water currently plays a role as a resource used in nuclear power generation
only. In nuclear power plants, which are operated by PreussenElektra (PE),
water is used both as a coolant and as process water for power generation.
PE seeks to make sustainable and efficient use of water resources. This
includes reducing water consumption and ensuring a high level of water
quality at nuclear power plants. It goes without saying that all legal requirements for the withdrawal and discharge of water are met. Mechanical
cleaning processes, the non-use of biocides and constant temperature
control of the cooling water return help protect water ecosystems.

Water balance of PreussenElektra (million cubic metres)
2016

20151)

Fresh water withdrawal

2,355.5

2,409.0

Fresh water discharge

2,329.3

2,374.2

26.2

34.8

Fresh water consumption

1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for
Uniper)

Fresh water withdrawal used mostly as cooling water comes almost
exclusively from rivers. The volume of fresh water withdrawal in 2016 fell
by 54 million cubic metres compared with the previous year owing to plant
shutdowns. PE directed 98.8 per cent of the total fresh water withdrawal of
2355.5 million cubic metres back into rivers. Around 26 million cubic metres
of fresh water evaporated into the atmosphere through the cooling towers
of nuclear power plants.

Environment
Key figures

114

Key figures
Carbon emissions
2016

20151)

Scope 1

4.61

79.98

Scope 2

3.36

3.68

Scope 3

75.46

116.52

Total (CO₂ equivalents in million metric tonnes)

83.43

200.18

2016

20151)

382.0

540.0

CO₂ emissions (CO₂ equivalents in million metric tonnes)

1) Figures not adjusted for discontinued operations (i.e. not adjusted for Uniper)

Energy

Energy consumption within the organisation (million GJ)
1) Key figures not adjusted for discontinued operations (i.e. not adjusted for Uniper)

Environment
Key figures

115

Environmental management
2016

20151)

95

–

4693)

851

233)

76

4463)

775

0

0

Category 2

10

29

Category 1

119

102

369

304

0

0

2016

20151)

SO₂ emissions (metric tonnes)

307.7

376.4

NO X emissions (metric tonnes)

1,990.8

835.9

Share of sites with ISO 14001 certification (percentages)
Provisions for environmental remediation and similar obligations (€ in millions)2)
short-term
long-term
Number of environment-related incidents
Category 3 (serious impact)

Category 0 (no actual damage)
Number of incidents as measured on the seven-step International Nuclear Event Scale (INES)4)
1)
2)
3)
4)

Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
To guarantee funds for potential redevelopment and water protection measures and to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites
Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report
Additional information in the chapter on "nuclear power"

Air emissions

1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

Environment
Key figures

116

Waste
2016

20151)

Total waste (metric kilotonnes)2)

57.0

82.9

Share of total amount of waste recycled (percentages)3)

74.7

69.6

Total amount of hazardous waste (metric kilotonnes)

27.7

32.2

Total amount of non-hazardous waste (metric kilotonnes)

28.9

50.1

423.8

490.0

20.4

105.4

2016

20152)

Fresh water withdrawal (million cubic metres)

2,355.5

2,409.0

Fresh water discharge (million cubic metres)

2,329.3

2,374.2

26.2

34.8

Low and intermediate-level nuclear waste (metric tonnes)4)
High-level nuclear waste (metric tonnes)4)
1)
2)
3)
4)

Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
Consists of: radioactive, hazardous and non-hazardous waste
Consists of: percentage of recycled hazardous and non-hazardous waste
Additional information in the chapter on "nuclear power"

Water1)

Fresh water consumption (million cubic metres)
1) Figures just include non-core business activities (see water balance of PreussenElektra)
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

Supply chain
We attach great importance to ensuring
that social and ecological standards
are adhered to – and this applies to our
supply chain as well. Our suppliers must
provide appropriate working conditions,
engage in ethical business practices
and ensure respect for human rights. To
this end, we identify possible risks and
use appropriate measures to deal with
them through our supplier relationship
management efforts.

Supply chain
Supplier management

118

Commitment to a
sustainable supply chain
We are dependent on numerous suppliers who provide us with different products and services (non-fuels) as well as biomass (fuel). We can only be economically successful if they supply us both reliably and in accordance with contract. We consider it very important that our suppliers meet high social and
environmental standards. This applies in particular to suppliers from countries that are not members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) where there is a greater risk of violations of social and environmental norms. Any violation of standards can result in an enormous loss
of reputation on our part.
Our cogeneration plants make use of woody biomass. As an alternative fuel, it makes a significant contribution to reducing CO₂. However, in procuring the
woody biomass, care must be taken that deforestation does not produce changes in the microclimate, that no animal or plant habitats are lost and that the
landscape is not altered.

Strict requirements on all suppliers
Our aim is to ensure adequate working conditions, apply ethical business practices and prevent human rights violations. We require the same from our
business partners in the supply chain. To achieve this, we have developed policies that apply Group-wide and introduced various management processes. Our
policies incorporate the practices and standards from our Code of Conduct as well as the principles of the United Nations' "Global Compact". In our policies
for the non-fuel procurement we also recognise the UN's "Universal Declaration of Human Rights" (UDHR) as well as the conventions of the International
Labour Organization (ILO).

Supply chain
Supplier management

119

Internal guidelines and policies
General Terms and Conditions for purchase contracts (GTC)1) (updated 2015)

Our General Terms and Conditions (GTC) apply to purchasing contracts with non-fuel suppliers. They contain, among other
things, clauses relating to health, safety and environmental protection (Health, Safety and Environment - HSE) as well as
quality assurance. The GTC obliges our non-fuel suppliers to comply with our "Supplier Code of Conduct" and the principles of
the "UN Global Compact". Since 2015, they also include the pledge that both E.ON and our non-fuel suppliers take all necessary
precautions to minimise compliance risks.

Supplier Code of Conduct1) (formerly
"Principles for responsible procurement"
2008; updated 2016)

The Supplier Code of Conduct contains binding Group-wide standards on the subject of human rights, working conditions,
environmental hazards and ethical business practices. The Code is binding on all non-fuel suppliers; in addition, suppliers of
uranium and solid biomass1) pledge compliance by contract.
1) with the exception of biomass suppliers from Sweden

Business governance Group policy procurement1) (updated in 2016)

This policy lays down the principles, processes and responsibilities for non-fuel procurement that apply Group-wide. Among
other things, it defines how we identify and minimise potential HSE risks. In addition, it regulates the processes for supplier
qualification, supplier evaluation as well as risk assessment. Depending on the size of the supplier, we also request certification
under OHSAS 18001 or conduct an HSE audit.

Biomass Purchasing Amendment2)
(2010)

This document defines our sustainability requirements for the procurement of biomass. This also includes risk assessments,
supplier audits as well as provisions for joint ventures. The amendment is an integral part of all contracts with biomass
suppliers. They undertake to ensure respect for human rights and protect the general living conditions of persons affected by
biomass production. They must also ensure biodiversity and environmental quality.

Processes
Supplier qualification1)

New non-fuel suppliers that meet one of the following criteria must undergo a supplier qualification process:
• an expected annual business volume of EUR 500,000 for products or EUR 100,000 for services
• suppliers with a medium to high risk potential with respect to HSE, irrespective of the expected business volume
The process consists of a pre-qualification and a qualification process. In addition, optional measures such as product and service tests, audits of the production sites, supplier locations or sample orders may be added. Risks relating to the environment,
social or governance (ESG) factors are included in the assessment.

Supply chain
Supplier management

120

Supplier risk assessments1)

Non-fuel suppliers with an annual volume of orders of more than EUR 5 million are of particular strategic importance to us.
They are subjected to a two-year risk assessment in the areas of environment, sustainable procurement, fair business practices
and working conditions.

Supplier evaluation and development1), 2)

With respect to orders with a volume of more than EUR 500,000, the supplier shall be evaluated according to twelve criteria
after rendering services. Two of these criteria relate to sustainability: environmental regulations and mandatory safety requirements. In addition, the quality of products and services as well as adherence to delivery date are also evaluated. Findings from
the supplier's self-assessment and on-site audits are also included in the results. Together with the supplier, it is determined
which areas still have potential for improvement; measures and deadlines for implementation are then agreed upon. With
respect to biomass suppliers, this supplier evaluation is required at a contract volume of more than five gigawatt-hours.

Supplier compliance check1) (since 2015)

Using the supplier compliance check, we verify whether new suppliers meet our requirements with regard to antitrust and
criminal law. This test, which takes place as part of the non-fuel supplier prequalification process, was made mandatory
throughout the Group in 2015 in order to reduce reputation and liability risks.

"E.ON Värme Sverige"2) (since 2014)

We have been using this model since 2014 to evaluate our biomass suppliers in Sweden with respect to corporate social responsibility (CSR).

Industry initiatives
econsense – forum for sustainable
development of German business e. V.1),2)
(since 2010)

1) applies to non-fuel suppliers
2) applies to fuel suppliers

econsense is an association of leading businesses and German business organisations with operations around the world. Since
the foundation of the forum, we have been involved in various working groups, including one on "sustainability in the supply
chain". As part of the "National Action Plan for Economic Affairs and Human Rights" (NAP), we were involved in the conceptualisation and development of a human rights training module in 2016 through the "Supply Chain Management" working group.

Supply chain
Supplier management

Progress and measures in 2016
The central focus of our work in 2016 was on the further development
of our non-fuel supplier qualification and our risk assessment model. We
launched a number of different measures as part of this effort, including
revising the guidelines and the questionnaire for supplier qualification. The
guideline and the training documents for the risk assessment model were
also updated as was the definition of and responsibilities for conducting the
risk assessments. For the first time, all non-fuel supplier evaluations were
also consolidated and evaluated throughout the Group in order to provide
data that would serve as a basis for monitoring supplier services and to
derive suitable improvement measures on a case-by-case basis.
In addition, we began to develop specialised training on sustainability
in the supply chain for all procurement employees. The aim is to convey
knowledge and to raise the awareness of our employees on issues relating
to sustainability.

CSR rating of our most important non-fuel suppliers
In 2016, we conducted a pilot project together with EcoVadis, an external
provider of CSR ratings. Between July and December2016, EcoVadis
analysed more than 200 of our most important non-fuel suppliers with a
purchasing volume of more than EUR 5 million. By doing so we were able to
gain a comprehensive overview of our key suppliers’ CSR activities, compile
strength-weakness profiles and, where necessary, use this information to
derive action plans for improvements. We plan to continue our efforts in this
regard in 2017.

Sustainability figures acquired
In 2016, we continued to improve our performance indicators in procurement by supplementing them with new sustainability indicators: these
include the number of non-fuel supplier evaluations as well as safety-relevant performance indicators. This is how we manage our procurement

121

activities. The figures are collected across the Group and evaluated quarterly. In 2016, we used our supplier qualification process to pre-certify or
certify nearly 600 non-fuel suppliers of products and services with regard
to environmental and human rights criteria.

Improvement plans for a more sustainable supply chain
Our new improvement plans stipulate that we develop new objectives
and measures for achieving a more sustainable supply chain. Local procurement also plays an important role in the sustainable design of our supply
chain. Shorter transport routes reduce CO₂ emissions and thus improve our
CO₂ performance. In 2016, we procured 88 per cent of our purchasing
volume from the countries we serve.

First "Supplier Innovation Day" in Essen
In October 2016, about 20 of our non-fuel suppliers took part in the first "E.ON Supplier Innovation
Day" in Essen (Germany). About 150 employees
and selected customers from twelve different
countries attended the event. Together with the
suppliers, we discussed innovative and sustainable solutions. At the conclusion of the event, four
non-fuel suppliers received the "E.ON Supplier
Innovation Award" for their ideas and concepts.
A total of three prizes were awarded for innovation
along with a customer prize. The winner of the
customer prize, NetThings, has already concluded a
contract to work with EON.

Supply chain
Supplier management

Assessment of all biomass suppliers in Sweden
In 2016, we surveyed 42 of our biomass suppliers in Sweden using the
"E.ON Värme Sverige" model. They provide us with over 95 per cent of the
volume of biomass needed in Sweden. No environmental or business risks
were identified. We also conducted audits at two of the fuel suppliers during
the course of the year.

Non-core business: Uranium procurement for
PreussenElektra
To generate electricity in our nuclear power plants, we need uranium. We
must ensure compliance with high standards in the procurement of this
fuel. Our "Supplier Code of Conduct" is therefore incorporated into existing
supply contracts for uranium as well as contracts for the production of
fuel elements. It is supplemented by an amendment, the "Nuclear Fuel
Purchasing Amendment", which provides specifics with regard to nuclear
fuels. The process for the selection and reviewing of new uranium suppliers
is governed by the "Nuclear Fuel Policy" from 2014. We purchase uranium
exclusively from established suppliers that for the most part produce in
politically stable countries. We use media analyses to continually monitor
the situation in countries where we procure these raw materials. We
conduct reviews and on-site audits of new long-term suppliers and of existing suppliers where reasonable suspicions exist. As our demand for uranium
will decrease in the coming years, no new contracts were concluded in 2016.
Mines or uranium processing plants were not audited.

122

Our stakeholders should have an understanding of our corporate actions and be
able to accept them. It is therefore very
important for us to engage in dialogue with
them and integrate them into our business
processes. This is the only way to understand their expectations and to shape the
energy world of tomorrow in consensus with
them. As part of our social responsibility,
we also want to contribute to the prosperity
and economic development of the regions in
which we operate.

Stakeholders

Stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement

124

We take stakeholder
interests seriously
Everything we do involves an interplay of competing demands and interests – both globally and regionally. Our goal is to ensure that our customers,
employees, the general population, policy makers and other stakeholders understand and accept corporate actions ("license to build and operate"). To do so,
we seek to better appreciate their needs and interests and take them into account in our business decisions. This is the only way to secure the trust of our
stakeholders, our reputation and our long-term success. And we must endeavour to do this in a challenging market environment characterised by regulatory
interventions and technological change.

By expanding renewables we are participating in the energy transition
backed by social consensus. This involves many small and large infrastructure projects that not only require the approval of public authorities, but
which need to be designed in close consultation with our stakeholders.
That is why we seek contact with regional interest groups and include
them in our planning and approval processes. Citizens, councils, environmental organisations and public authorities often have ecological, health
or financial concerns about the expansion or upgrading of power networks

or generation plants. Open and transparent dialogue helps us identify
these concerns in a timely manner so that we can make allowance for them
wherever possible and thereby provide for more planning security our
construction projects.
We consider anyone with an interest in our company to be a stakeholder.
The chart on the next page summarises our main stakeholder groups, their
significance for us as well as their expectations of us.

Stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement

Significance for E.ON

Stakeholder group

Our customers' decision to purchase is central to our success
as a company.

Customers

Investor capital is essential to our successful development
as a company.

Employee performance is crucial to our business success.

As part of our procurement processes, we draw on the
services of numerous suppliers and sub-suppliers.

The energy transition in Europe can only be successful if it is
actively shaped and supported by citizens as consumers and
residents.

Our business activity is strongly influenced by social developments and political decisions that result from them.

We see universities and social institutions as important
cooperation partners. Non-governmental organisations give
us valuable insights into social expectations.

Shareholders and
investors

125

Expectations of E.ON
•
•
•

Safe supply of power at appropriate prices
Active contribution to the energy transition in Europe
Support for self-generated power and energy efficiency

•

Transparent information on how we do business with
their capital
Information on the assessment of value and potential
value

•

Employees

•
•

Safe and interesting work environment
Fair remuneration and equal opportunities

Suppliers and
business partners

•
•

Fair terms
Collaboration based on mutual respect

Municipalities
and regions

•
•

Transparency on planned measures
Participation at the municipal level

•
•
•

Transparency
Reliable, economical and environmentally compatible
energy supply
Compliance with regulatory frameworks

•
•

Transparency
Accountability

Policy makers, society
and the general public

Non-governmental
organisations and
sustainability experts

Stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement

126

Our goal: constructive and solution-oriented dialogue
Dialogue with our stakeholders is a daily part of our work at the local, national and European level. In order to promote sustainable development, we have
made stakeholder management a core element of corporate governance. We take into account both short- and long-term effects on our stakeholders. We
interact with our stakeholders in different ways, depending on the target group and topic. This ranges from simply providing information to engaging in
discussion as well as involvement in decision-making processes and direct participation in projects. We also engage in dialogue with stakeholders as part of
various national and international initiatives for example with policy makers and public authorities.
Maintaining our stakeholder relationships is also an integral part of our risk management process. Through dialogue we are able to identify potential conflicts
as well as new business opportunities during the preliminary stages of the decision-making process. This provides a greater degree of certainty when making
long-term investments and enables us to act quickly and with foresight in taking strategic actions.

Responsibilities
Group management defines the reasoning behind and positions on issues that affect the Group as a whole and sets the parameters for our activities. The Sustainability
Council advises the Management Board on the involvement of external stakeholders. It analyses trends and expectations and is responsible for establishing a relationship of
trust with external stakeholders. The real drivers of our stakeholder dialogue, however, are our regional units, as they are more familiar with local needs and circumstances.
Group Management is ready to provide advice with project design and implementation. Moreover, depending on the subject matter, a variety of different departments may
also be involved in a project. The global units occasionally also conduct stakeholder dialogues.

Internal guidelines and policies
Management Group policy stakeholder
management (2013; updated in 2015)

This policy defines key stakeholder groups (not including capital market participants) and provides principles for communications as well as descriptions of roles and responsibilities. They apply to internal and external communications as well as to
sustainability management.

Business governance Group policy
stakeholder management (updated
in 2015)

This policy establishes responsibilities, processes and instruments as well as standards for providing information. It sets the
rules for political decision-making processes and provides for open, substantively consistent interactions with our stakeholders.

Stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement

127

Procedures
Dialogue forums and informational events

These events are conducted by our regional units. Part of this entails including stakeholders who live near our plants as part of
our construction and planning processes. The open exchange of perspectives, interests, concerns and facts helps us to assess
how our approach is being received locally.

Sustainability Council meetings

External stakeholders also participate in regular meetings of our
nal perspectives in our sustainability activities.

Social media channels

We use social media channels to engage in a dialogue with the following stakeholders:
• Twitter: political representatives, media, associations, science
• Facebook: the interested general public, customers
Altogether, we have more than 165,000 followers on both channels, with a slightly upward trend. We also use Instagram,
YouTube, Google+, LinkedIn and SnapChat.

Direct participation in new construction
projects

Municipalities want to play an active role in the energy transition. However, hurdles to investment and the associated risks are
often very high. Plus, the energy management expertise needed to operate renewable energy systems is often lacking. In some
regions, we give citizens or citizen associations the opportunity to have a financial stake in projects such as wind parks. This is
one of the ways we seek to encourage acceptance of these projects.

Materiality analysis (since 2006)

Through systematic materiality processes we ask our stakeholders to assess the impact of our business activities as well as
our sustainability efforts. We then use the results to examine our activities and determine which issues need to be included in
reporting.

Sustainability Councils. This lets us take into account exter-

Programmes
Customer immersion programme (since
2013)

In 2016, we decided to adopt a uniform approach for the dialogue between employees and customers. This programme provides various formats for our employees to come into contact with our customers, such as face-to-face meetings and online
chats.

"Talking with E.ON" (German: “E.ON im
Dialog”) (since 2006)

As part of this communication campaign, our employees meet with stakeholders at congresses, trade fairs and other major
public events. "E.ON ambassadors" listen to questions, suggestions and criticism. We have been offering a series of short presentations at major trade fairs since 2014. During these so-called micro-conferences held at our exhibition stand, E.ON experts
provide information on projects, customer solutions and products.

Stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement

128

Progress and measures in 2016

On the road for "Talking with E.ON"

During 2016 we also offered stakeholders an opportunity to play a role
in the reorientation of our sustainability strategy Our new approach
to sustainability was developed in 14 workshops with over 60 employees
from throughout the entire company. It was subsequently reviewed from a
stakeholder perspective by other companies, sustainability experts, representatives of non-governmental organisations and business customers. Key
issues were identified. These issues were also evaluated in an online survey
by more than 3,600 private customers in the UK. We used our stakeholders'
experiences to review our new approach to sustainability and to learn from
their feedback.

In 2016, our employees once again hit the road as part of the "Talking with
E.ON" communications campaign. More than 100 employees attended nine
events, where they engaged in dialogue with visitors and presented our
position on current energy policy issues and provided background information on technical and economic matters. These conversations involved
representatives from universities, institutes, associations and non-governmental organisations as well as energy, investment and innovation
consultants and political decision-makers.

Rewarding creativity, showcasing innovative
solutions
Good ideas, particularly ones that promote energy
saving and climate protection, deserve recognition.
We help provide it in the Czech Republic, Hungary and
Romania through the E.ON Energy Globe Award (E.ON
EGA), the three countries’ most coveted environmental
prize. In 2016 more than 300 projects were submitted
in the Czech Republic. In Romania and Hungary, where
the price was awarded for the first time, 100 and 160
ideas were submitted, respectively. Winners receive
financial or in-kind support for their project. The awards
are conferred on a nationally televised ceremony, which
is very popular among viewers. E.ON România hopes
to achieve a similarly high profile in its country and has
pledged to organise the E.ON EGA for two more years.

Highlights in 2016 were the participation at the Hanover Industrial Trade
Show and the Wind Energy Hamburg trade fair. Conversations with those
visiting our stand provided us with important information about current
trends and public attitudes. The issue our guests were most interested in
was the energy transition and the question of how the security of supply
could be guaranteed despite an increased use of renewables. Micro-conferences were held every day of the fair, with a total of more than 90
presentations by experts accompanied by question-and-answer sessions.

Stakeholder dialogue for new offshore wind farm
construction
We began construction of the Rampion offshore windparks Rampion off
the south coast of the UK in 2016. This coastal region is a popular destination for scuba divers and this presented enhanced challenges compared to
previous projects. When the monopile foundations are driven into the sea
bed, this generates underwater noise which can reach considerable distances. The project permits required an active strategy to minimise hazards
and disruption to local divers which we fulfilled through appointment of
a diving liaison officer, pro-active communications campaign and operational safeguards. Initiatives included a factsheet distributed to relevant
stakeholders followed up with a kick-off event at the start of 2016 prior to
works commencement, identifying exclusion zones to protect the divers,
regular notices to mariners and guard boat patrols of the site. Cooperation
agreements were also put in place with charter boat owners who operate

Stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement

dive trips to ensure safe operations, whilst also reflecting the temporary
inconvenience to their businesses. Through this close working the foundation installation campaign went according to plan with minimised disruption
to divers and the project.

Non-core business: Stakeholder dialogue on the dismantling
of nuclear power plants
The operation and dismantling of our nuclear power plants is the responsibility of our subsidiary PreussenElektra. Dialogue with stakeholders near
power plants is an important concern for us.
The interest in transparent information – in particular on the dismantling of
our nuclear power plants – is considerable. We have therefore developed a
communication concept that aims to expand the dialogue with the various
target groups. In addition to classic communication tools such as newsletters, press releases and press conferences, the focus is on personal contact
with media and policy makers on selected topics. In addition, informational
events for residents, media and policy makers are another key element:
employees are on hand to address issues and provide clear answers to
complex sets of facts. The first informational event was held in October
2016 at the nuclear power plant Unterweser in Germany.

129

Stakeholders
Community involvement

130

Active community
involvement
As a company, we are a part of the society. This goes hand-in-hand with an obligation to be involved in the surrounding community. We want to contribute to
the prosperity and economic development of the regions we serve. Through our social involvement we are also making a contribution to the United Nations
global goals for sustainable development ( Sustainable Development Goals – SDGs). Our regional units lend their support to local projects (community
involvement) in some cases through long-term partnerships. These partnerships focus in particular on energy and environmental education, climate protection and access to energy. Another way we demonstrate social commitment is through the voluntary participation of our employees in community projects.
Since 2009, these activities have been taking place in all the countries we serve, though the extent varies from country to country. Our regional units have
gained an understanding of local needs over many years. That is why they decide, based on need, which projects they want to become involved in. In 2016,
we once again expressed our community engagement by taking part in a variety of activities. Here are some selected examples from the regions.

Helping a community return to normal
Energise Anything
Like many countries, Britain has a skills gap in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). We want to help close
it. In 2016 E.ON UK launched Energise Anything, an education
programme that gives children and young people positive experiences with STEM and inspires them to pursue related careers.
The programme encompasses a website, hands-on activities
for schools and families, and a national competition for young
people to share their creative energy ideas. In 2016 Energise
Anything reached over 230,000 people, with over 17,000 pupils
participating in interactive workshops.

Thankfully, most people only see natural disasters on television. But in the summer of 2016,
severe flooding brought disaster to the doorstep
of thousands of our customers in Rottal-Inn,
a district located 125 kilometres northeast of
Munich. The floodwaters also left about 10,000
households without power. After restoring power
to everyone within three days, we donated EUR
70,000 to local charities to assist victims. We
also offered each affected household a EUR 200
credit on its energy bill to help cover the cost of
additional power needed for repairs. Altogether,
we issued EUR 220,000 of credits.

Stakeholders
Community involvement

Preventing power pilfering thanks to a rehabilitation
programme
When someone sets an example, others tend to follow it. This also applies
to bad examples, like stealing electricity. In some parts of Tatabánya, a
small Hungarian city 50 kilometres west of Budapest, where there is huge
poverty electricity theft had become an epidemic. In 2014, 90 per cent of
power use there was illegal. In order to resolve the situation, we launched
a comprehensive rehabilitation programme together with the Maltese
Charity Service and Local Government. Vulnerable customers have learned
to manage their energy consumption and expenses in a sustainable manner
with continuous and professional guidance. Together with making our grid
more theft-proof, line losses fell to two per cent in 2016, and unpaid bills
had declined by almost two thirds. Our success in Tatabánya earned us a
“Corporate Social Responsibility Project of the Year” award at the 2016
Energy Summit Budapest.

131

Partnering with the Alzheimer’s Society
Around 850,000 people in Britain are
living with a form of dementia. Some are
our customers, and some are our employees’ family members and friends. In 2016
E.ON UK’s employees voted to make the
Alzheimer’s Society our charity partner in
Britain. We aim to donate GBP 200,000
over two years and by year-end 2016 had
already raised about GBP 40,000. We’re
also working with Alzheimer’s Society to
make E.ON a dementia-friendly community by offering our employees in Britain a
Dementia Friends Information Session, an
initiative encouraging everyone to learn
more about dementia and take action to
help people affected by it.

E.ON Energy Run
E.ON Italia has a long history of supporting
healthy activities like cycling, running, and
soccer across Italy. In 2016 it sponsored a
series of five 10-kilometres-races through the
streets and piazzas of five cities in northern
Italy where it has branch offices (Venice,
Monza, Milan, Bergamo, and Verbania). The
purpose was to raise brand awareness and to
engage E.ON customers and the general public
in an energetic, healthy, and fun activity in
beautiful urban surroundings. E.ON customers
who participated in three races received a free
fitness bracelet.

Helping refugees make a new start
In 2016 refugees fleeing war and persecution continued to come to
Germany. On arrival, they need a roof over their heads, clothing, and food.
The next step is to integrate them into German society. E.ON is helping
refugees with different programmes. In 2016 employees of E.ON Germany
could take for instance five days of leave to engage in volunteer activities on
behalf of refugees like collecting clothing donations, preparing refugees for
vocational trainings, and teaching them German. In addition, E.ON is part of
a consortium of over 100 companies committed to helping refuges receive
vocational training and find work.

Stakeholders
Community involvement

Our community investments in 2016

Community investments by type

18 %

In 2016 the volume of community investments increased to EUR 18 million,
up from EUR 14.7 million in the previous year. This increase is mainly at­­
tributable to a fund that we launched in the UK. We annually publish the
level of our community investments in various thematic areas for eight
categories.

Sponsoring
with societal
benefits

2016

Employee volunteer activities
Since 2009, our employees have been involved in community projects in all
the countries we serve. The extent varies, however, from country to country.
Last year, more than 2,365 E.ON employees Group-wide performed around
11,828 hours of volunteer work. In total, therefore, the Group provided
approximately EUR 295,700 worth of labour.

58 %

Strategic
community
involvement

24 %

Corporate giving

Community investments by projects (EUR in thousands)
1,542

1,824

Arts and
culture

Environment
and sustainability

1,781
Sports

1,609

3,786

Other social
projects

310

Job creation
projects

2016

2016

561

Healthcare

6,640

Communities,
customers and energy

Science and
education

132

Nuclear
power
Our subsidiary, PreussenElektra – formerly E.ON
Kernkraft – operates eight nuclear power plants
in Germany. PreussenElektra’s purpose is to ensure the climate-friendly, reliable and affordable
electricity generation in Germany, as well as the
safe and reliable dismantling of decommissioned
plants. We appreciate the great responsibility
involved in the operation and dismantling of nuclear power plants and the storage of radioactive
waste.

Nuclear power
Nuclear safety and security

134

Ensuring
maximum safety
The safety of our nuclear power plants has top priority in the operation, post-operation and dismantling of our nuclear plants. It is of central importance in
protecting the public, our own employees as well as our partner companies and the environment.

The dismantling of the Würgassen nuclear power plant was successfully
completed in August 2014. The Stade nuclear power station is currently in
the final phase of dismantling. This has provided us with extensive expertise
in the safe and efficient dismantling of nuclear plants, expertise that will be
very useful in future projects of this kind.
The German Atomic Energy Act provides that by the end of 2022 all
remaining nuclear power plants must be disconnected from the grid.
Because of legal regulations, by the end of 2015 we had already disconnected three more of the nuclear plants we operate from the grid

(Isar 1, Unterweser and Grafenrheinfeld). The Unterweser and Grafenrheinfeld nuclear power plants are currently in post-operation – i.e. during
the period between shutdown and official approval of decommissioning
and dismantling. The required approval applications have been submitted.
The Isar 1 nuclear power plant was granted approval for decommissioning
and dismantling in early 2017. Direct dismantling is planned for these
three nuclear power plants which means that dismantling is set to begin
immediately after approval. Our Brokdorf, Grohnde and Isar 2 nuclear
power plants will be phased out through the end of the period set by the
Atomic Energy Act. Until then, they will continue to operate reliably.

Nuclear power
Nuclear safety and security

135

Clear safety precautions

2016: no safety or environmentally relevant incidents

Our top safety principle is: "Protect life, health and materials from the
hazards of nuclear power and the harmful effects of ionising radiation". We
also seek to minimise any collateral impacts on people and the environment.
We coordinate personnel, technology and management accordingly to make
this happen. An effective management system ensures that the technical,
organisational and administrative conditions for maximum safety are always
in place and continuously being improved. This is regularly certified through
external audits and inspections.

As in previous years, there were no incidents on the seven-category
International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) at our nuclear
power plants in 2016. Similarly, there were also no environmentally relevant
incidents recorded by our incident management system "Prevent!".

The most important principles of safe workplace practice in our nuclear
power plants are kept updated in PreussenElektra's safety guidelines. These
guidelines supplement or clarify the company's corporate policies with
regard to specific aspects of nuclear power and are binding for all employees, including contractor employees who work at our nuclear power plants.
The guidelines reaffirm the existing corporate and security culture, where
safety always has absolute priority.

High system availability
The availability of our systems has been at around 90 per cent for many
years. Our nuclear power plants continue to occupy the top ranks in terms
of global power generation. This is not only the result of the high safety
level and the careful maintenance of our plants, it is also an expression of
the competence and commitment of our employees. Our expertise is also in
demand internationally: Through the solutions we provide, we are contributing to making nuclear power safer and more reliable worldwide.

Other issues material to the field of nuclear power are
reported in the respective chapters of this report (recognised
as "non-core business"):
Occupational health and safety
Water management
Procurement of uranium
Stakeholder engagement

Nuclear power
Radioactive waste

136

Safe handling of
radioactive waste
Radioactive waste is generated during the operation and dismantling of our nuclear power plants. All radioactive waste generated will be safely stored
in interim storage facilities until the federal government provides the necessary final repositories. We fulfil this obligation in compliance with the strict
provisions of existing standards and regulations and we are monitored by relevant regulatory authorities.

Statutory framework and new developments
In April 2016 the Commission on the Review of the Financing of the Nuclear
Power Phase-Out (German: Kommission zur Überprüfung der Finanzierung
des Kernenergieausstiegs – KFK) presented its final report (KFK report). This
expert commission was set up in 2015 by the German Federal Cabinet. Their
task was to formulate recommendations on how to finance the decommissioning, dismantling and disposal of nuclear power plants in Germany. In its
final report, the Commission adopted recommendations on how to finance
the interim storage and final repository of radioactive waste. On the basis of
the consensus recommendations on waste disposal, the Act on the Reorganisation of Responsibility in Nuclear Waste Disposal was adopted in 2016.
This law also provides for the conclusion of a contract between the federal
government and those energy providers that operate nuclear power plants.

The law and contract will then structure responsibilities for nuclear waste
disposal and financing between the government and plant operators.
The new law stipulates that the federal government bears responsibility
for implementing and financing the permanent disposal of radioactive
waste. It also sets the terms and conditions for the conditioning and
transfer of radioactive waste as well as for the transfer to federal control
of interim storage facilities for radioactive waste. The funds for interim
storage and final repository, including a risk surcharge of more than 35 per
cent, shall be made available to the federal government by the operators
(for further information see the Annual Report). The operators will
continue to be responsible for executing and financing the decommissioning and dismantling of their facilities as well as for the proper packaging of
radioactive waste.

Nuclear power
Radioactive waste

Our goal: minimising radioactive waste
Our goal is to minimise the volume of radioactive waste. At the same time,
we want to increase the share of residual materials that can be reused
through recycling. We are able to achieve this by, among other things,
sorting out residual materials that have not been contaminated, and by
using certain treatments and procedures prior to interim storage that
reduce the volume of radioactive waste.
Basically, we differentiate between radioactive waste that generates
negligible amounts of heat (low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste)
and heat-generating high-level radioactive waste:
• Low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste: This represents the
largest share of radioactive waste in terms of mass and volume and
includes, for example, household-type mixed waste such as protective
clothing, wood, cables, etc., and building debris from plant control zones.
This waste represents less than one per cent of a nuclear power plant's
total radioactivity.
• High-level radioactive waste: This contains more than 99 per cent of
the total radioactivity of a nuclear power plant and consists primarily
of fission products of uranium in the irradiated fuel elements generated
during nuclear fission in the reactor.

government. According to the Federal Office for Radiation Protection
(German: Bundesamt für Strahlenschutz – BfS) it will not be operational
before 2022.
Irradiated fuel elements are safely stored in special transport and storage
containers in on-site interim storage facilities at the respective power
plants: This has been the case since the ban on reprocessing irradiated
fuel elements (Section 9a(1) of the Atomic Energy Act) took effect on
July 1, 2005. The fuel elements will remain at these interim storage sites
until a repository for high-level radioactive waste is available in Germany.
At this point in time it cannot be reliably determined when this will be
available. Responsibility for this lies with the federal government.

Radioactive waste (metric tonnes)

2016
20151)

423.8
20.4
490.0
105.4

Low and intermediate-level radioactive waste

Safe disposal and storage of radioactive waste
Low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste is stored separately
from high-level radioactive waste in interim storage facilities until
final repository. In future, responsibility for wastes properly packaged
by the operators will be transferred to the federal government upon
emplacement of the waste at an interim storage facility. Germany has
supra-regional storage sites (waste storage facilities in Gorleben and
Ahaus), the Mitterteich interim storage facility for waste from Bavarian
plants as well as local interim storage sites at some nuclear power plants
(for example at the Stade, Würgassen and Unterweser nuclear power
plants). The Konrad permanent storage facility for low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste is currently under construction by the federal

137

High-level radioactive waste

1) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations
(i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

In 2016, there was a slight decrease in the volume of low- and intermediate­
level radioactive waste. Compared with the previous year, 66 metric tonnes
less low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste was incurred, corresponding to a decrease of 15.6 per cent. However, this figure is expected to rise
again in coming years due to pending demolition projects.
The sharp reduction in the amount of high-level radioactive waste, which
fell by 85 metric tonnes to 20.4 metric tonnes, can be attributed mainly to
the fact that fewer fuel elements were replaced in 2016. This figure is also
likely to rise again next year.

Appendix

Appendix
About the Report

139

Our Report
E.ON has published a Sustainability Report annually since 2004. The focus is on those issues that are crucial to both our stakeholders and ourselves, making
them directly relevant to our business. We carry out a materiality analysis each year in order to discover which issues these are. In preparing the topics,
we consider it important to ensure transparency not just concerning strengths, but also difficulties. Our Sustainability Report has been published exclusively
online since 2008. The latest edition is available for download in the Sustainability ­Channel on our corporate website. Reports from previous years can be
found in the archive.

Basis for the Report and editorial notes
This report is E.ON's 13th Sustainability Report in succession and was
published in early May 2017. It discusses the reporting period between 1
January and 31 December 2016 and covers E.ON SE's core business areas:
Energy networks, customer solutions and renewables. It also provides
updates on our non-strategic activities: the operation of German nuclear
power plants by our PreussenElektra operating unit. The editorial deadline
was 31 March 2017. The report is available in German and English. For
improved legibility we have refrained from stating legal forms.
Since 2005, our reporting has been based on the Global Reporting Initiative
guidelines. This year’s report also meets the requirements of the “German
Sustainability Code" (DNK) and serves as a progress report within the
framework of the United Nations Global Compact (UN).

Our sustainability reporting is addressed primarily to the following target
groups:
• Investors and analysts
• Rating and ranking agencies
• Multipliers in the area of sustainability, such as policy-makers,
authorities, civic leaders and researchers
• Customers
• Employees and potential employees

Structure of the Report
This Sustainability Report 2016 has one chapter on the topic of “Strategy
and governance" and seven chapters on the following fields of action:
“Energy solutions", “Customers", “Employees", “Environment", “Supply chain",

Appendix
About the Report

“Stakeholders" and “Nuclear power". These main chapters are supplemented

by an appendix with condensed information on our materiality process along
with the key performance indicators and standards. For each of our fields
of action we explain how we manage the associated material topics and
provide updates on our objectives and actions along with the status of their
implementation. We also outline current and planned projects, including
examples from the nine regions in which we operate. In order to highlight
our regional activities we have added info boxes within the fields of action.

140

Our data collection focuses on indicators that we consider to be important
based on the relevant business unit's operations and that we see as material
in terms of their contribution to the Group’s business. For instance, radioactive emissions are only recorded by entities with nuclear power plants while
customer information is only collected by companies with sales activities.
Statements on the future development of the E.ON Group and its equity
holdings are merely estimations based on the information available at the
time of reporting. The actual results may deviate from these statements.

To a lesser extent within the main chapters we also report on topics that
were not quite as relevant according to the materiality analysis. Our aim
here is to address our stakeholders' diverse concerns and to meet the
requirements of sustainability ranking and rating agencies.

In addition to the Sustainability Report, we also provide our opinions on
sustainability issues in our Annual Report.

Subject matter of the Report

As in previous years, key sections of the Sustainability Report 2016 have
been audited with “limited assurance” by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
as auditing company (PwC). The “International Standard on Assurance
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised)" of the “International Federation of
Accountants” (IFAC) was used as the basis. Reviewed content is identified
with the icon. The exact scope of the engagement can be found in the
Assurance Report. The texts in German formed the basis for the review.

The Sustainability Report 2016 covers E.ON SE and its direct equity
holdings. The statements in the report always refer to all the subsidiaries
and power plants in which E.ON holds a majority stake and which are fully
consolidated in the Group's financial statements. Any deviations have been
identified accordingly. The “Occupational Safety" section, for instance,
also takes account of entities in which we are responsible for operational
management even though we do not hold a majority stake.

Audit of the Sustainability Report

The business areas conventional production, global energy trade and exploration & production which were transferred to Uniper in early 2016 are not
covered in our reporting. Key figures for which the previous years' values
have subsequently been adjusted due to a discontinuation of activities are
identified with footnotes. For reasons of comparability, we just report key
figures for two years (2016 and 2015) this year.

Reporting approach reviewed

Appendix
Materiality analysis

141

We concentrate on
what is material
Which issues are important for our sustainability work? Where is there room for improvement? And what stakeholder expectations and concerns do we
need to take into consideration? These are the questions we address when we select the focus issues for our sustainability report. Since 2006, we have
conducted a systematic “materiality analysis” each year. This allows us to determine the issues that are currently especially important to us and our stakeholders. In this report, we provide information about these essential sustainability issues. To a lesser extent, we also discuss other aspects of sustainability.

Our internal prospects
In 2016, we gave our sustainability work a new orientation. To do this,
we conducted workshops with more than 60 employees from various
departments and levels of hierarchy and analysed how certain sustainability
issues affect our added value. Our focus was on central “value drivers” such
as turnover, reputation, and innovation (see the information box) that have a
particularly great effect on our added value.
We also wanted to know the areas of sustainability which we could improve.
We compared these results with our 2015 materiality analysis and prepared
a preliminary sequence of the most important sustainability issues for 2016.

Stakeholder prospects
The internal view alone is not sufficient. That is why, in the next step, we
evaluated how important the specified issues are for our stakeholders. To do
this, we assessed media reports, intranet news, and posts on social media
channels and took expectations of rating agencies and standard organ-

isations into account. We compared the results to the preliminary issue
sequence and summarised it to form a finalised issue list. We have sorted
our sustainability issues in order of importance (“issue ranking”).

Which E.ON value drivers are affected by sustainability issues?
Value drivers

Sustainability issues affect E.ON’s ability…

Sales
Reputation
Employer attractiveness
Efficiency and costs
Innovation
Regulatory robustness

... to improve earnings
... to secure or improve our reputation as a company
... to attract new employees or retain existing employees
... to improve processes and cut or avoid costs
... to develop new products, services, and technologies
... to develop business models with the least possible
regulatory risks

Appendix
Materiality analysis

142

Materiality analysis approach

Internal workshops
Assess sustainability
issues based on their:
• impact on E.ON's value drivers
• improvement potential

Align with the
materiality
analysis 2015

Document analysis
Source analysis aimed at
reviewing the issues’
relevance to stakeholders

Issue ranking

Determination of material issues

Material issues for PreussenElektra

The first nine issues in the issue ranking are the material issues for our 2016
sustainability reporting – we have thus identified a “materiality threshold”.
All nine issues are related to our focus areas and are the ones that have
been rated as important throughout the company.

Our nuclear power branch, controlled by our subsidiary PreussenElektra (PE),
is faced with other sustainability challenges. That is why we have conducted a separate materiality analysis for PE. The same analysis steps were
performed as for E.ON. The following material issues for PE arose from this
materiality analysis:
• Foster the health and safety of our employees
• Secure plant availability
• Involve and inform the public to increase acceptance
• Treat partners and suppliers fairly
• Ensure nuclear safety and security
• Ensure legally compliant behaviour and prevent corruption
• Foster the development of our employees
• Minimise effects on environment and biodiversity

Our Vice President Sustainability introduced the materiality analysis
approach and its results to the Sustainability Council. The results were
confirmed by the Vice President Sustainability following the meeting.
From our nine material issues (see next page) nine aspects of the reporting
standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) have been derived. We will
deal with these aspects in this report and in the GRI index. At the beginning of each chapter, we refer to the GRI aspects that the chapter discusses.
In some chapters, we jointly discuss related material issues.

We will deal with these issues at greater length in the special “Nuclear
power” chapter or in other thematically suited chapters of the report.

Appendix
Materiality analysis

143

Material and further issues according to fields of action
Material issues (GRI aspects)

Further issues

Energy
solutions

Expand renewables (energy, emissions, research and development)
Foster customer energy efficiency (energy, emissions, research and development)
Secure energy supply (system efficiency, access, research and development)
Optimise networks (system efficiency, access, research and development)

Advance environmentally-friendly mobility

Customer

Treat customers fairly (product and service labelling)
Foster customer satisfaction (product and service labelling)
Ensure health and safety of customers (customer health and safety)

Ensure data protection

Employees

Foster the health and safety of our employees (occupational health and safety)
Advance inclusion and diversity (diversity and equal opportunity)

Support the development of our employees
Create attractive working conditions
Digitise personnel work

Environment

Reduce our carbon footprint
Use resources efficiently
Improve energy efficiency of E.ON buildings
Minimise effects on environment and biodiversity

Supply chain

Ensure supplier compliance with social and ecological
standards
Design sustainable supplier management

Stakeholders

Take the expectations of our stakeholders into account
Help meet social challenges

Governance

Ensure legally compliant behaviour and prevent corruption
Pursue responsible lobbying
Manage crisis

Materiality analysis reviewed

Appendix
GRI index

144

Global Reporting Initiative
We prepare our Sustainability Report in accordance with the current "G4" Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and have done so since 2014.
We also include the Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures of May 2013. In our assessment, our 2016 Report, like the 2015 Report, applies the core of the
GRI guidelines.

Background: Global Reporting Initiative
The GRI was founded in 1997 with the goal of developing internationally recognised guidelines for organisations to voluntary report on their economic,
environmental, and social performance. The GRI guidelines are the result
of a transparent, multi-stakeholder process and consist of performance
indicators for all sectors and all types of organisations. For various sectors
there are also so-called Sector Disclosures. Here, industry-specific aspects
and additional indicators are defined in these.

GRI content index
In accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines, we selected the contents of
this year’s report once again on the basis of a materiality analysis. Our GRI
content index indicates how our reporting meets GRI standards.

The index specifies:
• which aspects we classify as material and therefore report on,
• whether the aspects are material within or outside the organisation or
externally,
• which indicators we use (at least one indicator per material aspect) and
to what extent,
• which indicators have been subject to an assurance review,
• which E.ON-specific indicators we use in addition to, or in place of, GRI
indicators, and
• where indicators and additional information can be found on our company’s website or in our Annual Report.
The information used to fulfil the indicators can be found on the linked
pages and in the Annual Report 2016. Where an indicator is not completely covered by this information we have included further data directly in
the index or have clearly labelled the gaps as “Omissions”.

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

Additions and omissions

General Standard Disclosures
Strategy and analysis
G4-01 – Statement from the most
senior decision-maker

Foreword*
Annual Report 2016 (pp. 4 f.)

G4-02 – Key impacts, risks, and
opportunities

Strategy and objectives
Foreword*
Good corporate governance*
Annual Report 2016 (pp. 18 f.,
pp. 62 ff.)

Key market developments and the opportunities and risks relating to
them are addressed in the Annual Report, in the chapter on "Strategy
and objectives", as well as in the foreword. A brief description of existing governance mechanisms for managing risks and opportunities
is in the section on "Good corporate governance". At the start of each
chapter we also describe which impacts, opportunities and risks are
associated with the issues covered in that chapter.

G4-03 – Name of the organisation

E.ON at a glance*
Annual Report 2016 (p. 22)

E.ON SE

G4-04 – Brands, products, and/
or services

E.ON at a glance*
Annual Report 2016 (pp. 22 ff.)
www.eon.com*

G4-05 – Headquarters location

E.ON at a glance*
Annual Report 2016 (p. 22)

G4-06 – Countries in operation

E.ON at a glance*
Annual Report 2016 (p. 22, p. 55,
p. 203)

Organisational profile

Essen (Germany)

145
Ext. Review

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

Additions and omissions

G4-07 – Nature of ownership

Annual Report 2016 (p. 15)
www.eon.com*

E.ON is a stock corporation under EU law (Societas Europaea, or
“SE”). This supranational corporate form represents a company that
is fundamentally European and has an international orientation; it is
therefore appropriate for a globally active company with a European
focus in its activities and corporate centre. The shareholder structure
at E.ON SE is characterised by a wide international distribution of
private and institutional shareholders.

G4-08 – Markets served

Annual Report 2016 (p. 22, pp. 30 ff.)
www.eon.com*

We make a distinction between private and small business consumers, industrial and commercial customers and distributors in our
power and gas business. However, a break-down by sector is not
practical for E.ON.

G4-09 – Scale of the organisation

E.ON at a glance*
Annual Report 2016 (p. 22, pp. 31 ff.,
pp. 43 ff., p. 55, pp. 108 ff., p. 148)
www.eon.com*

G4-10 – Total number of
employees

E.ON at a glance*
Employees (Key figures)*
Annual Report 2016 (pp.18f., pp. 54 f.)
www.eon.com*

G4-12 – Organisation’s supply
chain

Supply chain*

G4-13 – Significant changes
regarding size, structure, or
ownership

E.ON at a glance*
Foreword*
About the Report*
Annual Report 2016 (p. 7, pp. 10 f.,
pp. 18 f., p. 203)

146
Ext. Review

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

G4-14 – Precautionary approach

Good corporate governance*
Energy solutions *
Customers*
Employees*
Environment*
Stakeholder*
Supply chain*
Nuclear power*
Annual Report 2016 (pp. 62 ff.)

G4-15 – External charters,
principles, or other initiatives

Good corporate governance*
Responsible lobbying*
Human rights*
Renewables
Climate-friendly mobility
Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunity
Environment*
Supply chain*

G4-16 – Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations

Good corporate governance*
Responsible lobbying*
Human rights*
Renewables
Climate-friendly mobility
Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunity
Environment*
Supply chain*

G4-EU1 – Installed capacity

Annual Report 2016 (pp. 34 ff.)
Facts & Figures 2017 (p. 9, pp. 13 ff.)

Additions and omissions
In general, E.ON operates all units within the company and areas of
activity from a long-term perspective. The precautionary approach
is used for environmental protection in everyday business and is
anchored in our investment projects through impact assessments
The E.ON risk management system takes environmental and social
risks into account beyond legal requirements. We investigate our
work's impact beyond the legally stipulated scope for construction
and infrastructure projects.

When we describe initiatives, industry associations and other organisations in the Report, we include the most important examples in the
context of sustainability. Our global and regional units are integrated
into additional local initiatives and networks.

147
Ext. Review

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

G4-EU2 – Net energy output
broken down by primary energy
source and by region

Annual Report 2016 (pp. 34 ff.)
Facts & Figures 2017 (p. 9, pp. 61 ff.)

G4-EU3 – Number of residential,
industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts

E.ON at a glance*
Annual Report 2016 (pp. 32 f.)
Facts & Figures 2017 (p. 5, pp. 43 f.)

G4-EU4 – Length of transmission
and distribution lines by region

Security of supply

G4-EU5 – Allocation of CO₂
emissions allowance or equivalent,
broken down by carbon trading
framework

Carbon footprint*

Identified material aspects and boundaries
G4-17 – Entities included in
the organisation’s consolidated
financial statements

About the Report
Annual Report 2016 (p. 135)

G4-18 – Process for defining the
report content

Materiality analysis
About the Report

G4-19 – Material aspects identified

Materiality analysis

Additions and omissions

E.ON reports on sales of electricity and gas according to customer segment. Customer numbers are broken down by country; however, in our
external communication we do not report on customer segments.

148
Ext. Review

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

Additions and omissions

G4-20 – Aspect boundaries within
the organisation

Materiality analysis
Renewables
Efficiency improvements
Security of supply
Customer satisfaction
Customer health and safety
Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunity
Carbon footprint*

G4-21 – Aspect boundaries
outside the organisation

Materiality analysis
Renewables
Efficiency improvements
Security of supply
Customer satisfaction
Customer health and safety
Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunity
Carbon footprint*

The home page for each field of action describes whether and the
extent to which the aspect discussed in the chapter is material to a
specific value chain step or a specific group of stakeholders, even
those external to E.ON.

G4-22 – Restatements of
information

About the Report

Retroactive changes are shown in the respective location in the form
of a footnote.

G4-23 – Significant changes in
the scope, and aspect boundaries
compared to previous years

About the Report

Stakeholder engagement
G4-24 – Stakeholder groups

Stakeholder engagement*

G4-25 – Stakeholder identification
and selection

Stakeholder engagement*

149
Ext. Review

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

G4-26 – Approaches to
stakeholder engagement

Strategy and objectives
Materiality analysis
Customer satisfaction
Stakeholder engagement*

G4-27 – Key topics and concerns
raised by stakeholders

Materiality analysis
Stakeholder engagement*

Additions and omissions

Report profile
G4-28 – Reporting period

About the Report

1 January to 31 December 2016

G4-29 – Date of most recent
previous report

The most recent sustainability report was published in May 2016.

G4-30 – Reporting cycle

E.ON reports on sustainability-related activities annually. The next
report is due to appear in the Q2 2018.

G4-31 – Contact point for questions

www.eon.com*

G4-32 – Chosen ‘In accordance’
option, GRI-index and external
assurance report

GRI index

G4-33 – External assurance for
the report

About the Report
Assurance Report

Governance
G4-34 – Governance structure

Good corporate governance*
Sustainability structures
Annual Report 2016 (pp. 75 ff.)

The Executive Board reviews the report prior to issuing approval.

150
Ext. Review

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

G4-36 – Sustainability at
executive board level

Sustainability structures

G4-38 – Composition of the
highest governance body and its
committees

Good corporate governance*
Annual Report 2016 (pp. 78 f.)
www.eon.com*

G4-39 – Function of highest
governance body

Good corporate governance*
Annual Report 2016 (pp. 6 ff.)
www.eon.com*

G4-40 – Nomination and selection
processes for the highest governance body

Annual Report 2016 (p. 9, p. 78, p. 81)

G4-41 – Processes for the highest
governance body to avoid conflicts
of interest

Annual Report 2016 (pp. 76 ff.)

G4-42 – Highest governance
body’s role in the development of
the organisation’s purpose

Annual Report 2016 (pp. 76 ff.)

G4-46 – Highest governance
body’s role in risk management
processes

Annual Report 2016 (pp. 62 ff.,
pp. 78 ff.)

G4-47 – Frequency of the review of
impacts, risks, and opportunities

Annual Report 2016 (pp. 78 ff.)

G4-48 – Review and approval of
the Sustainability Report

Additions and omissions

The Executive Board reviews, approves and ensures that all material
aspects have been taken into account.

151
Ext. Review

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

G4-51 – Remuneration policies for
the highest governance body

Annual Report 2016 (pp. 82 ff.)

G4-52 – Governance structure

Annual Report 2016 (pp. 82 ff.)

Ethics and integrity
G4-56 – Organisation’s values,
principles, standards and norms of
behaviour and codes of ethics

Good corporate governance*
Compliance and anti-corruption*

G4-57 – Mechanisms for seeking
advice on ethical and lawful
behaviour, and matters related to
organisational integrity

Compliance and anti-corruption*

G4-58 – Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or
unlawful behaviour, and matters
related to organisational integrity

Compliance and anti-corruption*

Additions and omissions

152
Ext. Review

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

Additions and omissions

153
Ext. Review

Specific Standard Disclosures
Category: economic
Material aspect: research and development (sector specific)
G4-DMA – Disclosure on
management approach

Renewables
Efficiency improvements
Security of supply

Material aspect: system efficiency (sector specific)
G4-EU12 – Distribution losses as
a percentage of total energy
(Core)

Security of supply

Boundaries: within the organisation
Expenditures on research and development were reviewed as part of
the Annual Report 2016. It was not possible to include in this year's
report a breakdown of expenditures for research and development
into categories of relevance from a sustainability perspective.

Boundaries: within the organisation
Losses in our distribution networks in 2016 averaged 4.6%. E.ON views
a breakdown of the information according to technical and non-technical
losses as irrelevant and thus have no report.

Category: environmental
Material aspect: energy

Boundaries: within the organisation

G4-DMA – Disclosure on
management approach

Renewables
Efficiency improvements

G4-EN03 – Energy consumption
within the organisation
(Core)

Environmental management*

Of greater relevance to us than energy consumption within the
organisation was the amount of electricity produced in our renewable
power plants.

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

Material aspect: emissions

Additions and omissions

154
Ext. Review

Boundaries: within and outside the organisation

G4-DMA – Disclosure on
management approach

Renewables
Efficiency improvements

G4-EN15 – Direct greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions (Scope 1)

Carbon footprint

The following greenhouse gases are included:
• CH4-emissions (from power generation)
• N2O-emissions (from power generation)
• CH4-emissions (from the handling, transport and distribution of
biogas)
• CH4-emissions (from the handling, transport and distribution of
natural gas)
• CO2-emissions (from power and heat generation)
• CO2-emissions (from the handling, transport and distribution of
biogas)
• CO2-emissions (from the handling, transport and distribution of
natural gas)
• CO2-emissions (from the handling, transport and distribution of
liquefied natural gas, LNG)
• CO2-equivalents (from the use of coolants to air condition
buildings)
• Transmission losses from sulphur-hexafluoride emissions (SF₆)
Base year is as per Kyoto Protocol 1990. The globally recognised
WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard was used as a basis for calculating emissions.
GHG emissions also include all subsidiaries and power plants where
E.ON owns a controlling share and which are fully consolidated in the
Group financial statements.
No information about biogenic CO₂ emissions is provided.

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators
G4-EN16 – Energy indirect
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
(Scope 2)

References
Carbon footprint

Additions and omissions
The following greenhouse gases are included:
• CO₂-equivalents (from consumption of own electricity)
• CO₂-equivalents (resulting from transmission and distribution
losses)
• CO₂ equivalents (from building energy consumption)
Base year and consolidation approach: see G4-EN15
Taking into account the "GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance” expanded
in 2015.
No information about biogenic CO₂ emissions is provided.

G4-EN17 – Other indirect
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
(Scope 3)
(Core)

Carbon footprint

G4-EN18 – Greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions intensity

Carbon footprint

We no longer report the CO₂ intensity of power generation, because
these values are minimal owing to the reduction in emissions from
the production of power and heat, as previously mentioned, which
means they are no longer significant for us.

G4-EN19 – Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions

Carbon footprint

The reduction of GHG emissions concerned emissions from power
generation and therefore Scope 1 emissions. For the greenhouse
gases included in the calculation: see G4-EN15.

Base year and consolidation approach: see G4-EN15
No information about biogenic CO₂ emissions is provided.

155
Ext. Review

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

Additions and omissions

156
Ext. Review

Category: social
Sub-category: labour practices and decent work
Material aspect: occupational health and safety
G4-DMA – Disclosure on
management approach

Occupational health and safety

G4-LA06 – Injuries, occupational
diseases, lost days, absenteeism,
and total number of work-related
fatalities
(Core)

Occupational health and safety

Boundaries: within and outside the organisation

At E.ON, reporting of accident numbers is carried out with the following key figures:
• Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF) – number of work-related accidents and illnesses with and without lost working time
• Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) – work-related accidents with
lost working time.
Both indicators are reported for both E.ON employees and contractors employees. Only the figures for E.ON employees were audited.
Instead of breaking these down by region, we use reporting units. A
breakdown by gender is regarded as not useful.

G4-LA07 – Workers with high
incidence or high risk of diseases
related to their occupation

Occupational health and safety

G4-LA08 – Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements
with trade unions

Occupational health and safety

In countries in which unions represent employees directly, occupational safety topics are included in the agreements.

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

Material aspect: diversity and equal opportunity
G4-DMA – Disclosure on
management approach

Diversity and equal opportunity

G4-LA12 – Composition of governance bodies and breakdown per
employee category according to
different indicators of diversity
(Core)

Diversity and equal opportunity

Additions and omissions

157
Ext. Review

Boundaries: within the organisation

Sub-category: product responsibility
Material aspect: customer health and safety
G4-DMA – Disclosure on
management approach

Customer health and safety
Occupational health and safety
Crisis management*
Nuclear power*

Boundaries: within and outside the organisation
The issue of customer health and safety as it relates to product safety
has gained in importance for us recently. Appropriate processes are
therefore currently under development. It is therefore currently not
possible to state in any qualitative and quantitative detail how we
intend to measure success in this area.
We take into account risks to community health and safety arising
from our business activities through our management of health,
safety and environment (HSE). For example, our business governance
policy on HSE defines minimum requirements as well as the processes meant to minimise impacts on health, safety and the environment.
This also includes ensuring the safety of our plants and processes so
as to protect people and the environment and to comply with legal
requirements (HSE compliance).

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators
G4-PR02 – Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
voluntary codes concerning the
health and safety impacts of products and services
(Core)

References
Customer health and safety

Material aspect: product and service labelling
G4-DMA – Disclosure on
management approach

Customer satisfaction

G4-PR04 – Non-compliance with
product information standards

Customer satisfaction

G4-PR05 – Results of surveys
measuring customer satisfaction
(Core)

Customer satisfaction

Material aspect: access (sector specific)
G4-DMA – Disclosure on
management approach

Security of supply

Additions and omissions

158
Ext. Review

E.ON complies with all legal and regulatory requirements in the markets in which it operates.

Boundaries: within and outside the organisation

E.ON complies with all legal and regulatory requirements in the markets in which it operates. In 2016, there were no known violations of
codes of conduct with respect to the labelling of product and service
information.

Boundaries: within and outside the organisation
The System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) for electricity provides information about the disruption times in our grids and
thus provides an indication of the reliability and availability of our
power supply. We record this figure for scheduled and unscheduled
disruptions in all distribution networks. We can thus reliably assess
our performance and provide consistent management of reliability
and availability.

Appendix
GRI index

GRI indicators

References

G4-EU28 – Power outage
frequency (SAIFI)

Security of supply

G4-EU29 – Average power outage
duration (SAIDI)
(Core)

Security of supply

G4-EU30 – Average plant availability factor by energy source and
by regulatory regime

Security of supply
Annual Report 2016 (p. 35)

All pages marked with a * are not or only partially reviewed.

Additions and omissions

Onshore wind/solar generation availability in fiscal 2016, which stood
at 94.2%, was below the prior-year figure (95.8%) primarily because
of unplanned outages. The offshore wind/other generation availability rate of 96.7% surpassed the prior-year figure (94.5%) primarily
because of a reduction in outages at Robin Rigg and improved performance at Amrumbank and Humber.

159
Ext. Review

Appendix
UN Global Compact

160

Commitment to the
UN Global Compact
Since 2005 E.ON has been committed to upholding the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. With more than 9,000 participants from over
164 countries, the Global Compact is the world’s largest sustainability initiative.

Basis for company policies and standards

Reporting on the principles of the Global Compact

As a signatory to the UN Global Compact we affirm our commitment to
respect human rights, uphold labour and environmental protection standards, and fight against corruption. We use the ten principles to develop our
own standards and guidelines. At the same time we align internal guidelines
and policies with this framework. As a result of our participation in national
and international Global Compact networks we strengthen collaboration
across industries.

Our commitment to the Global Compact includes reporting on the annual
progress in implementing the ten principles (Communication on Progress –
COP). We make this part of our Sustainability Report. The table on the next
page specifies which sections of the report address the various principles.

Appendix
UN Global Compact

Cross-references in the report
Human rights
Principle 1: Support and respect internationally
proclaimed human rights
Principle 2: Eliminate any participation in human rights
abuses
Labour
Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and
the effective recognition of the right to collective
bargaining
Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour
Principle 5: Eliminate child labour
Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of
employment and occupation
Environment
Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to
environmental challenges
Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater
environmental responsibility
Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion
of environmentally friendly technologies

Anti-corruption
Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms,
including extortion and bribery

161

Downloads

Good corporate governance
Human rights
Compliance and anti-corruption
Supplier management
Diversity and equal opportunity

Human rights policy statement
Supplier Code of Conduct
E.ON Code of Conduct
Code of Responsible Conduct for Business
Biomass Purchasing Amendment

Good corporate governance
Human rights
Compliance and anti-corruption
Supplier management
Diversity and equal opportunity
Working conditions

Human rights policy statement
Supplier Code of Conduct
E.ON Code of Conduct
Joint "Diversity and Integration" Declaration of Principle

Strategy and objectives
Good corporate governance
Renewables
Efficiency improvements
Climate-friendly mobility
Carbon footprint
Environmental management
Nuclear safety and security
Nuclear waste

E.ON Health, Safety and Environment Policy Statement

Good corporate governance
Compliance and anti-corruption
Responsible lobbying

Supplier Code of Conduct
E.ON Code of Conduct
Code of Conduct Annex 1: Checklist Compliance
Code of Conduct Annex 3: Guidelines on Benefits

Appendix
ESG key figures

162

ESG key figures
In order to assess the effectiveness of our strategies and measures we are taking, we collect key data relating to business operations, societal developments
and the environment. Standardised indicators on the environment, social engagement and governance & integrity (Environment, Social and Governance
– ESG) in particular are increasingly in demand on capital markets. This is why we have been presenting our key indicators in conformity with the ESG
convention for a number of years.
In the following pages you will find selected ESG figures from this report. Some of the figures were audited by external reviewers and are indicated by
a symbol. Additional information about the figures – such as detailed breakdowns – can be found in the following pages of the report:

Environment

Social

Governance & integrity

Renewables

Occupational health and safety

Good corporate governance

Efficiency improvements

Diversity and equal opportunity

Compliance and anti-corruption

Climate-friendly mobility

Employee development

Human rights

Carbon footprint

Working conditions

Crisis management

Environmental management

Stakeholder engagement

Security of supply

Water management

Community involvement

Customer satisfaction

Nuclear safety and security

Customer health and safety

Nuclear waste

Data protection
Supplier management

Appendix
ESG key figures

163

Environment
2016

2015

Scope-1 emissions

4.6

80.01)

Scope-2 emissions

3.4

3.7 1)

Scope-3 emissions

75.5

116.51)

Energy consumption within the organization (million GJ)

382

540

SO₂ emissions (metric tonnes)

307.7

376.42)

NOx emissions (metric tonnes)

1,990.8

835.92)

Recovered

21.1

39.42)

Disposed

7.8

10.72)

Recovered

21.5

18,22)

Disposed

6.2

14.02)

423.8

490.02)

20.4

105.42)

E.ON Group carbon footprint (million metric tonnes)

Non-hazardous waste (kilotonnes)

Hazardous waste (kilotonnes)

Radioactive waste (metric tonnes)
Low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste
High-level radioactive waste
1) Prior-year figures have been adjusted.
2) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)

Appendix
ESG key figures

164

Social
2016

2015

43,1382)

43,1623)

14.22)

14.33)

Turnover rate (percentages)4)

5.32)

3.53)

Average age (in years)4)

422)

423)

Apprentices-ratio in Germany (percentages)

5.32)

5.53)

Ratio of women among total workforce (percentages)4)

32.12)

32.03)

Ratio of women among management across E.ON Group (percentages)5)

19.62)

18.43)

5.42)

5.73)

TRIF combined (per million hours worked)6),7)

2.5

2.43)

LTIF E.ON employees (per million hours worked)7),8)

1.9

1.93)

LTIF contractors employees (per million hours worked)7),8)

2.1

2.03)

4

23)

18.1

14.7

11,828

12,747

Group employees1)
Average length of service (years)4)

Proportion of employees with severe disability in Germany (percentages)5)

Number of fatal accidents E.ON employees and contractors employees 7)
Total community-involvement investments (€ in millions)
Involvement of E.ON employees (number of volunteer hours)
1) Excluding Board Members/Managing Directors and apprentices
2) Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report
3) Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
4) Including Board Members/Managing Directors and apprentices
5) Including Board Members/Managing Directors
6) Total Recordable Injury Frequency – The number of work-related accidents and occupational diseases
7) Unlike from the general approach of reporting, our safety reporting includes companies in which E.ON holds less than a 50 per cent stake but over which E.ON has operational control.
8) Lost Time Injury Frequency – work-related accidents resulting in lost man hours

Appendix
ESG key figures

165

Governance & integrity
2016

2015

21.42)

22.73)

2.1

1.84)

Power distribution network (kilometres)

754

755

Gas distribution network (kilometres)

104

105

Research and development expenses (€ in millions)

142)

20

Wind and solar

24.9

5.7

Natural gas/oil

1.8

33.7

69.5

26.4

Lignite and hard coal

-

26.0

Hydro

-

7.8

3.8

0.4

14.6

6.6

75

75

Number of power and gas customers (millions)1)
Installed smart meters (millions)

Share of primary energy carriers in self-generation (percentages)

Nuclear

Other (incl. biomass)
Sales generated in countries with corruption risks (percentages)
Number of compliance notices5)
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Excluding customers in Turkey (50/50 joint venture)
Figures taken from the reviewed section of the Annual Report
Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
Prior-year figures have been adjusted.
The reported number of notices refers to cases on central files that resulted in investigations and which were determined not to be erroneous.

Appendix
DVFA/EFFAS KPIs

166

DVFA/EFFAS KPIs
Since 2010 we have reported our indicators in line with standards defined by the German Association for Financial Analysis and Asset Management
(German: Deutsche Vereinigung für Finanzanalysten – DVFA) and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies (EFFAS). These core non-financial
indicators are valid across Europe and also include sector-specific criteria. In selecting following KPIs we use the third generation of DVFA/EFFAS-KPIs.

2016

2015

E01-01

Energy consumption within the organization (million GJ)

382

540

E02-01

Carbon emissions Scope 1 (million metric tonnes)

4.6

80.01)

Carbon emissions Scope 2 (million metric tonnes)

3.4

3.7 1)

Carbon emissions Scope 3 (million metric tonnes)

75.5

116.51)

Total carbon emissions (million metric tonnes)

83.4

200.21)

Total NOx emissions (metric tonnes)

1,990.8

835.92)

Total SO₂ emissions (metric tonnes)

307.7

376.42)

57.0

82.92)

E03-01

E04-01
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
7)

Total waste (kilotonnes)3)

Prior-year figures have been adjusted.
Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
Comprises: Radioactive, hazardous, and non-hazardous waste.
Comprises: Recycled share of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
To guarantee funds for potential redevelopment and water protection measures and to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites
Figures just include non-core business activities (see water balance of PreussenElektra)
Including Board Members/Managing Directors and apprentices

Appendix
DVFA/EFFAS KPIs

167

2016

2015

E05-01

Share of total amount of waste recycled (percentages)4)

74.7

69.62)

E06-01

Total amount of hazardous waste (kilotonnes)

27.7

32.22)

E08-01
E08-02

Low and intermediate-level nuclear waste (metric tonnes)

423.8

490.0

E08-03

High-level nuclear waste (metric tonnes)

20.4

105.42)

E12-05

Provisions for environmental remediation and similar obligations (€ in millions)5)

469.0

851.02)

E26-01

Generation portfolio (percentages)
Wind and solar

24.9

5.7

Natural gas/oil

1.8

33.7

69.5

26.4

Lignite and hard coal

-

26.0

Hydro

-

7.8

3.8

0.4

26.2

34.82)

95

–

Nuclear

Other (incl. biomass)
E28-01

Fresh water consumption (million cubic metres)6)

E33-01

Share of sites with ISO 14001 certification (percentages)

1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
7)

Prior-year figures have been adjusted.
Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
Comprises: Radioactive, hazardous, and non-hazardous waste.
Comprises: Recycled share of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
To guarantee funds for potential redevelopment and water protection measures and to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites
Figures just include non-core business activities (see water balance of PreussenElektra)
Including Board Members/Managing Directors and apprentices

Appendix
DVFA/EFFAS KPIs

168

2016

2015

S01-01

Turnover rate (percentages)7)

5.3

3.52)

S02-02

Training expenditure per employee (€)

811

1,052

S03-01

Average employee age (percentages)7)
<30

18

172)

31-50

55

55 2)

>50

27

282)

S08-03

Consideration of ESG performance in performance agreements

V02-01

Percentage of revenues in regions with Transparency International corruption index below 60 points

V04-01

Total R&D expenses (€ in millions)

V06-01

Customer satisfaction development

V11-02

Customers equipped with smart meters (millions)

V28-04

Supply chain: Key performance narrative

"Supplier management"

G01-01

Contributions to political parties

"Responsible lobbying"

1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
7)

Prior-year figures have been adjusted.
Figures in accordance with the consolidated financial statements without discontinued operations (i.e. adjusted for Uniper)
Comprises: Radioactive, hazardous, and non-hazardous waste.
Comprises: Recycled share of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
To guarantee funds for potential redevelopment and water protection measures and to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites
Figures just include non-core business activities (see water balance of PreussenElektra)
Including Board Members/Managing Directors and apprentices

"Good corporate governance"
14.6

6.62)

14

202)

"Customer satisfaction"
2.1

1.81)

Appendix
Assurance Report

169

Independent Practitioner’s
Limited Assurance Report
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the report of
E.ON SE, Essen and issued an independent assurance report, authoritative in German language, which has been translated as follows:
To E.ON SE, Essen
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the sustainability information marked with " " in the Sustainability Report of
E.ON SE, Essen, (hereafter the “Company”) for the period from January 1, to December 31, 2016 (hereafter the “Sustainability Report”).

Management’s Responsibility
The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the criteria as set
out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) (hereafter the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the
information to be assessed.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate
methods to prepare the Sustainability Report as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are
reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes

designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant
for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, which is free of material
misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors.

Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control
We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding
independence as well as other ethical requirements.
The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional
standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors

Appendix
Assurance Report

and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer
und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Institut der
Wirtschaftsprüfer (“Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW”):
Requirements to quality control for audit firms (“Entwurf eines IdW
Qualitätssicherungsstandards 1 „Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung
in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis” (IdW EQS 1)”) – and accordingly maintains
a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies
and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability information
marked with " " in the Sustainability Report based on our work performed.
Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on
external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the
Sustainability Report.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements
other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published
by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance
engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come
to our attention that cause us to believe that the sustainability information
marked with " " in the Sustainability Report has not been prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited
than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly
less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The
procedures selected depend on the practitioner's judgement. This includes

170

the assessment of the risks of material misstatements of the sustainability
information marked with " " in the Sustainability Report with regard to
the GRI-Criteria.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following
procedures:
• Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability organization and of the stakeholder engagement
• Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Sustainability
Report regarding the preparation process, the underlying internal
control system and selected sustainability information
• Monitoring visits under the exploration of the processes for collection,
analysis and aggregation of selected data at:
• E.DIS AG in Fürstenwalde/Spree, Germany
• PreussenElektra GmbH in Hannover, Germany
• E.ON Hungária Zrt in Budapest, Hungary
• Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information of the
Sustainability Report
• Comparison of selected sustainability information with corresponding
data in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report
• Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability information in
the Sustainability Report regarding the sustainability performance

Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our
attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information
marked with " " in the Sustainability Report of the Company for the
period from January 1, to December 31, 2016 has not been prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.

Appendix
Assurance Report

Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the Company's sustainability
management and sustainability reporting:
• Higher standardization and formalization of the internal control system
for sustainability information
• Further harmonization and automation of the group-wide reporting
processes for non-financial information

Restriction on Use and Distribution
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the
Company. The review has been performed for purposes of the Company and
is solely intended to inform the Company about the results of the review.
The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties.

Munich, 24th of April 2017
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Hendrik Fink
ppa. Robert Prengel
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)						

171

Appendix
Ratings and rankings

172

Ratings and rankings
We have been awarded with good results in countless sustainability ratings and rankings over the years. Below we summarise our ratings, rankings and
accolades that are of relevance to the Group as a whole.

As a company operating in the "Multi and Water Utilities" industry sector we are listed in the "Dow Jones
Sustainability Indices" World and Europe (DJSI). E.ON's performance was rated to be well above average in many
areas, with a "percentile ranking" in 2016 of 97.

In the "RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook" we climbed into the bronze category in our industry sector in
2016 and into the silver category in 2017 – we now belong to the top 15 per cent among "Multi and Water Utilities"
companies. We were also honoured as an "Industry Mover 2017" for having shown the biggest improvement yearon-year within our sector.
In 2016, CDP (formerly known as "Carbon Disclosure Project") once again named us as one of the Leadership
Group companies in the DACH region (comprised of Germany, Austria and Switzerland) for our climate reporting,
with a rating of A-.

We were once again listed in the "Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120" and the "Euronext Vigeo Europe 120" in 2016. We
were also listed in the "Euronext Vigeo World 120" for the first time. The Euronext Vigeo family of indexes from
the ESG research provider Vigeo Eiris lists companies that have delivered excellent performances in terms of
environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria.

Further information
To learn more about our activities, visit our

Imprint
Publisher
E.ON SE
Brüsseler Platz 1
45131 Essen
Germany
Concept, editing and layout
Stakeholder Reporting GmbH, Hamburg
Pictures
E.ON SE, Essen

Sustainability Channel.

