PERSPECTIVE

CHANGE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015

CONTENTS

Key figures for the Evonik Group
C02 Sustainability management at Evonik

T01 Key figures
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

14,540

13,365

12,708

12,917

13,507

2,768

2,467

1,995

1,882

2,465

19.0

18.5

15.7

14.6

18.2

2,099

1,887

1,404

1,256

1,752

ROCE in %

18.7

20.4

15.1

12.5

16.6

Net income

1,011

1,165

2,054

568

991

Adjusted net income

1,256

1,076

806

782

1,128

Earnings per share in €

2.17

2.50

4.41

1.22

2.13

Adjusted earnings per share in €

2.70

2.31

1.73

1.68

2.42

16,944

17,166

15,883

15,685

17,005

Equity ratio as of December 31 in %

35.8

31.9

43.0

41.6

44.6

Cash flow from operating activities

1,309

1,420

1,055

1,066

1,971

Capital expenditures d

830

960

1,140

1,123

877

Depreciation and amortization d

647

580

585

606

700

– 843

– 1,163

571

400

1,098

33,556

33,298

33,650

33,412

33,576

in € million

Sales
a

Adjusted EBITDA  

Adjusted EBITDA margin in %
Adjusted EBIT b
c

Total assets as of December 31

Net financial debt/assets as of December 31
No. of employees as of December 31

Figures for 2012 and 2013 contain the former Real Estate segment as a discontinued operation.
2014 figures restated.
a
b
c
d

Foreword

4

Perspective change

24	
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY

Executive Board
Overall responsibility for sustainability
Responsible Executive Board member: Chief Human Resources Officer
Segments

Corporate Divisions

Regions

Sustainability strategy and networks
Specialist regional project-based steering committees and management teams

C03 Evonik’s stakeholder groups
Interest groups, e.g. local inhabitants,
non-governmental organizations (NGOs)

Scientific community

25

Sustainability management

38

The business

52

Employees

62

The environment

75

Safety

84

Society

88

ANNEX

89

Our goals

92

About this report

94

Market positions

96

Major sites

97

Major shareholdings

98

Awards and accolades 2015

99	Membership of networks
and initiatives

Media

Business associates/customers

100	G4 content index of the

Evonik

Politicians/political
decision-makers

Earnings before financial result, taxes, depreciation and amortization, after adjustments.
Earnings before financial result and taxes, after adjustments.
Return on capital employed.
Intangible assets, property, plant, equipment and investment property.

2

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Employees

including the ten principles of the
UN Global Compact (UNGC)

Equity and debt holders

112	Certificate of an independent

Suppliers

audit report

Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences.

114	Glossary
117	List of tables

C01 Corporate structure
Evonik
Segments

Nutrition & Care

and charts

C04 18 sustainability aspects identified are bundled in six areas of action

Resource Efficiency

Strategy & growth
Performance Materials

Services

Sustainability strategy and management
as part of corporate strategy
Innovations/technologies
Customer satisfaction
Particular challenges and business options
(population growth, health, growth markets)
Sustainable products and solutions
More sustainable products/
products and solutions
Efficient use of scarce resources/materials

119

Governance/compliance

Safety

Compliance

Plant safety

Responsible management/
corporate governance

Occupational safety/health protection
and promotion

Morals & ethics (in business)/
sustainability management
in the supply chain (standards)

Transportation safety and logistics

Environment

Product stewardship

Employer excellence

Climate change and emissions into the air

Appeal as an employer

Water management

Qualification/training, advanced training

Waste management

Credits

CONTENTS
2

Foreword

4

Perspective change

24	
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
25

Sustainability management

38

The business

52

Employees

62

The environment

75

Safety

84

Society

88

ANNEX

89

Our objectives

92

About this report

94

Market positions

96

Major sites

97

Major shareholdings

98

Awards and accolades 2015

99	Membership of networks
and initiatives
100	G4 content index of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
including the ten principles of the
UN Global Compact (UNGC)
112

Independent Practitioner’s Limited
Assurance Report

114	Glossary
117	List of tables and charts
119

Credits

2

KLAUS ENGEL
Chairman of the Executive Board

THOMAS WESSEL
Chief Human Resources Officer

DEAR READERS,
Sustainability is a major factor of success at Evonik
Industries. We are convinced that profitable
growth and future business success are based in
large measure on foresighted and responsible behavior. This is the kind of behavior we expect and
receive from every one of our 33,000 employees
all over the world. The ability to look at things from
a variety of perspectives is one of the requirements
for progress in every area: the continuous improvement of our production processes, the planning and
commissioning of new facilities, and the introduction of market-ready products. In our operations,
we aim to provide innovations that make people’s
lives healthier and more rewarding; to enable our
customers to reduce their own environmental
footprint; and to ensure that the principles of good
corporate governance, as well as environmental
and social responsibility, are firmly integrated into
our daily activities at Evonik.
In many of our business operations, we have
found that sustainability is a growth driver and a
key criterion in customers’ purchasing decisions.
Our customers want to have products and solutions
that are the result of finding the right balance

between economic, environmental, and social
considerations. We take all of these considerations
into account in our sustainability strategy. As we
implement this strategy, we focus on worldwide
megatrends in the areas of health, nutrition,
resource efficiency, and globalization. In addition
to the creation of economic value, we always keep
social, environmental, and climate policy aspects
in mind.
Environmental performance assessments help us to
make the effects of our products transparent. This
strengthens our credibility as a reliable provider of
solutions for our customers and helps us to continuously improve the sustainability of our business
operations. One example of that is the amino acids
we produce for animal feed. The addition of the
amino acid DL-methionine to animal feed makes
an important contribution to all three dimensions
of sustainability—environmental, economic, and
social. Independent studies confirm that the
addition of DL-methionine to feed significantly
decreases greenhouse gas emissions as well as
reducing the amounts of water and land that are
required for animal nutrition.

3

The safety of our facilities, and thus the protection
of our employees and our neighbors, are more important to us than sales and profits. We have firmly
established our high standards at all of our locations
through a safety culture that is uniform throughout
the Group and in binding principles of conduct.
Last year more than 90 percent of our production
employees throughout the world participated in the
associated training programs.
Beyond the confines of our own plant gates, we
are promoting transparency and sustainability
along the entire supply chain. Part of this effort
involves expanding our relationships with strategic
suppliers and providing qualification programs for
new suppliers. We expect our suppliers as well to
comply with our high standards of safety, health,
environmental protection, labor norms, and other
core aspects of sustainability. Evonik is a founding
member of the sector initiative Together for Sustainability (TfS), which aims to establish uniform
standards of sustainable procurement for the entire
sector. These standards include the evaluation and
auditing of suppliers. As a TfS member, we regularly submit ourselves to this evaluation process. At
the beginning of this year, Evonik received a Gold
rating for sustainability for the third time in a row.
This result puts us among the top two percent of all
the companies that were evaluated.
As part of our long-term strategy, we continued
to analyze the sustainability of our business operations in 2015 and expanded this analysis to all
22 business lines in the three chemical segments.
As a result, about 94 percent of the Group’s sales in
2015 were covered by this evaluation. The evaluation process revealed that our chemical segments
already generate half of their sales with products
whose use makes a demonstrable contribution to
improved resource efficiency. In the current year

KLAUS ENGEL
Chairman of the Executive Board

we will continue to deepen the sustainability analysis of our business operations.
Evonik is in continuous contact with a broad range
of interest groups. These groups include our
employees, the people living near our production
facilities, customers and suppliers, shareholders,
representatives of science and research, nongovernmental organizations, policymakers, and the
media. In our dialogue with these stakeholders,
we experience the change of perspective that is an
important prerequisite for the continuous adaptation of our business activities in line with diverse
positions, requirements, wishes, and suggestions.
The result is a sustainability performance that is
publicly recognized. Evonik occupies an excellent
position in major rankings of sustainability. For example, in 2016 we were honored for the first time
with a Silver Class award as a Sustainability Leader
in the renowned sustainability yearbook published
by RobecoSAM. We were immediately placed
in the Top Ten of the approximately 70 chemical
companies all over the world that were evaluated
for the yearbook.
As a corporate group, Evonik is a part of society
and of public life. And as a good corporate citizen,
we want to be part of the response to the challenges that affect our society as a whole and to take
responsibility for the well-being of our fellow human beings. A special challenge that we face today
is the large number of refugees—in Germany, the
rest of Europe, and many other parts of the world.
We believe it is our duty to alleviate the emergency
through humanitarian aid and to help open up new
opportunities for the newly arrived refugees in
Germany. We extend our thanks to the many​
Evonik employees who are setting an example as
they engage in this effort.

THOMAS WESSEL
Chief Human Resources Officer

WE TAKE ON
RESPONSIBILITY
Evonik sets high standards for itself.
For example, it aims to remain open to
the ­diverse challenges and impulses we
­receive from our environment—from our
employees, neighbors, customers, and
suppliers, as well as policymakers and the
general public. One of our responsibilities
is to understand these varied perspectives
and take them into account in our daily
­operations.

In this Sustainability Report, we invite
you to join us as we look at things from
a variety of viewpoints. We hope you
enjoy reading about these changing
­perspectives.

4

THE FATHER’S THINKING:

That vintage car is fascinating, but
it wouldn’t be safe or fuel-efficient
enough to use as a family car.

THE BOY’S THINKING:

That looks like my classmate Felix. That’s funny.
Where’s he going?

5

OUR ENGINEER’S THINKING:

Helium balloons! If it
only were that easy to
make cars lightweight.

6

ENVIRONMENT

MOBILITY
MADE EASY
Automakers are striving to make cars more efficient
and thus more environmentally friendly. Lightweight
components made of fiber-reinforced plastics could
help, but they are expensive to produce. But now developers from Evonik Industries have found solutions
that bring us a big step closer to series-produced
lightweight components.

in emerging markets also dream of having a car. The
worldwide vehicle fleet already passed the one billion
mark in 2009, and it’s still growing. In order to limit these
vehicles’ impact on the environment, lawmakers are increasingly raising environmental and emissions standards.
For example, the EU will reduce the CO2 emission limits
for all new cars from 130 grams per kilometer today to
95 grams per kilometer in 2020.

Mobility makes life easier. It gets us to work safe and
dry, brings us home with full shopping bags, and takes
us to the doctor quickly in an emergency. Many people’s
mobility depends on their cars, and millions of people

Systematic lightweight construction is one way that
automakers could partially fulfill these requirements.
With every 100-kilogram reduction in weight, a car’s fuel
consumption decreases by up to 0.5 liters per 100 kilo-

“

Production processes account for
about 70 percent of the overall costs of
fiber-reinforced composite materials.
That’s why at the project house we
focused on processes and materials that
reduce these costs considerably.
DR. SANDRA REEMERS
Head of the Composites Project House

”

7

meters. But whereas fiber-reinforced composites already
account for up to 50 percent of a modern airplane, for
cars that figure is only approximately one percent. One
important reason for this is that lightweight construction
requires lots of manual labor, as there are no automated
production processes for it. In addition, the processing of
composite materials takes much longer than the punching, bending, and welding of metal parts. This increases
costs and decreases the number of units produced.
A team of Evonik developers has now brought a solution within reach. At the Composites Project House,
it cooperated closely for three years with the Evonik
business lines, universities, and partners along the entire
value chain to develop new materials and processes
that make lightweight construction with fiber-reinforced
composites more cost-efficient. Their work was based
on Evonik’s extensive know-how regarding of almost all
composite material components.
A completely new material concept developed at the
project house, called hybrid polymer systems, is well
suited for series production. These systems combine the
characteristics of two types of plastics that used to be
regarded as incompatible. They can be processed as easily

Oil and gas extraction could also benefit
from fiber-reinforced composite materials.
When oil and gas are extracted from very
deep waters, the pipes have to withstand
tremendous pressures. They are stiffened
with metallic mesh, but that makes them
heavier. The unidirectional tapes from
Evonik offer an alternative, because they’re
extremely strong and very light, and they
don’t corrode.

as thermoplastics, yet are as mechanically strong as
thermosetting plastics. In order to create these systems,
the developers used a trick. Thanks to specialty chemicals,
these polymer systems can be reshaped at temperatures
over 170°C, but at normal utilization temperatures they
are dimensionally stable and mechanically very robust. As
a result, components made of this hybrid polymer system
can be produced much faster and are also recyclable.
The project house also entered uncharted territory
when it developed unidirectional tapes—plastic tapes
in which fibers are embedded lengthwise. When such
tapes are layered on top of one another at various angles
and then melted together, they become extremely stable
components. To produce these tapes, the project house
developed a new process that saves costs, time, and
energy. The tapes have been produced for over a year
in a pilot facility that is suitable for series production.
After the development phase in the project house,
Evonik’s business lines are now forging ahead with
the market launch. The reactions of potential customers
who have received samples for testing already show
that these developments from Evonik have struck a nerve.

8

THE DAUGHTER’S THINKING:

When mom is at her
rehearsal, I can finally listen to
hip-hop music at full volume.

THE CLASSICS FAN’S THINKING:

This music is delightful.
You feel as though you’re in
a different world.

9

OUR HR EMPLOYEE’S THINKING:

It’s great to see how talented young
people and experienced pros can
harmonize. You only need to find
the right pace for sharing ideas.

10

EMPLOYEES

CONNECTING
DIFFERENT GENERATIONS
Evonik Industries offers a holistic and long-term
human resources planning approach that brings
together people who are just starting their careers
with employees who are about to retire. This
“GenerationenPakt” agreement pays off for young
and old alike as well as for the company itself.

How can the company maintain its wealth of knowledge?
How can one provide young people with appealing
prospects? And how does one enable older employees
to decide for themselves how and when they will retire?
Evonik provides answers to all three of these questions
with its “GenerationenPakt” agreement. Signed in 2015,
this agreement was first offered to non-exempt employees born between 1959 and 1961 who still had five years
left to go before they could begin early retirement on
their preferred date. Evonik takes advantage of these five
years to specifically train people for the upcoming job
vacancy. Ideally, the more experienced employees will also
work together with their prospective successors during
this time. This enables people who are starting out on

their careers to directly benefit from their predecessors’
experience in the tasks that they themselves will have to
perform later on. As a result, Evonik can now promise
all new trainees who join the company in 2016 that they
will be hired once they have successfully completed their
training. The new approach not only lets the company
more precisely plan and control the demand for trainee
positions, it also ensures there is enough time for training
and for giving trainees custom-tailored qualifications
over an extended period. The employees who will soon
retire consider this phase an especially satisfying one of
their careers. It ensures that the knowledge that they
have accumulated over many years is not lost, but instead
preserved for the company.
“This model meets the desire of many older employees
to gradually leave their jobs over a period of several years
instead of retiring abruptly,” says Thomas Wessel, Chief
Human Resources Officer of Evonik Industries. “We have
responded to this wish and linked it with the hiring of
young trainees. This way, we want to make our personnel
planning more reliable and provide young people with

Evonik promotes the long-term development of
highly skilled personnel as early as preschool. One
of the many initiatives that Evonik has launched for
this purpose is Young Spirit, which has been getting
small children interested in the STEM subjects for
over ten years now. By this means, preschoolers
and elementary school children are playfully instructed in subjects that will later spark their interest in pursuing a career in mathematics, computer
science, the natural sciences or engineering.

11

clear prospects for the time after their training is finished,”
he adds. The agreement is jointly supported by the
company, the works council, and the IG BCE trade union.
This model is also made possible by the fact that the
participating non-exempt employees have long-term
accounts in which they save up money, vacation days,
pre-retirement days off and/or excess working time. An
employee’s savings in this account are converted into the
number of days that he or she can retire early. Evonik also
provides additional funding for such accounts. If an employee retires at the earliest possible date with deductions,
Evonik lessens the reductions of his or her company retirement benefits. The company even continues to provide
vacation pay, and the employee’s long-term account is not
affected during the person’s actual vacation time. Instead,
Evonik pays for the vacation days. The model’s popularity
is borne out by the high participation rate. In fact, more
than three fourths of the employees who are eligible to
take part actually do so.

“

The GenerationenPakt is a pioneering approach
that once again demonstrates that the German
model of the social market economy continues to
produce up-to-date solutions in the 21st century.
MICHAEL VASSILIADIS
Executive Secretary of the Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE)

”

12

THE GROOM-TO-BE’S THINKING:

Isn’t it unlucky to see
the wedding gown before
the big moment?

THE FLOWER GIRL’S THINKING:

You look so pretty in that
gown. When I get married,
I want one just like it!

13

OUR DEVELOPER’S THINKING:

It’s simply brilliant. But it took 60 years
to get the zipper from the concept
stage to the finished product. Nobody
has that much time today.

14

BUSINESS

MAKING IDEAS
FLOURISH
Through its Venture Capital unit, Evonik Industries
invests in startups and their disruptive innovations.
It’s not only about making money, but also about partnerships and new markets.

A brilliant idea, a garage, and lots of enthusiasm—that’s
the creation myth of legendary startups. But in fact
there’s a lot more to it than that. And that’s exactly why
most startups fail—because an idea alone is not yet a
product, and a product alone is not yet a business model.
That path is a long one and leads through the Valley of
Death. That’s what people in the know call the phase in
which high-tech startups have to build up production facilities and a workforce before they can generate income.
In particular, startups that are not creating digital services
but tangible products and technologies have to have
deep pockets. The best way to survive in the Valley of
Death is to have a healthy initial supply of capital and
other people’s trust in you.
Evonik Industries knows this, and it specializes in supporting and financing exactly this kind of enterprise. Venture Capital is the unit that, since 2012, has been investing in promising startups that have left their laboratory

phase behind them and are ready to bring their inventions
to market. In the medium term, € 100 million will flow
not only via specialized funds, but primarily in the form
of direct investments. Finding promising candidates is the
mission of the eight-person Evonik Venture Capital team,
which includes management experts, physicists, chemists,
and engineers. What all of them have in common is
long experience in the chemical business, a critical view
towards purported innovations, and good connections
with the operating units of the Group. That’s because in
spite of all the risks involved their investments must be
very sound, and they must be compatible with Evonik’s
strategy and markets.
The experts scrutinize more than 500 young companies
every year. Well over 80 percent of them are filtered out
in the very first round. At the end of the vetting process,
between three and five startups are left as candidates for
investment because their innovations could change at least
one of Evonik’s markets, or because they could open up
new markets for Evonik technologies.
The range of direct investments Evonik has made so far
illustrates just how diverse these disruptive technologies
are. It ranges from nanolenses for digital gesture recog-

15

“

We’re not looking for hypes or for the
Facebook of tomorrow. We’re investing
in technologies that could change
our own markets in a fundamental way.
MARK REDSHAW
Investment Director, Evonik Venture Capital

nition to high-performance lubricants made from renewable raw materials and customized shoe insoles produced
with a 3D printer. So far there are eight companies in the
portfolio, and the plan is to increase that number to as
many as 20. Four of these companies were new in 2015.
The Canadian startup Wiivv Wearables produces customized shoe insoles with the help of 3D printers. The Finnish medical equipment company Synoste has developed
an innovative implant that makes it possible to carry out
orthopedically essential leg lengthening for patients in a
much less invasive manner.
JeNaCell, a spinoff from the University of Jena, has
devel­oped a biotechnological process for producing
nanocellulose that can for example, be used to treat burns
more effectively. The Dutch company Airborne Oil & Gas

”

has developed a unique composite technology for the
production of flexible pipes for the offshore extraction of
oil and gas. These pipes are lightweight, yet extremely
robust.
Thanks to Evonik’s investment, these technologies too are
moving a step closer to commercial success. For Evonik,
the aim is not only to receive a return on its investment
but also to form partnerships to which the Group contributes its infrastructure and the combined market and
application expertise of its almost 33,000 employees.
That’s an incalculable advantage for the young companies
during this sensitive phase. In return, Evonik gains access
to bright minds outside the Group and promotes fresh
new ideas that could move markets—and perhaps our
world—in a new direction.

In Marl and at its branches in the USA and China,
Evonik Industries is operating its own “incubators” for disruptive technologies. At Creavis,
Evonik’s strategic innovation unit, interdisciplinary teams consisting of researchers and developers from inside and outside the Group work
together on innovations that have great potential
but also require a lot of patience.

16

THE FATHER’S THINKING:

Straight into the starting
line-up. That’s my boy!
Just don’t get hurt.

THE PROFESSIONAL’S THINKING:

The kids’ playing is
so carefree. This kind of
soccer is really fun!

17

OUR LOCAL MANAGER’S THINKING:

In sports it’s all about skill and
spirit, not your origins. That goes
for skilled trainees too.

18

SOCIETY

EFFECTIVE HELP
FOR PEOPLE IN NEED
The Evonik Foundation and Evonik Industries jointly
support refugee projects in the towns where the
Group operates. Here they provide unbureaucratic
assistance and offer long-term opportunities.

Day after day, thousands of refugees from crisis regions
are leaving behind them everything they have and seeking
a better future in countries such as Germany. According
to the UN Refugee Aid Organization, more refugees are
on the move today than at any time after World War II.
By the summer of 2015, it was clear that Germany’s cities
and municipalities will be taking in and integrating hundreds of thousands of refugees. At about the same time,
Evonik decided to actively support these efforts with
donations in kind, funding, and personal commitment.
In a multitude of emergency shelters the local authorities, supported by many volunteers and donations from
the public, are providing refugees with the basic necessities: a roof over their heads, showers, clothing, and
hot meals. Evonik, as a major employer and an important
factor in local economies, is supporting many of these
measures. In September 2015, Evonik made €1 million
available to the Evonik Foundation to be used as emergency funding for refugees. The money is mainly being
used to offer training, jobs, and language courses and to

run long-term projects for refugees in the places where
Evonik operates and the surrounding regions. Just over
90 projects will reach more than 10,000 people.
But providing the refugees with basic necessities and initial services is far from enough. The Evonik Foundation
considers it important to provide more extensive help,
support integration, and create opportunities that reach
further into the future. It therefore supports projects that
facilitate the integration of the refugees into their new
surroundings—projects focusing on language instruction, schooling, and professional training. That’s because
many of the refugees want to stay in Germany and
will stay there, building a new life in peace and security.
At the adult education center in Wesseling, a secondary
school in Haltern, the job center in Krefeld, the “language Cafe” in Dossenheim, and in many other places,
the Evonik Foundation is therefore financing large and
small projects so that children, teenagers, and adults can
learn German as quickly as possible. In Herne, a special
educational concept is helping refugee children learn
the language faster. In Worms, the Evonik Foundation is
helping to finance an independent-learning center that
aims to reach all of the refugees that can’t be accommodated in the existing classes and courses. And the Evonik
Foundation is cooperating with Ruhr University Bochum

“Starting Your Career” is a joint initiative of the employers
and employees of the chemical industry that helps unemployed young people gain the qualifications for a traineeship.
Evonik is a longtime partner in this initiative. In 2015, with
financial support from the Evonik Foundation, it increased
the number of people it funds so that young refugees can
also be prepared for traineeships in German industry. The
first participants started courses in Marl in November 2015.

19

“

The refugees who are now coming to Germany and have good prospects
for becoming residents constitute a tremendous opportunity for our
society, our economy, and the labor market. In order to take advantage of
this potential, we first need to make investments in language classes
and qualification and training courses.
KLAUS ENGEL
Chairman of the Executive Board, Evonik Industries AG

”
(RUB) to establish 11 scholarships specially created for
refugees. The program is designed for young men and
women who started to study engineering, science, and
economics in their homelands and enables them to continue their studies at RUB. It also supports young people
who want to start studying these subjects at RUB.
For the refugees, integration also means regaining some
of the elements of normal life. The Evonik Foundation,
together with Evonik, is helping children and teenagers
in this area especially—for example, by enabling its
employees to organize trips and equip playgrounds and
relaxation rooms. In addition, the foundation is helping
to equip bicycle workshops in Worms, Marl, and
Rheinfelden where refugees can put used bicycles into
working order for themselves and their families.
For many refugees, the first few months in Germany
consist mainly of endless waiting. In these workshops,
they can do useful work and talk to other refugees
and their German helpers. They are also gaining a small
piece of valuable independence for their and their families’ future lives in their new homeland.

20

THE OFFICE WORKER’S THINKING:

It’s high time for a
diving trip! My last one
was much too long ago.

THE LITTLE GIRL’S THINKING:

I wonder if they’ll see
any seahorses.

21

OUR SAFETY EXPERT’S THINKING:

Safety is more than just good
equipment. We also need to have
uniform standards and be able to
rely on one another 100%.

22

SAFETY

SAFETY
FIRST
Evonik Industries consolidates its process and plant
safety know-how in order to ensure uniform safety
standards at a high level worldwide. This is expected
by the Group’s neighbors and by the capital market.

The list of Evonik’s new, expanded, and planned production facilities is a long one. It includes plants for methionine in Singapore, C4 chemistry in Marl and Antwerp
(Belgium), and silica in Americana (Brazil) and Chester
(Pennsylvania, USA). The Group’s declared course of
worldwide growth includes the increase of its production
and sales volumes all over the world. However, in all
of these facilities the top priority is safety. The global
initiative “Safety at Evonik” reflects the Group’s sense of
responsibility regarding this issue. The initiative’s main

general public, and local and national authorities expect
us to minimize these hazards and thus prevent accidents,
especially accidents that could cause major damage.
In order to provide these safety measures, the GPSC’s
mission is to provide expert support for the plant managers worldwide as they carry out their safety-related
responsibilities.
SYSTEMATIC, INTERDISCIPLINARY,
AND INTERNATIONAL
In order to prevent safety-relevant disruptions of processes and facilities, the safety experts at the GPSC regularly
and comprehensively analyze possible hazards and design
safety concepts for our plants. In this process, the experts
take into account the behavior of the facility’s workforce
and the functional safety of the technical equipment. In

guiding principles is “We build and operate plants with
the intention of causing no harm to the people who
work there, our neighbors and the environment.”

order to take all of the available knowledge and experience
into account, the GPSC experts closely cooperate with the
facility’s workforce as well as engineers and chemists.

In order to implement this principle and ensure that the
highest safety standards are complied with at each
of its facilities worldwide, Evonik established the Global
Process Safety Competence Center, or GPSC. The GPSC
team consists of experts from Evonik with outstanding
skills in the field of process and plant safety. These
experts have gathered many years of experience with
diverse chemical processes and facilities all over the world,
and they are combining their know-how at the GPSC.

The GPSC operates at locations in Germany, China,
and the USA. From these locations, the team provides
intensive support for major investment projects all over
the world, from the initial planning steps to the production start-up of the facilities. They also regularly rechek
and revise the safety concepts of existing facilities.

Their clearly defined goal is “Zero accidents at Evonik.”
That also applies to safety-relevant disruptions of processes and facilities that could arise, for example, as a
result of leaks at a plant or situations where products or
raw materials could catch fire. Not only our employees
and the neighbors of our production facilities, but also the

These special efforts and resources that are devoted to
process and plant safety are vital. That’s the opinion of
Evonik’s employees and neighbors, as well as of many
others. More and more analysts, investors, and insurers
are including process and plant safety in their evaluations
of companies. Through its activities, the GPSC is also
assuring valuable goodwill—a currency that is internationally recognized everywhere, from Marl to Singapore.

At Evonik, safeguarding health and ensuring safe behavior in the workplace also receive top priority. That’s
the core of our guiding principles for safety, “Safety at
Evonik.” The guidelines present more than 100 binding
operation principles for all of the Group’s employees in
the four topic areas Standards, Communication, Risk
Management, and Involvement. It explains which of
these principles are binding on individual behavior and
which activities must be explicitly avoided.

23

“

Safety is always our top priority—and it is
explicitly a higher priority than sales and
profits. Our employees, as well as our
neighbors all over the world, depend on that!
THOMAS WESSEL
Chief Human Resources Officer, Evonik Industries AG

”

24

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Corporate
responsibility
Sustainability management
Evonik’s strategic focus
What we stand for
Corporate governance
House of Compliance
Fighting corruption

25
25
32
33
34
37

The business
An excellent performance in 2015
Segment performance
Supply chain management
Research & development

38
38
41
44
47

Employees52
Exemplary leadership
53
is the heart of our HR strategy
Employees worldwide
54
Our activities in the areas of action
defined for HR strategy
55
59
Trustful collaboration
Work/life balance
60

62
The environment
Environmental targets
63
Environmental protection investment
and operating costs
64
64
Production inputs and output
Emissions into the air
65
70
Water data and emissions into water
Waste72
73
Biodiversity and ecosystem services
Safety75
76
Occupational safety
Health protection
77
78
Plant safety
Transportation safety and logistics
79
81
Product stewardship
Society84
Donations and sponsorship
of public projects in 2015
84
85
Social assistance projects
Advocacy87

The Sustainability management, The business, Employees, The environment and Safety sections were subject to a limited
assurance review by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC) (indicated by
)

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

25

Sustainability management
Evonik’s strategic focus

Evonik’s strategic focus
Business model
Strong market positions, a clear culture of innovation,
sustainability management

Evonik is one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals companies. We concentrate on high-growth megatrends, especially
health, nutrition, resource efficiency and globalization. We
use rising demand from our customers for energy-efficient
solutions that spare resources to develop new competencies
and gain access to innovative growth areas. Our strengths
include the balanced spectrum of our business activities,
end-markets and regions. Around 80 percent of sales come
from market-leading positions 1, which we are systematically
expanding. Our strong competitive position is based on integrated technology platforms, innovative strength and working closely with our customers.
Our specialty chemical products make an indispensable
contribution to the success of our customers’ products on their
markets. Close cooperation with our customers enables us to
build up a deep knowledge of their business and markets, so
we can offer solutions tailored to a wide range of specifications, and extensive technical service. Our technology centers
and customer competence centers play an important role in
this around the world. For us, focusing on solutions also means
considering our customers’ customers.
Market-oriented research and development is a key driver
of profitable growth. This is based on our strong innovation
culture, which is rooted in our innovation management and
management development.
Our highly trained employees are another key success factor. They drive forward the company on a daily basis through
their hard work and loyalty to our company. We therefore

have a wide range of activities geared to gaining and developing talented and qualified employees and positioning
Evonik as a preferred employer in order to retain them.
We are convinced that sustainable business activities and
responsible conduct by our management and staff at all levels
are vital for Evonik’s future. Our sustainability strategy takes
up the megatrends identified in our corporate strategy and
supplements them with ecological and societal challenges.

A decentralized corporate structure

To further improve our scope for profitable growth, we reorganized our management and portfolio structure effective
January 1, 2015. The Executive Board concentrates on Evonik’s
strategic development within a management holding structure. The three chemical manufacturing segments 2 are run
by newly established management companies. They use their
increased entrepreneurial independence to operate closer
to their markets and customers and improve efficiency still
further.
The Nutrition & Care segment produces specialty chemicals, principally for use in consumer goods for everyday
applications, animal nutrition and healthcare products.
The Resource Efficiency segment supplies high-performance
materials for environment-friendly and energy-efficient system
solutions for the automotive, paints, coatings, adhesives and
construction industries and many other sectors.
The heart of the Performance Materials segment is the
production of polymer materials and intermediates, mainly
for the rubber, plastics and agriculture industries.
The Services segment offers services for the chemical
segments and external customers at our sites and supports
the chemicals businesses and the management holding company by providing standardized Group-wide business services.

C01 Corporate structure
Evonik
Segments

Nutrition & Care

Resource Efficiency

Performance Materials

­

1
2

We define these as ranking 1st, 2nd or 3rd in the relevant markets.
Two segments were renamed and some activities were assigned to different segments. The prior-year figures have been restated accordingly.

Services

Annex

Sustainability management

26

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

The Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency segments
operate principally in markets with high margins, growth rates
and entry barriers. They both offer customers customized,
innovation-driven solutions and the aim is for them to achieve
above-average, profitable growth through innovations, investments and acquisitions.
The Performance Materials segment is characterized by
processes that make intensive use of energy and raw mate­
rials. It therefore concentrates on integrated, cost-optimized
technology platforms, efficient workflows, and economies of
scale. Our strategic goal for this segment is to contribute
earnings to finance the growth of the Evonik Group. In the
future, investments and, where appropriate, alliances will
concentrate on securing and extending our good market
positions.

The procedure comprises a broad spectrum of methods,
including life cycle assessments (LCA), which comprise either
a “cradle-to-gate” analysis, covering all stages from product
development through raw material and energy inputs to production, or a “cradle-to-grave” analysis covering the entire
lifecycle including subsequent use and disposal. Another tool
is the lifecycle-based calculation of the carbon footprint of our
products. In addition, we use cross-referencing approaches,
where existing findings, for example from LCAs, are used to
evaluate similar products.

C05 Percentage of sales generated by our
chemicals segments covered by lifecycle analyses

Driving forward the sustainability analysis
of our business

G4-27

By developing new products and business models, Evonik can
make a substantial contribution to sustainable development.
At the same time, we want to strengthen and expand our
leading market positions.
To support the long-term focus of our strategy, we con­
tinued the sustainability analysis of our business in 2015 in collaboration with the operational units. The aim is to evaluate
the sustainability-related challenges and opportunities of our
business operations. In this, we focus especially on market
trends and future market developments. On the one hand,
that meets the requirements of a rapidly rising number of
customers who want an assurance that sustainability aspects
are anchored along the entire value chain, while on the other,
it further extends the toolbox available to us as a company that
operates in accordance with the principles of sustainability.
The analysis is based on a list of criteria relating to the
value chains of our businesses and takes account of sustainability aspects from the supply chain through production to
subsequent use.
In 2015 we extended the corresponding process to a total
of 22 business lines in our three chemical segments. Our sustainability analysis therefore covered around 94 percent of
Group sales in 2015.

Lifecycle analyses

Lifecycle analyses are a central focus of the sustainability
analysis of our business. The high expertise and strong operational involvement of the Life Cycle Management group
plays a key role in ensuring that Evonik has a wide-ranging
knowledge of the environmental impact of its operations.
So far, the ecological impact of around 70 percent of the
external sales generated by our chemical segments has been
examined and the aim is to extend this to around 80 percent
of their external sales.

Not yet analyzed a
29 %

LCA
(cradle to gate)
33 %

Lifecycle-based
crossreferencing 2 %
LCA crossreferencing 8 %
Lifecycle-based
analyses 6 %

a

LCA
(cradle to grave)
22 %

Lifecycle analyses planned in some cases.

Resource-saving solutions

Evonik products offer customers resource-saving and energyefficient solutions for a wide range of applications. In this
way, we help meet the rising sustainability requirements in
the marketplace and at the same time, continue to develop
our business opportunities in these markets. Examples are
amino acids for animal nutrition, silica-silane technology
for “green tires”, additives for hydraulic fluids, products for
the construction of modern wind turbines, additives for
environment-friendly water-based coatings, functional silanes
to protect building facades, catalysts for the production of
biodiesel, and ingredients based on renewable raw materials
for the cosmetics industry.
Our sustainability analysis includes an extensive analysis
of the contribution made by our products to improving
resource efficiency in their respective applications. This covers
energy savings and the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and the use of raw materials. The
results show that around 50 percent of the sales generated by
our chemical segments already come from products that
make a measurable contribution to improving the resource
efficiency of their applications. This is confirmed by our

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

27

Sustainability management
Evonik’s strategic focus

C02 Sustainability management at Evonik

Segments

Corporate Divisions

Annex

Executive Board
Overall responsibility for sustainability
Responsible Executive Board member: Chief Human Resources Officer
Regions

Sustainability strategy and networks
Specialist regional project-based steering committees and management teams

intensive collaboration with customers, the extensive results
of application technology and product development, and the
evaluation of comparative findings of scientific investigations.
We will be extending the sustainability analysis of
our business operations further in 2016 and also intend to
seek external validation of this method. That is an important
step in bringing together our sustainability strategy and our
corporate strategy.

Sustainability management reorganized

In view of the significance of sustainable development for
Evonik’s business, the Executive Board bears overall responsibility for sustainability and direct responsibility is assigned
to the Chief Human Resources Officer, who is also respon­
sible for all climate-related aspects at Evonik. The Corporate
Responsibility division bundles the strategic framework, in
close collaboration with other central functions and the operational segments, and coordinates the Group-wide implementation of sustainability activities.
The introduction of the new Group structure has given
our operational segments far greater entrepreneurial independence to allow targeted management of their businesses.
The interaction of the segments and the sustainability bodies
at Group level was initiated in 2015, for example at a joint
workshop with representatives of the operational units.
In addition, the consistency of the new structure of the sustainability organization with the action of other corporate
divisions assigned to the Chief Human Resources Officer was
assured. The new sustainability bodies will take up their
work in the course of 2016.
The HR Executive Committee chaired by the Chief Human
Resources Officer is the top CR decision-making body. It
initiates Group-wide CR projects and receives continuous
progress updates. Preliminary agreement and consultation on
such projects and the establishment of a consensus on CR
topics and their operational structure is undertaken by the CR
Panel, chaired by the head of the Corporate Responsibility
division. The permanent members of the CR Panel are representatives of the segments and employee representatives.
The panel also receives specialist support from the Global CR
Committee, which has an operational focus and is composed

of representatives of the segments and regions. It prepares
decisions to be taken by the CR Panel. CR Expert Circles
examine specific topics and report their findings to the Global
CR Committee.

C06 Structure of Corporate Responsibility
steering bodies
Executive Committee HR
Corporate Responsibility Panel
Global Corporate Responsibility Committee

CR Expert Circles

Obligations and commitments

We are convinced that reliable and responsible management
of the company is the basis for Evonik’s long-term business
success and acceptance by society. The framework for this
comprises our Code of Conduct, our Global Social Policy
(GSP) and our Environment, Safety and Health (ESH) Values.
In its Global Social Policy, Evonik defines principles of
social responsibility to its employees. These include an obligation to comply with internationally recognized standards of
conduct such as the International Labor Standards of the
International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises issued by the Organisation for
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Evonik
does not tolerate any conduct that violates the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The governments of the
OECD member states and other countries have signed these
guidelines to document their obligation to ensure responsible
corporate conduct. Our Global Social Policy states that our
success and reputation are based fundamentally on the professionalism and commitment of all employees.

28

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

By joining the United Nations’ Global Compact (UN Global
Compact), Evonik gave an undertaking that, within its sphere
of influence, it would respect and promote labor rights and
human rights, avoid discrimination, protect people and the
environment, and fight against corruption. In fall 2015 the
United Nations published 17 global sustainable development
goals, to be achieved by 2030. As a member of the Global
Compact, we consider that we have an obligation to work
towards achieving these goals. Our sustainability activities
support these in many areas.
As a signatory to the chemical industry’s Responsible Care
Global Charter, we also have an obligation to continuously
improve our performance in health protection, environmental
protection, product stewardship and safety.
Along with other German companies, Evonik has signed the
Code of Responsible Conduct for Business. The signatories
recognize that acceptance by people is a basic prerequisite
for economic activity and give a commitment to measurable
standards for responsible corporate conduct. These include
fair competition, social partnership and sustainability.
We also expect our suppliers to share our principles and
to act correctly in all respects, which means accepting the
responsibility towards their employees, business partners,
society and the environment. Evonik’s requirements in this
respect are set out in its Supplier Code of Conduct.
We are involved in many competency networks on sustainability, both nationally and internationally. These include
econsense, an association of leading German companies that
operate in the global arena, and Chemie 3, the sustainability
initiative of the German chemical industry. In addition, Evonik
is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD) and is committed to its Vision 2050:
“9 billion people living well, within the limits of the planet.”
We are also committed to the Low Carbon Technology Partnerships Initiative, the WBCSD’s climate initiative. As part
of this, in November 2015 the CEO’s of AkzoNobel, DSM,
Evonik, Mitsubishi Chemicals and Solvay issued a joint declaration at the start of the Climate Conference in Paris. This
centers on the chemical industry’s potential to leverage additional CO2 savings by making broader use of available product benefits and through pioneering new technologies.

1

Target groups from which usable results were received are taken into account.

Climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time.
As a responsible company, we have undertaken to report regularly to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the world’s
largest investor initiative. The CDP evaluates the extent to
which companies respond effectively to the opportunities and
risks of climate change and how transparently they report on
them. As a public company, Evonik took part in the Investor
CDP category for the second time in 2015.
In addition, Evonik is an organizational stakeholder in the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) network. The content of our
sustainability reports is based on the internationally recognized GRI Guidelines. This sustainability report is based for
the first time on the specifications of the GRI G4 Guideline in
accordance with the “core” option.

Updating our materiality analysis

To evaluate the global challenges and analyze the requirements of stakeholders of relevance for Evonik, in 2015 we
deepened our qualitative and quantitative materiality analysis
compared with previous years. The results played a key role in
defining the scope and content of reporting and the selection
of sustainability indicators. In the future, we intend to continue to align our sustainability reporting to the topics we
have identified as being material.
For our materiality analysis in fall 2015, we compiled
information on sustainability issues of potential relevance
for Evonik. That involved evaluating many public and private
sources. Building on previous materiality analyses, these
included completed and ongoing legislative processes of
national and international relevance for sustainability, publications issued by companies, associations and consultancies,
conferences, books and journals, and personal discussions
with internal and external stakeholders.
Representatives of all stakeholder groups of relevance for
Evonik were surveyed. Alongside our employees, these
included customers, suppliers, local residents, representatives
of universities and research institutes, analysts and investors,
representatives of industry associations, political parties,
non-governmental organizations and the media. The stakeholders were selected by Evonik experts, who have close
and regular contact to specific stakeholder groups.1 Evonik
employees could take part in the survey in the intranet. In a
second step, we included selected sustainability experts
from the Evonik Group, representatives of relevant corporate
functions and representatives of the workforce.

G4-18
G4-22

G4-26
G4-25

G4-18

•Corporate responsibility

• perspective change

• Annex

29

Sustainability management
Evonik’s strategic focus

Annex

The sustainability issues and aspects identified were assessed
for their relevance for Evonik. On the basis of this assessment, we defined 18 sustainability topics.

G4-18

C07 Materiality analysis 2015

G4-19
G4-27
Stakeholder
Relevance: very high

1

6
18

19
20

Relevance: high

10
21

11

16

12
14

3

7

2

5

4
8

9
13

15

22/25

26
27

30

17

28

31

23

29

Relevance: average

24

Evonik
Relevance: average

Relevance: high

Relevance

Areas of action

1 Plant safety

Very high

▯

2 Occupational safety

Very high

▯

3 Compliance

Very high

▯

4 Customer satisfaction

Very high

▯

5 Product stewardship

Very high

Relevance

Areas of action

16 Products and solutions/
lifecycle considerations

High

▯

17 Growth markets

High

▯

18 Water management

Average

▯

▯

19 Emissions into the air

Average

▯

20 Health protection and promotion

Average

▯

21 Climate change

Average

▯

22 Sustainability management

Average

▯

23 Health

Average

▯

24 Population growth

Average

▯

25 Dialogue and cooperation
with stakeholders

Average

–

26 Regional commitment at the sites

Average

–

27 Equal opportunity

Average

–

28 Employability (demographic change)

Average

–

29 Work/life balance

Average

–

6 Transportation safety and logistics

High

▯

7 Responsible management/
corporate governance

High

▯

8 Innovations/technologies

High

▯

9 Sustainability strategy and management
as part of corporate strategy

Relevance: very high

High

▯

10 Waste management

High

▯

11 Morals and ethics (in business)

High

▯

12 Appeal as an employer

High

▯

13 Efficient use of
scarce resources/materials

High

▯

14 Qualification/training,
advanced training

High

▯

30 Focus on the population in cities

Average

–

15 More sustainable products

High

▯

31 Diversity

Average

–

30

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

C04 18 sustainability aspects identified are bundled in six areas of action
Strategy & growth
9

Sustainability strategy and management as part of corporate strategy

8

Innovations/technologies

4

Customer satisfaction

24
23
17

Particular challenges and business
options (population growth, health,
growth markets)

Governance/compliance
Compliance
Responsible management/
corporate governance

G4-19

G4-20

2
20

Morals & ethics (in business)/
sustainability management
in the supply chain (standards)

Sustainable products and solutions

G4-18

1

3
7
11
22

Safety

More sustainable products/
products and solutions

21
19

13

Efficient use of scarce
resources/materials

18

Water management

10

Waste management

Transportation safety and logistics

5

Product stewardship

Employer excellence

Climate change and
emissions into the air

The eighteen sustainability aspects identified were then
grouped in six areas of action: strategy and growth, sustainable products and solutions, governance/compliance,
employer excellence, safety and environment.
We also analyzed the areas of the value chain where these
material areas of action are of particular importance.

Occupational safety/
health protection and promotion

6

Environment

15
16

Plant safety

12

Appeal as an employer

14

Qualification/training,
advanced training

The results of the materiality analysis were presented to the
relevant decision-making bodies and to Evonik’s Executive
Board.
In the mid term, we aim to sharpen our sustainability
strategy further, anchor it even more firmly in the company,
and enhance the transparency of our sustainability performance.

C08 Value chain

G4-21

Upstream
Value chain

Raw materials/supply chain

Strategy & growth

Gate to gate

Downstream

Evonik products/
system solutions

Customer and endcustomer applications

▯

▯

Sustainable products and solutions

▯

▯

▯

Governance/compliance

▯

▯

▯

▯

Environment
Safety
Employer excellence

▯

▯
▯

G4-18

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

31

Sustainability management
Evonik’s strategic focus

C03 Evonik’s stakeholder groups
Interest groups, e.g. local inhabitants,
non-governmental organizations (NGOs)

Scientific community

Media

Business associates/customers
Evonik

Politicians/political
decision-makers

Employees
Equity and debt holders

Close dialogue with stakeholders
G4-25

G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

Annex

G4-24

Constructive dialogue with our stakeholders goes beyond the
requirements of the materiality analysis and helps ensure
timely identification of trends and future challenges and
minimizes potential risks. That improves our understanding
of how our entrepreneurial action is perceived from various
perspectives along the value chain and in society. This dialogue takes place both at operational level—for example,
with customers and suppliers—and at Group level through
associations and interest groups. The format for our stakeholder dialogue varies depending on the topic and target
group. The chart above shows the stakeholder groups of
relevance for Evonik.
We maintain constant contact to our business partners
and customers—mainly industrial companies that process our
products. Close collaboration between customers and Evonik
is one of our strengths. High customer satisfaction and customer retention are important elements in main­taining and
expanding our business. To support this, the Marketing &
Sales Excellence (MSE) unit bundles Group-wide customer
surveys and provides an efficient toolbox for conducting
them.
Reliable supply, gaining access to new procurement markets, and ongoing optimization of material costs are key tasks
for our procurement function. We are working intensively to
extend our strategic relationships with suppliers and to validate
new suppliers. In addition, we are involved in purchasing alliances with other companies. The aim is to find further ways
of reducing risks and costs. Safety, health, environmental protection, quality and other core aspects of sustainability are
firm elements in our procurement strategy. Further, our stakeholders expect steadily rising transparency in the supply chain.
Evonik is therefore a founding member of the Together for
Sustainability (TfS) initiative set up by chemical companies.

Suppliers

TfS aims for global harmonization in the evaluation and
auditing of suppliers. As a member of TfS Evonik is subject to
regular assessment. We meet the gold standard, which positions us among the best performers in the chemical sector.
The commitment and identification of our well-trained
employees are a key factor in Evonik’s success. Gaining and
retaining employees and personnel development are central
elements of our human resources strategy. We maintain
a constant dialogue with our employees. Tools include regular
appraisal reviews and our Group-wide employee survey. Our
most recent employee survey was held in November 2015
and the participation rate was over 80 percent.
We provide timely information for our employees on
upcoming operational changes. Alongside personal dialogue,
the Chairman of the Executive Board regularly writes to the
workforce on the most important events in the company, via
the intranet or our employee magazine Folio. In these media,
our employees can find up-to-date articles with background
information, FAQs, and offers of direct communication with
the management. We also organize debates on specific issues
such as safety for various employee groups. Round tables
and networks are further platforms for discussion within the
Group. In view of the reorganization of the Group structure
and Corporate Sustainability, development of training modules on sustainability issues was postponed in 2015.
Our owners and lenders, institutional investors, analysts
and rating agencies expect timely and extensive information.
The Investor Relations division has steadily stepped up dialogue
with analysts and investors since Evonik shares were listed
for trading in April 2013. The Chairman of the Executive
Board and the Chief Financial Officer also take part. Evonik’s
growth strategy, portfolio of specialty chemicals and the latest business trends are presented in many one-on-one sessions, roadshows and field trips. The focus is on the financial

G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

32

G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

centers of London, Frankfurt, New York and Paris. A highlight of our Investor Relations activities in 2015 was a field trip
for analysts and investors to our site in Antwerp (Belgium),
which focused on the Animal Nutrition business line.
We also get important feedback about our sustainability
performance from our talks with sustainability analysts and
investors. Alongside financial criteria, more and more investors include ecological, social and governance factors in their
investment decisions. Evonik had a presence for the first time
at sustainability investment conferences in London and Paris
in 2015 and in Frankfurt in 2016.
Evonik is included in the sustainability-oriented index
families FTSE4Good Global, STOXX Global ESG Leaders
and Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120. Important sustainability
rating agencies such as Oekom Research, Sustainalytics and
imug/EIRIS also rank the company among the leaders in the
chemical sector.
In 2015 we took part in the assessment for the Dow
Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), which is performed by
RobecoSAM. As a result, Evonik was included in the
RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook as a Sustainability
Leader with the distinction “Silver Class”. This was the first
time we took part and we gained a place straight away
among the top ten of the approximately 70 chemical com­
panies rated worldwide.
Local residents around our sites play an especially important part in our dialogue with stakeholders. We produce
where our markets and customers are. Consequently, we
have production facilities in 24 countries on five continents.
Local residents at all our sites have an elementary interest
in experiencing Evonik as a reliable partner and want to be
informed about the latest developments. We maintain contact with them, for example, through written communication,
invitations to visit our sites and personal discussions.
Our active engagement comprises work on industry associations and organizations, and contact with other interest
groups such as non-governmental organizations.
Dialogue and collaboration with the scientific community
is of especial significance for Evonik. Innovations strengthen
our leading market and technology positions and open up
new high-growth business opportunities. We cooperate with
research institutes, universities and other industrial companies
so that the latest findings in chemistry, biology and physics
can rapidly be transported into our company. Through strategic partnerships we are linked to leading universities in the
USA, China, and Saudi Arabia, and to Singapore’s state-run
research agency (A*STAR). In addition, we regularly organize
the Evonik Meets Science forum in Germany, China, Japan
and the USA to strengthen collaboration with leading international research scientists. This is a platform for discussion
between our experts and leading scientists from a wide range

of disciplines and institutions. Fostering education and science
is a core focus of the Evonik Foundation. Regular meetings
with these scholarship students and scientific colloquia give
them an early insight into the day-to-day work of a leading
specialty chemicals company.
The conditions in which we operate are shaped to a large
extent by politics and political decision-makers. Here we
maintain a constant dialogue with the authorities and ministries and take part in opinion-forming and decision-making
processes at regional, national and international level. Our
offices in Berlin and Brussels are important for fostering
contact. They support the Corporate Affairs division. As a
stakeholder, the media builds on trustful cooperation and
takes up our offers of dialogue. We encourage this as a basis
for open communication and to drive our credibility.
In 2016 we aim to step up our dialogue with significant
stakeholder groups.

What we stand for
Our corporate values—”courage to innovate”, “responsible
action”, and “sparing no effort”—provide guidance and orien­
tation for our employees’ conduct in their day-to-day work
and form the basis for our business practice, our role in society
and collaboration with our colleagues. That is particularly
important because as an innovative company our success is
dependent on the competence of our employees. Creativity,
specialization, reliability and continuous self-renewal play a
special part in this. Our internal regulations are supported
and supplemented by external codes of practice that we are
committed to.

External principles and guidelines

Good corporate governance, in other words, responsible
management and supervision, forms an integral part of
Evonik’s business processes. It strengthens the trust of
all stakeholder groups through transparency and reliable
processes. Acceptance of the German Corporate Governance
Code and compliance with the applicable legal requirements
are the basis for responsible management of our company
with a focus on long-term value creation. Evonik has signed
the Code of Responsible Conduct for Business, which sets
measurable standards that have to be firmly anchored in
participating companies. These include fair competition, social
partnership, the merit principle and sustainability. Evonik is
a member of the UN Global Compact and accepts its prin­
ciples, which include respecting workers’ rights and human
rights, preventing discrimination, protecting people and the
environment and fighting corruption. We also respect the

G4-25
G4-26
G4-27

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

33

Sustainability management
Corporate governance

Code of Conduct

Evonik’s binding Group-wide Code of Conduct contains the
most important corporate values and principles and governs
the conduct of Evonik, its legal representatives and its
employees both internally, in the treatment of one another,
and externally in the treatment of the company’s shareholders and business partners, representatives of authorities and
government bodies, and the general public. It requires all
employees to comply with the applicable laws, regulations
and other obligations and to observe ethical standards. All
employees receive training in this and systematic action is
taken to deal with any infringements of the regulations.
Evonik’s Code of Conduct fosters a culture that ensures clear
responsibility, mutual respect, and a working atmosphere
characterized by trust, dependability and lawfulness. We plan
to update the Code of Conduct by 2017. In addition, Evonik
has a Supplier Code of Conduct that sets out binding requirements for its suppliers. The company expects strict observance of these principles by its suppliers and takes them into
account in the entire process from the tender to assessment
of suppliers.

Global Social Policy

Our Global Social Policy (GSP) contains an undertaking to
observe values based on international standards and principles of conduct. Evonik is committed to protecting children’s
rights, freedom of employment, equality of opportunity,
diversity, banning discrimination, and occupational health
and safety. All employees worldwide are required to observe
the principles of the Global Social Policy and actively counter
violations. The Global Social Policy is available in many languages.

1

www.evonik.com/responsibility

Corporate governance
Corporate governance comprises all principles for the management and supervision of a company. As an expression of
good and responsible corporate management, it is a key
element in Evonik’s management philosophy. The principles
of corporate governance relate mainly to collaboration within
the Executive Board and Supervisory Board and between
these two boards. It also governs collaboration between
these boards and Evonik’s shareholders on the one hand, and
the relationship between Evonik companies and all people
and organizations with which they have business dealings.
Evonik’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board are
explicitly committed to responsible corporate governance and
identify with the goals of the German Corporate Governance
Code. As provided for by the foreword, this includes scope
to deviate from its recommendations if this is necessary
to reflect enterprise-specific requirements. Evonik’s latest
declaration of conformity with the requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code has been published on
the company’s website.1 According to the declaration of conformity as of December 2015, there are only two deviations
from the Corporate Governance Code. These relate to transmission of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting via modern
communication media and the availability of voting proxies
during the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, mainly for organizational reasons.
The Executive Board of Evonik Industries AG is respon­
sible for running the company in the company’s interests
with a view to sustained value creation, taking into account
the interests of the shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. It works together trustfully with the other corporate
bodies for the good of the company.
The Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Executive Board. It appoints the members of the Executive Board
and names one member as the Chairman of the Executive
Board. It also decides on the remuneration of the members of
the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board examines the
company’s annual financial statements, the Executive Board’s
proposal for the distribution of the profit, the consolidated
financial statements for the Group and the combined management report. The Executive Board is required to obtain
the approval of the Supervisory Board on decisions of fun­
damental importance, which are defined in a separate list.

Annex

Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises issued by the Organi­
sation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD),
the International Labor Standards of the International Labour
Organisation (ILO) and the obligations of the international
Responsible Care initiative. We confirmed our commitment
to continuously improving our performance in the areas of
health, safety, the environment and product stewardship by
signing the Responsible Care Global Charter of the Inter­
national Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA).

34

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

The Supervisory Board has the following committees: an
Executive Committee, an Audit Committee, a Finance and
Investment Committee, a Nomination Committee and a
Mediation Committee in accordance with the German Codetermination Act of 1976. In accordance with the statutory
provisions, the Supervisory Board comprises twenty members, ten representatives of the shareholders and ten representatives of the workforce. The Supervisory Board regularly
reviews the efficiency of its work and reports on this in
the Report of the Supervisory Board, which is contained in
Evonik’s annual report.
The German law on equal participation of women and men
in management positions in the private and public sectors
came into force on May 1, 2015. Since Evonik Industries AG
is a publicly listed company and is therefore also subject to
German codetermination legislation, its Supervisory Board is
required to meet a fixed gender ratio, which is applicable for
new appointments from January 1, 2016. The regulation
specifies that the Supervisory Board should comprise at
least 30 percent women and at least 30 percent men. As of
December 31, 2015, four members of the Supervisory Board
of Evonik Industries AG were women, two representing the
shareholders and two representing the workforce. Thus, on
the reporting date 20 percent of Supervisory Board members
were women.
Further, the above law prescribes that targets must be set
for the proportion of female members of the Executive Board
and at the two management levels below the Executive
Board, together with deadlines for achieving them.
The Supervisory Board has set a target of at least 20 percent female members of the Executive Board to be achieved
by June 30, 2017. That would maintain the present status quo
as no new appointments are expected to be made before then.
Further, Evonik’s Executive Board has a target of 8.0 percent female managers at the first management level below
the Executive Board and 18.8 percent women at the second
management level. Both targets are to be met by December 31, 2016. In each case, the targets correspond to the
present status quo and take account of succession planning
for these two management levels in the period up to the
deadline.
Further information on corporate governance at Evonik
can be found in the company’s corporate governance report,
which is available on the company’s website 1 and is also part
of Evonik’s annual report.

1

www.evonik.com/responsibility

Performance-oriented remuneration
of senior management

The Supervisory Board is responsible for the contracts of
employment with the members of the Executive Board. It sets
the total remuneration package for each member of the
Executive Board, comprising a base salary, variable short- and
long-term components, pension benefits, reimbursement
of expenses, insurance and various fringe benefits. The contracts with members of the Executive Board and all executives
include remuneration elements based on personal performance and the overall performance of the Group.

House of Compliance
Evonik understands compliance as all activities to ensure that
the conduct of the company, its governance bodies and its
employees respect all applicable mandatory standards such as
legal provisions, statutory requirements and prohibitions,
in-house directives and voluntary undertakings. The basis for
this understanding and for compliance with these binding
standards is set out in Evonik’s Code of Conduct. The compliance culture created by the Code of Conduct, in particular,
forms the basis for the “House of Compliance.”
This includes the traditional compliance issues: antitrust
law, foreign trade law, fighting corruption, data protection,
and—as a publicly listed company—capital market compliance. Environment, safety, health and quality are bundled in
a separate corporate division.
A uniform compliance management system has been
defined for the topics covered by the House of Compliance
and has to be detailed and implemented by each compliance
area. The process of forming a consensus, sharing experience
and coordinating joint activities takes place in the Compliance
Committee, which is composed of the heads of the respective
units, who have independent responsibility for their areas,
and the Head of Corporate Audit. The Compliance Committee is chaired by the Head of Compliance and Antitrust Law.
The compliance management system to be implemented
by each area of compliance on the basis of the defined values,
strategy and specific targets has to implement the tools
shown in the next chart. The necessary measures are in place
to avoid compliance risks and systematic misconduct, identify
infringement of the rules, apply appropriate sanctions, and
correct faulty processes.

•Corporate responsibility

• perspective change

• Annex

35

Sustainability management
House of Compliance

Annex

C09 House of Compliance

Supervisory Board
Executive Board

Corporate Audit

Data Protection

Capital Market Law

Foreign Trade
and Customs Law

Fighting Corruption
and Code of Conduct

Antitrust Law

Compliance Committee

Compliance Management System

Antitrust law

Compliance with antitrust regulations is a central corporate
objective and is included in Evonik’s Code of Conduct.
Group-wide face-to-face and online training, guidelines on
conduct, and specific legal advice on all issues of relevance
to cartel law are the primary elements of our compliance
activities in relation to antitrust law.

Foreign trade law

Every employee is required to observe the applicable foreign
trade and customs regulations. Through our corporate policy
House of Compliance and Compliance Management System
(HoC policy) and the corporate directives Compliance with
Global Trade Regulations (Part 1 Organization and Part 2
Conduct) we ensure compliance with the applicable trade
regulations. Our trade compliance organization comprises a
special department with Group-wide responsibility, a special
IT system and a Group-wide network of around 70 people
including the trade compliance officers responsible for the
operating units.

C10 Compliance Management System (CMS)
Responsibility of Management

Prevention

Detection

Response

• Risk analysis

• Investigations

• Corrective measures

• Policies & standards

• Whistleblower system

• Sanctions

• Processes

• Monitoring & audits

• Lessons learnt

• Training

• Reporting

• Awareness raising/communication
• Advice & support
Compliance Organization

Continuous Improvement

Values and Objectives

36

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Fighting corruption and the Code of Conduct

Evonik strictly rejects all forms of corruption. Our Code of
Conduct therefore defines a zero-tolerance principle. Even
the impression of corruption or corruptibility should be systematically avoided. The Master Gifts and Hospitality Policy,
together with regional implementation regulations, and the
Policy for the Use of External Intermediaries for the Sale of
Evonik Products and Merchandise, which was completely
revised in 2014, form the basis for this. For practical implementation of the policies, every employee can access corresponding checklists on the compliance site in the Group
intranet. These summarize the main content of each policy.
The compliance organization comprises a corporate team,
which is mainly responsible for management issues, and compliance officers who operate at the level of the operational
units and regions.

Capital market compliance

There are Group-wide rules of procedure on capital markets
compliance by Evonik employees. These also contain information on the legal consequences of violating prohibitions
imposed by capital market law. Through this policy and the
accompanying organizational instructions, Evonik has taken
extensive steps to meet the corresponding organizational
obligations.

Management of data protection

The organization of data protection and rules on reliable
processing of personal data are set out, among other things,
in the compliance policy and a separate data protection regulation. The Corporate Data Protection Officer monitors
observance of these rules and assists the organizational units
in implementation. In particular, his role is to monitor correct
usage of information processing programs that handle personal data. Increasing global data sharing requires additional
technical and organizational security measures. These are
monitored continuously. Web-based training programs are
mandatory for all employees. Information on the relevant
requirements and responsibilities is available to employees on
the Evonik intranet.

Other compliance-related areas comprise:

ESHQ management

Our Environment, Safety, Health and Quality (ESHQ) Values
set a global framework for action to ensure extensive pro­
tection of employees, the environment and local residents.
Major EHSQ issues affecting the entire Group are defined in
global policies and standard operating procedures. The operational units and regions are responsible for implementing
these regulations. Regular audits are carried out in consul­
tation with the companies, service units, regions and the
Environment, Safety, Health and Quality division at the Corporate Center to monitor implementation at our sites around
the world. Alongside compliance with internationally recognized DIN and ISO standards (9001, 14001), we examine
observance of our voluntary obligations under Responsible
Care, the UN Global Compact and ILO standards and the
requirements set out in company regulations. Based on the
findings and analyses of internal and external monitoring
activities and site inspections, we hold talks on potential
for improvement and take suitable action. The Executive
Board is informed annually of the outcome of the audits
through a management review.

Corporate security

We accept responsibility for the safety of our employees, our
sites and transportation, and for information that requires
special protection. We want to protect our employees from
criminal acts and avoid security risks in our international business. This objective is of central significance and contributes
to Evonik’s business success.
The Corporate Security division has defined binding rules
for the entire Group and has introduced a safety management
system to assure uniformly high security standards at Evonik
worldwide. Ongoing risk analyses, training, careful selection
of business partners and investigation of incidents ensure
that corporate security is firmly established in our corporate
culture.
Our presence in growth markets means that we have
projects and activities in countries and regions where there
are heightened security risks for our business. These include
risks involved in the establishment of joint ventures, the construction of facilities, and transportation, and risks to our
personnel, business travelers, expats and know-how. Therefore we have established processes to ensure timely identification and evaluation of potential risks and implementation
of suitable security concepts.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

37

Sustainability management
Fighting corruption

Binding Group-wide policies and regulations outline the safe
use of information systems. The IT Compliance Strategy
unit monitors and drives forward implementation of the compliance requirements imposed on managers and employees
by legislation and the Group. The internal control system was
extended further in the year under review and compliance
processes were automated. The IT compliance index, which
measures compliance with the relevant rules, remained at a
good level in 2014, despite higher requirements. The access
authorization system for accounting-related SAP systems was
rolled out further as part of the migration of SAP systems.
Its basic principles are “need-to-know” and “separation of
functions”.
State-of-the-art information security and data protection
technologies are used throughout the Group to avoid such
risks. Operational safety, especially of critical IT systems, was
and is being improved by optimized systems management,
especially in view of the Group’s digitalization strategy and
the challenges of global networking, which includes production systems. In view of the considerable and continuously
rising threats, we regularly review our security measures,
implement risk-based counter-measures as required, and
adapt them wherever necessary. Through training, which is
compulsory in some cases, and a constant flow of information,
for example, in the corporate intranet and internal social networking platforms we ensure that employees are always
aware of the need for IT compliance.

Compliance training

To raise employees’ awareness of compliance issues at regular intervals, we organize online and face-to-face training.
A binding training concept has been defined for the issues
combined in the House of Compliance. Employees have to be
trained routinely, based on function and hierarchical level.
Training frequency is defined on the basis of risk and is every
two or three years.

Fighting corruption
As a global corporation, we do business in regions that are
classified as a corruption risk in the Corruption Perceptions
Index (CPI) issued by Transparency International. We exercise
particular care in dealings with officials and in the selection
of external intermediaries.
Our employees can contact the Chief Compliance Officer,
Head of Compliance or the compliance officer responsible
for their entity to report compliance violations confidentially
at any time, anonymously if they wish. There is also a com­
pliance hotline. All allegations of violation of the relevant
regulations are investigated by a team which includes representatives of different specialist areas as necessary. To conclude the process, sanctions or other measures are defined in
consultation with the responsible management.
A Group-wide risk analysis covering all areas of Evonik
has been conducted by our in-house team responsible for
fighting corruption and the Code of Conduct. In addition, in
collaboration with the regional compliance organization it
examined the extent to which the compliance management
system needs to be developed or adapted in the regions.
In the year under review, 27 internal investigations were
conducted into potential infringements of the applicable
anti-corruption laws and violation of the general rules of the
Code of Conduct. A total of 19 allegations were received via
internal reporting channels (email, phone, etc), while eight
were received via external channels (email, letter, etc.). On
the basis of the internal investigations, three employees were
dismissed, four employees received a warning or reprimand
and ten service-providers and intermediaries were struck off.
The training concept introduced in 2014 was refined and
extended. The revised e-learning programs on the Code of
Conduct and fighting corruption were initially rolled out in
German.
Training is presented alternately online and in face-to-face
sessions. The target groups are employees whose functions
mean they are potentially exposed to a higher risk of corruption. Of these employees, the following received training in
corruption prevention in the reporting period:
• 85.3 percent of managers
• 65.1 percent of non-managerial employees.

Annex

IT compliance

38

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

The business
An excellent performance in 2015
Strategically, our new Group structure has further improved
our basis for profitable growth in the future. The selective
expansion of our market positions was also successful: The
new production capacities that have come on stream made a
clear contribution to our very good business performance.
We are still implementing our growth investments in a disciplined manner.
Operationally, our business developed extremely well. In
particular, our two growth segments, Nutrition & Care and
Resource Efficiency, were able to raise volume sales further
thanks to buoyant demand and increased production capacity.
The positive price trend for some important products that
started in the second half of 2014 continued uninterrupted
until summer 2015 and prices then remained stable in the
second half of the year. By contrast, selling prices fell considerably in the Performance Materials segment due to the
sharp drop in the oil price. Overall, selling prices were on a
level with the prior year.
Sales increased by 5 percent to € 13,507 million in 2015.
Adjusted EBITDA rose even faster, growing 31 percent to

€ 2,465 million. Higher earnings contributions mainly came
from the growth segments, and earnings in the Performance
Materials segment were only down slightly year-on-year.
Thanks to our very successful business performance,
earnings were high. The adjusted EBITDA margin improved
substantially to 18.2 percent, which is also excellent by sector
standards. The ROCE of 16.6 percent represents a very
attractive return.
Net income improved 74 percent to € 991 million, while
adjusted net income advanced 44 percent to € 1,128 million.
To enable our shareholders to participate in this very pleasing
business trend, at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting the
Executive Board and Supervisory Board will be proposing a
dividend payment of € 1.15 per share.
Our financial profile remains good. At year-end 2015 we
again had a net asset position. The cash flow from operating
activities, continuing operations was a strong € 1,968 million.
After deduction of outflows for capital expenditures, the free
cash flow was very high at € 1,052 million. Evonik still has a
sound investment grade rating (Moody’s: Baa2, Standard &
Poor’s: BBB+).

T01 Key figures
in € million

Sales
Adjusted EBITDA  a
Adjusted EBITDA margin in %
Adjusted EBIT b

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

14,540

13,365

12,708

12,917

13,507

2,768

2,467

1,995

1,882

2,465

19.0

18.5

15.7

14.6

18.2

2,099

1,887

1,404

1,256

1,752
16.6

ROCE c in %

18.7

20.4

15.1

12.5

Net income

1,011

1,165

2,054

568

991

Adjusted net income

1,256

1,076

806

782

1,128

Earnings per share in €

2.17

2.50

4.41

1.22

2.13

Adjusted earnings per share in €

2.70

2.31

1.73

1.68

2.42

Total assets as of December 31

16,944

17,166

15,883

15,685

17,005

Equity ratio as of December 31 in %

35.8

31.9

43.0

41.6

44.6

Cash flow from operating activities

1,309

1,420

1,055

1,066

1,971

Capital expenditures d

830

960

1,140

1,123

877

Depreciation and amortization d

647

580

585

606

700

– 843

– 1,163

571

400

1,098

33,556

33,298

33,650

33,412

33,576

Net financial debt/assets as of December 31
No. of employees as of December 31
Figures for 2012 and 2013 contain the former Real Estate segment as a discontinued operation.
2014 figures restated.
a

Earnings before financial result, taxes, depreciation and amortization, after adjustments.
Earnings before financial result and taxes, after adjustments.
Return on capital employed.
d Intangible assets, property, plant, equipment and investment property.
b
c

Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

39

The business
An excellent performance in 2015

At the end of June 2015, Evonik Industries AG divested its
remaining 10.3 percent stake in the residential real estate
company Vivawest GmbH to RAG Aktiengesellschaft for
€ 428 million. Through this transaction, Evonik Industries AG
has now completely withdrawn from its real estate activities
in order to focus on specialty chemicals. The divestment gain
is recognized in other operating income.
At its meeting on June 25, 2015, the Supervisory Board of
Evonik Industries AG adopted a resolution on ending the
term of office of Patrik Wohlhauser as a member of the
Executive Board and Chief Operating Officer (COO) by
mutual agreement effective June 30, 2015. At the same time,
Dr. Ralph Sven Kaufmann was appointed to the Executive
Board of Evonik Industries AG as the company’s new COO
with effect from July 1, 2015.

A global presence

In 2015, 82 percent of our sales were generated outside
Germany. A rise in sales was registered in particular in North
America and the Asia-Pacific region, while sales in Europe
declined, for currency-related reasons. As part of our growth
strategy, we are expanding our presence in emerging markets. We define these as selected countries in Asia, South
America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
C11 Sales by region a

Other 3 %
Asia-Pacific 21 %

A successful business trend

Despite the challenging business conditions, we achieved
a significant year-on-year improvement in adjusted EBITDA
in all four quarters. Although global growth was below
expectations, high demand enabled our two growth segments,
Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency, to report good
volume trends, aided by new production capacity. Selling
prices rose considerably in the Nutrition & Care segment but
decreased in the Performance Materials segment, principally
due to the lower oil price. Overall, selling prices were on the
previous year’s level.

Organic sales growth

Evonik posted organic sales growth of 1 percent as volumes
were higher and prices were unchanged overall. Sales grew
5 percent to € 13,507 million, driven by positive currency
effects (5 percentage points), principally as a consequence
of the depreciation of the euro versus the US dollar and the
Chinese renminbi yuan. The other effects (– 1 percentage
point) include changes in the scope of consolidation.

Central and
South America 7 %
Other European
Countries 31 %
North America 20 %

a

By location of customer.

Very good adjusted EBITDA

Adjusted EBITDA was € 2,465 million, 31 percent above the
prior-year figure. Alongside positive currency effects, contributory factors were sustained good demand, the positive
price trend and lower raw material costs. The adjusted
EBITDA margin increased from 14.6 percent to a very good
level of 18.2 percent.
T03 Adjusted EBITDA by segment
in € million

T02 Change in sales 2015 versus 2014

Nutrition & Care

in %

Germany 18 %

2015

2014

Change
in %

1,435

847

69

Resource Efficiency

896

836

7

Volumes

1

Performance Materials

309

325

–5

Prices

0

Services

163

151

8

Organic sales growth

1

Exchange rates

5

Corporate,
other operations,
consolidation

– 338

– 277

– 22

2,465

1,882

31

Other effects
Total

–1
5

Evonik
Prior-year figures restated.

Annex

Major events

40

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

The Nutrition & Care segment benefited from higher volumes
and, above all, higher selling prices accompanied by lower
raw material prices. Its earnings were therefore considerably
higher than in the prior year. The Resource Efficiency segment
improved earnings thanks to higher volumes, high capacity
utilization and lower raw material costs. By contrast, the
Performance Materials segment was hampered considerably
by the reduction in selling prices, whereas lower raw material
costs alleviated the situation. Overall, its earnings contribution
was slightly lower than in the previous year. Earnings in the
Services segment were higher than in the previous year. The
adjusted EBITDA reported by Corporate, other operations,
including consolidation, was – € 338 million. This includes,
among others, expenses for the Corporate Center and strategic research.

Very good return on capital employed

Within our value-oriented management approach, our success
is measured principally by ROCE, which was 16.6 percent in
2015 and therefore well above our cost of capital, which was
confirmed as 10.5 percent before taxes in our regular review
for the fiscal year. The average capital employed increased by
€ 0.5 billion to € 10.5 billion in 2015. Capital employed was
increased by the rise in property, plant and equipment and
higher trade accounts receivable, which resulted from further
implementation of our growth investments. The divestment
of the stake in Vivawest and impairment losses on property,
plant and equipment had a counter-effect.
The considerable improvement in ROCE was attributable
to higher operating earnings, while the increase in capital
employed had a counter-effect. In the three chemical segments, ROCE is well above the cost of capital. The return
on capital employed in the Nutrition & Care and Resource
Efficiency segments is well above average. The ROCE for the
Group was considerably lower because capital employed also
includes identified hidden reserves from former business
combinations.
T04 ROCE by segment
in %

2015

2014

Nutrition & Care

41.5

27.1

Resource Efficiency

24.8

25.9

Performance Materials

11.9

14.6

9.4

9.7

16.6

12.5

Services
Evonik (including Corporate,
other operations)
Prior-year figures restated.

Far higher value added

Value added is calculated from sales and other revenues less
the cost of materials, depreciation and amortization and other
expenses. In 2015, value added increased by 23 percent to
€ 4,838 million. The largest share of value added—65 percent
(2014: 70 percent)—went to our employees. 10 percent
(2014: 8 percent) was paid to the state in income and other
taxes. A further 5 percent (2014: 7 percent) went on interest
payments. Shareholders of Evonik Industries AG received
20 percent of value-added, compared with 14 percent in the
previous year.
T05 Breakdown of value added
in € million

Total value added

2015

2014

4,838

3,926

Split
Employees

3,121

2,749

State

470

307

Creditors

245

289

Non-controlling interests
Net income

11

13

991

568

Target for On Track 2.0 achieved—
Administration Excellence well on schedule

At the start of 2012 we set up the On Track 2.0 efficiency
enhancement program to achieve a continuous improvement
in process efficiency, especially in the production function.
The goal was to reduce production costs by € 500 million
following realization of this program in the period up to 2016.
That has now been achieved. By the end of 2015, measures
with the potential to cut costs by well over € 550 million had
been identified and adopted for implementation.
Following the successful stock exchange listing and
Evonik’s strategic focus on the specialty chemicals business, in
September 2013 we launched the Administration Excellence
program to further strengthen our competitive position and
optimize the quality of our administrative processes. This aims
to implement measures with cost-improvement potential of
around € 230 million by the end of 2016. By year-end 2015
measures with cost-saving potential of around € 100 million
had already been implemented. In addition, more than
90 percent of the measures defined had been passed on to
the responsible units for implementation. Specific human
resources measures have now been defined to achieve the
headcount reductions associated with the savings and will be
implemented in consultation with representatives of the workforce to avoid undue hardship.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

41

The business
Segment performance

Systematic optimization of the value chain and implementation
of the efficiency enhancement programs support Evonik’s
strategy of profitable growth.

Segment performance

Significant growth projects completed successfully

T07 Key data for the Nutrition & Care segment

In the specialty chemicals sector Evonik is expanding in business areas and markets where it already has—or intends to
build—a strong competitive position. Investment projects are
aimed at utilizing potential for sustained profitable growth
and value creation. Every project undergoes detailed strategic
and economic analyses. In addition, there is a minimum
return requirement for every project based on Evonik’s cost
of capital. We take a flexible and disciplined approach to
extending our leading market positions. All projects are regularly reviewed for changes in the market situation. Examples
of projects completed successfully in 2015 are a new lysine
facility in Castro (Brazil), expansion of the production facilities
for specialty silicas in Ako (Japan), and expansion of production capacity for butadiene in Antwerp (Belgium), isononanol
in Marl (Germany) and the anti-knock agent MTBE in Marl
and Antwerp.
Capital expenditures amounted to € 877 million in 2015,
below the previous year’s high figure of € 1,123 million.
The highest proportion of capital expenditures went to the
Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency segments (29 percent and 27 percent respectively). A further 21 percent was
allocated to the Specialty Materials segment, and 20 percent
was invested in the Services segment. The regional focus
of capital expenditures was Germany, which accounted for
49 percent of the total, followed by North America (24 percent) and the Asia-Pacific region and other European countries, which each received 10 percent.

Annex

Nutrition & Care segment

Change

2015

2014

External sales

4,924

4,075

21

Adjusted EBITDA

1,435

847

69

Adjusted EBIT

1,214

685

77

250

458

– 45

7,165

6,943

3

in € million

Capital expenditures
No. of employees
as of December 31
Prior-year figures restated.

Considerable sales growth

The Nutrition & Care segment posted an extremely successful business performance in 2015 and grew sales 21 percent
to € 4,924 million. Alongside slightly higher volumes, the
main drivers were considerably higher selling prices and positive currency effects.
In particular, there was a substantial increase in sales of
essential amino acids for animal nutrition. The strong trend to
modern and sustainable animal nutrition continues to have a
positive impact on this business. Thanks to the new production
facility that came on stream in Singapore at the end of 2014,
we were able to satisfy the significant rise in demand for our
methionine products and raise volumes further. Having risen
since fall 2014, prices have been stabilized at a very attractive
level since summer 2015.

T06 Major projects completed or virtually completed in 2015
Segment

Location

Project

Nutrition & Care

Castro (Brazil)

Construction of a new lysine plant

Essen (Germany)

Expansion of the silicone platform

Mobile (Alabama, USA)

Construction of a new production facility for Mepron

Ako (Japan)

Expansion of capacity for specialty silicas

Singapore

Expansion of a facility for oil additives

Marl (Germany) and
Antwerp (Belgium)

Expansion of capacity for butadiene in Antwerp, the plasticizer alcohol
isononanol in Marl, and the anti-knock agent MTBE in Marl and Antwerp

Resource Efficiency
Performance Materials

in %

For further information on current capital expenditure projects, please see the section on Segment performance.

42

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Substantial increase in adjusted EBITDA

The Nutrition & Care segment’s adjusted EBITDA grew
69 percent to € 1,435 million, driven mainly by higher selling
prices and positive currency effects. The adjusted EBITDA
margin improved significantly from 20.8 percent in 2014 to
29.1 percent.

Investment projects to drive growth

Capital expenditures in the Nutrition & Care segment
amounted to € 250 million.
That was well below the prior-year figure of € 458 million, which was boosted by high growth-driven investments.
Nevertheless, capital expenditures were well above depre­
ciation, which was € 212 million.
Since demand for amino acids for modern animal nutrition
is growing fast, selective capacity increases in this field are a
major focus of investment in the Nutrition & Care segment.
A new facility for biotechnological production of around
100,000 metric tons p.a. of Biolys (L-lysine), an amino acid
for animal feed, was completed in Castro (Brazil). This site
has excellent access to corn, which is used as a raw material,
very good logistics connections, and is close to our customers
in the growing Latin American market. Biolys, which Evonik
produces from renewable resources by a biotechnological
method, is regarded worldwide as a highly efficient source of
L-lysine for animal feed, which substantially reduces the costs
of both feed production and livestock farming. In a lifecycle
assessment certified by the German standardization body
TÜV Rheinland, Nutrition & Care has proven that the provision of protein in animal feed with the addition of Biolys is a
particularly environment-friendly method of providing
healthy animal nutrition in line with needs.
In addition, the segment invested in new production
facilities for methionine formulations tailored specifically to
the nutritional requirements of species other than poultry. A
facility to produce Mepron for dairy cattle has been erected
in Mobile (Alabama, USA). Investment in this plant is in the
low double-digit million euro range. The use of Mepron in
rations for dairy cattle enables the amount of raw protein in
the feed to be reduced, without any reduction in performance.
This reduces feed costs, enhances the metabolism of the
animals and reduces the excretion of nitrogen. In this way,
Evonik contributes to more sustainable milk production.
Nutrition & Care has also developed AQUAVI Met-Met,
a dipeptide with two methionine molecules, for aquaculture
of shrimp and other crustaceans. The first production facility
for this product is currently under construction in Antwerp
(Belgium), and is scheduled to come on stream in April 2016.
This investment is also in the low double-digit million euro
range. The use of AQUAVI Met-Met has many advantages.

For example, it greatly reduces the consumption of fishmeal
in aquaculture of shrimp. In addition, AQUAVI Met-Met
lowers the cost of feed, reduces the strain on fishing grounds
worldwide and contributes to an improvement in water
purity because an optimal supply of methionine reduces
excretion by the shrimp and nitrogen output into the environment. The shrimp remain healthier as a result of optimal
nutrition and there is less pollution of the environment.
In view of the strong growth in the market for methionine,
Evonik is planning to build a further world-scale production
complex alongside the facility on Jurong Island (Singapore)
that came into service in November 2014. In this new, fully
backwardly integrated production complex as well, we will
produce all key strategic precursors ourselves. Adding
DL-methionine to animal feed meets ecological, economic
and social sustainability criteria by greatly reducing the
release of ammonia, nitrate and greenhouse gases.
Evonik has a global investment initiative to strengthen
its integrated technology platform for specialty silicones in
Germany and China. Total planned investment for this is
triple-digit millions of euros. The first capacity expansion in
Essen (Germany) came into operation in 2015. Over the next
few years, the plants there will be extended further and a
new silicone platform will be constructed in Shanghai (China).
The silicone platforms are the backbone of significant business
activities in the Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency
segments.

Resource Efficiency segment
T08 Key data for the Resource Efficiency segment
Change

2015

2014

4,279

4,040

6

Adjusted EBITDA

896

836

7

Adjusted EBIT

675

642

5

Capital expenditures

241

273

– 12

8,662

7,835

11

in € million

External sales

No. of employees
as of December 31

in %

Prior-year figures restated.

Higher sales

Sales in the Resource Efficiency segment grew 6 percent to
€ 4,279 million. Alongside positive currency effects, this was
attributable to organic sales growth resulting from higher
volumes and stable selling prices.
There was strong growth in sales of crosslinkers, which
benefited above all from attractive end-markets such as

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

43

The business
Segment performance

Improvement in earnings

Adjusted EBITDA in the Resource Efficiency segment
advanced 7 percent to € 896 million, mainly as a result of
higher volumes, better capacity utilization, positive currency
effects, and lower raw material costs. The adjusted EBITDA
margin increased slightly to 20.9 percent.

Investment projects to expand market positions

Capital expenditures in the Resource Efficiency segment
remained high at € 241 million, but were 12 percent lower
than in the previous year. Nevertheless, they were slightly
above depreciation, which amounted to € 222 million. The
Resource Efficiency segment has almost doubled the capacity
of its production facility for oil additives on Jurong Island
(Singapore). This facility, which was inaugurated in May
2015, is now Evonik’s biggest production plant for oil additives. The additional capacity enables this segment to meet
rising demand from customers for more efficient lubricants.
Rising mobility in Asia, the increased importance of resource
efficiency and fuel savings and more stringent emissions
thresholds are increasing demand for high-performance
lubricants. As a leading supplier of oil additives, the Resource
Efficiency segment is developing technologies that improve
the performance of engines and gears and the efficiency of
hydraulic fluids and thus contribute to the efficiency of fuel
and energy sources.
By raising global capacity for precipitated silicas, the
segment is supporting the growth of its global customers in
the tire, construction, animal feed and nutrition industries.
A new production facility is currently under construction near
São Paulo (Brazil) and is scheduled to start operating in 2016.
This will be the first production facility for highly disper­
sible silica (HD silica) for the South American tire industry.
This high-growth silica is mainly used for high-quality tires
that reduce rolling resistance. Pre-engineering for a new production plant for precipitated silicas in North America has
started. This plant should be completed in early 2018. The
entire project is still contingent upon approval by the relevant
authorities.
As binders for paints, specialty copolyesters are used in coil
coatings and, increasingly, in food can coatings. To meet rising
demand, the segment is investing in a new plant at Witten site
in Germany. This will have annual capacity of several thousand metric tons and is scheduled for completion in 2018.

Performance Materials segment
T09 Key data for the Performance Materials segment
Change

2015

2014

3,435

3,827

Adjusted EBITDA

309

325

–5

Adjusted EBIT

174

204

– 15

Capital expenditures

183

218

– 16

4,380

4,353

1

in € million

External sales

No. of employees
as of December 31

in %

– 10

Prior-year figures restated.

Lower sales

Sales declined 10 percent to € 3,435 million in the Performance Materials segment. Since volume sales were almost
stable, the decline was principally due to the oil-driven
reduction in selling prices. By contrast, exchange rates had
a positive effect.
Performance Intermediates, in particular, reported significantly lower sales that in the previous year. This was caused
by a sharp decline in selling prices for products from the
integrated C4 platform in the wake of the reduction in the oil
price. The downward trend gained momentum in the second
half of the year.

Adjusted EBITDA down year-on-year

Adjusted EBITDA slipped 5 percent year-on-year to € 309
million. This was caused by lower selling prices, while the
decline was checked by the reduction in the cost of oil-based
raw materials. The adjusted EBITDA margin improved from
8.5 percent to 9.0 percent.

Global projects to expand capacity

To secure its leading market positions, raise efficiency and
broaden its technology base, the Performance Materials
segment invested € 183 million in property, plant and equipment in 2015. Capital expenditures therefore exceeded
depreciation, which amounted to € 132 million. As part of the
Europe-wide expansion of capacity for C4-based products,
new plants came on stream in Marl (Germany) and Antwerp
(Belgium). These have successfully raised capacity for the
plasticizer alcohol isononanol, for butadiene and for MTBE,
an anti-knock additive for fuel. Thanks to a unique new process, special product streams from refineries can be utilized
for C4 chemistry for the first time. Total investment was in the
triple-digit million euro range.

Annex

construction and wind energy. Oil additives, which enhance
the performance of engines and gears in the automotive,
construction and transportation industries, were again very
successful.

44

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

To ensure sustainable and reliable long-term supply of potassium derivatives to customers, Evonik has established a production joint venture with AkzoNobel to build and operate
a membrane electrolysis plant for chlorine and potassium
hydride solution in Ibbenbüren (Germany). Production is
scheduled to start in the fourth quarter of 2017.
In Mobile (Alabama, USA) the Performance Materials
segment has embarked on a substantial capacity increase for
ACA (acrolein cyanohydrin-o-acetate). This drives forward
the very successful exclusive partnership with a global leader
in broadband herbicides. The new production plant, which
involves total investment in the triple-digit million euro range,
should start operating in early 2017.
In the second half of 2016, Performance Materials will
have access to new capacity for sodium cyanide from a joint
venture with the Mexican group IDESA. This will greatly
strengthen its position in the growing Mexican market.

Services segment
T10 Key data for the Services segment
Change

2015

2014

External sales

828

906

–9

Adjusted EBITDA

163

151

8

in € million

Adjusted EBIT
Capital expenditures
No. of employees
as of December 31

in %

53

49

8

177

153

16

12,668

13,173

–4

Prior-year figures restated.

The Services segment generates sales both internally, with
the specialty chemicals segments and Corporate Center
(2015: € 1,886 million), and with external customers. External
sales contracted by 9 percent to € 828 million in 2015. This
was mainly due to the reduction in the price of energy, which
the segment charges to external customers at our sites. Adjusted EBITDA increased 8 percent to € 163 million, mainly
because of changes to the internal cross-charging system.
Capital expenditures in this segment increased 16 percent
to € 177 million. That was above depreciation, which
amounted to € 107 million. Numerous infrastructure projects
were completed at German sites in 2015.

Supply chain management
Health, quality, safety, social and environmental sustainability
principles play a central role in our procurement strategy
alongside economic aspects. The principles of the UN Global
Compact are applied, and we also take account of fair business
practices and the status of humanitarian development.
Procurement at Evonik is organized globally and comprises
direct procurement (raw materials, logistics and packaging)
and indirect procurement (general and technical goods and
services). These are further subdivided into strategic and
operational procurement activities. Global procurement is
managed from Germany, with the support of regional units in
Asia and North and South America.
Through our procurement volume, we have a not inconsiderable influence on society and the environment. We are
aware of the associated responsibility within the value chain.
Our suppliers also play a significant part in this, so the selection and correct assessment of suppliers are important factors
in ensuring reliability of supply, ongoing optimization of
material costs, and access to new procurement markets. We
are therefore consistently working to extend our relationship
with strategic suppliers and to validate new suppliers.

Procurement in 2015

In 2015 Evonik sourced raw materials and supplies, technical
goods, services, energy and other operating supplies totaling
€ 8.3 billion (2014: around € 9.1 billion) from more than
30,000 suppliers worldwide. On average, 75 percent was
sourced locally. Petrochemical feedstocks accounted for
about 25 percent of the total (2014: around 27 percent).
Overall, raw materials and supplies made up around 59 percent of procurement volume.
Using renewable resources is of great importance to
Evonik. In 2015, around 8 percent (2014: around 7 percent) of
raw materials procured were based on renewable resources.
The main applications for these raw materials are amino acids
and precursors for the cosmetics industry.
The Dodd-Frank Act requires companies listed on the
US stock market to disclose whether their products contain
potential conflict minerals. These are mineral raw materials
from the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighboring
countries. Evonik is not listed on US stock exchanges and
therefore has no legal obligation to comply with the reporting
requirements of the US stock market regulator. At the same
time, as a responsible company, Evonik meets its duty of care

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

45

The business
Supply chain management

Global supply chains

As in the previous year, the challenges of structuring sustainable supply chains in the chemical industry were the central
focus of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) conference,
which was held in São Paulo (Brazil). The conference centered
on the combined objective of the TfS member companies—
applying a global standard in the chemical industry, based on
uniform assessments and audits. In addition, audit topics and
training concepts for suppliers were presented to the roughly
300 attendees, comprising suppliers, representatives of the TfS
member companies and local and international associations
and non-governmental organizations.
TfS was set up in 2011 by six multinational chemical companies, including Evonik, to reduce the complexity of global
supply chain management, harmonize and standardize processes, and improve dialogue between the parties involved.
At the end of 2015 the TfS initiative had 16 members and
operated as a non-profit organization in collaboration with
the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic), which is
based in Brussels (Belgium). Other members are already at
the acceptance stage. The member companies have already
initiated more than 8,000 audits and assessments worldwide
and published their findings on a joint platform.

T11 TfS activities in 2015 a

Total no. of assessments performed by TfS
Total no. of audits performed by TfS

2,580
179

a	
Including

additional follow-up audits with specific suppliers to verify implementation
of measures.

The activities of the TfS are highly relevant for Evonik because
they help to increase the transparency of our sustainability
performance within our supplier portfolio and significantly
reduce the associated internal workload.

1
2

See Our objectives, p. 89.
www.tfs-initiative.com and Sustainability Report 2013, p. 7 ff and p. 63.

Sustainability in the selection of suppliers

Procurement at Evonik is systematically aligned to the
Group’s sustainability strategy. Building on our corporate
policies, we published our Code of Conduct for Suppliers in
2014. This supplements our general purchasing conditions
and outlines what we expect of existing and potential new
contractual partners. The Code of Conduct for Suppliers
comprises the requirements we place in their conduct in the
business environment, conduct to and treatment of one
another, the environment, safety, health and quality, and in
the implementation of standards and requirements. In 2015,
we conducted a standard review of around 400 new suppliers
of raw materials, technical goods and services with a view to
quality, environmental protection, safety, health and energy
management. About a third of them were subject to an additional review in the areas of anti-corruption, labor and social
standards and human rights. The examination of the sustainability status of new suppliers is currently being extended.
The assessment and audit process for established suppliers is
undertaken in collaboration with the TfS sector initiative.
We have annual targets to measure our own contribution
to improving sustainability in the supply chain. These range
from checking potential (risk) suppliers through sustainability
audits of suppliers and follow-up activities to training our
own procurement staff. In 2016, for example, that includes a
renewed review of suppliers that were assessed in 2012 and
2013.1 These targets help us reflect on our own processes and
identify a need for improvement at an early stage.
The aim of TfS is to achieve a further improvement in
sustainability in the supply chain through a common approach.2
For this purpose, supplier self-assessments and/or audits are
performed by neutral third parties. With the agreement
of the supplier the results can be made available to other TfS
members, without them being able to draw any conclusions
about the procuring company. Sharing information in this
way reduces the workload on suppliers resulting from similar
assessments and audits by other procuring companies. The
selection of suppliers for TfS reviews is made by our pro­
curement staff on the basis of strategic/economic and riskrelated factors. These include, for example, country risks.
T12 Suppliers at an advanced stage of examination
Fiscal 2015

No.

Suppliers identified by Evonik
as requiring an on-site audit

59

Supplier audits completed

39

Annex

with regard to conflict minerals in the supply chain. Suppliers
questioned in our basic assessment have confirmed that the
raw materials sourced do not contain conflict materials. At the
beginning of 2016 we altered the pre-qualification of our
suppliers to include the corresponding information.
Based on our supplier structure, there was no significant
change in our value chain in 2015.

46

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

In the year under review, site audits were carried out on 39
suppliers of raw materials, technical goods and services, and
sustainability self-assessments of 373 suppliers were initiated
via the external CR rating provider EcoVadis.
By the deadline, about 58 percent of the suppliers had
submitted data that could be evaluated. Based on the detailed
analysis of the questionnaires completed and evaluated
through the Together for Sustainability initiative, the picture
is as follows:
T13 Results of the evaluation of the
sustainability profile of suppliers in 2015
TfS evaluation of sustainability profiles

Advanced

Result in percent
(approximate data)

1

Secured

36

Not fully developed

48

Unsatisfactory

15

Appropriate measures are worked out for suppliers whose
sustainability profile is unsatisfactory or not fully developed
in talks between the procuring company and the supplier.
The goal is to eliminate or improve the shortcomings in
between one and three years, depending on their relevance.
Suppliers whose sustainability profile was secured or
advanced in the previous year are re-evaluated in accordance
with a defined time schedule.
Through the supplier audits conducted by TfS audits in
2015, we identified shortcomings in the areas of working
hours and payment of the minimum wage set by local legislation. In addition, scope to improve contingency plans was
identified at some suppliers. In these cases, we requested our
suppliers to take action to improve the situation.

Child labor and forced labor were not found in any on-site
audits, nor were any cases of restricted freedom of association
or discrimination.
Where particularly serious shortcomings are identified
and we do not see any improvement, we reserve the right to
terminate collaboration with the supplier. However, there was
no case in which this was necessary in 2015.

Evonik as part of the supply chain

Like all other TfS members, Evonik is regularly assessed by
EcoVadis. At the start of 2016, Evonik was once again
awarded the gold standard, showing that it is still one of the
best performers in the chemical sector. The assessments
include questions about employee training. Assisted by the
“train-the-trainer” concept, in the reporting period around
79 percent of relevant procurement staff were trained. The
target of 60 percent was therefore clearly exceeded. The
specially trained procurement staff, who are also familiar
with the processes required as a TfS member, are direct lines
of contact for our suppliers.
Procurement-specific validation under ISO 9001 and
14001 was successfully renewed. In addition, internal audits
based on corporate policies were conducted at five regional
procurement units on two continents.
The Shaping Procurement and Developing Excellence
(SPADE) training program was also continued in 2015. This
program aims to improve employees’ procurement-specific
and general competencies. At the same time, it fosters international, interdisciplinary sharing of experience. The various
training modules are additive and are supplemented by procurement units to meet specific requirements. For example,
SPADE Operational was developed and introduced specifically for employees in the operational procurement units.
This module supplements SPADE Advanced for strategic
procurement employees.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

47

Research & development
Innovation strategy firmly anchored
in corporate strategy

Evonik—one of the world’s most innovative companies. That
is the vision that guides our research & development (R&D).
As a major driver of profitable growth and value creation, our
market-oriented R&D is firmly anchored in our corporate
strategy. Innovations strengthen our leading market and
technology positions and open up new high-growth business
opportunities. The careful selection of our areas of inno­
vation is guided by the megatrends of relevance for Evonik:
health, nutrition, resource efficiency and globalization.
Our R&D is aligned to three core strategic objectives:
we aim to
• produce custom-tailored products and solutions in close
collaboration with our customers and partners, to drive
their success in international competition
• continuously improve our processes, and
• make a substantial contribution to profitable growth and
to the future of Evonik.
Our open, learning innovation culture based on a business
mindset is the key to achieving these goals. It ensures timely
identification of good ideas which we can drive forward and
turn into additional sales and earnings. To reinforce Evonik’s

innovative strength, we organize regular internal conferences
under the motto Leading Innovation, which are attended by
members of our top management. Every year, we present an
internal Innovation Award in various categories to honor
outstanding research achievements. At the same time, we
consistently terminate R&D projects if there are no prospects
of success and take a constructive attitude to such cases.
We have a well-stocked innovation pipeline with a balanced mixture of more than 500 short-, mid- and long-term
projects. These are managed using Idea-to-Profit, a multi-step
innovation process developed by Evonik. In 2015, we received
total funding of around € 3.4 million from the European
Union and the Federal Republic of Germany to support some
of our projects.
Ingredients for the cosmetics industry, membranes, specialty materials for medical technology, feed and food addi­
tives, and composites have been identified as promising
areas of innovation for Evonik. In addition, we aim to steadily
extend our expertise in catalysis and biotechnology. To raise
the pace of innovation, we want to align our R&D project
portfolio even more closely to these fields, step up external
knowledge sharing, and drive forward the internationalization
of our R&D.
Evonik has an extensive patent strategy to protect new
products and processes. The value and quality of our patent
portfolio have increased steadily in recent years.

C12 Our claim: First-class in innovation
Explore new horizons
Push radical innovation
Cross-unit collaboration

gy
ate
str

e

First-class
in innovation

ltu r

ta r

ti o

n

ti o

n

cu

va

New products, applications, and processes must
make a substantial contribution to sales and profit

on
isi

In no

Increase the value of the innovation pipeline

Inno
vat
io
n

Ou
rv

Evonik is one of the most innovative
companies in the world

ge t

s

Inno

va

Enhance risk-taking
Trust, openness and transparency
Improve knowledge sharing

Annex

The business
Research & development

48

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

T14 
Innovative strength and patent protection at Evonik
2015

No. of new patent applications filed
Patents held and applications filed

approx. 260
more than 25,000

Registered/pending trademarks

more than 7,000

No. of projects in the R&D pipeline

more than 500

In view of the strategic importance of R&D, we have raised
R&D expenses by an average of 6 percent a year since 2010.
Given our growth strategy and our vision of being one of the
world’s most innovative companies, we want to maintain this
ambitious level and intend to spend more than € 4 billion on
R&D in the next ten years.

High commitment to R&D in 2015

R&D expenses amounted to € 434 million in 2015, an increase
of 5 percent compared with the previous year (€ 413 million).
The ratio of R&D expenses to sales was 3.2 percent (2014:
3.2 percent).
C14 Breakdown of R&D expenses

Creavis

Nutrition & Care

Performance Materials

Resource Efficiency

Decentralized organization of R&D

Evonik’s global R&D network comprises 35 locations with
approximately 2,700 R&D employees. Around 90 percent of
our R&D is performed by our segments. That includes, first
and foremost, research geared specifically to their core technologies and markets and the development of new business.
In addition, in close collaboration with our segments, our
strategic innovation unit Creavis is involved in research in
new high-tech areas outside the Group’s present portfolio.
Creavis focuses on mid- to long-term innovation projects
that support Evonik’s growth and sustainability strategy. For
example, the Composites Project House has developed a new
composite that combines the benefits of thermoplastics and
thermosets. For this innovation Evonik received the 2015
Innovation Award presented by CFK Valley, a leading com­
petency network for fiber composites. Creavis is currently
developing a new high-performance surfactant using a biotechnological process.

Moreover, in the past four years Evonik has spent € 170 million
on building laboratory capacity and pilot plants. The focus of
this investment in R&D facilities was on new and extended
innovation centers in Essen (Germany), Shanghai (China),
Richmond (Virginia, USA) and Birmingham (Alabama, USA).
Examples of Evonik’s most recent research successes
include an innovative microencapsulation process for extended
release of medication, and composites for lightweight structures. In addition, work has commenced on a new generation
of lubricant additives.

C13 R&D expenses
in € million
2011

365

2012

393

2013

394
413

2014

434

2015
0

100

200

300

400

500

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

49

The business
Research & development

Product

Description

Application

Sector

VISCOBASE 11-524/526

High-viscosity synthetic base fluid
with dispersing properties

Favorable alternative formulation
for modern gear lubricants for cars,
trucks and industrial gears

Automotive, industrial gears

VISCOPLEX 0-192

Easy-to-handle viscosity index
improver based on comb polymers

Used in gear lubricant formulations
to minimize energy losses in the
drivetrain; reduces fuel consumption

Automotive

SILIKOPHEN AC 950

Heat-resistant, low-toxic
(aromatic-free) silicone resin that
cures at ambient temperature

High-temperature coating of
industrial plant; corrosion protection
of high-volume components

Machinery and plant engineering,
consumer durables and capital goods,
automotive

SEPURAN Noble

Membrane technology for gas
separation; several thousand hollow
fibers made from a high-performance
polymer (polyimide) are used as
membranes

Recovery and treatment of helium
and hydrogen

Hydrogen: refineries, production
of ammonia and methanol.
Helium: medical institutes, MRT
technology, welding and metalworking, electronics industry, oil
and gas production

BREAK-THRU SP 131 and
BREAK-THRU SP 133

Based on renewable raw materials,
biodegradable, very good ecotoxico­
logical profile; adjuvant to increase the
efficacy of crop protection products

Crop protection

Agriculture

SITREN AirVoid 360

Defoamer for cement- and gypsumbased construction applications

Dry mortar

Construction

Methacrylic acid
anhydride (MAAH)

Market entry with improved product
quality from a new plant

Synthesis

Specialty chemicals

Innovation drivers at Evonik

Interdisciplinary collaboration across organizational units and
regions is regarded as very important at Evonik because it is
a key source of innovative ideas. In addition, we are steadily
becoming more open to external partners. We cooperate
with research institutes, universities and other industrial companies so that the latest findings in chemistry, biology and
physics can rapidly be transported into our company.
Our corporate venture capital activities are a special way of
networking and a strategic complement to our understanding
of open innovation. We invest in specialized technology
funds and promising start-ups of strategic relevance to Evonik.
We selectively extended our corporate venture capital portfolio through two investments in 2015.

Focus on sustainability

Our innovative products, systems and solutions make a contribution to sustainable development and we are continuously
extending our work in this field. Our market-oriented R&D
plays an important role in this. We are aligning our innovation
pipeline increasingly to sustainable projects and solutions
in response to rising interest from our customers. In this
way, we enable them to improve their ecological footprint
and successfully differentiate themselves from competitors.

Sustainable products recently launched by Evonik include,
for example, a new ingredient based on renewable resources
for shampoos and conditioners, an innovative silica-based
insulating material, and a biological fungicide for agricultural
applications.
Together with the Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy and the in-house Life Cycle Management
and Innovation Excellence Consulting groups, Creavis has
developed the I2P3 (idea to people, planet, profit) innovation
management process, which allows an extensive sustaina­
bility assessment of new products and processes at an early
stage in their development.

Fostering education and science

Fostering education and science is a core focus of the Evonik
Foundation. In 2015 the Foundation supported 18 particularly
gifted and committed science students at 17 universities in
Germany and in collaboration with foreign universities. Regular meetings with these scholarship students, scientific colloquia and a mentoring program give them an early insight into
the day-to-day work of a leading specialty chemicals company. Evonik is also one of the most committed sponsors of
the German government’s “Deutschlandstipendium” program,
with 200 scholarships provided by the Evonik Foundation.

Annex

T15 Main products introduced in 2015

50

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

T16 Evonik Venture Capital: New investments in 2015
Strategic focus on the following
Evonik competencies

Name

Headquarters

Technology/business model

JeNaCell GmbH

Jena
(Germany)

Specialist in nanocellulose generated by
bio­technological methods, which is used, for
example, as a wound dressing to improve the
treatment of burns. It can also be loaded with
medical active ingredients for controlled release
to the skin over time.

An excellent strategic fit with Evonik’s expertise
in biotechnology and delivery systems for active
medical ingredients.

Wiivv Wearables Inc.

Vancouver
(Canada)

Wiivv is one of the first companies in the world to
use 3D printing for individualized mass production
of biomechanically optimized insoles.

Evonik is a leading supplier of polyamide 12 for
3D printing, a highly innovative growth market
with diverse applications.

Airborne Oil & Gas

IJmuiden
(Netherlands)

Airborne Oil & Gas has a unique production
technology for thermoplastic composite pipes for
a whole range of applications in offshore oil and
gas production.

The oil and gas industry is an attractive growth
market for Evonik and an important area of
innovation. In addition, the company is the market
leader in polyamide 12, which is marketed as
VESTAMID and used in pipelines for the
production and transportation of oil and gas.

Synoste Oy

Espoo
(Finland)

Synoste is a young medical technology company
that has developed a novel implant to “lengthen”
the legs of patients suffering from limb length
discrepancy. Unlike conventional methods, after
implantation the implant is activated by an
external magnetic field and can correct differences
of up to 7 cm.

As a technology leader in high-performance
polymers, Evonik supplies polyetherether ketone
(PEEK) for medical applications. Our VESTAKEEP
PEEK grades for implants, dental and medical
applications set new standards in medical applications thanks to their outstanding biocompatibility
and biostability.

GRC SinoGreen Fund III

Beijing
(China)

GRC is a Chinese venture capital fund which focuses
on investing in non-listed green-tech companies in
Greater China (China, Taiwan and Hong Kong) that
have unique technological competencies and high
growth potential. The target sectors include energy
and resource efficiency, environment-friendly
mobility, sustainability and climate protection.

By investing in the GRC SinoGreen Fund III,
Evonik has extended its venture capital activities to
Asia. The company now has a presence in the most
important venture capital markets: North America,
Europe and Asia. Investments in venture capital
funds are a fundamental element of the innovation
strategy of Evonik Venture Capital because they
offer excellent opportunities to speed up the development of new business and gain access to new
growth areas.

Market-oriented research & development

In 2015 our segments once again developed major innovative
products and processes up to market maturity or market
launch. In addition, they drove forward key future-oriented
projects such as new materials and production processes
for lightweight construction. Special attention was paid to
sustainability and efficient use of resources.
Since summer 2015 our Nutrition & Care segment has
been working with DSM Nutritional Products Ltd. on the
development of algae-based omega-3 fatty acid products for
animal nutrition. Both humans and animals need to absorb a
certain amount of these essential long-chain polyunsaturated
fatty acids through their diet to ensure healthy growth.
At present, most of the omega-3 fatty acids required for
aquaculture come from fish oil. The development partners

aim to meet the rising global demand for omega-3 fatty acids
more resource-efficiently using biotechnological production
processes based on marine algae. The anticipated high-quality
products are intended principally for applications in aqua­
culture and the nutrition of pets.
This segment has introduced two new environmentfriendly adjuvants under the brand name BREAKTHRU to
improve the performance of crop protection products. These
biodegradable adjuvants are based on renewable raw materials, and have an exceptionally good ecotoxicological profile.
Both products improve the retention of agrochemicals on plants
and their diffusion into the leaves. The result is a considerable
reduction in the amount of crop protection products required.
Both new developments therefore make a multiple contribution to more effective and environmentally friendly agriculture.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

51

The Resource Efficiency segment has now entered the market for nitrogen (N2) with its SEPURAN membrane technology, building on its success in the treatment of biogas. The
new SEPURAN N2 hollow fiber membranes nitrogen allow
particularly energy- and cost-saving recovery of nitrogen
from air. Investment costs and energy consumption are lower
than for both the conventional method—separation of air at
low temperatures—and previous membrane processes. As an
inert gas, nitrogen prevents fires and explosions, extends the
shelf-life of food and can also be used as a protective gas for
processing chemicals and plastics. The nitrogen market is
worth more than US$10 billion, making it the world’s second
biggest gas market after oxygen. Although SEPURAN has
only been on the market for four years, it is already making a
positive contribution to earnings.
This segment is currently introducing iXsenic, a new technology for ultra-high resolution displays developed by the
Creavis strategic innovation unit. iXsenic is an inorganic metal
oxide semiconductor, which is applied as a solution in normal
ambient conditions like a coating. The thin-layer transistors
produced in this way allow higher resolution than the established semiconductor amorphous silicon. In addition, iXsenic
can be processed without a vacuum, leading to a simpler process with high yields and clear cost benefits. The Resource
Efficiency segment has entered into a strategic partnership
with a market-leading plant engineering company to ensure
that the material, equipment and process are aligned for the
production of displays. A manufacturer of displays is planning
to use iXsenic in a new production facility for flat screens
in China.

1

Reference base: 2010.

Olefins, which are used to produce the plasticizer alcohol
isononanol and the anti-knock agent MTBE, are an important
precursor for our integrated C4 production in Marl (Germany).
Olefins mainly come from C4 product streams from steam
crackers as by-products of ethylene production. Thanks to a
unique new process, our Performance Materials segment
can now use product streams from fluid catalytic cracking
(FCC) processes as a source of olefins. These product streams
occur in refineries and are not dependent on the production
of ethylene. Since FCC product streams contain unwanted
by-products, in the past they were of limited use to the
chemical industry. The Performance Materials segment has
been using a new process to remove unwanted substances at
its new C4 plant in Marl (Germany) since summer 2015. This
innovative process has strengthened the segment’s position
as a technology leader.
CAPLUS, a new amine for scrubbing industrial gas streams,
has been brought onto the market by Performance Materials.
Unwanted acid gases such as carbon dioxide and/or hydrogen
sulfide have to be removed from natural gas, synthetic gas,
biogas and flue gas for various reasons. CAPLUS scrubs
these gases far more effectively than conventional amines
and also increases the performance and working life of
plants. Following success in the treatment of biogas and flue
gas, the segment has now entered the important natural gas
scrubbing market. The first commercial natural gas scrubber
was converted in Southeast Asia. Performance Materials is
currently introducing CAPLUS to other well-known natural
gas products in the attractive growth regions of Southeast
Asia, the Middle East/North Africa and South America. The
International Energy Agency estimates that gas consumption
will increase by 50 percent by 2035.1

Annex

The business
Research & development

52

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Employees
By focusing on specialty chemicals, Evonik is following a clear
growth strategy. Employees are particularly important to
operate successfully in the marketplace. Key questions include
how we gain and develop our employees and retain them
in the company. We have therefore developed a wide range
of activities, which are crucial elements in the value- and
performance-oriented management of the company.
In view of the demographic change and diversity megatrends, analyzing the structure of our workforce is becoming
increasingly important. Taking into account our future personnel requirements, we develop measures to ensure, for example, a balanced age structure. Alongside a dual training system
geared to our needs and recruiting staff from the external
labor market, that includes tools such as the Generation Pact,
which closely links the employment of job-starters at the
end of their training with the retirement of experienced
employees. Another aspect of central significance is feedback
from our employees through our employee survey, which was
repeated in the year under review. In an intensive follow-up
process we analyze our employees’ suggestions and proposed
improvements. A further rise in the participation rate in 2015
shows that our employees make an active contribution and
therefore support the development of the Group. Other key
figures such as fluctuation rates are used as early warning
indicators. Their development is monitored regularly and
changes are analyzed. In 2015 we initiated a project to
develop and establish a system of indicators that can be used
to manage and optimize global HR work. 1

zational structures, the structure of employee representation
was adjusted, Supervisory Boards were established in accordance with the 1976 Codetermination Act, the new members
of our companies were granted the necessary powers, and
agreements were concluded in respect of the multi-user sites
where there will in future be several or additional Group
companies.
The Group is now divided into four independent segments.
This process was supported by a Group-wide change and
communication team which was responsible for working out
segment-specific strategies and visions, within the overall
framework of the Group. From a Group viewpoint, balancing
identification with Evonik as a whole and with the individual
segments was a major challenge.
To implement it, the change team made strong use of
interactive dialogue formats such as roadshows with the top
management, management dialogue and interviews, and
workshops with managers and employees at all sites. In parallel with this, the workforce in Germany was prepared and
supported in the transfer to the new operating companies
through internal communications and media activities. As a
“pulse check” on the success of this procedure, questions on
“Change and leadership” were included in the worldwide
employee survey conducted in November 2015. Once the
results have been evaluated, they will be used for a follow-up
analysis and further support for change with the active
involvement of employees.

Active support for the reorganization of the Group

The organization of the human resources departments has
been adjusted and optimized to reflect the reorganization
of the Group. The aim is to continue to provide uniform,
effective and efficient human resources services and provide
sustained support for the segments in the attainment of their
business targets.
As part of the reorganization of the Group, the structure
of our HR bodies was also aligned to the new structures.

The strategic reorganization of the management and portfolio
structure of the Evonik Group was supported from an early
stage by an agreement on key points that subsequently
formed the basis for the reconciliation of interests with representatives of the workforce and provided security for both
the structural changes and safeguarding employment. In all,
around 19,000 employees were transferred to the new companies. To secure the operational viability of the new organi-

1

See Our objectives, p. 90.

Further optimization of the HR organization

G4-26

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

53

The Executive Committee HR headed by the Chief Human
Resources Officer is the top HR decision-making body. It sets
the strategic focus of Evonik’s HR strategy. The Global HR
Committee, which is chaired by the Head of the Human
Resources division, takes decisions on HR issues within the
defined strategy. The permanent members of this committee
are representatives of the HR departments in the segments,
regions and corporate and service units. HR Expert Circles
work on aspects of specific issues defined by the Global
HR Committee and report their results to the committee.
Employee representatives are consulted on the HR projects
through a process of continuous dialogue. The structure of
these bodies therefore fully reflects the new Group structures
and role of HR.

Following on from the uniform global, system-supported
recruiting process introduced in 2014, the process of setting
objectives was rolled out to the regions via the new IT platform in 2015. We also started to map systematic employee
reviews as a key element in the dialogue process and to
harmonize them around the world. As an additional module
in 2016 we also want to transition learning management to
this uniform IT platform to ensure an even more structured
and transparent approach to the individual development of
our employees.

C15 Structure of Human Resources steering bodies

Our employees are a key factor in the successful and sustainable implementation of our corporate strategy. As a worldleading specialty chemicals company, innovative strength and
entrepreneurship play a central role as drivers that enable us
to meet our goals of growth and an increase in efficiency.
Based on this, our Group-wide human resources strategy
is geared to a healthy performance culture, together with
dialogue based on partnership and excellence in human
resources processes. The strategic focus of our human
resources work is aligned to the strategic principles “Attract”,
“Develop”, “Perform”, “Retain”, “Lead” and “HR Excellence”.
Special attention is paid to exemplary leadership because this
is the key to success in the other areas of action.
In our annual strategy review we defined these key areas
in consultation with the operational business entities and regional organizations, taking into account relevant political and
societal developments. These were implemented through
projects.

Executive Committee HR
Global HR Committee

HR Expert Circles

As a consequence of Evonik’s historic roots in a large number
of separate companies, the HR systems landscape has so
far been very diverse. The HR IT strategy now aims to
system­atically harmonize our systems landscape. Alongside
efficient and effective processes, this should ensure greater
transparency and measurability of the success of human
resources work.

Exemplary leadership
is the heart of our HR strategy 1

C16 HR strategy
Corporate strategy
HR strategy
Attract

Perform
Lead

Develop

Retain
HR Excellence

1

For further information on our HR strategy see p. 55.

Annex

Employees
Exemplary leadership
is the heart of our HR strategy

54

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Employees worldwide

C18 Employees by region, continuing operations

Growth-driven increase in headcount

At year-end 2015, the Evonik Group had 33,576 employees.
The headcount in our continuing operations was 335 higher
than at year-end 2014, principally as a result of acquisitions and
investment in growth projects in the Resource Efficiency and
Nutrition & Care segments. Implementation of the Administration Excellence program, some small optimization programs
in the chemical segments, and divestment of the remaining
carbon black activities had a counter-effect. At year-end
2014, the discontinued operations still contained Evonik
Litarion GmbH, which was divested in April 2015.

Other 1%
Asia-Pacific 14%
Central and
South America 2%
North
America 11%

Other European
Countries 8%

Germany 64%

T17 Employees by segment
Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2014

Nutrition & Care

7,165

6,943

Resource Efficiency

8,662

7,835

Performance Materials

4,380

4,353

12,668

13,173

Services
Other operations
Continuing operations
Discontinued operations
Evonik

701

937

33,576

33,241

–

171

33,576

33,412

Nearly two-thirds of our workforce is employed in Germany
(64 percent), followed by the Asia-Pacific region (14 percent)
and North America (11 percent).
Around 24 percent of employees are female (2014: around
24 percent). The age structure is still biased towards the 46 +
age group, which accounts for 44 percent of employees (2014:
44 percent). The average age of our employees was 41.7 years
in 2015 (2014: 41.6 years). To prevent child labor, we ask the
age of employees as part of the recruitment process. Our
youngest employees are 16.

Prior-year figures restated.

C17 Age structure in the Evonik Group, continuing operations
in %
Under 21 years

4

21 – 25 years

8

26 – 30 years

10

31 – 35 years

11

36 – 40 years

11

41 – 45 years

12

46 – 50 years

15

51 – 55 years

15

56 – 60 years

12

Over 60 years

2
0

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

16

18

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

55

Employees
Our activities in the areas of action
defined for HR strategy

Dec. 31,
2015

of which
female in %

Employees

33,576

24.0

	of which employees
on permanent contracts

29,371

23.1

2,389

32.7

1,816 a

27.9

	of which employees
on limited-term contracts
of which apprentices/trainees

The focus here is on positioning Evonik globally as a strong
employer brand. Alongside conventional and modern recruiting methods, activities include measures to ensure that new
employees and executives get off to a good start in the
company.
T19 Recruitment of employees
from the labor market in 2015  a

a	Including

a proportion of apprentices abroad and apprentices with an
Evonik contract who are being trained for third parties.

We work with staffing agencies in Germany to cover shortterm or temporary bottlenecks. All agencies must provide
evidence of a valid operating permit. If agency staff have
been used for a job for more than six months, we examine
whether it is a permanent job for which a permanent
employee can be hired. Alongside appropriate remuneration,
we make sure that agency staff are covered by the high social
and safety standards applicable for our own staff. Since the
chemical industry requires a large number of highly qualified
employees, fewer agency staff are used than in other sectors
of manufacturing industry. Evonik had around 680 agency
staff as of December 31, 2015. That was around 3 percent of
our total workforce in Germany.

Our activities in the areas of action
defined for HR strategy 1
Lead

In the area of leadership, Evonik builds on a uniform and concrete Group-wide understanding of leadership, centered on a
trustful relationship between employees and managers.
To ensure that sincere and effective leadership is a distinctive quality at all Evonik sites, in 2015 we harmonized
global training to prepare staff for leadership roles. The aim is
to establish high-quality leadership aligned to our corporate
culture as a hallmark of Evonik.
Strong leaders are essential for value-oriented management of the company. In 2015 nearly 70 corporate talents
therefore once again made a contribution to the housing
construction project in Vietnam in collaboration with Habitat
for Humanity. As well as direct experience of value-oriented
action, they gained inspiration, which they conveyed back into
our company. In addition, in 2015 two pilot groups embarked
on a program that explores ethical conduct, personal values
and their relationship to the working environment. Nearly 30
corporate talents took part in this program in 2015.

1

See Chart C16, p. 53.

No. of
employees

in %

Germany

501

2.3

Other European countries

149

5.6

North America

405

10.7

82

12.3

By region

Central and South America
Asia-Pacific
Middle East, Africa

429

9.0

45

28.0

By gender
Female

466

5.8

1,145

4.5

Under 30

672

10.0

30 to 50

841

4.9

Male
By age

Over 50

98

1.0

1,611

4.8

a	Reference

base: employees in continuing operations as of December 31, 2015,
based on headcount.

Personnel planning as the basis

We successfully established a holistic approach to personnel
planning in 2015, as the basis for high-quality and foresighted
human resources work. This combines strategic and operational personnel planning and sets a uniform Group-wide
standard. Strategic personnel planning identifies the impact
of planned strategic action in the business lines and functional areas on personnel planning over a five-year period
and compares it with the development of our headcount. On
the basis of the gap analysis, specific measures are defined at
a conference attended by representatives of the segments and
regions. In addition, strategic personnel planning is used to
determine the number of vocational training places required.
In the operational personnel planning process, each manager plans personnel requirements for their unit in a structured
process in collaboration with HR and defines specific steps
for the following year. The results of our strategic personnel
planning are incorporated into this process. In Germany,

Annex

Attract

T18 Employees by contractual status

56

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

dialogue with our managers is also used to identify specific
demand for apprentices completing their training so we can
manage the hiring of ex-apprentices on long-term contracts
in line with our needs. This process plays a substantial part in
reducing demographic risks.

Employer branding—Positioning Evonik
as an attractive employer

A strong and uniform global employer brand is an important
success factor in the competition to attract the most talented
employees and executives. Our promise “Exploring opportunities. Growing together.” is an expression of our values as an
employer: wide-ranging global development opportunities
and team spirit. As part of our employer branding, we use
creative and unusual methods to fire passion for Evonik in
tomorrow’s specialists at an early stage. For example, in fall
2015 we challenged students at ten universities in Germany
to Battle of Brains, a digital quiz that attracted around 1,000
participants. High-quality prizes were awarded to the best
three from each university and the winning entrant from each
university was invited to the Evonik Student Network Day. In
addition, around 100,000 impressions of Battle of Brains
were registered in various media.
Since our employees play an important role in communicating our employer brand, we also continuously extended
our program of brand advocates. The focus in 2015 was the
launch of our “Tell your story” internal testimonial campaign.
Employees from various areas of the Group report on themselves and their work in their own words, demonstrating
how our brand promise “Exploring opportunities. Growing
together.” is put into practice in our day-to-day work.
A variety of awards and surveys confirm that Evonik
is already one of Germany’s most attractive employers. For
example, in 2015 we ranked third in the chemical and pharmaceutical sector in the employer ranking conducted by the
German news magazine FOCUS. In China, Evonik was once
again included in the list of the most popular employers published by the Top Employer Institute in 2015.

Modern recruiting tools extended

To build contact to relevant groups of potential employees at
an early stage, we engage in selective cooperation with universities and higher education institutes around the world.
These are selected in consultation with the relevant specialist
departments.

Through the Evonik Perspectives program we remain in contact with students whose performance in internships in the
Group is above average. Many participants join Evonik when
they finish their studies.
To gain sufficient specialists in China, for years we have
been involved in training young people in cooperation with
Shanghai Petrochemical Academy (SPA). The qualification
they receive is comparable to a German qualification. We also
provided scholarships for 64 students at several renowned
universities, for example in China, in 2015.
In addition, Evonik supports the Ruhr Fellowship program
in Germany, which is organized by Initiativkreis Ruhr. Under
this program, top students from leading universities on the east
and west coasts of the USA (Princeton, Harvard, University
of Pennsylvania, MIT and University of California, Berkeley)
did internships at companies in the Ruhr region of Germany
in 2015. One student from Harvard University and one from
Princeton University did a four-week internship in the process engineering unit within Technology & Infrastructure at
Evonik’s site in Marl (Germany).
In view of the high and growing significance of social
media, we have stepped up our activities in this area and
further strengthened our presence on Facebook, LinkedIn,
Xing, YouTube, Twitter, Glassdoor and WeChat. We also use
social networks selectively for “active sourcing” as part of our
recruiting activities. Trainee programs are another important
element in talent and succession planning at Evonik. Further,
our regions develop programs to attract university graduates
for employment in their region.
Our global talent recruitment initiative RISE is designed to
attract talented external candidates for key positions and management posts. The core element of RISE, apart from suitability for a specific position, is the potential to take on more
demanding assignments.

Develop

In this area we concentrated on targeted development of
talented employees. Group-wide we are therefore stepping
up structured development opportunities for all employees
aligned to requirements. This also lays the foundations for
our sustained policy of filling key positions from within the
company.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

57

Vocational and further training for present
and future specialists

Evonik still recruits specialists from within its own ranks and is
committed to supporting their vocational training and ongoing
development. This is also an element in meeting our corporate
responsibility to society and our workforce. The number of
apprentices and, above all, the number of apprentices hired
by us at the end of their training will be aligned even more
clearly to the personnel requirements of our organizational
units in the future.
At year-end 2015, we had around 2,050 apprentices at 17
sites in Germany on more than 40 vocational training courses
and combined vocational training and study programs.
Around 340 of them were being trained on behalf of other
companies. We have around 30 places on the “Start in den
Beruf” pre-apprenticeship project for young people who are
not yet ready for an apprenticeship, plus about 20 additional
places for refugees. About 590 new apprentices started their
training at Evonik in 2015. Apprentices accounted for around
9 percent of our workforce in Germany, which is still well
above the national average. Overall, we invested some € 65
million in vocational training in 2015.
Evonik also runs an International Program for Apprentices
as part of its all-round vocational training. This offers apprentices and students on combined vocational training and study
programs an opportunity to get to know a different Evonik
site elsewhere in the world. 38 apprentices participated in
this program in 2015.
Continuous professional development of our skilled personnel geared specifically to the needs of the company is
another core element of our HR activities. A large number of
training opportunities are offered through in-house courses
and in cooperation with external training partners, either
centrally or on a decentralized basis by the segments or individual sites. Focal areas in 2015 were competency management and leadership skills. In Germany we invested around
€ 500 per employee in continuous professional development
in 2015.1
We are also continuously improving the personal development landscape for our employees and executives. Attention
is paid to high global quality standards in the content and
objectives of such measures. Based on these standards, our
learning and upskilling concepts are also adapted to regional
requirements, which we respect and take into account in line
with our international business focus and cultural diversity. In
some countries and regions such as Germany and Asia, we
have successfully stepped up the use of specially trained
employees as “internal” trainers. They are able to provide
authentic content directly related to Evonik.

1

Including a small proportion of contractors’ employees and foreign attendees.

Evonik’s development landscape offers wide-ranging opportunities for continuing personal and professional development. Alongside classroom training, we use web-based communication and training platforms both nationally and internationally, especially for short training courses. The various
development opportunities are personalized wherever possible so a standardized evaluation is not possible. We improved
reporting of training in 2015 and are now able to evaluate
training data for about 85 percent of our employees worldwide. Employees receive an average of 13 hours training. The
effective training time is considerably higher because the
average is calculated from total training time over the entire
workforce.

Talent management for executives

Evonik is committed to the established practice of filling
executive and other key functions principally from within the
company. Our talent management identifies, develops and
fosters employees with potential across hierarchical levels
and functions. Regular planning conferences with the close
involvement of the Executive Board focus on development
and succession planning for corporate talents and executives.
To ensure continued business-oriented identification and
career development for talented employees, in 2015 we
aligned our processes and personnel conferences to the new
management holding structure. Operational and functional
units and the Corporate Center discuss key potentials within
the Group with the Executive Board, along with the next
steps in their development and target functions. Alongside
our employee development reviews and various panels, we
use clearly defined indicators, which are reviewed regularly
and were revised in 2015. In 2015 we introduced a new program for top-level development: members of Evonik’s top
management support personally selected executives in their
professional development and act as sparring partners for
their future career paths.

Perform

Here the focus is on a healthy performance culture as the
basis for the company’s success and the personal motivation
of every individual employee. Globally, our activities in this
area are based on appropriate human resources tools com­
plemented by a wide variety of performance incentives. Fair,
performance-related remuneration plays a central role in this,
together with the annual performance and development
review.

Annex

Employees
Our activities in the areas of action
defined for HR strategy

58

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

In 2015, personnel expenses, including social security contributions and pension expense, rose 14 percent to € 3,121 million (2014: € 2,771 million) as a result of the increase in our
headcount and pay rises. Personnel expenses were therefore
23.1 percent of sales (2014: 21.3 percent).
T00 Personnel expense
in € million

Wages and salaries

2015

2014

2,520

2,222

Social security contributions

370

336

Pension expenses

209

192

22

21

3,121

2,771

Other personnel expense

Remuneration—Uniform global evaluation criteria

When shaping remuneration systems, Evonik believes it is
very important to offer specialists and executives marketoriented and performance-related salaries based on uniform
global evaluation criteria. In the future, this overall remuneration concept will be accompanied by a Group-wide policy
on remuneration and benefits. We have set ourselves until
the end of 2016 to achieve this.1 The remuneration of many
members of our workforce includes bonus payments that are
dependent on the company’s business performance or the
personal performance of the employee. Remuneration is
therefore based on objective criteria such as responsibility,
the required knowledge and skills, and performance; personal
characteristics such as gender, age, etc. do not have any impact. Collective agreements on remuneration cover 100 percent of our employees in Germany and around 75 percent of
our employees worldwide.2 Around 24 percent of our sites
and regions have performance- or profit-oriented incentive
systems. These systems cover around 98 percent of our
employees. They also apply for part-time employees, provided in some regions that they meet the prescribed minimum working hours.
In addition, two years ago we introduced the “Share”
employee share program for personnel in Germany, Belgium
and the USA. The high participation rate of around 36 percent
highlights our employees’ confidence in Evonik’s business
development. In 2015 around 10,000 employees, including
apprentices, took part in the “Share” program. They purchased
nearly 280,000 share and were allocated around 95,000
bonus shares through the company’s subsidy program.

1
2

See Our objectives, p. 90.
Reference base restated.

Benefits form part of overall compensation

Voluntary social benefits are offered to employees in all
regions in which Evonik has a presence. These are offered to
more than 97 percent of our employees. More than 99 percent
of our employees have statutory or company pension insurance and health insurance. This also applies for part-time
employees, as long as they work the prescribed minimum
number of hours in some regions.
Evonik helps employees provide for security after retirement. Different arrangements are offered depending on
regional specifics and the conditions prevailing in individual
countries.
In Germany, Evonik has established a system of company
pension plans that provide retirement, disability and surviving
dependents’ pensions through a reinsured support fund.
Mandatory contributions to this fund, supplemented by
optional contributions through deferred compensation
arrangements, ensure that employees’ pension provision
extends beyond the level funded by their employer. Employer
contributions to pension plans are also an important element
of total annual remuneration outside Germany, for example
in the USA and some European countries.

Retain

In spite of the necessary change processes a high level of
employee retention is achieved through our corporate values
and common corporate culture, which foster identification
with Evonik.
T21 Employee fluctuation 2015  a
Fluctuation
rate
in %

No. of
employees
who left the
company

By gender
Female

5.2

416

Male

4.5

1,133

Under 30

4.4

295

30 to 50

3.1

537

By age

Over 50

a

7.7

717

4.7

1,549

Reference base: no. of employees in each category as of December 31, 2014.

Previous reporting base altered in sustainability reports from 2015:
instead of unplanned fluctuation, the figure now shows total fluctuation.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

59

Employees
Trustful collaboration

We place great emphasis on a good mix of employees to
ensure diversity of nationality, gender, educational background
and professional experience, as well as a wide-ranging age
structure. We specifically support this through activities such
as gender networks at our major German sites and various
events and formats that bring together people, enrich discussions and help build bridges between different cultures and
backgrounds. The Evonik WoMentoring initiative entered its
second round in 2015. In addition, we again included binding
diversity targets in the objectives agreed with our corporate
executives.
Our diversity strategy also forms the strategic basis for our
resolutions on implementing the new legislation on gender
quotas 1, for which the German government set a deadline of
September 30, 2015. These resolutions confirm that we will
step up the measures already defined and established as part
of our diversity strategy to foster women in management
positions. The proportion of women among our Group executives has increased from 6.9 percent to 10.4 percent in the
past three years.
Disabled employees account for 7.1 percent of the workforce at Evonik in Germany. That is above the quota of 5 percent set for the country.

Respecting workers’ and human rights

Evonik accepts the United Nations Declaration of Human
Rights and is a member of the UN Global Compact. We have
given an undertaking to foster human and workers’ rights,
avoid discrimination and corruption, and protect people and the
environment. These principles are integrated into our Code
of Conduct and our Global Social Policy, which forbid any
form of discrimination on the basis of origin, race, religion,
age, gender, sexual orientation and disability. Employees who
feel they have been discriminated against have a right to
lodge a complaint. Information on the basic procedure is normally provided by internal media, and in personal discussions.
Contacts for reporting cases of discrimination are available
at all sites. Moreover, appropriate measures and activities
have been established in all regions to avoid discrimination.
These are accessible to all employees and reach over 92 percent of our workforce. Six cases of discrimination were re-

1	See

Evonik Annual Report 2015, p. 52 f. (Declaration on corporate governance).

ported in 2015. They were followed up and action was taken
to eliminate discrimination.
We develop the sensitivity of our purchasers in their work
with potential suppliers through training. Our expectations
that suppliers will comply with our standards are documented
in our procurement conditions and a Supplier Code of Conduct.

Annex

Diversity is decisive

Trustful collaboration
Evonik’s success relies to a significant extent on trusting
collaboration between representatives of the management
and employees. This collaboration takes account of operating
conditions and the laws applicable in the various countries.
In Germany, the principal rights of our employees and their
representatives to be consulted are anchored in statutory regulations such as the Codetermination Act and the legislation
on executive staff councils. There are elected bodies representing our employees at all sites in Germany. Works Councils
represent exempt and non-exempt employees, while executive
staff councils represent our executives. Timely discussion of
all changes with these bodies is ensured. The time prior to
the implementation of such measures is several weeks or
months, depending on the significance of the upcoming
changes. Where necessary, during this period written agreements are made on the upcoming measures and their impact
on employees. There are comparable rules on the type and
scope of consultation and negotiation in many other regions
where Evonik has employees.
The information and consultation rights of employees on
cross-border European issues are represented by the Evonik
Europa Forum, which is composed of employee and
employer representatives.
At company level in Germany, employees interests are
represented by employee representatives on the Supervisory
Board.
Evonik does not restrict employees’ rights to freedom of
assembly or the right to collective bargaining. These rights
are also ensured in countries where freedom of association is
not protected by the state. This is shown by the fact that,
based on our sites worldwide, there are employee representatives for about 84 percent of our employees.

G4-26

G4-26

60

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Employee survey—entirely online for the first time

Work/life balance

Employee performance and development review

Healthy and motivated employees are vital for Evonik’s
success and an integral part of our corporate responsibility.
Our well@work program covers all aspects that maintain and
improve the employability and quality of life of our employees.
Worldwide, more than 95 percent of our workforce can
seek social or employee counseling on workplace-related,
health, personal or family problems.
For example, in the area of health management seminars
are organized throughout Germany to provide information
on a healthy diet, handling stress and appropriate physical
exercise. Evonik also offers employees a wide range of exercise classes—from yoga to conventional gym sessions.1
Combining work and family life has had very high priority
for Evonik for years and is part of our overall well@work
approach. In 2015 we embarked on a review of our benefits
in this area in order to uphold our validation by the Hertie
Foundation as a family-friendly company. Core elements of
our offering include support in child care and flexible worktime models.
More than 96 percent of our employees worldwide have
access to local initiatives at their sites to help them combine
work with family life. Examples in Germany are the provision
of over one hundred childcare places, vacation programs for
more than 800 children, and extensive support on issues
related to caring for elderly and sick relatives.

In our first fully online employee survey run under the motto
“I’m in online” at the end of 2015, around 33,000 Evonik
employees worldwide were asked for their input to actively
shape the future of the Group. The survey included questions
about the change process for the ongoing development of
Evonik’s organizational structure. As a new element, there
were also specific questions on occupational safety, which is
a top priority for Evonik as a specialty chemicals company.
The participation rate was an excellent 83.9 percent (in 2012,
when the survey was not completely online, it was 83.4 percent). In the follow-up process, the results of the survey will
be translated into specific improvement measures in 2016.

In 2015 we started to harmonize our systematic employee
performance and development review worldwide as an
important dialogue process. This will ensure that in future
every employee will have a feedback meeting with his or
her line manager once a year. This will be supported by a
contemporary IT tool, allowing managers and employees a
more clearly focused discussion of performance, objectives,
potential and development on the basis of defined global
topics. The expected increase in motivation and identification
with corporate objectives will be good for the company’s
overall performance.
The most recent employee survey, conducted in 2015,
showed that worldwide 88 percent of employees use this
important development instrument (2012 employee survey:
85 percent).

T22 Percentage of part-time employees by gender and region
Part-time employees 2015

Part-time employees 2014
Female

in %

Male

Total

Female

Male

in %

in %

in %

in %

Total
in %

Regions/Countries

17.7

1.9

5.7

18.0

2.0

5.8

Germany

26.4

2.2

7.9

27.1

2.3

8.2

Other European countries

17.6

5.3

7.4

16.2

5.6

7.3

North America

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.2

0.1

0.1

Asia-Pacific

0.1

0.2

0.2

0.1

0.2

0.1

1

See Health protection, p. 77.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

61

At the end of 2015 we also started to revise our regional and
country-specific approach to work-life balance. The aim is to
identify the needs of Evonik’s employees more specifically
and achieve our goal of a “healthy performance culture”.
In view of the global, regional and personal factors that
influence the perceived needs of our employees, a specified
lifecycle management approach will ensure that the activities
related to the specific areas of action are identified and
realized. We expect this to bring a clear improvement in
identification with our corporate objectives, based on Evonik’s
candid acknowledgment of employees’ increasing expectations that they can decide autonomously on the combinability
of private and work lifecycles.
The regular, contractually defined working hours for
approx­imately 77 percent of our employees are based on
collective agreements. We are not aware of any fines imposed
on the company in 2015 for exceeding statutory working
hours. We limit employees’ working hours to 48 hours a
week, unless shorter working hours are applicable. This also
applies to the integration of new entities, such as Monarch
Catalyst Pvt. Ltd. (now Evonik Catalysts Pvt. Ltd.) in India
which was acquired in 2015. At year-end, about one quarter
of employees there had not yet been transitioned to this
aspect of our Global Social Policy. The transition process will
be completed in the course of 2016.
More than 83 percent of our employees benefit from
annual vacation rules that exceed the statutory provisions in
their country. Since there is no statutory ruling in the USA,
the situation there is based on regional custom.

Some employees ask about the possibility of taking paid or
unpaid leave for an extended period, for example, to ensure
the compatibility of private and professional phases in
their lives. However, interest in the options offered is very
low: On average it is in the low single-digit range (based on
total headcount).
T23 Extended periods of leave

in %

Germany

Percentage of employees
who have the option of
taking an extended period
of paid or unpaid leave
(more than 3 months).

100

Other European countries

49

North America

96

Central and South America

82

Asia-Pacific

74

Middle East, Africa

0

In Germany, there were 619 employees on parental leave in
2015. Nearly one third of them were already on parental leave
at the turn of 2014/2015. 39 percent of them were male. In
2015 they took an average of 1.6 months parental leave, while
female employees took an average of 6.7 months. With only
a few exceptions, the employees who returned from parental
leave in 2014 were still working for us a year later.

Annex

Employees
Work/life balance

62

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

The environment 1
Protecting our environment and the climate are major global
challenges of our age. Maintaining the natural basis of life
for future generations is part of our corporate responsibility.
That includes steadily reducing emissions, continuous improvements in the efficient use of materials and resources,
and developing products that help us forge a link between
economic success and ecological progress. To address these
key areas for Evonik, we have defined targets for greenhouse
gas emissions, water intake and waste.
Evonik is committed to the chemical industry’s Respon­
sible Care initiative. As a signatory to the Responsible Care
Global Charter, the company has given an undertaking that it
will continuously improve its performance in the areas of
occupational health, safety, product stewardship and environmental protection.
We have defined Group-wide Environment, Safety and
Health Values. On the basis of these Values, which address
our environmental responsibility, we strive to continuously
develop and improve the environmental compatibility of our
products, processes and systems.
The Corporate Environment, Safety, Health and Quality
(ESHQ) division bundles all Group-wide strategic management and coordination tasks in the areas of environmental
protection, occupational, plant and transportation safety,
health protection, climate policy, ecosystems and product
stewardship through binding Group-wide policies and pro­
cedures. As well as conducting regular internal audits of
individual operating units, sites and regions, the division
monitors Group-wide implementation. It is also responsible
for environmental reporting for the Group. The head of
the division reports directly to the Chief Human Resources
Officer.
Continuous improvement of ESH performance and compliance is driven forward with the aid of an integrated
management system and Group-wide audit system. The integrated management system, which comprises instructions on
corporate strategy, policies and standard operating procedures for key central management functions, is based on the
structure of the Evonik Group.
Evonik has set environmental targets for the period 2013 –
2020. The central quantitative performance indicators are

1

All data presented in this section refer to both continuing and discontinued operations.

the reduction in our specific greenhouse gas emissions and
specific water intake, per metric ton of output in each case.
We aim to achieve 80 percent of these targets by 2018. In
addition, internally Evonik is endeavoring to achieve a further
reduction in hazardous production waste by setting a qualitative target for this.
Specialist knowledge of relevant issues is bundled in
Expert Circles, which are convened as required. They are
responsible for anchoring strategic ESHQ requirements in the
operational units. The Global ESHQ Committee is comprised
of representatives of the segments and the regional heads.
It ensures regular dialogue on ESHQ issues and prepares
related decisions.
Decisions on ESHQ issues are taken by the ESHQ Panel,
which is composed of representatives of the segments, regions,
the Technical Committee and employee representatives. It is
chaired by the head of the Corporate ESHQ division.
The operational segments and site services define the
business-specific implementation of the decisions taken. The
Corporate ESHQ division ensures cross-segment rules on the
relevant processes.
The Corporate ESHQ division uses a central audit system
to ensure regular monitoring of implementation of the binding Group-wide strategy and compliance with the relevant
statutory requirements. Based on the findings and on analyses
of internal and external monitoring activities, site inspections
and reviews, talks are held on possible improvements and
how they can be realized. The Executive Board is informed
annually of the outcome of these audits. Alongside many
internal audits conducted by the operating units themselves,
17 of the planned 18 corporate audits were performed in 2015.
The planned audit of the site in Qingdao (China) was not
performed as the site was sold. Worldwide, over 95 percent
of our production volume has been validated as conforming
to ISO 14001, the internationally recognized environmental
management standard.
Our management parameters are monitored regularly via
a central reporting system (Sustainability Reporting/SuRe)
which contains a wide range of data on water use, emissions
into the air and the recovery and recycling of waste. More
than 50 different production- and plant-related sustainability

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

63

The environment
Environmental targets

C19 Structure of Corporate ESHQ steering bodies

ESHQ Panel
Global ESHQ Committee

ESHQ Expert Circles

indicators are compiled. These are captured locally on a plantspecific basis and can be evaluated centrally via the reporting
system on the basis of management and legal structures or
by region. The data capture and processing methods are
explained regularly at training sessions and are subject to
regular internal and external audits.

Environmental targets
Evonik’s strategic development focuses on a sustained
increase in the company’s value. To achieve that, we set ambitious targets for finance, safety and the environment. Our
environmental targets are valuable guidance for a continuous
improvement in our performance in protecting the climate
and the environment. We aim to achieve our targets by 2020.
They apply for the period 2013 to 2020. Any deviations from
these targets are specifically indicated.
• Reduce specific greenhouse gas emissions  1 by 12 percent
• Reduce specific water intake by 10 percent.

• Responsible for defining the global ESHQ strategy and the
architecture of the Group-wide ESHQ organization

Annex

Executive Committee HR

• Decision-making body for selected ESHQ issues;
strategic, coordinating and initiatory role
• Platform for regular exchange on ESHQ topics;
prepares decisions on ESHQ issues
• Pool expert knowledge on relevant ESHQ issues;
anchor ESHQ requirements in the operating units;
report to the Global ESHQ Committee

The reference base for reporting is 2012. In sustainable waste
management, we are continuing our efforts to minimize the
use of resources. We regard specific CO2 emissions as a particularly important environmental indicator and plan to use it
as a key non-financial performance indicator in the future.
One precondition for this is replacing our reporting routines
by a more advanced technical system. Work on this continued
last year.
The substantial decline of 3 percentage points in specific
greenhouse gas emissions was mainly due to implementation
of specific measures to raise energy efficiency, an altered
energy mix in Marl (Germany) as a result of lower availability
of the coal-fired power plants due to maintenance shutdowns, and the divestment of the remaining carbon black
activities in China.
Specific water intake declined by three percentage points
in 2015 compared with 2014, mainly as a result of targeted
savings measures, start-up of additional closed-circuit cooling
water systems, and site-specific one-off factors in the intake
of surface water.

T24 Status of our environmental targets
Change in % compared with 2012

2012

2013

2014

Specific greenhouse gas emissions  a

100

93  b

92

Specific water intake

100

95  b

103 c

a
c

Time series recalculated using the market-based method.
Temporary effects in the energy supply area as a result of production shutdowns and portfolio adjustment effects.
Site-specific effects in the intake of surface water.

1

Energy- and process-related in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol/Scope 2 emissions using the market-based method.

b

2015

Target for
2020

89

88

100

90

64

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

T25 Environmental protection investment and operating costs
in € million

Investment in environmental protection
Operating costs for environmental protection

Environmental protection investment
and operating costs
In 2015, we invested € 43 million in measures to achieve a
further improvement in environmental protection. This comprised capital expenditures for investment projects undertaken in 2015 such as the expansion of capacity for specialty
silicas in Ako (Japan), a large number of individual investments
in effective end-of-pipe technologies, and environmental
protection measures integrated into plants and processes.
The high prior-year figure of € 107 million was dominated by
the start-up of major strategic investment projects in the Asian
region. These included, in particular, the new methionine
complex in Singapore and the new production facilities for
isophorone and isophorone diamine in Shanghai (China).
Operating costs for environmental protection facilities
rose considerably to € 283 million in 2015 (2014: € 259 million), principally due to the start-up of methionine production and the use of the environmental protection facilities at
the site in Singapore.

Production inputs and output
Our concept of integrated production sites is particularly
important for efficient management of energy and materials.
By-products from one plant are often used as production
inputs in another plant. That makes a key contribution to efficient use of raw materials.
In 2015 Evonik spent around € 8.3 billion on raw materials
and supplies, technical goods, services, energy and other
operating supplies. Petrochemical feedstocks accounted for
about 25 percent of the total. Overall, raw materials and supplies make up around 59 percent of procurement volume.

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

48

39

29

107

43

251

251

250

259

283

Procurement of renewable raw materials accounted for around
8 percent of total procurement of raw materials in 2015.
Raw material inputs decreased slightly from 8.75 to
8.66 million metric tons. That was a reduction of around
1 percent.
Based on the inputs of basic chemicals for production,
renewable raw materials again accounted for almost 9 percent
in 2015. The majority were dextrose and saccharose, which
are used as substrates in the fermentative production of amino
acids. Natural fats and oils and their derivatives are used
to produce precursors for the cosmetics, detergents and
cleaning agents industry and in technical processing aids. We
are still endeavoring to raise the proportion of renewable raw
materials wherever this makes sense from a technical, economic, ecological and social perspective.
Production output was 10.36 million metric tons in 2015,
almost unchanged from the previous year.

Energy inputs

We regard responsible use of energy as equally important on
ecological and economic grounds. Therefore we strive for
a steady improvement in the provision and use of energy. The
main drivers here are production and our integrated energy
and energy management systems. Here too, output is an
important indicator of our efficiency. We use a broad spectrum of technical and organizational measures to raise energy
efficiency, including co-generation plants and expansion of
integrated structures linking chemical production and energy
generation. Third-party production facilities are included in
these measures. We also consider using renewable energies.
Important criteria for assessing whether we can include them
in our energy mix are reliability of supply, and cost-efficiency.
Many of our energy management systems meet the high standards of ISO 50001.

T26 Production inputs and output
in million metric tons

Raw material inputs
of which renewable raw materials
Production

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

8.66

9.51

8.16

8.23

8.75

0.69

0.73

0.79

0.77

0.74

10.35

9.71

10.06

10.35

10.36

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

65

The environment
Emissions into the air

2011

in petajoules

2012

2013

2014

2015

Gaseous fossil fuels

35.63

32.72

31.74

32.93

35.48

Solid fossil fuels

22.45

23.93

22.38

23.69

19.86

Liquid fossil fuels

0.40

0.27

0.20

0.18

0.23

Substitute fuels

7.16

7.42

7.96

7.62

7.75

a

19.89

18.98

18.59

18.45

19.38

Power, external output

11.91

11.77

12.50

12.31

12.41

7.09

6.18

5.15

6.34

6.59

Steam, external output

13.46

10.51

8.26

8.00

7.92

Energy input, gross

92.62

89.48

86.03

89.23

89.29

Energy input, net (after subtraction of output)

67.25

67.20

65.27

68.92

68.95

Power, external input
Steam, external input

Production in million metric tons

–

9.71

10.06

10.35

10.36

Specific energy input, net

–

6.92

6.49

6.66

6.66

Totals may vary due to rounding differences.
a

Including captive hydroelectric and solar power.

Thanks to our long-standing endeavors we have already
achieved a high level of efficiency, which we are constantly
optimizing. We involve our employees in the improvement
process through our company suggestion plan and special
task forces. In the search for further potential to raise productivity and energy efficiency, our operational activities are
supported by experts from our Operational Excellence
(OPEX) unit. In our reporting, we distinguish between primary energy inputs, normally fossil fuels used to generate
electricity and steam, and secondary inputs, i.e. purchased
electricity and steam and the use of heat from production
processes. We also use secondary fuels such as thermal processing of by-products from production, waste and treatment
sludge. Substitute fuels accounted for around 9 percent of
total energy inputs in 2015, the same proportion as in 2014.
Energy inputs were basically unchanged in 2015 compared
with the previous year. A variety of factors influenced the
development of the various energy inputs. The decline in
solid fossil fuels and the increase in gaseous fossil fuels were
primarily attributable to a change in the energy mix at Marl
Chemical Park as a result of lengthy maintenance-related
shutdowns at the largest coal-fired power plant. Consumption
of natural gas was also increased by the start-up of methionine
production in Singapore. The maintenance-related shutdowns
in Marl and the new methionine complex were also the main
reasons for the increase in external power inputs in 2015.

Oil only plays a subordinate role in Evonik’s energy mix. The
increase in 2015 was due to increased use of oil for auxiliary
firing. The use of substitute fuels and external output of
power and steam were on the same level as in previous years.
Specific gross energy inputs remained unchanged.

Emissions into the air
Greenhouse gas emissions

Emitting greenhouse gases into the air is a side-effect of
all production processes. Use of efficient technologies and
production processes will help us achieve our goal of reducing specific greenhouse gas emissions by 12 percent by 2020
(reference base 2012 = 100).
The standard used to report our greenhouse gas emissions
is the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This includes direct CO2
emissions (Scope 1 emissions) from energy generation and
production, and indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2 emissions)
from purchased energy. Together with other greenhouse
gases, the total is expressed as CO2 equivalents (CO2e).
The Scope 2 emissions were calculated in the past using
the location-based method, which includes regional emission
factors. For the majority of our sites around the world, from
2015 this method is supplemented by the market-based
method, which takes account of the specific emissions of

Annex

T27 Energy inputs

66

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

T28 Greenhouse gas emissions
in thousand metric tons CO2 equivalents a

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

7,430

5,879

5,725

5,846

5,525

15

14

14

14

14

129

63

130

66

50

Scope 1
Carbon dioxide (CO2)
Methane (CH4)
Dinitrogen oxide (N2O)
Fluorinated hydrocarbons (HFC)
Total

7.7

7.0

6.3

8.1

3.6

7,581.7

5,964.0

5,875.3

5,933.7

5,593.2

Scope 2 b
CO2 gross (location-based)

3,252

3,126

2,925

3,003

3,156

n. a.

4,220

3,996

3,967

4,189

10,833.7

9,090.0

8,800.3

8,937.0

8,749.3

n. a.

10,184.3

9,871.1

9,900.8

9,782.0

10.35

9.71

10.06

10.35

10.36

Specific greenhouse gas emissions, gross (location-based)
in metric tons CO2 equivalents per metric ton output

1.05

0.94

0.87

0.86

0.84

Specific greenhouse gas emissions, gross (market-based)
in metric tons CO2 equivalents per metric ton output

n. a.

1.05

0.98

0.96

0.95

907

973

859

966

1058

CO2 gross (market-based)
Scope 1 + 2, total, gross (location-based)
Scope 1 + 2, total, gross (market-based)
Output in million metric tons

Total Scope 2 c
CO2 net (location-based)
CO2 net (market-based)
Scope 1 + 2, total net (location-based)
Scope 1 + 2, total net (market-based)

n. a.

1,025

882

909

1,011

8,488.7

6,937.0

6,734.3

6,900.2

6,650.6

n. a.

6,988.0

6,757.3

6,843.1

6,603.6

Differences between data and totals are due to rounding differences.
a
b

GWP factors: CO2: 1, N2O: 310, CH4: 21, HFC: 140 – 11,700.
Recalculated from 2012 using the market-based method of calculating Scope 2 emissions to ensure comparability.
Scope 2 = Power and steam sourced externally less power and steam supplied to third parties. The table shows the CO2 emissions associated with the purchase of
electricity and steam as both gross and net values. The net figure shows the position after subtracting electricity and steam output for third parties from total inputs.
That enables us to eliminate the proportion of energy-related CO2 emissions attributable to third parties at our large multi-user sites and generate company-specific indicators.

c	Total

individual suppliers and market participants. That enhances
accuracy and also enables us to meet the new requirements
of the GHG protocol. To ensure comparability, for 2015 the
CO2 contribution to Scope 2 emissions has been calculated
and reported using both methods. Further, to ensure the
comparability of progress towards our CO2 target, our Scope 2
emissions have been calculated retroactively from 2012. The
new method covers over 95 percent of our power-related
Scope 2 emissions in 2015 and around 77 percent of external
steam inputs.
Greenhouse gases are clearly dominated by CO2 emissions.
In line with Evonik’s energy mix, most Scope 1 CO2 emissions
(approx. 72 percent) are due to the combustion of coal and
natural gas. Over 90 percent of CO2 emissions from coal are
from the power plants at our largest site in Marl (Germany).
Compared with the previous year, (market-based) greenhouse gas emissions show a slight decline of 0.12 million
metric tons to 9.78 million metric tons in 2015, although output

was roughly the same. The decline in these emissions was
mainly due to implementation of specific measures to raise
energy efficiency, an altered energy mix in Marl (Germany)
as a result of lower availability of the coal-fired power plants
due to maintenance shut-downs, and the divestment of the
remaining carbon black activities in China.
Responsible use of energy is a priority at all of our sites for
ecological and economic reasons. We therefore constantly
strive to make the provision of energy more efficient, improve
energy generation still further, and optimize the structure of
our integrated energy and management systems. Our commitment in this area is shown by the fact that many of our sites
have obtained or are preparing to obtain validation under ISO
50001, the internationally valid standard for energy management systems. As well as reducing pressure on resources by
using co-generation plants at several of our large sites, we
have established many integrated structures linking chemical
production and energy generation. For example, large amounts

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

67

of steam generated in exothermic processes at various production facilities are supplied to other plants via steam networks. This reduces steam production in our power plants,
which in turn reduces consumption of fossil fuels. Another
example is the use of liquid and gaseous by-products from
production as substitute fuels for energy generation. These
include hydrogen and propene from the production of prussic
acid, acrolein and acrylic acid. We also generate steam from
the exhaust heat from various incineration plants for waste,
treatment sludge, exhaust gases and wastewater.
CO2 emissions from oil only account for a small proportion
of Evonik’s fuel mix. The proportion declined further in 2015
because additional crackers for recycling sulfuric acid were
fired by natural gas rather than oil.
Apart from CO2 emissions from fuels, only N2O emissions
(expressed in greenhouse gas equivalents) are of significance
at Evonik. Although they account for less than 1 percent of
total GHG emissions, fluctuations in these emissions are not
insignificant for the overall development of our greenhouse
gas emissions. N2O is emitted by a few production processes.
Scope to improve these processes has already been identified
and measures to reduce emissions are in preparation.
The 30 production facilities operated by Evonik that fall
within the scope of the European Union’s Emissions Trading
System (EU ETS) emitted 4.0 million metric tons of CO2 in
2015. The reduction of 0.2 million metric tons compared with
2014 was mainly due to temporary reductions in coal-based
energy generation and lower utilization of the hydrogen
plant in Marl (Germany).

Evonik Carbon Footprint (ECF)

By paying special attention to the distribution of emissions
among the various sources along the value chain we are
able to provide an extensive overview of greenhouse gas
emissions—from the extraction of raw materials through
production to disposal of products. These data have been
reported since 2008.

The key parameter is the carbon footprint (CO2e footprint).
This shows the volume of greenhouse gases emitted by a
company, a process or an individual product (expressed in
CO2 equivalents, in other words, CO2 and the other greenhouse gases defined in the GHG protocol, i.e. CH4, N2O, SF6,
HFCs, PFCs and NF3). The table below shows the development of greenhouse gas emissions for Evonik’s products,
based on the confirmed data for 2014, excluding the usage
phase. The data cover Evonik’s energy and process emissions
(Scope 1), emissions from purchased electricity and heat
(Scope 2) and categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12 from
Scope 3. These include emissions from the production of
purchased raw materials, packaging materials, capital goods,
energy-related emissions outside Scope 1 and 2, emissions
from inbound transportation of raw materials, from the
disposal of production waste, business trips, commuting by
employees, Evonik’s fleet of vehicles, air-conditioning of
offices and emissions from the disposal and recycling of
products sold. These data exclude, among other things, the
usage phase of Evonik’s products.
The increase in greenhouse gas emissions shown by the
Evonik Carbon Footprint from 23.4 to 25.7 million metric tons
CO2e between 2013 and 2014 is due to two factors, firstly in
the inclusion of the additional reporting category 2 “capital
goods” and the extension of category 1 to include indirect
goods and packaging materials. At the same time, higher
sales volumes and the associated increase in the volume of
chemical raw materials contributed to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
The method used is closely based on the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol Corporate Standard of the World Resources Institute
(WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD).

T29 Change in greenhouse gas emissions along Evonik’s value chain  a
in million metric tons

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

CO2e emissions

23.5

22.9

22.2

23.4

25.7

a

Core specialty chemical business (excluding the usage phase and the carbon black activities, which were divested in 2011).

Annex

The environment
Emissions into the air

68

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

The distribution of the variuos categories along Evonik’s
value chain is shown in the next table.
T30 Greenhouse gas emissions along Evonik’s value chain a
2014

in million metric tons CO2e

Scope 1

Evonik production facilities

Scope 2

Purchased energy (net, total purchased power and steam – sale of power and steam to third parties)

5.9
1.0

Scope 3

Category 1: Purchase of chemical raw materials, packaging materials and indirect goods

9.5

Category 2: Capital goods

0.6

Category 3: Energy-related activities (outside Scope 1 and 2)

0.7

Category 4: Inbound shipments of chemical raw materials

0.3

Category 5: Disposal and recycling of waste

0.5

Category 6: Business trips by employees

0.03

Category 7: Commuting by employees

0.1

Category 8: Leasing of goods, upstream (company cars, power and heating requirements for offices)

0.02

Category 9: Outbound shipments of products

0.5

Category 12: Disposal and recycling of products

6.6

Total
a

25.7

Excluding the usage phase and the carbon black activities, which were divested in 2011.

CO2e avoided by using Evonik products

Evonik markets many products whose use makes a positive
contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions compared
with conventional alternatives. The avoidance of greenhouse
gases shown here results from applications for the following
five products: “green tire” technology, amino acids for animal
nutrition, foam stabilizers for insulating materials, specialty
oxides for energy-saving light bulbs, and oil additives for
hydraulic fluids. The amounts stated are avoided over the
usage lifecycle of the products, based on volume sales of the
products manufactured by Evonik in the year given. The
method used to compile the data is the WBCSD Avoided
Emissions Guidance published in October 2013.
The increase in avoided emissions between 2009 and
2013 was mainly due to an increase in sales volumes. The
significant increase in avoided greenhouse gas emissions in
2014 was essentially due to a modified data basis for amino

acids in animal nutrition. The underlying lifecycle analysis
was updated in 2014. In the recalculation process, production
data for amino acids and the production of representative
feed formulations were adjusted. In addition, an increase in
sales volumes of other products increased avoided greenhouse gas emissions in 2014.
Evonik’s in-house Life Cycle Management (LCM) group is
responsible for compiling the data on greenhouse emissions
along the value chain. The LCM group uses a range of tools
such as lifecycle assessments to quantify sustainability and
support our business and decision-making processes. The LCM
group is assigned to the Process Technology and Engineering
Unit/Creavis, our strategic innovation unit. An assurance
review of the Evonik Carbon Footprint and the greenhouse
gas savings has been conducted by an independent firm of
auditors and the findings have been reported, among other
things, to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP).

T31 Greenhouse gas avoidance during the application lifecylce
in million metric tons

CO2e avoided
a
b

b

2010 a

2011 a

2012 a

2013

2014

55.0

57.3

60.4

61.2

92.5

The data for 2010 to 2012 have been recalculated and adjusted retroactively on the basis of the modified method defined by the WBCSD Avoided Emissions Guidance.
Basis: selected Evonik products in the year under review.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

69

The environment
Emissions into the air

Corporate growth potential arises from the systematic alignment of products and services to global megatrends. That
includes the challenge of global climate change. Many innovative products from Evonik help improve energy efficiency
at subsequent stages in the value chain, reduce the use of
resources, and minimize emissions. Our lubricant additives are
a good example. Hydraulic fluid containing our DYNAVIS
additives can increase the productivity of excavators by up to
30 percent and at the same time cut fuel consumption by up
to 30 percent. Companies that are interested can calculate the
exact savings for themselves with a special calculator on the
DYNAVIS website.
In addition, we constantly strive to improve our reporting
on key environmental indicators and are engaged in intensive
exchange with rating agencies such as the Carbon Disclosure
Project. The CDP compiles detailed data on the greenhouse
gas emissions and energy consumption of companies worldwide. It also evaluates the opportunities and risks of climate
change for their business activities and how the management
takes them into account in its strategy. The CDP currently
meets the information needs of more than 800 institutional
investors with assets under management of over US$95 trillion. The investors use the data to derive a climate risk profile
for the companies, which they then use in their investment
decisions. In 2015 we improved further on the very good

result of 91/B in 2014. With a score of 98/B, Evonik is one of
the best-performing MDAX companies. For information: the
average ranking for the MDAX companies is 72/C.
Annex

Carbon Disclosure Project—
Climate reporting at a high level

Other emissions into the air

Alongside emissions of greenhouse gases as reported above,
energy generation and industrial production result in further
emissions into the air. Our goal is a further reduction and
greater control of emissions. To achieve this, we use a range
of technical and organizational measures. Our environmental
management systems set the framework for us to achieve the
statutory thresholds. Relevant sources of emissions are constantly monitored in accordance with statutory requirements.
Our production and exhaust gas treatment facilities are fitted
with emissions monitoring devices. Action includes returning
exhaust gases to production processes and thermal processing of residual gases with a high calorific value as a substitute
for natural gas. We also take the emissions profile into account
through state-of-the art technical design and planning of new
facilities.
There was a considerable reduction in emissions of CO,
SOX, NOX and particulates in 2015. This was mainly due to
the divestment of the remaining carbon black activities in
China and prolonged maintenance shutdowns at the largest
coal-fired power plant at Marl Chemical Park in Germany.
Site-specific one-off factors were the main reason for the
reduction in NMVOC and heavy metal emissions.

T32 Other emissions into the air
in metric tons

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Carbon monoxide (CO)

4,936

1,017

1,066

1,053

889

Sulfur oxides (SOX/SO2)

19,463

3,652

3,215

3,052

2,424

Nitrogen oxides (NOX/NO2)

9,074

4,963

4,734

4,739

4,478

Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC)

1,172

1,019

951

835

661

Particulates

872

441

363

366

257

Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn)

1.16

1.38

1.41

1.58

0.15

0.05

0.05

0.07

0.09

0.16

Emissions of ozone-depleting substances  a
in metric tons CFC-11 equivalents
a	Ozone

depletion potential (ODP) is a relative parameter indicating how dangerous substances are for the ozone layer compared with the reference substance,
fluorinated hydrocarbon R11 (trichlorofluoromethane).

70

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Water data and emissions into water
We are committed to responsible use of water and want to
save water wherever possible in order to achieve a further
reduction in our emissions into water. A good water supply is
one of the most important preconditions for smooth pro­
duction because water is one of the main process auxiliaries
used in the chemical industry. Our goal is to reduce specific
water intake, i.e. intake per metric ton of output, by 10 percent
by 2020 (reference base 2012 = 100). We take into account
surface water, groundwater and drinking water, in order to
take account of the special significance of freshwater. The
background is the significant difference in the availability of
salt water and freshwater. Most of the water available on
our planet is salt water. Freshwater only accounts for about
3.5 percent of the total and much of it is still bonded in ice
and in the soil. As a result, the effective proportion of surface
water available for use by people is about 0.3 percent of total
freshwater.
Evonik mainly uses water for cooling and for process
purposes in production facilities, to generate steam in power
plants, and for sanitary requirements. To reduce the use of
fresh water, we have established integrated supply systems
with graduated water qualities. For example, we use water
that is no longer suitable for cooling purposes to rinse filters
or in industrial cleaning processes. In addition, the water that

evaporates from cooling circuits is often replaced by condensate or recycled drinking water. In accordance with ISO 14046,
the intake of sea water for cooling purposes at our methionine facility in Singapore is not taken into account in our
overview of our water footprint; however, it is reported
separately.
Total water intake increased considerably from 325.1 million m3 in 2014 to 357.9 million m3 in 2015. The increase was
mainly caused by site-specific and seasonal effects in the use
of surface water for through-flow cooling. 41.9 million m3 of
this comprised salt water for cooling purposes at the new
methionine facility in Singapore. Consumption of freshwater
decreased by 3 percent year-on-year to 316.0 million m3 in
2015, mainly due to specific savings measures, start-up of
further closed circuit cooling systems and site-specific oneoff factors in the intake of surface water.
Surface water accounts for the majority of our water
consumption. About 59 percent of the water used in 2015
was surface water, mainly from rivers. Around 96 percent of
water consumption is for cooling. Water used in closed cooling circuits is included when calculating the proportion of
total water that is used for cooling. In 2015, nearly 82 percent
of cooling of production facilities used closed-circuit systems
with recooling facilities. The remainder were cooled using
through-flow systems.

T33 Water intake by source
in million m3

Drinking water

a

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

17.3

16.4

17.3

19.8

17.7

Groundwater

84.2

83.0

76.0

79.7

78.1

Surface water

200.2

190.0

194.1

220.2

212.8

8.4

7.8

5.4

5.4

7.4

310.0

297.1

292.9

325.1

316.0

310.0

297.1

292.9

325.1

357.9

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Other b
Total freshwater
Salt water (seawater)

41.9

Total
Totals may vary due to rounding differences.
a
b

Water from municipal or other utilities.
Rainwater and various other sources.

T34 Water consumption
in million m3

Cooling, without cooling circuits

a

Cooling circuits
Water for production b

241

230

233

265

298

1,124

1,101

1,141

1,250

1,293

69

67.4

60.2

60

60

95

95

96

96

96

5

5

4

4

4

in %

Cooling water
Water for production
a
b

Including salt water.
Including drinking water and water for sanitary requirements.

•Corporate responsibility

• perspective change

• Annex

71

The environment
Water data and emissions into water

in million m3

Through-flow cooling water (uncontaminated)

a

Process water

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

217.7

213.6

218.2

245.0

283.0

72.7

62.8

61.2

61.6

62.1

Drinking water and water from sanitary installations

1.3

1.6

1.9

1.2

1.0

Other water

6.3

13.0

9.2

15.1

14.7

298.0

291.0

290.4

322.9

360.8

Total
Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences.
a

Including salt water.

The difference between water intake and water discharge
is due, among other things, to the fact that some water is
released as steam or used in products.

Emissions into water

Our sites aim to make a contribution to protecting natural
water resources. The basic principles of the management of
our industrial wastewater are the same as for waste management: “avoid over process over eliminate.” When planning
new production plants, we therefore consider the use of processes that generate little or no wastewater. That takes
pressure off the environment and reduces the cost of water
treatment. We continue these efforts in the operational phase.
We also have high technology standards and infrastructure
for the disposal of wastewater at our sites. Production effluent
undergoes multi-step chemical and physical treatment in our
wastewater treatment facilities. Separate drainage systems
prevent production effluent and cooling water becoming
mixed. This means that cooling water can be discharged into
rivers with rainwater without treatment because it has not
come into contact with pollutants. We have also built
high-performance collector systems as part of our water
protection measures. These are used for intermediate storage
of peak wastewater loads which could overburden the wastewater treatment facilities. In this way, wastewater can sub­

sequently be fed gradually to the treatment plants. We also
incinerate some treatment sludge in our own facilities, and
use the heat from the resulting incineration gases to generate
steam. Wastewater discharged from our sites is carefully
monitored by regular sampling and continuous measuring
equipment. In addition to in-house monitoring, we are subject
to supervision by the authorities in the form of unannounced
control visits to verify compliance with discharge limits.
Chemical oxygen demand (COD) accounts for the highest
proportion of wastewater loads. This is the concentration of
all substances in the wastewater that can be oxidized under
certain conditions. The considerable increase in COD is mainly
due to the start-up of methionine production in Singapore
and first-time consolidation of the production facility for
alcoholates for biodiesel production in Puerto General San
Martino (Argentina). The total nitrogen and total phosphorus
loads (phosphates stated as phosphorus) declined in 2015 due
to local production fluctuations. The reduction in adsorbable
organic halogens (AOX load) is generally within the analytical
distribution for the measuring method because in many cases
the values obtained are only slightly above the detection
threshold. The increase in emissions of heavy metals is mainly
attributable to an increase in the zinc load in wastewater.
Zinc compounds are used as corrosion inhibitors in cooling
towers.

T36 Wastewater loads a
in metric tons

Chemical oxygen demand (COD)

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

4,890

4,787

4,767

4,302

4,808

Total nitrogen (N)

484

447

469

441

434

Total phosphorus (P)

114

96

97

95

84

Adsorbable organic halogen compounds (AOX)

1.6

1.8

1.7

1.9

1.7

Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn)

4.5

5.5

5.1

5.1

5.6

a

The data on wastewater loads comprise all direct discharges into receiving water and proportionate indirect discharges.

Annex

T35 Water discharge

72

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Waste
In line with sustainable development, we are constantly
endeavoring to step up networking of waste and material
flow management. The following priorities have been set for
waste management at Evonik:
• T
 he first priority is to avoid waste through continuous
process improvements and the development of integrated
production systems.
• If this is not possible, waste should be recycled or used to
generate energy.
• As a last resort, it should be disposed of safely.
Systematic waste management helps us minimize and further
reduce the use of materials and amounts of waste. Avoiding
and minimizing waste is important to us for economic as well
as ecological reasons. The steady improvement in process
yields reduces production waste and avoids disposal costs.
Unavoidable production waste is recycled or disposed of
correctly. It is important to record the origin of waste, its
components and their properties. The waste can then be
classified and a decision taken on whether to recycle or
dispose of it. Our waste is classified as hazardous or nonhazardous production waste or building rubble, and then

allocated to reprocessing or disposal. For example, we use
catalysts to increase yields and reduce secondary reactions.
Integrated material flows also play a part. We also use the
benefits of integrated production sites and systems, for
example, in Marl (Germany), which is our largest site. Here,
hydrocarbon residues are used as a substitute for heating
oil in the gas synthesis plant and waste sulfuric acid in the
sulfuric acid plant is reprocessed. Treatment sludge can also
be reused within the integrated production structure. After
dewatering, it is incinerated in a separate incineration plant
with integrated flue gas treatment. Some of the exhaust
gases from the production plants are used as substitute fuels
in this process. The incineration gases are then used to generate 20 bar steam. To reduce pressure on resources, at many
of our sites we use alternative fuels such as liquid residues
from production processes.
The total amount of waste declined considerably (– 8 percent) from 497,000 metric tons to 455,000 metric tons in
2015, but the development differed by category. Hazardous
production waste was steady at the prior-year level. Nonhazardous production waste was 2 percent lower in 2015,
mainly due to a reduction in treatment sludge. Building and
demolition rubble can fluctuate considerably between years
because it depends on specific projects. There was a considerable reduction of 38,000 metric tons in 2015.

T37 Waste
in thousand metric tons

Hazardous production waste
of which reprocessed
of which disposed of

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

250

227

218

212

213

157

138

137

131

132

93

89

81

81

81

164

160

152

156

153

of which reprocessed

107

104

104

110

93

of which disposed of

57

56

48

46

60

13

32

23

19

8
2

Non-hazardous production waste

Hazardous building and demolition rubble
of which reprocessed

2

4

3

6

of which disposed of

11

28

20

14

6

125

96

97

109

82

of which reprocessed

72

65

64

87

62

of which disposed of

53

31

33

22

20

551

515

489

497

455

Non-hazardous building and demolition rubble

Total
Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

73

The environment
Biodiversity and ecosystem services

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Incineration with recycling of heat energy

70

68

66

63

64

Disposal by incineration

95

84

84

90

82

in thousand metric tons

Recycling (including composting)

218

181

185

224

176

Landfill

48

58

51

31

46

Chemical/physical/biological treatment

20

24

18

19

7

Other disposal methods

51

37

30

23

21

Other reprocessing methods

50

63

56

47

61

551

515

489

497

455

Total
Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences.

The percentage of waste reprocessed decreased slightly,
by 1 percentage point, to 66 percent in 2015. Alongside economic and ecological criteria, there are stringent statutory
specifications for the reprocessing of waste. The reprocessing
ratio comprises recycled substances, incineration with recycling
of heat energy, and other disposal methods. We develop
methods of recycling waste in accordance with the statutory
framework. One established example of recycling at Evonik
is the reprocessing of PLEXIGLAS, which can be almost
completely recycled by breaking it down into its precursors
for direct reprocessing. We also recycle or re-use precious
metal catalysts and industrial packaging.

Biodiversity and ecosystem services
Ecosystem services are found all around us: in the air we need
to breathe, open spaces for recreation, and the groundwater
and surface water used for cooling in industry and in leisure
activities. We use all of these assets, which are provided by
nature in many different forms, in our daily lives. However,
even though there is no direct price tag on them, we need to
be aware they will only be available in the long term if we
use them carefully. For instance, excessive use of ground­
water can reduce the groundwater level, which can adversely
affect flora, fauna and biodiversity. Biodiversity refers to the
natural diversity that has evolved on our planet over millions of
years. It includes the variety of habitats (ecosystems), species
of plants, animals, fungi and microorganisms, and genetic

diversity. As the basis for life, from sources of food to the
production of energy, they are all of major economic significance. In the wake of the progressive industrialization in the
past two centuries, the reproducibility of our ecosphere
seems to be reaching its natural limits. Worldwide, biodiversity is decreasing. In 2012, we carried out biodiversity checks
in two of our business lines. The Biodiversity Check developed by the European Business & Biodiversity Campaign
(EBBC), a consortium led by the Global Nature Fund, provides
an overview of how a company or individual areas of business impact biodiversity. The check is based on the objectives
of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD) and examines, among other things, the company’s
premises, procurement, product development and production,
logistics and transportation, and products.
We monitor the production conditions of renewable raw
materials, including palm oil and its derivatives. Since 2010
Evonik has been a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable
Palm Oil (RSPO) and publishes it targets for palm oil in the
RSPO’s annual progress report. The aim of the RSPO is to
place global production of palm oil on a sustainable basis in
the long term. Evonik supports this process. As a key basis for
this, in 2015 our Personal Care business had eight production
sites around the world certified by external auditors as having
organizational structures that meet the RSPO requirements.
This is the main precondition for the continuous switch to
certified production inputs. In addition, 23 products were
switched to RSPO-certified palm oil derivatives. RSPO certification of three further Evonik sites is planned for 2016.

Annex

T38 Waste management

74

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

T39 Evonik sites adjacent to conservation areas
Evonik site

Country

Area in km2

Use

Status of conservation area (adjacent)

Gramatneusiedl

Austria

0.050730

Production

92/43/EEC area

Hanau

Germany

0.776949

Production

92/43/EEC area

Lülsdorf

Germany

1.035502

Production

92/43/EEC area

Marl

Germany

8.029755

Production

92/43/EEC area

Wesseling

Germany

0.328367

Production

92/43/EEC area

Americana

Brazil

0.300699

Production

national

Etzen-Gesäß

Germany

0.039277

Production

national

Lenzing

Austria

0.003585

Production

national

Mobile

USA

6.772000

Production

national

Morrisburg

Canada

1.318957

Production

national

Portland

USA

0.012060

Production

national

In principle, the industrial premises used by Evonik do not
include any natural habitats (either protected or restored).
However, some of our national and international sites are
adjacent to conservation areas. To better identify localespecific aspects of biodiversity and any impact of our operations on biodiversity in these areas, we conduct an annual
status review of these sites, which are in constant contact
with local interest groups.
In 2015, five sites were adjacent to conservation areas
that are protected by the European Union’s Directive on the
Conservation of Natural Habitats and of Wild Fauna and
Flora (Council Directive 92/43/EEC). For example, as part of
a project for which authorization was required, a study was
conducted in accordance with Directive 92/43/EEC on the
Marl Chemical Park to evaluate the potential adverse impact

of our activities on the conservation area. Regular review and
updating of environmental data is important to ensure that
timely action can be taken in the event of any negative
impact. The latest review was in 2013/2014. Six further sites
are adjacent to conservation areas that are regulated by
country-specific legislation. Our site in Mobile (Alabama, USA)
is close to the Fowl River. The US environmental agency
EPA is currently altering the status of this watershed area
around this river (approx. 21,360 hectares) to a water conservation area. Evonik supports this plan and is a member of the
Fowl River Forever steering committee that is working on a
management plan to protect and improve the water quality.
This should ensure that nature and animals are protected,
the local community can use the area around the river for
recreation, and the watershed is protected in the long term.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

75

Safety

Safety-related aspects such as occupational safety, plant
safety, transportation safety, health protection and promotion
and product stewardship have a place at the top of our
agenda. We give these principles top priority—even before
the pursuit of sales and profits. In dialogue with our stakeholders we see that they attach equally high significance to
these issues. The health and employability of our employees,
preventing accidents and incidents at work, in the operation
of our production facilities, during transportation and on the
way to and from work are of central importance and contribute to Evonik’s business performance. We take an all-round
approach, which covers employees, working conditions,
products and the general working environment.
The Evonik Group’s key central management functions,
which are subject to the globally valid provisions of our corporate strategy, policies and standard operating procedures,
are part of an integrated management system. Observance is
monitored regularly via a central audit system. The segments
define business-specific technical standards for their operational realization. Group bodies ensure that mission-critical
processes are implemented across the segments.1
Incidents are analyzed and lessons learned from them.
These are communicated via our monthly newsletter “Learning from one another”, which is distributed worldwide. Our
Group objectives and key performance indicators are used to
check implementation of the requirements and for timely
identification of the need for action or adjustment. Relevant
parameters for plant safety and, analogously, transportation
safety are accident frequency and incident frequency. As a
result, we detected a deterioration in our plant safety perfor-

mance in the reporting period. We have already introduced
counter-measures to address the situation.
Further, our crisis and incident management ensures that
in the event of accidents and incidents everything is done to
prevent and limit damage to Evonik and the general public.
We play an active part in all relevant national and international
associations. However, living a management approach geared
to continuous development demands more than this.
In the area of plant safety, in 2015 we drove forward
efforts to anchor the Group-wide Safety at Evonik initiative
adopted in 2013 throughout the Group. This initiative has
become firmly established as an ongoing process to develop
our safety culture and a fundamental management approach
to all aspects of occupational and traffic safety. Our guiding
principles for safety and our safety culture provide a structure
and guidance for our corporate objectives and activities.
The binding principles developed in 2014 provide clear and
measurable guidance for the personal conduct and leadership
of all groups of employees, from local personnel to our management. All employees in production and technology units
receive instruction in applying this management approach
and the associated principles of action with the support of
more than 500 “multipliers” around the world. We achieved
the target we set ourselves of training more than 90 percent
of production employees worldwide. We also familiarized
employees in administrative units with the principles of action.
Four themes are applicable for all employees worldwide
and are implemented through binding principles of action
that define the required behaviors.

C20 Framework of the safety culture
The behaviors are linked – supporting each other through four common themes across the three groups of employees.

1

Theme

Everyone

Supervisors

Managers

Standards

Follow rules

Ensure compliance

Set high standards

Communication

Speak up

Encourage the team

Communicate openly

Risk management

Be mindful

Promote risk awareness

Confront risk

Involvement

Get involved

Involve the team

Involve the workforce

For details of the structure of these bodies see p. 63.

Annex

Safety

G4-26

76

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

The level of awareness and acceptance of our safety culture
is an important test for the functioning of our management
system. In our general employee survey at the end of 2015,
we therefore included a special set of safety-related questions
to ask our employees for their opinion. Following evaluation
of the feedback, in spring 2016 we will initiate the follow-up
process, which will be supported by a Group-wide target.
We want to drive forward the ongoing development of measures locally and in our management team.

Occupational safety
We strive for a continuous improvement in the safety our
employees, both at work and while they are commuting.
That also includes the safety of contractors working for us at
our sites. This integrative approach is vital to meet the goals
we set ourselves in the Safety at Evonik initiative.

There were no fatal accidents at work involving our employees
or contractors at our sites in 2015, nor were there any fatal
traffic accidents involving employees on the way to or from
work or on business trips.
Measured by accident frequency (number of accidents at
work involving company employees and contractors’ employees under Evonik’s direct supervision resulting in absence
from work per 1 million hours worked), there was a further
improvement in our occupational safety performance to 1.0,
compared with 1.2 in the previous year. Accident frequency
has therefore been stable for several years at our long-term
target of 1.0. The accident frequency rate was well within the
target of a maximum of 1.3 defined for 2015. The average
number of working hours lost as the result of accidents was
144 worldwide, which was below the average for previous
year (2014: 171). Our experience shows that this is a good
average level for our sector. The delayed introduction of our
new reporting system, which will record accidents involving
injuries but which do not result in absence from work at
Group level in the future, is now scheduled for 2016.

C21 Accident frequency indicator (Evonik employees)
Number of accidents resulting in absence from work per 1 million working hours
2008

1.7

2009

1.2

2010

1.3

2011

1.5

2012

1.4

2013

0.9

2014

1.2

2015

1.0
0.0

0.5

1.0

1.5

2.0

2.5

3.0

3.5

C22 Accident frequency indicator (contractors’ employees)
Number of accidents resulting in absence from work per 1 million working hours
2013

3.2

2014

3.6

2015

2.9
0.0

0.5

1.0

1.5

2.0

2.5

3.0

3.5

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

77

The accident frequency indicator for contractors (number of
work-related accidents involving non-Evonik employees
resulting in absence from work per 1 million working hours)
declined further to 2.9 in our continuing operations, compared
with 3.6 in 2014. We attribute this positive result to the steps
taken to improve contractor management in 2014. The processes to improve the oversight and evaluation of contractors
were implemented at all major German sites in 2015 and
are having an effect. A standard has been drawn up for our
international sites and will be implemented in 2016. As well
as supervising and evaluating contractors, we want to reward
them for a positive performance. We therefore present the
Partner Award to contractors with a good safety performance
and integrate them into the Safety at Evonik program.

Health protection
Global management of health protection and health promotion at Evonik aims to maintain and foster the health and
employability of our employees in the long term. We take
an all-round approach that covers employees, their working
situation, our products and the general working environment,
and includes high-quality medical care where necessary,
applying ergonomic and health-related measures to structure
working conditions, and a functioning emergency management
system at plant level. In addition, we offer a selective range
of health promotion measures. These are part of the Groupwide well@work initiative, which aims to help employees
adopt a healthy lifestyle.
The key objectives and aspects of our occupational health
strategy are described in the Evonik Guidelines for Health
Protection and Promotion. The corporate policy “Occupational
Health and Health Promotion” sets binding worldwide standards for assessing health hazards, occupational medicine,
emergency medical response, preventive check-ups, workplace
ergonomics, rehabilitation and reintegration, health promotion
in the workplace and dealing with alcohol and drug abuse.
There are Works Agreements on health topics at many of
our sites, especially in Germany. In line with statutory
requirements, at our German sites we have Occupational
Safety Committees composed of employer and employee
representatives, safety specialists, safety officers and occupa-

1	Figure

restated due to correction of reference base.

tional medicine specialists. They meet at least four times a
year to discuss issues relating to occupational safety and the
protection of health. They cover more than 99 percent of our
employees in Germany. There are also comparable bodies at
sites outside Germany.
Fulfillment of these requirements is checked regularly by
corporate audits and regional environment, safety and health
(ESH) audits, and through an extensive occupational health
reporting system. Action is taken if this indicates potential for
improvement or deviations from the applicable regulations.
Where necessary, measures for improvement are suggested
or required. In addition, in 2013 we introduced an occupational
health performance index as an overriding indicator. This is
composed of significant aspects of occupational healthcare,
health management and emergency medical management
and includes the quality and scope of the measures taken.
It shows the extent to which internal regulations and goals
are achieved. In future it will measure progress in occupational
health as part of the continuous improvement process. For 2015
we set ourselves the goal of extending data capture for
the performance index to further sites. We achieved this by
including our two production sites in Singapore. We also
intend to improve the index score at Group level. In 2015,
the performance index was 5.2 (2014: 5.4; 2012 base line:
5.3, maximum possible value 6). For Germany, we also calculate a health ratio, which was 95.4 percent in 2015 (2104:
95.91 percent). This is the ratio of target working hours less
sickness-related hours lost to target working hours.

Emergency medical management

The Group-wide standard on Medical Incident and Emergency Management defines binding basic requirements for
emergency medical management at Evonik’s sites. The exact
equipment and human resources required at each site depend
on production-related risks and the quality of the local infrastructure (e.g. emergency services and hospitals).
Specific treatment instructions have been defined for accidents where employees come into contact with chemicals.
Emergency medical management also includes pandemic
plans and regular training exercises. An extensive preventive
program is in place for employees on business trips and foreign assignments, including a global emergency management
system for medical problems and risks to personal safety.

Annex

Safety
Health protection

78

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Workplace-related preventive healthcare

The results of our hazard assessment help us take suitable
preventive measures to avoid work-related illnesses and health
problems. Where this shows an elevated risk for specific
employees, technical and organizational measures have priority
over the use of personal protective equipment. Information
and training of employees in risks and preventive measures
play an important part in avoiding health impairments. At
preventive medical check-ups, employees receive advice on
their individual health risks and, where necessary, appropriate
precautions.
Evonik regularly reports on occupational illnesses. The
indicator used for this is the Occupational Disease Rate (ODR),
which is defined as the number of recognized occupational
illnesses per 1 million working hours. The calculation includes
all new cases of recognized occupational illnesses in the
reporting period, including latent illnesses (i.e. those where
the causes lie well in the past). The ODR was 0.3 in 2015
(2014: 0.4).

The well@work company health
management program

In the area of health promotion, Evonik supports long-term
programs on exercise, diet, stress and work-life balance, substance abuse and avoiding infections. The aim is to encourage
employees to adopt a healthy lifestyle. We also offer our
employees fit-for-life seminars. These run over several days
and focus on a healthy lifestyle and maintaining long-term
well-being and employability.
In the intermediate term, we aim to establish programs
in these five basic areas at all sites. There are already health
promotion offerings and measures of various types at almost
all sites around the world.

These basic programs are supplemented by campaigns, which
concentrate on different topics each year, and general medical
check-ups to screen for treatable risk factors and diseases.
The combined focus of the campaigns at our German sites in
the reporting period was on intestinal cancer and preventive
measures, circulatory disorders of the legs (PAOD), and anxiety disorder. In North America, health promotion activities in
2015 centered on avoiding heart attacks.
At most of our German sites there are interdisciplinary
health task forces that concentrate on local implementation of
health management as part of the Group-wide well@work
initiative.

Plant safety
Process safety at our production installations is analyzed in
detail at regular intervals. The aim is timely identification of
risks so we can develop appropriate measures that reliably
prevent these risks. Process safety is a key element in our
management approach, which is based on Safety at Evonik.
For constant monitoring and evaluation of plant safety we use
a process safety performance indicator based on the standards set by the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic).
This indicator covers incidents involving the release of substances, fire or explosion, even if there is little or no damage.
It is calculated from the number of incidents per 1 million
working hours in the segments’ production facilities. A decline
in this indicator shows a positive trend. We compare this
indicator with 2008, the year in which it was calculated for
the first time (reference base: 100 points). This indicator
deteriorated slightly to 55 points in 2015 (2014: 53), which
meant we once again failed to meet our defined target of a
maximum of 48.

C23 Incident frequency indicator
Number of incidents per 1 million hours worked, taking 2008 as the reference base
2008

100

2009

75

2010

76

2011

60

2012

46

2013

50

2014

53

2015

55
0

20

40

60

80

100

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

79

Safety
Transportation safety and logistics

Transportation safety and logistics
Safe transportation of goods has top priority for us. We use
a uniform process to select the logistics service providers for
transportation. We also regularly review their performance.
In keeping with our understanding of sustainability, that
includes evaluating the Responsible Care performance of all
transportation providers. Our aim is to minimize risk during
the entire process, from loading through transportation to
unloading.
Although there are national and international regulations
on the transportation of dangerous goods, we set even higher
standards.
To support safe transportation by logistics partners, in
2015 we completely revised our requirements profile for
logistics service providers and the minimum requirements for
collection by customers. In addition, in April and November
Evonik held a truck inspection day at all major German sites.
The inspection in the fall was not pre-announced. The aim
was to continuously reduce safety shortcomings. The checks
by Evonik managers and staff were not confined to shipments
of dangerous goods: all inbound and outbound shipments
were checked at the gate. The checks covered, for example,
technical condition, protective equipment, securing of the
load, labeling and drivers. The Chemical Industry Association
in the federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia awarded this
campaign third place in its Responsible Care competition
“We have good ideas on transportation safety and sustainable
logistics”. We are planning similar campaigns for our inter­
national sites.
In order to be registered by our logistics procurement
unit for transportation, all logistics service providers have to
recognize and actively acknowledge our requirements. These
specify that, as well as ensuring safety, the transportation of
goods must be ecologically sustainable, and that the provider
must meet its social responsibility and comply with all statutory
provisions. For customers who collect goods themselves or use
their own logistics service providers, we revised our minimum
requirements on the basis of our requirements profile to
ensure that no compromises are made in transportation safety.

Annex

As in the previous year, there was a cluster of incidents in
one operational unit. In fact, in 2015 they were confined to
a single site in the USA. Long-term technical measures to
automate plant and monitor mechanical integrity were
adopted there in 2015 and are currently being implemented.
We expect these measures to be fully effective in 2016,
leading to an improvement in this indicator.
Compared with other companies where the plant safety
indicator is applied to all employees in the Group, Evonik
achieves a very good score of 1.3 (number of incidents per
1 million working hours).
To ensure that our safety concepts to prevent the release
of substances, fire and explosion meet uniformly high safety
standards throughout the world, they are produced with
the involvement of selected and experienced safety experts,
who are assigned to our Global Process Safety Competence
Center (GPSC) and form the Global Safety Expert Network
led by the GPSC. The GPSC’s ability to issue instructions is
set out in a binding Group policy and was reiterated by the
Executive Board in 2014. The new Technical Standard: Process
Safety Concepts, which is binding for all segments, specifies
how this is to be implemented throughout the Group. That
includes, for example, the frequency of revision of safety
concepts and the selection of the necessary experts and
methods. Various stakeholders such as our property insurers,
who have a special interest in the technical safety performance
of our plants, receive reports from our organization on process
safety and progress in the implementation of the technical
standard.
Evonik has been a member of the European Process
Safety Centre (EPSC) for years. The EPSC brings together
process safety experts from all leading European companies
which use chemical substances in production processes. By
sharing experience and best practices, we support other
companies in the ongoing development of process safety.

80

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Safety and care also have top priority at interfaces between
production (storage tanks) and transportation (tankers and
containers). To avoid product spillages during filling and
emptying in our plants, which could result in accidents, environmental damage or production incidents, our occupational
and logistics safety experts organized a week-long campaign
on safe filling and emptying of tanks. In partnership with
an external rail tanker rental company, training tankers and
dummy valves were used to supplement the theoretical content by many practical exercises on the use of transportation
equipment. More than 200 people attended the training
at our German sites. The campaign will be repeated regularly
at various Evonik sites in the future in addition to our regular
safety instruction and training sessions.
Evonik maintains close and constant dialogue with other
chemical companies and with logistics service providers to
draw joint lessons from incidents and recommend precautionary measures. We both give and receive support through
the European Council of Chemical Associations (Cefic). One
outcome of this cooperation is the Cefic/ECTA Guidelines on
Transport Incident Investigation and Root Cause Analysis,
which we were involved in developing. We use these
guidelines as the basis for analyzing the causes of serious
logistics-related incidents in order to learn from them.
Risk assessment is also an important tool for us in the
management of transportation risks.
Where there is an elevated risk potential associated with
specific products, our experts conduct transportation risk
analyses using a systematic method developed by an inter­
national insurer. Safety and environmental risks relating to
transportation processes are evaluated, risks are identified
and measures are taken to minimize them. Here, we use the
Cefic Guidance on Transport Risk Assessment for Chemical
Transport Operations.
Regular training of employees to raise awareness of hazardous goods and help them meet statutory requirements in the
transportation of such goods is essential. Evonik publishes a
monthly Group-wide newsletter that highlights topical issues
in the area of hazardous goods. This has a firm place in the
Safety at Evonik initiative.

In the reporting period we also introduced a rule that only
Evonik employees may take samples from tankers when
accepting deliveries of raw materials; sampling may not be
undertaken by the driver of the vehicle. This also applies for
samples of outgoing shipments. This implements the Cefic/
ECTA/Fecc Best Practice Guideline for Safe Loading and
Unloading of Road Freight Vehicles.
T40 Outgoing shipments of hazardous goods
in thousand metric tons

2014

Air

2015

0.9

0.3

379

384

1,168

1,081

871

749

Pipeline

1,806

1,814

Road

1,625

1,502

Total

5,849

5,531

Ocean
Inland waterway
Rail

T41 Outgoing shipments of other goods
in thousand metric tons

Air
Ocean
Inland waterway
Rail
Pipeline

2014

2015

4

3

981

898

16

22

182

173

18

16

Road

2,331

2,326

Total

3,531

3,438

In 2015, shipment of goods decreased by about 4.4 percent to
8.9 million metric tons. The proportion of hazardous goods
declined by 5.4 percent.
We use uniform Responsible Care criteria to evaluate
transportation incidents. In 2015, as in the past, there were no
reportable incidents in transportation operations for which
Evonik was responsible.
In selected pilot projects we are using tracking and tracing
systems, which allow complete monitoring of all stages in the
transportation of hazardous goods. These systems can also
monitor pressure and product temperature, and respond to
leaks. Safety-related data allow preventive action to be taken
quickly to avoid transportation accidents.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

81

Safety
Product stewardship

1
2
3

Product stewardship 1
Evonik is working continuously to make a measurable contribution to avoiding and improving environmental impact and
thus to enhancing the quality of life. That includes timely
identification and evaluation of potential health and environmental risks associated with our products. In this context,
we include the entire value-added chain and take an allround view of each product—from cradle to grave. By that
we mean the process from the procurement of raw materials
to delivery to industrial customers, who receive all relevant
information on the handling and disposal of our products.
As well as complying with statutory requirements such as
REACH, the European Chemicals Regulation, and worldwide
implementation of the Globally Harmonized System of Classification, Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), product stewardship
at Evonik includes substantial voluntary commitments. For
example, we have been committed for years to the chemical
industry’s international Responsible Care initiative. The International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) included
its understanding of sustainability in the revised Responsible
Care Charter 2014, which adds aspects such as security
and the Global Product Strategy (GPS). Our long-standing
commitment to this was renewed in 2014 by the signature of
the Chairman of the Executive Board. We are also committed
to the ICCA guideline on the Global Product Strategy. At
Group level, corporate values on the environment, safety,
health and quality have been defined. A regulation defines
how product stewardship is to be put into practice at Evonik,
including control mechanisms to check its implementation.2
In addition, we play an active part in many national and international associations and initiatives that are driving forward
scientifically based risk assessment.

Responsible handling of chemicals

We have set up an extensive information system to help us
meet our responsibility in this field. This includes, for example,
information portals, safety data sheets in more than 30 languages, technical data sheets, Product Safety Summaries,
24/7 emergency phone numbers with an interpreting service,
email addresses, and extensive information on our website.3
Where necessary, we give customers training in how to handle
our products. The safety of our products has top priority for us.

ESHQ Values available under “Responsiblity” at www.evonik.com, www.responsible-care.de, www.icca-chem.org
See Structure of Corporate ESHQ steering bodies, p. 63.
For further information see ESHQ/Product Stewardship at www.evonik.com/responsibility

Annex

Should accidents nevertheless occur, the German Chemical
Industry Association (VCI) can provide rapid assistance through
the TUIS information and assistance system. Around 130 site
fire services and many specialists throughout Germany are
able to offer competent assistance ranging from initial advice
by phone to the provision of trained personnel with special
equipment. Our experienced site fire services participate in
this system and the site fire service in Marl is one of ten
nationwide emergency call centers.
To ensure continuous improvement, our operational
logistics and logistics procurement teams regularly examine
whether utilization of road transportation capacities can be
optimized and scope to combine shipments for transportation
by rail, inland waterway and ocean. The aim is for logistics to
contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. A successful model is
the collaboration with the transshipment terminal Umschlags­
terminal Marl GmbH. This actively drives forward the shift
from road to rail transportation.
In recent years, we have constantly optimized the process
for returning rigid used industrial packaging. Instead of being
disposed of as waste, such packaging is collected by recognized
reconditioning firms. This has a positive impact on our CO2
profile. Switching to this returns process alone avoids around
2,500 metric tons of CO2 emissions a year.
Statistically, transportation of hazardous goods via pipelines
is safest. However, since this method of transportation entails
relatively high investment costs and construction of a pipeline
is only economically viable for large throughput volumes,
pipelines are not available everywhere. Where we use them,
the highest standards of transport safety are applied. Evonik’s
pipelines are monitored centrally round the clock. They have
several simultaneous devices to detect leaks. Continuous
plausibility checks are performed on the volumes fed into
the pipelines and removed from them, and the temperature
and pressure in them. Visual pipeline inspections are conducted
regularly by specialist personnel, including inspection from
helicopters as well as road vehicles and on foot. This is supplemented by a range of technical safety checks and inspection
by independent experts at least every two years. An operational manager is in charge of each pipeline and has special
responsibility for its safety. Further checks are performed
on the pipelines at longer intervals, for example intelligent
pigging (inspections) and special water pressure checks.

82

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

How we live up to our responsibility

Chemicals Management SystemPLUS

The Chemicals Management System

REACH—the EU Chemicals Regulation

The lifecycle of a product starts with research and development and ends with recycling or safe disposal. Our specialist
departments provide advice for customers at all stages in
the product lifecycle, from selection of the raw materials
through possible toxicological, ecotoxicological and physical
chemistry properties and the resulting exposure-based risks,
planned application and statutory regulations right up to transportation and disposal.

We have used the proprietary Evonik Chemicals Management
System (CMS) to evaluate our substances since 2001. This
system supports us in global product evaluation, analogously
to a lifecyle analysis. In view of global trade in chemicals
and chemical products, it is important to encourage broad
communication on their safe handling and use. We evaluate
all substances placed on the market (> 1 metric ton p.a.).
Particularly dangerous substances are included from lower
tonnages. That allows a soundly based assessment of the
risks. In individual cases, certain usage patterns are restricted
or, in the extreme case, a complete ban on the use of our
products is issued.
We are committed to the aim of the International Council
of Chemical Associations (ICCA) of establishing global standards for product stewardship. In 2006 the ICCA set up the
Global Product Strategy (GPS). Here, Evonik compares the
content with its own CMS. Our global aim is to conduct
a risk assessment of 99 percent of substances marketed in
quantities exceeding 1 metric ton p.a. by 2020 at the latest.1
Information in accordance with the GPS is available in Safety
Summaries for more than 150 substances on Evonik’s website
and the ICCA portal. They are written in understandable
English. Some are also available in Japanese, Korean and
Chinese.

1

See Our objectives, p. 91.

2	reach@evonik.com

The Chemicals Management SystemPLUS is an extension of the
CMS described above for substances of very high concern.
These are subject to a more detailed examination. We want
to bring about a further reduction in the negative impact on
people and the environment. Our global target is therefore
to conduct a more detailed examination of all substances
containing > 0.1 percent of substances of very high concern
in line with the defined criteria by 2020 at the latest.1

Under the EU Chemicals Regulation REACH (Registration,
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), all
substances produced, imported or placed on the market in
quantities of more than 1 metric ton p.a. have to be registered. Evonik systematically applies this Regulation and supports its aim of protecting health and the environment in the
handling of chemicals. Based on the measures defined for the
period up to 2018, as far as we are aware we have currently
undertaken about two-thirds of the necessary registrations.
Significant human resources and organizational measures are
required to implement the complex requirements of the
REACH Regulation. These require well-trained personnel,
appropriate IT systems, high financial expenditures and the
involvement and active collaboration of our customers and
industry associations.
Alongside registration, greater priority is being given to
evaluating dossiers and substances, and to restriction and
authorization. We constantly compare the substance lists
published by the authorities with our own portfolio to ensure
timely identification of any of our substances that are
affected. In such cases, we examine the action to be taken.
We also collaborate closely with our customers to work out
the next steps. In addition, we examine the raw materials we
procure. If they are categorized as being of very high concern
or are on the list of potential candidates, we discuss the steps
to be taken with our suppliers or look for alternatives. We
have set up an email address 2 for all REACH-related inquiries
from customers and suppliers to ensure they receive timely
and full replies.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

83

Globally Harmonized System of Classification
and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS)

The Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals initiated by the United Nations classifies
dangerous goods and substances for labeling on packaging
and in safety data sheets. Evonik has ensured timely implementation of the European version of GHS, “Classification,
labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures” (CLP)
for both substances (end of 2010) and mixtures (mid-2015).
The GHS is still not applied uniformly around the world.
Evonik has therefore set up an in-house database to gather
information on progress, changes and national requirements
for internal communication.

Nanotechnology

Nanotechnology is a generic term for a wide range of developments and innovations. Their common feature is the investigation, production and use of minute structures measuring
around 1 to 100 nanometers (nm). Evonik has decades of
experience of producing nanostructured materials. We handle
nano materials responsibly and utilize the possibilities they
offer. They make a substantial contribution to environmental
and climate protection through new products and efficient
system solutions for our customers. For example, we see considerable opportunities in non-scratch coatings and electronic
applications. In these applications, nanomaterials are enclosed
in a fixed matrix or contained in a fluid.
In our measures to protect employees, customers and consumers when handling nanomaterials, we are guided by the
latest scientific research findings on hazards and risk evaluation and by epidemiological and toxicological studies. We also
support the establishment of new methods of investigation
aligned to the specific effects of nanomaterials, which refine
the evaluation of risks. For example, we are involved in
the OECD Working Party on Manufactured Nanomaterials
(WPMN). For that, we work closely with leading research
institutes. We are also involved in various research projects
which are examining, for example, the impact of the release of
nanomaterials from such matrices. That includes membership
of the ECETOC 1 Nano Task Force. The potential hazards and
safe handling of these materials are also being investigated.

1

European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals.

The results of our research are communicated openly and
transparently to our stakeholders. Representatives of Evonik
take part in the German government’s NanoDialog, where
experts from industry, science, authorities and industry associations discuss the opportunities and potential risks of nanotechnology, and ways of avoiding the possible risks.

Biotechnology

Evonik utilizes the opportunities offered by biotechnology to
develop efficient and environmentally compatible production
processes for innovative products and thus create the basis
for profitable growth. We use micro-organisms for biocatalysis
processes and fermentative production processes. We use
biotechnology to produce essential amino acids, nutritional
supplements, and pharmaceutical cosmetic ingredients that
are difficult or impossible to access through conventional
chemical synthesis. Such products have to be registered
before they can be produced and placed on the market. The
products, together with the production process and microorganisms used, are explained in detail. We minimize potential
risks because safe and responsible handling of this technology
is a matter of course for us. This is also set out in our guidelines. We respect the desire of our customers and the general
public for transparent action and communication, and stringent
action to prevent risks.

Animal protection

We need toxicological and ecotoxicological data to assess the
safety of our products. Although we examine all alternatives
in detail (QSAR, read-across, literature, non-animal testing),
from a scientific and legal perspective in many cases tests
on animals are the only way to meet the necessary data
requirements. For such tests on animals, Evonik only uses test
institutes that are validated in accordance with the applicable
national and international legal provisions. Test institutes with
a good reputation are selected and are required by master
contracts to observe the highest quality and animal protection
standards. They are monitored regularly by Evonik’s animal
protection officer. As a responsible company, we have also
drawn up our own animal protection guidelines.

Annex

Safety
Product stewardship

84

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Society
As a world leader in specialty chemicals, Evonik has a presence in more than 100 countries and operates production
facilities in 24 countries around the world. We accept responsibility worldwide—for our business, our employees, the
environment and society. That responsibility is firmly anchored
in our understanding of our values.
Our social responsibility is demonstrated by our wide-ranging
commitment to education, science, the arts and sport, and
our support for charitable undertakings. Fostering good
social development at our sites and in the area around them
is especially important to us. We therefore support many
projects aligned to specific regions.
We make a distinction between donations and sponsorship. Sponsorship is part of Evonik’s marketing strategy and
is always designed to position the core Evonik brand in an
emotionally appealing manner. By contrast, donations are
made without expecting anything specific in return.
All of these activities are divided between the company
itself and the Evonik Foundation. In September 2015, the
statutes of the Evonik Foundation were amended to broaden
its remit. Alongside not-for-profit activities, it is now also
able to support charitable and church-related undertakings.
This allows it to play an active role, for example, in providing
assistance for refugees.
The Executive Board defines the aims and conditions for
the Group’s donations and sponsorship. It has delegated
coordination and monitoring to the Board Office/Communications division on the basis of specific policies and guidelines.
For example, individual donations of supra-regional significance and sponsorship from a threshold of € 100,000 require
the approval of the Executive Board. The segments and
regions can decide on regional and site-specific activities
within an annual budget approved by the Executive Board. At
the Evonik Foundation, the managing director is responsible
for coordinating and monitoring donations, while the Board
decides on the focal areas of its work.

Donations and sponsorship
of public projects in 2015
In 2015 the Evonik Group provided a total of € 12.8 million for
donations and sponsorship projects. This budget was used
principally to fund social and church-related projects, the arts,
science, sport, education and other projects and activities.
C24 Donations and sponsorship
of public projects in 2015  a

Other a 4 %
Education 9 %

Social &
church-related 31 %

Sport b 11 %

Science 20 %
The arts 25 %

a	Includes

donations of € 230,000 to political parties in Germany: € 100,000 to
the CDU/CSU, € 90,000 to the SPD, € 20,000 to the FDP, and € 20,000 to
Bündnis 90/Die Grünen (total amounts in each case).
b Excludes sponsorship of the Borussia Dortmund soccer club.

Evonik Foundation

An important element in the assumption of our social responsibility is the work of the Evonik Foundation, which is based
in Essen (Germany). The foundation was established in 2009
as the successor to the former Degussa Foundation. In the
future, Evonik’s entire social engagement will be bundled
under the auspices of the foundation. Extending the purpose
of the Evonik Foundation has enabled it to become actively
involved in providing aid for refugees. In 2015, Evonik made
€ 1 million available to the foundation as immediate aid for
refugees. These funds are being used principally for activities
in the areas of training, employment and language tuition,
and for sustainable projects for refugees at Evonik’s sites and
the surrounding area.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

85

The roots of the Evonik Foundation are fostering scientific
education for young people. Under the motto “People open
up future potential. We open up people potential.”, for many
years the Evonik Foundation has awarded scholarships for
scientific research, especially doctoral theses. In the reporting
period, the Evonik Foundation supported 18 young scientists.
Its commitment goes beyond financial assistance: Regular
meetings with the scholarship students, scientific colloquia
and a mentoring program give them valuable insights into the
day-to-day work of a large specialty chemicals company.
Thanks to the close links between scientific theory and practice, the scholarships offered by the Evonik Foundation have
an excellent reputation in academic circles.
Enthusiasm and enjoyment of science can be awakened in
children at elementary school. Some years ago, the Evonik
Foundation therefore launched Professor Proto’s Fantastic
Institute in collaboration with scholarship students. This
web-based learning platform is constantly being developed.
Through exciting experiments, videos and an interactive
journey through the history of chemistry, Professor Proto
opens up the fantastic world of science to children, parents
and teachers.
Another element of our support for upcoming scientists is
the “Deutschlandstipendium” program. Evonik has taken part
in this scholarship program initiated by the German Ministry
for Education and Research since 2011. The basic idea is to
recognize outstanding achievement by committed students
and make a contribution to the development of tomorrow’s
specialists. The concept of performance underlying this program specifically includes social engagement and overcoming
obstacles in the educational background of scholarship students. In 2015, 200 scholarship students throughout Germany
received support from the Evonik Foundation.

Social assistance projects
The massive influx of refugees was a big challenge for society
in 2015. Evonik believes it is important to make a contribution,
both by providing short-term humanitarian assistance and by
opening up promising future prospects for migrants. The
Evonik Foundation uses the funds donated by Evonik for this
purpose to support a large number of relief and integration
projects for refugees in Germany. The focus is on the areas
around our sites.

Examples of this engagement include the establishment of
meeting places to foster dialogue between refugees and local
inhabitants, and cafés to encourage them to learn the language. For example, in Haltern am See the Evonik Foundation
is supporting the setting up of a multi-functional meeting and
communication room, which can be used for German courses,
childcare, and sports and leisure activities.
Another example of its support comprises German courses
at almost all Evonik sites in Germany, and funding of an
additional 15 places on the “Start in den Beruf” program,
which are reserved for refugees. This pre-training program
prepares young people who find it difficult to secure a place
on a vocational training course for regular apprenticeships.
The program runs at our sites in Marl, Hanau, Darmstadt,
Lülsdorf and Wesseling. Those who complete it have a good
chance of further training: around 70 percent are taken on as
apprentices at the end of the program.
As a company that trains a large number of young people,
we believe that is very important for our apprentices to learn
to recognize and engage in social responsibility. Under the
motto “Do a good deed every month”, our apprentices in Marl
(Germany) take part in regional projects, such as assembling
lighting for the route to an elementary school. For many years,
our apprentices in Krefeld (Germany) have spent their fall
vacation helping a local organization that distributes food to
needy families. In addition, in the pre-Christmas season in
2015 they collected donations for a local children’s home.
Internationally too, Evonik showed clear social commitment in 2015. In Southeast Asia, Australia and New Zealand
(SEAANZ region)—especially Malaysia—the company supported educational projects, mainly in the area of science.
The aim was to instill an enthusiasm for chemistry in children
and young people from difficult backgrounds. Many charity
collections are held at our US sites. One example is our site
in Parsippany (New Jersey), where donations are made to
local schools to provide school materials for children from
disadvantaged families and provide financial security for their
education. At our site in Americana (Brazil), Evonik finances
training for inhabitants of poor communities to improve their
chances of employment. We are also actively involved in
improving the quality of life for people in Castro (Brazil).
Efforts here include optimizing the infrastructure at a local
retirement home and a children’s home.

Annex

Society
Social assistance projects

86

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Fostering education and science

Fostering the education of children and young people is
important to Evonik. We focus on scientific and technical
projects because our aim is to interest children in science and
foster their talent in this area. As well as demonstrating
our social responsibility, our commitment in this area is an
investment in our own future. A long-term horizon is a key
driving force. As an innovation-driven company, we need
well-trained young people.
One success story is our Young Spirit initiative, which
has been running since 2003. Through this initiative Evonik
employees regularly visit preschools and schools to present
the world of chemistry to children through exciting hands-on
experiments. In this way, around 150 volunteers, who receive
regular training to prepare them for their educational role, give
children an entertaining introduction to scientific processes.
This initiative has now been extended to other regions where
Evonik has a presence. Volunteers are already taking part in
Asia and Young Spirit is scheduled to start in North America
shortly.
Evonik’s commitment to education is rounded out by
initiatives such as the “Kid’s University” in collaboration with
the Rheinische Post media group, and science camps for
employees’ children. These initiatives also draw on the commitment and extensive knowledge of our employees. In
Japan, for example, employees took part in a wide range of
initiatives in the reporting period to encourage the development of young people in the fields of science and technology.
The heart of this is the Chemical Experiment Show, where
employees demonstrate chemical reactions at schools close to
our sites. As well interesting the children in science, this
show strengthens dialogue with the local community.
A similar program has been introduced at our site in
Shanghai (China), where employees take the Dr. E Science
Tour to preschools and elementary schools.
The Evonik Cyber Classroom has been used successfully
at various partner schools in Germany and Brazil for a number
of years to make complex scientific content clearer and more
understandable with the aid of 3D technology. We therefore
rolled out this project globally in 2015. The 3D technology
is now available to all Evonik partner schools worldwide via
the internet in nine languages. The Cyber Classroom at the
Technopolis Science Center in Mechelen (Belgium) was popular for school outings in 2015. We intend to broaden the
range of topics covered by the Evonik Cyber Classroom 3D
learning tool in 2016.

Since 2013 Evonik has supported the Rebikoff-Niggeler notfor-profit foundation in deep-sea research. This foundation
operates the Lula 1000 manned research submarine, which
has a 1.40 meter PLEXIGLAS dome. In cooperation with
institutions such as the German Oceanographic Museum in
Stralsund and the University of Cologne, the aim of this
research project is to film a giant squid in its natural environment to find out more about this largely unresearched species.

Sponsorship of the arts

Our modern knowledge-based society is driven by ideas and
innovations. Creativity is a key component, which we foster
through our sponsorship of the arts. We are convinced that
encounters with culture and the arts contribute to the ongoing
development of society and to open and tolerant coexistence.
As well as being a key aspect in identification, a shared cultural
life and experience is a source of diversity and tolerance in
society.
We are therefore the main sponsor of one of Europe’s
largest and most traditional theater festivals, the Ruhr Festival,
which is dedicated to a greater extent than most other festivals
to presenting culture as a broad social experience. In 2015,
around 80,000 people attended the festival’s wide-ranging
productions and events, which centered on French culture,
literature and drama.
Evonik also supports the “intonations” chamber music
festival at the Jewish Museum in Berlin. This is an extension
of the Jerusalem International Chamber Music Festival, one
of the most important cultural events in Israel. It comprises
a series of concerts under the direction of Elena Bashikirova,
bringing together leading international musicians from various
nations and religions. It is therefore a symbol of inter-cultural
tolerance and understanding.
Another project where we are the main sponsor is the
Küppersmühle modern art museum (MKM) in Duisburg
(Germany). At MKM Evonik has sponsored the Young People
Interpret Art competition since 2014. In this project, school
students from all over Germany have an opportunity to demonstrate their creativity and organizational talent. The aim
is to confront students with modern and contemporary art
and encourage an understanding of aesthetic processes.
We also support the TUP in Schools initiative by the Essen
Theater and Philharmonie (TUP), which provides an enthralling gateway to the arts for elementary school kids.

• perspective change

•Corporate responsibility

• Annex

87

In 2015, Evonik was also a partner for the CHINA 8 inter­
national art project. Museums in eight cities in the Ruhr
region of Germany organized a combined exhibition to bring
contemporary Chinese art to a broad public. Around 500
works—paintings, photography, calligraphy, ink drawings,
sculptures, installations, and videos—were exhibited for the
first time in Germany.

developments and projects of significance for the site. Antwerp
is a good example. Here, Evonik meets with local residents
and politicians, the media and representatives of other local
companies once a quarter to discuss issues such as safety and
health protection, the environment, human resources policy
and future investment projects.

Sports sponsorship

Advocacy

As the main sponsor of the professional soccer club Borussia
Dortmund (BVB), Evonik has a strong commitment to fostering
children and young people. The Evonik BVB Soccer School
runs a wide range of soccer courses for boys and girls aged
between seven and thirteen. Around 6,500 children received
instruction through this soccer school in 2015. Overall, the
school ran more than 125 courses in Dortmund and 90 other
courses elsewhere in Germany and in the Netherlands,
Poland, Austria and Japan. In Tokyo it runs year-round
courses for children aged six to 15 under the instruction of a
BVB trainer who is permanently based in Japan.
Evonik uses its role as main sponsor of the BVB to teach
students that team spirit is a key success factor in working life
as well as on the soccer pitch. The first Evonik Student Network Day, which was held at the BVB soccer stadium, was
attended by 60 selected students from all over Germany,
who examined team spirit from a variety of perspectives.

Dialogue with our neighbors

A trustful relationship with the communities close to our sites
is particularly important to us. To strengthen trust in Evonik,
we give local residents and employees’ families a variety of
opportunities to take a look behind the scenes at our sites.
That is in keeping with our claim to be an open and trans­
parent company.
In 2015, many people used the opportunity to take site
tours in Hanau and Marl, and a tour organized as part of the
“Industrial Heritage Route”. Similarly, open evenings are held
regularly at our sites in Essen and Krefeld to foster dialogue
with our neighbors. Employees provide information on topical
issues and take visitors on site tours. Our site in Darmstadt
organized a first “We + Evonik” community festival in 2015 to
give local residents a chance to put forward suggestions and
voice issues related to the site.
Visitors days are not the only way people can contact us.
We have set up environmental and neighborhood hotlines
at many sites and acceptance is high. In addition, we hold
regular meetings to inform local residents about the latest

Evonik plays an active part in many societal debates and is a
partner in opinion-forming processes at national and inter­
national level. Our offices in Berlin and Brussels are important interfaces for dialogue with representatives of politics and
public life. Our employees there network closely with politicians, trade associations and the general public, support them
in shaping political conditions and take up issues in
the areas of energy and climate protection, the environment,
sustainability and trade policy.
Key aspects of our advocacy work in Berlin in 2015
were the amendment of chemicals legislation in light of the
Seveso III Directive, shaping the future of the electricity
market and implementing the shift in energy policy through
the amendment of the German Renewable Energies Act
(EEG) and the German Cogeneration Act. Evonik took part in
consultations, hearings and debates. We also monitored
legislation in areas of employment and social policy, for
example, on the minimum wage, temporary staffing and the
workplace regulations. Evonik’s support for refugees, the
bioeconomy, the use of renewable raw materials in the
chemical industry and environmentally compatible livestock
farming were other important topics. At European level, the
focus was on the fundamental reform of trading in emission
allowances and the European Commission’s proposals on
recycling. In addition, the political debate in Brussels was
dominated by the negotiations on the transatlantic trade
agreement (TTIP). Evonik renewed and refined its entry in the
joint list of lobbyists maintained by the European Commission
and European Parliament.
Evonik is involved in a large number of associations and
organizations such as the German Chemical Industry Asso­
ciation (VCI), the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic),
the Federation of German Industries (BDI), the World Business
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and specialist
forums and associations, such as the German Council on
Foreign Relations (DGAP), Atlantik-Brücke, and the Forum
for Future Energy.

Annex

Society
Advocacy

88

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Annex

Our objectives

89

About this report

92

Market positions

94

Major sites

96

Major shareholdings 

97

Awards and accolades 2015

98

Membership of networks and initiatives

99

G4 content index of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) including the
ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC)

100

Independent Practitioner’s Limited
Assurance Report 

112

Glossary114
List of tables and charts

117

Credits119

• perspective change

• Corporate responsibility

•Annex

89

T42 Our objectives a
Section

Annex

Our objectives
Target achieved

Target for 2015

Target partially achieved or process is still under way

Status/target attainment Dec. 31, 2015

Target not achieved

Targets 2016 ff.

Planned deadline

Sustainability analysis of
Evonik’s business extended:
partial validation of the
outcome through the
limited assurance review

Further structuring of
the sustainability analysis
of Evonik’s business;
plus plans for external
validation of the method

2016

See page 26

See page 27

Stakeholder dialogue
conducted at local, national
and international level;
stakeholder groups
surveyed as part of the
materiality analysis

Step up dialogue with
key stakeholder groups

Sustainability management
Sustainability
analysis of
the business

Dialogue with
stakeholders

Continue to develop
the method used for sustainability analysis of Evonik’s
business and integrate it into
key strategic processes

Step up the systematic
stakeholder dialogue and
exchange of experience
on sustainability

What we stand
for: Code
of Conduct

2016

See page 31

New target

Update the Code of Conduct
for Evonik employees

2017

See page 33

The business
Supplier
management

Continue to analyze suppliers
defined as a risk by checking
90 percent of identified
potential risk suppliers using
self-assessments
Update 2015: Continue
the analysis of suppliers
classified as a risk as
part of the Together for
Sustainability (TfS)
initiative, using the shared
assessment principle: involve
200 suppliers, response
ratio at least 60 percent

373 suppliers selected and
addressed in the review
of potential (risk) suppliers;
ongoing process: about
58 percent had submitted
usable data by the
reporting date

New target
Conduct at least 20 sustainability audits of suppliers
Update 2015: Conduct
at least 20 initial supplier
sustainability audits under
the shared audit principle
of the TfS initiative

Supplier
management

2016
(annual)

Renewed review of suppliers
assessed in 2012 and 2013

2016

Conduct at least 20 initial
supplier sustainability audits
through the TfS initiative

2016
(annual)

Continue follow-up of audits
performed in 2015

2016

See page 46

Supplier
management
Supplier
management

Continue to analyze
potential risk suppliers
through the TfS initiative.

39 suppliers audited
by Evonik through the
TfS initiative

New target

90

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Section

Target for 2015

Supplier
management

Update internal sustainability
training for 50 percent of
procurement staff who deal
with suppliers classified as
a potential risk and carry out
at least four internal audits

Status/target attainment Dec. 31, 2015

Initial or renewed training
of around 79 percent
of process-related procurement staff

Targets 2016 ff.

Planned deadline

Continue internal
sustain­ability training for
at least 60 percent of
procurement staff affected
by the TfS initiative

2016
(annual)

Total R&D expenses of
over € 4 billion

2025

Update 2015: Update
internal sustainability training
for at least 60 percent of
procurement staff affected
by the TfS initiative
Research &
development

New target

See page 48
Employees
Develop and introduce a
Group-wide HR KPI system
to manage and optimize
global HR work

HR indicators within the
Group transferred to a
uniform global system and
supplemented by best
practices from the market

Develop and introduce a
Group-wide HR KPI system
to manage and optimize
global HR work

2016

Ongoing development of
Group-wide master policies
on remuneration and fringe
benefits

Group-wide remuneration
concept developed in 2014;
existing master policies
adapted to the new requirements in 2015

Ongoing development of
Group-wide master policies
on remuneration and fringe
benefits

2016

Develop further training
modules on sustainability
issues

Development of training
modules on sustainability
issues postponed

Conduct at least
60 ESHQ audits
in the Evonik Group b, c

2016
(annual)

Reduce specific
greenhouse gas emissions d
by 12 percent
(reference base: 2012)

2020;
80 percent
target attainment by 2018

Reduce specific water intake
by 10 percent
(reference base: 2012)

2020;
80 percent
target attainment by 2018

RSPO certification of
three further Evonik sites

2016

See page 31
The environment
Management
approach

Conduct at least 18 ESHQ
audits in the Evonik Group

17 ESHQ audits conducted

Environmental
targets

Reduce specific greenhouse
gas emissions by 12 percent
(reference base 2012)

Reduce specific greenhouse
gas emissions d by
11 percent to 89 percent

Environmental
targets

Reduce specific water intake
by 10 percent
(reference base 2012)

Specific water intake
unchanged at 100 percent

Biodiversity
and ecosystem
services

RSPO certification (palm oil)
for a further five plants
in accordance with
palm oil roadmap

Palm oil: certification of
eight Evonik sites worldwide

See page 62

See pages 63 and 65

See pages 63 and 70

23 products switched to
RSPO-certified palm oil
derivatives
See page 73

• perspective change

Section

Target for 2015

Status/target attainment Dec. 31, 2015

• Corporate responsibility

•Annex

Targets 2016 ff.

Planned deadline

Follow-up on Employee
Survey 2015: derive and
implement safety-related
measures

End-2017
as target for
90 percent of
the measures
defined

Improve the Cefic Process
Safety Indicator for Evonik
(units with production
activities) (Target: < = 48
points compared with 2008
[reference base = 100])

2016
(annual)

Safety
Guiding
principles

Establish the content and
behaviors set out in the
guiding principles for safety,
with the aim of reaching
90 percent of employees
in the operating units

Guiding principles for safety
anchored in the Group:
instruction provided for
90 percent of employees in
the operating units

Plant safety

Plant safety indicator:
improve Cefic Process Safety
Performance Indicator for
Evonik (business units with
production activities) (Target:
<= 48 points compared with
2008 [reference base = 100])

Cefic Process Safety
Performance Indicator
improved in units with
production activities:
target <= 48 points
compared with 2008
[reference base = 100];
indicator in 2015: 55

See page 75

See page 79

See page 78f
Occupational safety KPI:
accident frequency at Evonik
should be < = 1.3

Occupational safety: accident
frequency indicator 1.0

Accident frequency
indicator should be < = 1.3

See page 76

See page 76

Health
protection

Further increase in the
proportion of employees
included in the occupational
health performance index
and further improvement
in performance

Proportion of employees
included in the occupational
health performance index
increased; performance
improved further

Product
stewardship

Conduct a risk assessment
for at least 99 percent of
all substances marketed in
quantities exceeding
1 metric ton p.a.

Information on more than
150 substances provided
in Safety Summaries

Occupational
safety

Risk evaluation conducted
for at least 99 percent of
all substances marketed in
quantities exceeding
1 metric ton p.a.

See page 82

2016
(annual)

2020

See page 82
Product
stewardship

New target

Further evaluation of
all products containing
> 0.1 percent of chemicals
of very high concern
See page 82

a

For attainment of the target for “Society” see page 86.
Organizationally, audits previously performed on a decentralized basis have now been bundled at Group level.
In the Sustainability Report 2014 this target was listed in the section on “Sustainability management”.
d Scope 2 emissions pursuant to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, measured by the market-based method.
b
c

2020

91

92

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

About this report
Evonik’s Sustainability Report 2015

This is the eighth full Sustainability Report (CR Report) published by Evonik Industries and continues the tradition of
reporting introduced by the companies from which Evonik
was formed. The report covers the 2015 fiscal year (January 1
to December 31, 2015) and is based on Evonik’s organizational structure in 2015. The aim is to give our customers,
employees, owners and the general public an insight into
how we run our business and live our values. The Sustainability Report supplements the ecological and societal aspects
included in the annual report for 2015. The next report will
be published in 2017.

Method

G4-23

G4-22

This report is based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). For 2015, we apply the GRI G4 guidelines for
the first time in accordance with the “core” option. Material
aspects of the content played a key role in the revision of the
guidelines. In this report, we therefore concentrate to a greater
extent than in the past on our material reporting issues. This
report is also Evonik’s progress report for the UN Global
Compact.

Scope of reporting, boundaries and data capture

G4-22
G4-23

Our data cover the relevant companies and organizational
units worldwide that were included in the scope of consolidation for the annual financial statements of the Evonik Group
for the period from January 1 through December 31, 2015.
Evonik Industries AG prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS), while the separate annual financial statements for the company are prepared in accordance with the
German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG). Alongside Evonik Industries AG, the
consolidated financial statements include all material German
and foreign subsidiaries directly or indirectly controlled by
Evonik Industries AG. Joint operations are included on a pro
rata basis. Material associates and joint ventures are recognized
at equity if Evonik is able to exert a significant influence.

Initial consolidation or deconsolidation takes place as of the
date on which the company gains or loses its controlling influence. In fiscal 2015 the Evonik Group comprised 45 German
and 109 foreign companies. Reporting focuses on the continuing operations. Relevant data on personnel and social
indicators are based largely on the global SAP HR information
system. For supplementary information, we use the HR information collector application (SAP notes management). The
focus of our reporting and thus the boundaries of our report
are derived principally from the sustainability issues derived
from our materiality analysis and the associated six areas of
action, for example, safety, the environment and governance/compliance.
The ecological data for our specialty chemicals business in
2015 comprise emissions and consumption at 85 production
sites in 24 countries and thus cover around 95 percent of total
output. Occupational safety data include other small production and non-production sites (mainly administration), so the
data here cover 132 locations in 41 countries. All data are
compiled using sustainability reporting software developed
specifically for this purpose (SuRe). The reporting segments
reflect Group and segment interests in order to provide a
detailed reflection of production activities. In some cases,
data are reported at plant level to ensure this.
All reporting segments are clearly coded to allocate them
to organizational and business units and geographical region.
This allows consolidation at management and legal entity
level as well as a detailed regional analysis of the data. The
ecological data are updated annually without taking changes
in the Group into account. The prior-year figures are not
adjusted for changes in the portfolio of companies consolidated. The figures for each company are included in full,
without adjustment to reflect Evonik’s stake in them.
The key data in this report are rounded in line with standard commercial practice. In some cases, this may mean that
individual values do not add up exactly to the totals given and
percentages are not an exact reflection of the values stated.
This report is published in German and English. To ensure
it is up-to-date, we have included all relevant data available to
us as of the editorial deadline on February 29, 2016.

G4-22
G4-18
G4-23

• perspective change

Major acquisitions/divestments
of relevance for ESH in 2015
G4-22
G4-23

Under an agreement dated April 29, 2015, Evonik sold its
100 percent stake in Evonik Litarion GmbH, Kamenz (Germany) to Electrovaya GmbH, Düsseldorf (Germany). The
100 percent stake in Evonik Litarion GmbH, comprising the
remaining lithium-ion business, was classified as a discon­
tinued operation until the divestment was completed on
April 29, 2015. Under an agreement dated September 30,
2015, Evonik sold its 52 percent stake in Qingdao Evonik
Chemical Co., Ltd., Jiaozhou (China) to Orion Engineered
Carbons International GmbH, Frankfurt (Germany). The stake
was deconsolidated on October 27, 2015 and was classified
as held for sale until that date. Until completion of these
transactions, the shares were included in the segment report
in other operations. Evonik acquired all shares in Monarch
Catalyst Pvt. Ltd. (Monarch), Dombivli (India) on June 5, 2015.
Monarch’s global activities in the field of oil and fat hydrogenation catalysts extend Evonik’s portfolio of catalysts. The
company has been renamed Evonik Catalysts India Pvt. Ltd. On
October 30, 2015 Evonik acquired all shares in PeroxyChem
Netherlands B.V., Amsterdam (Netherlands). The production
facilities in Delfzijl (Netherlands) complement Evonik’s European production network for hydrogen peroxide, comprising
three sites. The company has been renamed Evonik Peroxide
Netherlands B.V. Both acquisitions have been integrated into
the Resource Efficiency segment. In 2015, Evonik’s organic
growth was boosted by a large number of capacity increases in
attractive markets and regions with high growth momentum.
The various extensions and new plants included, for example,
a new facility for biotechnological production of the amino
acid Biolys (L-lysine) for animal feed in Castro (Brazil), a
plant to produce Mepron for nutrition of dairy cattle in the
USA, production of specialty silicones in Essen (Germany),
the company’s largest production facility for oil additives in

• Corporate responsibility

•Annex

93

Singapore, production facilities for specialty silicas in Ako
(Japan), and a plant for C4-based products in Marl (Germany).
These affect product streams and emissions and consumption
data. The main impacts are commented in the data section of
this Sustainability Report.
Acquisitions, capacity expansions and new facilities are
recognized as soon as possible. However, if the facilities are
only acquired at the end of a fiscal year or new plants have
not yet come into service or are at an early stage of start-up,
inclusion of environmental aspects in the Sustainability
Report can normally only start in the following year.

Updated data

Our ESH data are constantly checked by a large number of
internal and external audits. In addition, large amounts of
data have to be reported to national authorities. In most
cases, their submission and approval dates are later than the
internal deadline for Evonik’s ESH data. To enhance efficiency,
we endeavor to use a single set of data for both internal and
external reporting. Since internal and external audit findings
are examined for any possible change in ESH indicators, our
databases are naturally subject to dynamic change. If such
adjustments reveal discrepancies of more than 3 percent
compared with published data for prior periods, (principle of
materiality), the data are corrected and indicated accordingly.
If the English version of this report differs from the German
version, the statements and phrasing of the original German
shall prevail.

G4-22

External review

The “Sustainability management”, “The business”, “Employees”, “The environment” and “Safety” sections were subject to
a limited assurance review by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
(PwC) (indicated by
). The corresponding independent practitioner’s limited assurance report is printed on
pages 112 – 113.

G4-23

94

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Market positions
T43 Market positions 2015 a
Product

Application

Global
ranking  a

Capacity in
metric tons p.a.

Nutrition & Care
Amphoteric surfactants

Shampoos, shower gels

1

d

Ceramides, phytosphingosines

Cosmetics

1

d

Fat chemistry, quaternary derivatives

Fabric softeners

1

d

Organically modified silicones

Additives for polyurethane foams, cosmetics, radiation-cured separation coatings

1  – 2

d

Superabsorbents

Diapers, feminine hygiene products, incontinence products, technical applications

1  – 2

570,000

Amino acids and
amino acid derivatives

Pharmaceutical intermediates and infusion solutions

3

d

Exclusive synthesis

Intermediates and active substances for pharmaceuticals and specialty applications

3

d

Pharmaceutical polymers

Drug delivery systems (e.g. tablet coatings) and medical products
(e.g. bioresorbable implants)

2

d

DL-methionine

Animal nutrition

1

580,000

Hydrogen peroxide

Bleaching of pulp and textiles, oxidation agent for the chemical industry,
starting product for polyurethane

2

> 900,000

Activated nickel catalysts

Life sciences and fine chemicals, industrial chemicals

3

d

Precious metal powder catalysts

Life sciences and fine chemicals, industrial chemicals

1

d

Oil and fat hydrogenation catalysts

Life sciences and fine chemicals, industrial chemicals

3

d

Amorphous polyalphaolefins

Thermoplastic hot melt adhesives

1

d

Polybutadienes

Automotive manufacturing (adhesives and sealants)

2

d

Polyester resins

Can- and coil coating, reactive hot melt adhesives

1

d

Thermoplastic and
reactive methacrylate resins

Binders for paints and coatings

1  – 2

d

Organically modified silicones

Binders for paints and printing inks

2

d

Isophorone chemistry

Environment-friendly coating systems,
high-performance composites (crosslinkers)

1

d

PEEK

Special applications in the oil and gas, automotive and aviation industries,
electronics/semiconductors, specialty medical technology (e.g. implants)

3

d

Polyamide 12

High-performance specialty polymer applications
(e.g. automotive, medical, sport, gas and offshore oil pipelines)

1

d

Oil additives

Viscosity index improvers

1

d

Organosilanes, chlorosilanes

Rubber, silicone rubber, paints and coatings, adhesives and sealants,
building protection materials, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, optical fibers

1b

d

Fumed silicas, fumed metal oxides,
precipitated silicas, matting agents

Silicone rubber, paints and coatings, adhesives, sealants and plastics,
pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, high-temperature insulation, electronics,
reinforcement of rubber, consumer products, additives for the coatings
and printing inks industry

1

Resource Efficiency

600,000

• perspective change

• Corporate responsibility

•Annex

T43 Market positions 2015 a
Product

Application

Global
ranking  a

Capacity in
metric tons p.a.

Performance Materials
Butene-1

Co-monomer for polyolefins

1c

235,000

DINP

High-molecular plasticizers for use in flexible PVC

2

220,000

Isononanol

Intermediate for high-molecular plasticizers

2

400,000

Cyanuric chloride

Industrial applications and specialties (e.g. crosslinkers and optical brighteners),
crop protection (especially Chinese producers)

3

31,000

Alcoholates

Catalysts for biodiesel, pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and other applications

1

> 200,000

Methacrylate monomers

Dispersions, coatings, plastics, additives, adhesives, optical lenses

1–2

d

Methacrylate polymers
(PMMA molding compounds and
PMMA semi-finished products)

Construction materials for the automotive and electrical/electronics industries,
specialty medical technology, architecture, design and communication applications

1–2

400,000

a

Evonik’s assessment based on various individual market reports/information and in-house market research.
Chlorosilanes: freely traded volumes. Overall assessment—market position differs depending on application.
Freely traded volumes.
d No data available.
b
c

95

96

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Major sites
T44 Major sites a
2013

2014

2015

Marl

6,837

6,923

6,939

Hanau-Wolfgang

3,348

3,385

3,391

Essen

2,396

2,435

2,447

Darmstadt

1,648

1,691

1,736

Wesseling

1,318

1,334

1,358

Employees

Germany

Other European countries
Antwerp (Belgium)

1,040

1,007

1,029

Slovenská L’upča (Slovakia)

243

251

247

Ham (France)

217

209

192

Gramatneusiedl (Austria)

167

165

157

Kaba (Hungary)

122

124

124

Mobile (Alabama, USA)

753

731

789

Lafayette (Indiana, USA)

556

544

570

Parsippany (New Jersey, USA)

421

409

415

Greensboro (North Carolina, USA)

281

205

188

Mapleton (Illinois, USA)

177

176

168

194

197

206

Castro (Brazil)

25

99

107

Americana (Brazil)

37

70

85

Mexico D.F. (Mexico)

74

64

76

Barra do Riacho (Brazil)

46

44

46

North America

Central and South America
São Paulo (Brazil)

Asia-Pacific
Shanghai (China)

1,386

1,418

1,448

Singapore (Singapore)

430

523

496

Nanning (China)

394

357

369

Nanping (China)

389

370

353

Dombivli (India)

0

0

275

Midrand (South Africa)

35

28

44

Umbogintwini (South Africa)

32

30

32

Dubai (United Arab Emirates)

17

19

20

Teheran (Iran)

14

14

17

7

7

16

Middle East/Africa

Elandsfontein (South Africa)
As of December 31
a

The list covers about 70 percent of Evonik employees.

• perspective change

• Corporate responsibility

•Annex

Major shareholdings
T45 Major shareholdings

a

Name of company

Shareholding

Registered office

in %

Consolidated subsidiaries
Germany
CyPlus GmbH

Hanau

100.00

Evonik Degussa GmbH

Essen

100.00

Evonik Goldschmidt Rewo GmbH

Essen

Evonik IP GmbH

Eschborn

b

100.00

Evonik Nutrition & Care GmbH

Essen

b

100.00

Evonik Oil Additives GmbH

Essen

100.00

100.00

Evonik Performance Materials GmbH

Essen

b

Evonik Resource Efficiency GmbH

Essen

b

Evonik Röhm GmbH

Essen

100.00
100.00
100.00

Evonik Technochemie GmbH

Essen

b

Evonik Technology & Infrastructure GmbH

Essen

b

100.00
100.00

Other countries
Evonik Canada Inc.

Calgary (Canada)

100.00

Evonik Corporation

Parsippany (New Jersey, USA)

100.00

Evonik Cyro LLC

Wilmington (Delaware, USA)

100.00

Evonik Degussa Antwerpen N.V.

Antwerp (Belgium)

100.00

Evonik Degussa Brasil Ltda.

São Paulo (Brazil)

100.00

Evonik Degussa (China) Co., Ltd.

Beijing (China)

100.00

Evonik Hong Kong Ltd.

Hong Kong (Hong Kong)

100.00

Evonik Industries de Mexico S.A. de C.V.

Mexico City (Mexico)

100.00

Evonik Japan Co., Ltd.

Tokyo (Japan)

100.00

Evonik Methionine SEA Pte. Ltd.

Singapore (Singapore)

100.00

Evonik Oil Additives Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.

Singapore (Singapore)

100.00

Evonik Oil Additives USA, Inc.

Horsham (Pennsylvania, USA)

100.00

Evonik Oxeno Antwerpen N.V.

Antwerp (Belgium)

100.00

Evonik (SEA) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore (Singapore)

100.00

Evonik Specialty Chemicals (Jilin) Co., Ltd.

Jilin (China)

100.00

Evonik Specialty Chemicals (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.

Shanghai (China)

100.00

Evonik Thai Aerosil Co., Ltd.

Bangkok (Thailand)

100.00

Nippon Aerosil Co., Ltd.

Tokyo (Japan)

PT. Evonik Indonesia

Cikarang Bekasi (Indonesia)

100.00

Silbond Corporation

Weston (Michigan, USA)

100.00

80.00

Joint operations recognized on a pro rata basis
Germany
StoHaas Monomer GmbH & Co. KG

Marl

50.00

CyPlus Idesa, S.A.P.I. de C.V.

Mexico City (Mexico)

50.00

Daicel-Evonik Ltd.

Tokyo (Japan)

50.00

Companies recognized at equity
Other countries

a
b

A list of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements can be found in the Annual Report 2015 on page 160 ff.
Utilizes the exemptions permitted under Sections 264 Paragraph 3 and 264b of the German Commercial Code (HGB).

97

98

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Awards and accolades 2015
T46 Awards and accolades
Category

Awards and accolades

Presented by

Creavis a for the Composites 2.0 project

CFK Valley Innovation Award 2015

CFK-Valley e. V. and City of Stade

Performance Materials segment,
Acrylic Polymers Business Line,
for the CoverForm surface
for the Mercedes touchpad

SPE Grand Award

Society of Plastics Engineers, Inc. and
the International Society
for Plastics Technology

Creavis a for the CAMISMA project (fiberreinforced lightweight automotive components)

JEC Americas Award 2015

JEC

Nutrition & Care segment,
Personal Care Business Line,
for VARISOFT EQ 100 (hair conditioners)

Innovation Zone Best Ingredient Silver Award,
Category: Functional Active Ingredients

Soap Perfumery and Cosmetics journal

Nutrition & Care segment,
Interface & Performance Business Line,
for TEGO RC silicones

L.I.F.E. sustainability certificate

Tag and Label Manufacturers Institute

Resource Efficiency segment,
Coating Additives Business Line,
for SILIKOTOP E 900
and SILIKOTOP E 901 silicone resins

Ringier Technology Innovation Award 2015

Ringier Trade Media

Evonik Technology & Infrastructure GmbH,
Technical Service Business Line

Best Employer in Europe –
European HR Award, Maintenance

European Federation of
National Maintenance Societies

Evonik Industries AG

3rd place in employer ranking
in the chemical and pharmaceutical sector
in the large companies category

“FOCUS” magazine

Nutrition & Care segment,
Health Care Business Line

Excellent Partner Award (2014)

Lilly Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.

Resource Efficiency segment

Honored as a partner supplier and
member of the “Maxxis Family”

Maxxis International GmbH

Resource Efficiency segment,
Silicas Business Line

Performance and Social Responsibility Award

Michelin Group

Resource Efficiency segment,
Silicas Business Line

Preferred supplier

Daramic Xiangyang Battery Separator Co.,
Ltd., China

Nutrition & Care segment,
Personal Care Business Line

Best raw material supplier Qlicar Natura

Natura

Best Suggestion Award

Singapore Ministry of Trade & Industry

Products and projects

Employees

Awards from customers

Other
Resource Efficiency segment,
Oil Additives Business Line
a

Evonik’s strategic innovation unit

In addition, Evonik’s sustainability performance is regularly analyzed and evaluated by rating agencies. We publish the main
findings in the internet.

• perspective change

• Corporate responsibility

•Annex

Membership of networks and initiatives
Responsible Care

Evonik is a signatory to the Responsible Care Global Charter of the Inter­
national Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Evonik is committed to
this initiative.

UN Global Compact

Evonik joined the UN Global Compact in 2010. Evonik supports the principles
of the Global Compact, which are geared to sustainable and ethical business
management.

World Business Council for Sustainable Development

Evonik is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD) and supports its objectives. This international business leadership
forum has around 200 member companies that are committed to sustainable
development.

Global Reporting Initiative

Evonik supports the Global Reporting Initiative as an organizational stakeholder.
GRI is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of
the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. Evonik has
used it as a guideline since 2009.

Together for Sustainability

As a founding member of this initiative established by chemical companies,
Evonik is driving forward transparency and sustainability in the supply chain.

econsense

Evonik is a founder member of econsense, an association of leading German
companies and organizations that promotes corporate social responsibility and
sustainable development.

Chemie  3

Evonik plays a central role in the Chemie  3 sustainability initiative of the
German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the German Mining, Chemical
and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE) and the German Chemical Industry
Employers’ Federation (BAVC).

99

100

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

G4 content index of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
including the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC)
For 2015, we have applied the G4 guidelines of the Global
Reporting Initiative for the first time in accordance with the
“core” option. The index also refers to the corresponding
principles of the UN Global Compact.

The Sustainability Report 2015 was submitted to the GRI
Materiality Disclosures Service. The GRI has verified that the
materiality disclosures in accordance with G4 (G4  -17 – G4  -27)
are correctly located.

T47 GRI index and UN Global Compact
UNGC
principle

G4 Standard
Disclosures

AR = Annual report

Reference

Page

General standard disclosures
Strategy and analysis
G4  -1

Statement from the most senior
decision-maker

Foreword

2–3

G4  -2

Key impacts, risks and opportunities

Business model

25

Principles and objectives,
business management systems

73 – 74 (AR)

Opportunity and risk report

113 – 122 (AR)

Sustainability management

27 – 28

Organizational profile
G4  -3

Name of the organization

Credits

119

G4  - 4

Primary brands, products and services

Decentralized
corporate structure

25 – 26

Market positions

94 – 95

G4  -5

Location of the
organization’s headquarters

Credits

119

G4  - 6

Countries where the organization
has significant operations

Major shareholdings

97

About this report

92

Nature of ownership and legal form

Evonik on the capital markets

67 (AR)

Credits

119

G4  -7
G4  -8

Markets served

Evonik’s end-markets

72 (AR)

G4  -9

Scale of the organization

Key figures for the
Evonik Group

38

About this report

92

Balance sheet

140 – 141 (AR)

Production inputs and output

64

6

G4  -10

Employees by employment contract,
region and gender

Employees worldwide

54 – 55

3

G4  -11

Percentage of employees covered
by collective bargaining agreements

Trustful collaboration

59 – 60

Perform

57

G4  -12

Description of the supply chain

Supply chain management

44 – 46

Comments

• perspective change

UNGC
principle

G4 Standard
Disclosures

G4  -13

G4  -14

Significant changes during the
reporting period

Precautionary approach or principle

• Corporate responsibility

Reference

Page

About this report

93

Major events

77 (AR)

Procurement in 2015

44 – 45

What we stand for

32 – 33

House of Compliance

34 – 37

Safety

75 – 79

G4  -15

Externally developed economic,
environmental and social charters,
principles, or other initiatives
which the organization endorses

Membership of networks
and initiatives

3, 27 – 28,
32 – 33, 81, 89

G4  -16

Memberships of associations and
advocacy organizations

Membership of networks
and initiatives

3, 73, 89

Close dialogue
with stakeholders

31 – 32

Safety

80 – 82

Identified material aspects and boundaries
G4  -17

List of consolidated entities

Scope of consolidation
and list of shareholdings

160 – 166 (AR)

G4  -18

Process for defining the
report content

About this report

92

Materiality analysis

28 – 31

G4  -19

All material aspects

Materiality analysis

29 – 30,
GRI-Index

G4  -20

Material aspects within
the organization

Value chain

30

G4  -21

Material aspects outside
the organization

Value chain

30

G4  -22

Effect of restatements of information
and reasons for restatement

Updating our
materiality analysis

28

About this report

92 – 93

About this report

92 – 93

G4  -23

Significant changes in the scope
and aspect boundaries of the report

Stakeholder engagement
G4  -24

Stakeholder groups engaged
by the organization

Evonik’s stakeholder groups

31

G4  -25

Identification and selection
of stakeholders

Close dialogue
with stakeholders

31 – 32

G4  -26

Approach to stakeholder engagement
and frequency of engagement

Close dialogue
with stakeholders

31 – 32

Materiality analysis

28

Employee survey

31, 52

Trustful collaboration

59 – 60

Safety

75

Materiality analysis

29

Close dialogue with
stakeholders

31 – 32

Sustainability analysis of
the business

26

G4  -27

Key topics or concerns raised
by stakeholders

Comments

•Annex

101

102

sustainability Report 2015

UNGC
principle

Evonik Industries

G4 Standard
Disclosures

Reference

Page

Report profile
G4  -28

Reporting period

About this report

92

G4  -29

Date of most recent previous report

About this report

92

G4  -30

Reporting cycle

About this report

92

G4  -31

Contact point for questions

Credits

119

G4  -32

“In accordance” option and
GRI Content Index chosen

GRI Index

100 – 111

About this report

92

Reference to external
assurance report

About this report

93

Independent Assurance Report

112 – 113

Governance structure,
including committees of the
highest governance body

Overview of the
Executive Board

5 (AR)

Report of the
Supervisory Board

48 – 49 (AR)

Sustainability management
at Evonik

27

Sustainability management
at Evonik

27

Shareholders and the
Shareholders’ Meeting

65 (AR)

Active support for the
reorganization of the Group

106 (AR)

G4  -33
Governance
G4  -34

G4  -35

G4  -36

G4  -37

Delegation of authority for economic,
environmental and social topics

The environment

62

Executive-level responsibility
for economic, environmental and
social topics

Overview of the
Executive Board

5 (AR)

Sustainability
management chart

27

Processes for consultation between
stakeholders and the highest
governance body

Close dialogue with
stakeholders

31 – 32

Sustainability
management chart

27

Employee survey

31, 52

Employee performance
and development review

31, 60

G4  -38

Composition of the highest
governance body and its committees

Supervisory Board

48 – 49 (AR),
214 – 215 (AR)

G4  -39

Independence of the Chair
of the highest governance body

Corporate Governance Report,
Supervisory Board

61 – 63 (AR)

G4  - 40

Nomination and selection processes
for the highest governance body

Corporate Governance Report,
Supervisory Board

61 – 63 (AR)

G4  - 41

Processes to avoid conflicts of interest

Corporate Governance Report,
Supervisory Board

61 – 62 (AR)

G4  - 42

Highest governance body’s role
in strategies and goals

Report of the
Supervisory Board

48 – 49 (AR)

G4  - 43

Measures to develop and enhance
the highest governance body’s
collective knowledge of economic,
environmental and social topics

Report of the
Supervisory Board

49 – 50 (AR)

G4  - 44

Evaluation of the highest governance
body’s performance with respect
to governance of economic,
environmental and social topics

Report of the
Supervisory Board

50 (AR)

Remuneration report

132 – 133 (AR)

Highest governance body’s role
with regard to opportunities and
risks of relevance to sustainability

Corporate Governance Report,
Supervisory Board committees

63 – 64 (AR)

G4  - 45

Comments

• perspective change

UNGC
principle

G4 Standard
Disclosures

• Corporate responsibility

Reference

Page

G4  - 46

Highest governance body’s role
in reviewing the effectiveness
of risk management

Corporate Governance Report,
Supervisory Board committees

63 – 64 (AR)

G4  - 47

Frequency of the highest governance
body’s review of sustainabilityrelated risks and opportunities

Corporate Governance Report

63 (AR)

Opportunity and risk report

113 (AR)

G4  - 48

Highest committee that approves
the sustainability report

Foreword

2–3

G4  - 49

Process for communicating
critical concerns to the highest
governance body

www.evonik.com/annualshareholders-meeting

G4  -50

G4  -51

G4  -52

G4  -53

Critical concerns that were
communicated to the highest
governance body
Remuneration policies for the
highest governance body and
senior executives
Process for determining remuneration

Stakeholders’ views regarding
remuneration

Sustainability
management and bodies

27

Employee survey

31, 52

•Annex

Comments

www.evonik.com/annualshareholders-meeting
Report of the
Supervisory Board

50 – 51 (AR)

Remuneration report

132 – 133 (AR)

Performance-related
remuneration

34,
192 – 194 (AR)

Remuneration report

125 – 133 (AR)

Performance-related
remuneration

192 – 194 (AR)

Perform

57 – 58

Corporate Governance Report

61, 63 (AR)

www.evonik.com/annualshareholders-meeting

G4  -54

Ratio of the annual total compensation
for the organization’s highest-paid
individual to the median annual total
compensation for all employees

Evonik believes it is very
important to offer specialists
and executives marketoriented and performancerelated salaries based on uniform global evaluation criteria.
Remuneration is therefore
based on objective criteria such
as the required knowledge
and skills, and performance.
Personal characteristics do not
have any impact. We do not
consider this to be a relevant
indicator to assess the appro­
priateness of our remuneration
systems. It is not available.

G4  -55

Ratio of percentage increase in
annual total compensation for the
organization’s highest-paid individual
in each country to the median
percentage increase in annual total
compensation for all employees

Evonik believes it is very
important to offer specialists
and executives marketoriented and performancerelated salaries based on uniform global evaluation criteria.
Remuneration is therefore
based on objective criteria such
as the required knowledge
and skills, and performance.
Personal characteristics do not
have any impact. We do not
consider this to be a relevant
indicator to assess the appro­
priateness of our remuneration
systems. It is not available.

103

104

sustainability Report 2015

UNGC
principle

Evonik Industries

G4 Standard
Disclosures

Reference

Page

Comments

Ethics and integrity
10

G4  -56

Values, principles, standards and
norms of behavior

Obligations and commitments

27 – 28

What we stand for

32 – 33

10

G4  -57

Mechanisms for seeking advice
on ethical and lawful behavior

Corporate governance

33 – 34

House of Compliance

34 – 35

Mechanisms for reporting concerns
about unethical or unlawful behavior

Corporate governance

34 – 35

House of Compliance

34 – 37

10

G4  -58

Specific Standard Disclosures
Category: Economic
Aspect: Economic performance
7

7

G4  -DMA

Management approach

An excellent performance
in 2015

38

G4  -EC1

Economic value generated
and distributed

Total value added

40

G4  -EC2

Risks and opportunities posed
by climate change and
their financial implications

Carbon Disclosure Project

69

Opportunity and risk report

117 (AR),
119 (AR)

Perspective change

12 – 13 (AR),
20 – 21 (AR),
44 – 45 (AR)

G4  -EC3

Defined benefit plan obligations

Defined benefit obligations

180 – 184 (AR)

G4  -EC4

Financial assistance received from
government

Research & development

47

Evonik is involved in research
activities that receive
government assistance

Aspect: Market presence
6

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Employees

52 – 53

6

G4  -EC5

Ratios of standard entry level wage by
gender compared to local minimum
wage at significant locations of operation

Remuneration—Uniform global
evaluation criteria

58

6

G4  -EC6

Proportion of senior management
hired locally

Attract

55 – 56

This indicator is not relevant
for our sector. Evonik
believes it is very important
to offer specialists and
executives market-oriented
and performance-related
salaries based on uniform
global evaluation criteria.
Remuneration is therefore
based on objective criteria such
as the required knowledge
and skills, and performance.
Personal characteristics do
not have any impact.

• perspective change

UNGC
principle

G4 Standard
Disclosures

• Corporate responsibility

Reference

Page

Aspect: Indirect economic impacts
G4  -DMA

Management approach

Business model, sustainability
management, dialogue with
stakeholders

25, 27 – 28, 31

G4  -EC7

Development and impact of
infrastructure investments and
services supported

Total value added

40

Research & development

47 – 48

Vocational training

57

Society/Donations
and sponsorship

84 – 87

Total value added

40

Regional development

88 – 89 (AR)

Biodiversity and
ecosystem services

73 – 74

G4  -EC8

Significant indirect economic impacts,
including extent of impacts

Aspect: Procurement practices
G4  -DMA

Management approach

Supply chain management

29 – 30, 44

G4  -EC9

Proportion of spending
on local suppliers

Procurement in 2015

44

Category: Environmental
Aspect: Materials
7, 8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

The environment

29 – 30, 62 – 64

7, 8

G4  -EN1

Materials used by weight or volume

Production inputs and output

64

Aspect: Energy
7, 8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

The environment

29 – 30, 62 – 64

7, 8

G4  -EN3

Energy consumption
within the organization

Energy inputs

64 – 65

Aspect: Water
7, 8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

The environment

29 – 30, 62 – 64

7, 8

G4  -EN8

Total water withdrawals by source

Water data and
emissions into water

70 – 71

8

G4  -EN10

Water recycled and re-used

Water data and
emissions into water

70 – 71

Aspect: Biodiversity
8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

The environment

62 – 64

8

G4  -EN11

Operational sites owned/leased
in or adjacent to protected areas
and areas of high biodiversity
outside protected areas

Biodiversity and
ecosystem services

73 – 74

Aspect: Emissions
G4  -DMA

Management approach

The environment

29 – 30, 62 – 64

7, 8

G4  -EN15

Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1)

Emissions into the air

66

7, 8

G4  -EN16

Energy indirect GHG emissions
(Scope 2)

Emissions into the air

66

7, 8

G4  -EN17

Other indirect GHG emissions
(Scope 3)

Emissions into the air

66

Evonik Carbon Footprint

67 – 69

8

G4  -EN18

GHG emissions intensity

Emissions into the air

66

8, 9

G4  -EN19

Reduction of GHG emissions

Emissions into the air

66 – 67

7, 8

G4  -EN20

Emissions of ozone-depleting
substances

Other emissions into the air

69

7, 8

G4  -EN21

NOX, SOX and other
significant air emissions

Other emissions into the air

69

Comments

•Annex

105

106

sustainability Report 2015

UNGC
principle

Evonik Industries

G4 Standard
Disclosures

Reference

Page

Comments

Aspect: Effluents and waste
8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

The environment

29 – 30, 62 – 64

8

G4  -EN22

Total water discharge by
quality and destination

Water data and
emissions into water

70 – 71

8

G4  -EN23

Total weight of waste by
type and disposal method

Waste

72

Aspect: Products and services
7, 8, 9

G4  -DMA

Management approach

The environment, safety

29 – 30, 62 – 64

7, 8, 9

G4  -EN27

Extent of impact mitigation
of environmental impacts
of products and services

Product stewardship

81 – 83

Aspect: Compliance
8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

8

G4  -EN29

Sanctions for non-compliance with
environmental laws and regulations

House of Compliance

29 – 30, 34 – 35
120 (AR),
185 (AR)

Risks relating to legal disputes
and legal proceedings are
disclosed in the annual report.

Aspect: Transport
8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Safety

29 – 30,
75 – 76,
79 – 80

8

G4  -EN30

Significant environmental impacts
of transporting products

Transportation safety
and logistics

79 – 81

Aspect: Overall
8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

The environment

29 – 30, 62 – 64

8

G4  -EN31

Total environmental protection
expenditures and investments by type

Environmental protection
investment and operating costs

64

Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment
8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Supply chain management

29 – 30, 44 – 45

8

G4  -EN32

Percentage of new suppliers that were
screened using environmental criteria

Sustainability in the
selection of suppliers

45, 46

29 – 30, 34, 36

Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms
8

G4  -DMA

Management approach

The environment

8

G4  -EN34

Formal grievance mechanisms
for environmental impacts

House of Compliance

We do not report the number
of grievances about environmental impacts. We report
within the compliance and
ESHQ management system.
A meaningful statistical eval­
uation of the questions and
complaints submitted to our
sites by local residents via
telephone hotlines is not
possible as they cannot be
assigned clearly to Evonik.

• perspective change

UNGC
principle

G4 Standard
Disclosures

• Corporate responsibility

Reference

Page

•Annex

Comments

Category: Social
Sub-category: Labor practices and decent work
Aspect: Employment
6

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Employees

29 – 30, 52, 54

6

G4  -LA1

New hires and employee turnover

Attract

55

Retain

58

G4  -LA2

Benefits provided to full-time
employees that are not provided to
temporary or part-time employees

Perform

57 – 58

Work/life balance

60

Return to work after parental leave

Work/life balance

61

6

G4  -LA3

Aspect: Labor/management relations
3

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Employees

29 – 30, 52 – 53

6

G4  -LA4

Minimum notice periods
regarding operational changes

Trustful collaboration

59

Aspect: Occupational health and safety
1, 6

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Safety

29 – 30, 75 – 76

G4  -LA5

Percentage of total workforce
represented in formal joint
management-worker health and
safety committees that help
monitor and advise on occupational
health and safety programs

Trustful collaboration

59 – 60

Health protection

77

G4  -LA6

Injury, occupational diseases,
days lost and fatalities

Occupational safety

76 – 77

Health protection

77

G4  -LA7

Workers with high incidence
or high risk of diseases related to
their occupation

Workplace-related preventive
healthcare

78

Product stewardship

81 – 82

G4  -LA8

Health and safety topics covered in
formal agreements with trade unions

Safety

75 – 76, 78

Reporting injuries by gender
is not material to us and is not
permitted in some regions. Our
focus is on general prevention,
analyzing incidents and the
lessons that can be learned.

Aspect: Training and education
6

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Employees

29 – 30, 52, 54

6

G4  -LA9

Average hours of training

Vocational and further training

57

G4  -LA10

Programs to support the continued
employability of employees

Vocational and further training,
talent management

57

Our data on advanced training
currently cover around
85 percent of our employees.
Drawing a distinction by
gender or employee category
is not significant for us. The
data on average hours of training do not include the hours
of vocational training provided
to our around 1,800 in-house
apprentices.

107

108

sustainability Report 2015

UNGC
principle

G4 Standard
Disclosures

6

G4  -LA11

Evonik Industries

Percentage of employees receiving
regular performance and career
development reviews

Reference

Page

Comments

Employee performance
and development review

60

The systematic performance
and development reviews
introduced by Evonik are
not restricted by gender or
employee category.

Employees worldwide

54 – 55

Differentiation by minority
groups is not relevant for our
management practices.

Diversity

59

Corporate Governance Report

60 – 65 (AR)

Remuneration—Uniform global
evaluation criteria

58

Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity
6

G4  -LA12

Composition of governance bodies
and breakdown of employees by
indicators of diversity

Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men
6

G4  -LA13

Ratio of basic salary and remuneration
of women to men

Evonik believes it is very
important to offer specialists
and executives marketoriented and performancerelated salaries based on uniform global evaluation criteria.
Remuneration is therefore
based on objective criteria such
as the required knowledge
and skills, and performance.
Personal characteristics do not
have any impact.

Aspect: Supplier assessment for labor practices
G4  -DMA

Management approach

Supply chain management

29 – 30, 44 – 45

G4  -LA14

Percentage of new suppliers
that were screened using labor
practices criteria

Sustainability in the
selection of suppliers

45 – 46

G4  -LA15

Significant negative impacts
for labor practices in the
supply chain and actions taken

Sustainability in the
selection of suppliers

45 – 46

We do not report in detail
on negative impacts on labor
practices identified in the
assessment of our suppliers.
We report on the findings as
part of the evaluation process.

Aspect: Labor practices grievance mechanisms
G4  -DMA

Management approach

Code of Conduct and
Global Social Policy

27 – 28 ,
29 – 30, 33

G4  -LA16

Formal grievances relating
to labor practices

House of Compliance

34 – 35

Respecting workers’
and human rights

59

Global Social Policy, employees

27 – 28, 29 – 30

Respecting workers’
and human rights

59

Sub-category: Human rights
Aspect: Non-discrimination
6

G4  -DMA

6

G4  -HR3

Management approach

Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining
2, 3

G4  -HR4

Operations and suppliers identified
in which the right to exercise
freedom of association and collective
bargaining may be violated or at
significant risk and measures taken

What we stand for

32 – 33

Trustful collaboration

59 – 60

Respecting workers’
and human rights

59

Sustainability in the
selection of suppliers

45

In the reporting period,
we did not become aware
of any restrictions on freedom
of association or collective
bargaining.

• perspective change

UNGC
principle

G4 Standard
Disclosures

• Corporate responsibility

Reference

Page

What we stand for

32 – 33

Employees worldwide

48

Respecting workers’
and human rights

59

Sustainability in the
selection of suppliers

45 – 46

Respecting workers’
and human rights

59

Corporate security

36

Workplace-related preventive
healthcare

78

Respecting workers’
and human rights

59

•Annex

Comments

Aspect: Child labor
2, 5

G4  -HR5

Operations and suppliers identified
as having significant risk for incidents
of child labor and measures taken

Aspect: Forced or compulsory labor
2, 4

G4  -HR6

Operations and suppliers identified
as having significant risk for incidents
of forced or compulsory labor and
measures taken

Aspect: Security practices
1

G4  -HR7

Percentage of security personnel
trained in human rights policies
or procedures

Aspect: Supplier human rights assessment
2

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Supply chain management

29 – 30, 43 – 44

2

G4  -HR10

Percentage of new suppliers that were
screened using human rights criteria

Sustainability in the
selection of suppliers

45 – 46

We do not report on the
percentage of suppliers that
were specifically screened
using human rights criteria.
We report on the screening
procedure.

2

G4  -HR11

Significant negative human rights
impacts in the supply chain and
actions taken

Sustainability in the
selection of suppliers

45 – 46

We do not report in detail
on negative impacts on any
violation of human rights
criteria identified in the assessment of our suppliers. We
report on the findings as part
of the evaluation process.

Aspect: Human rights grievance mechanisms
1

G4  -DMA

Management approach

House of Compliance,
Code of Conduct,
Global Social Policy

29 – 30,
33 – 35

1

G4  -HR12

Formal grievance on
human rights violations

Code of Conduct and
Global Social Policy

33

We do not report on the number of complaints on human
rights violations received
through formal grievance
mechanisms. We take up the
reason for the grievance in
internal procedures and take
appropriate action in line with
our corporate policies.

Close dialogue with
stakeholders

31 – 32

Given heterogeneous size
of our sites, percentage data
would not be meaningful.
Therefore, we do not calculate
a percentage.

Dialogue with our neighbors

87

Corporate security

36

Sub-category: Society
Aspect: Local communities
1

G4  -SO1

Percentage of operations with
implemented local community
engagement, impact assessments
and development programs

109

110

sustainability Report 2015

UNGC
principle

G4 Standard
Disclosures

1

G4  -SO2

Evonik Industries

Operations with possible negative
impacts on local communities

Reference

Page

Plant safety

78

Transportation safety
and logistics

79

Emissions into the air

65

Emissions into water

71

Biodiversity and
ecosystem services

73 – 74

Comments

Aspect: Anti-corruption
10

G4  -DMA

Management approach

House of Compliance

29 – 30, 34 – 35

10

G4  -SO3

Number and percentage of
operations assessed for risks related
to corruption and the risks identified

Fighting corruption

37

10

G4  -SO4

Communication and training on anticorruption policies and procedures

Fighting corruption and
the Code of Conduct

36

Compliance training

37

Fighting corruption

37

Fighting corruption and
the Code of Conduct

36

Fighting corruption

37

Donations

84

House of Compliance

29 – 30, 34 – 35

10

G4  -SO5

Confirmed incidents of corruption
and actions taken

Given the heterogeneous
size of our sites, data on the
number or percentage of
operations would not be
meaningful. The procedure
is described in the uniform
Group-wide compliance
management system.

Aspect: Public policy
10

G4  -SO6

Total value of political contributions
by country and recipient/beneficiary

Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior
G4  -DMA

Management approach

G4  -SO7

Legal actions for anti-competitive
behavior, anti-trust and monopoly
practices

120 (AR),
185 (AR)

Risks relating to legal disputes
and legal proceedings are
disclosed in the annual report.

Aspect: Compliance
2, 3

G4  -DMA

Management approach

G4  -SO8

Fines and sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations

House of Compliance

29 – 30, 34 – 35
120 (AR),
185 (AR)

Risks relating to legal disputes
and legal proceedings are
disclosed in the annual report.

Aspect: Supplier assessment for impacts on society
G4  -DMA

Management approach

Supply chain management

29 – 30, 43 – 44

G4  -SO9

Percentage of new suppliers that
were screened using criteria for
impacts on society

Sustainability in the
selection of suppliers

45 – 46

We do not report on the
percentage of suppliers that
were specifically screened for
impacts on society. We report
on the screening procedure.

• perspective change

UNGC
principle

G4 Standard
Disclosures

Reference

• Corporate responsibility

Page

•Annex

Comments

Aspect: Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society

2, 3

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Sustainability management,
House of Compliance

27, 29 – 30,
34 – 35

G4  -SO11

Grievances on social impacts received
through formal mechanisms

Dialogue with stakeholders

31 – 32

We do not report on the
number of complaints on
impacts on society received
through formal grievance
mechanisms. We take up the
reason for the grievance in
internal procedures and take
appropriate action in line
with our corporate policies.

Sub-category: Product responsibility
Aspect: Customer health and safety
G4  -DMA

Management approach

Safety

29 – 30,
75 – 76,
81 – 82

G4  -PR1

Percentage of significant products
and services for which health
and safety impacts are assessed

Product stewardship

81 – 83

Our assessments focus on
products not services.

G4  -PR2

Incidents of non-compliance with
regulations and voluntary codes
concerning the health and safety
impacts of products

120 – 121 (AR)

We do not report on the
number of incidents of
non-compliance with regu­
lations and voluntary codes of
conduct relating to the health
and safety impact of products
and services. Any incidents
and proceedings are reported
in the section on legal risks
in the annual report.

Aspect: Product and service labeling
7

G4  -DMA

Management approach

Safety

29 – 30,
75 – 76,
81 – 82

7

G4  -PR3

Type of product and service
infor­mation required by the organi­
zation’s procedures for product and
service information and labeling,
and percentage of significant product
and service categories subject to
such information requirements

Product stewardship

81 – 83

G4  -PR4

Non-compliance with regulations and
voluntary codes concerning product
and service information and labeling

Risks relating to legal disputes
and legal proceedings are
disclosed in the annual report.

Aspect: Compliance
G4  -DMA

Management approach

G4  -PR9

Significant fines for non-compliance
with laws and regulations concerning
the provision and use of products
and services

House of Compliance

29 – 30,
34 – 35
Risks relating to legal disputes
and legal proceedings are
disclosed in the annual report.

111

112

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Independent Practitioner’s Limited
Assurance Report 1
To Evonik Industries AG, Essen

We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance
engagement on the sections marked with
in the Sustainability Report of Evonik Industries AG (hereafter “Sustainability Report”), Essen, (hereafter the “Company”) for the
period from 1 January to 31 December 2015.2

Management’s Responsibility

The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation
and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance
with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter
the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the information to
be assessed.
This responsibility includes the selection and application
of appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainability Report
as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual
sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing,
implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, which is
free of material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors.

Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control

We have complied with the German professional provisions
regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements.
The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and
professional standards – in particular the Professional Code
for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors
(“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer”: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the joint opinion of the
Wirtschaftsprüferkammer (Chamber of German Public Auditors; WPK) and the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of

1	Our
2

Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements for quality
control for audit firms (“Gemeinsamen Stellungnahme der
WPK und des IDW: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssiche­
rung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”: “VO 1/2006”) – and
accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality
control including documented policies and procedures
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional
standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Practitioner’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sections
marked with
in the Sustainability Report based on our
work performed.
Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform
an audit on external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the Sustainability Report.
We conducted our work in accordance with the Inter­
national Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000
(Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or
Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by
IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the
assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether
any matters have come to our attention that cause us to
believe that the sections marked with
in the Sustainability
Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in
accordance with the GRI-Criteria. In a limited assurance
engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more
limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and
therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a
reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected
depend on the practitioner’s judgement. This includes the
assessment of the risks of material mis­statements in the Sustainability Report with regard to the GRI-Criteria.

engagement applied to the German version of the Sustainability Report. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German―
the German text is authoritative.
Our engagement refers to the German version of the Sustainability Report.

• perspective change

Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others
the following procedures:
• Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability organization and of the stakeholder engagement;
• Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the
Report regarding the preparation process, the underlying
internal control system and the Sustainability Report sections
marked with
;
• Analytical procedures on selected information of the Sustainability Report;
• Comparison of selected sustainability information with
corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements
and in the group management report ;
• Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability
information in the Report regarding the sustainability performance;
• Performance of site visits or web conferences as part of the
inspection of processes for collecting, analyzing and aggregating selected data at the corporate headquarters in Essen,
as well as at selected sites or group companies in Essen/
Goldschmidtstraße and Lülsdorf (Germany), Antwerp (Belgium) as well as Tokyo (Japan);
• Gaining further evidence for selected data of the Sustainability Report due to inspection of internal documents,
contracts and invoices/reports from external service providers.

Conclusion

Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come
to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability
information marked with
in the Sustainability Report of
the Company for the period from 1 January to 31 December
2015 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.

• Corporate responsibility

•Annex

Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations

Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the
following recommendations for the further development of
the Company’s sustainability management and sustainability
reporting:
• Further development of a systematic approach and integration of material business and stakeholder issues, in particular
with regards to the further development of the sustainability
strategy in a global business context;
• Further development of management approach and reporting for the material sustainability issues, e.g. by increased
emphasis on Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and by
consistently connecting those KPIs with (ideally quantified)
targets;
• Further standardization and formalization of the reporting
process and the underlying internal control system for sustainability information.

Restriction on Use and Distribution

We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed
with Evonik Industries AG. The review has been performed
for purposes of the Company and is solely intended to inform
the Company about the results of the review. The report
is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial)
decision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility
towards third parties.
Munich, April 4, 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Hendrik Fink
ppa. Dr. Patrick Albrecht
Wirtschaftsprüfer				
		

113

114

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

Glossary
Accident frequency

Number of accidents in the workplace involving Evonik
employees and contractors’ employees under Evonik’s direct
supervision per 1 million working hours.

Adsorbable organic halogen compounds (AOX)

Total organic halogen compounds in water that can be adsorbed
by activated carbon using a standardized process. X stands for
the halogens fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. Adsorption
is the accumulation of a substance on the surface of a solid as a
result of molecular forces.

Audit

An audit is an investigation used to check that specific products,
sites and/or processes meet certain specified criteria. Audits may
be performed by internal specialists or external auditors, especially if validation in compliance with official standards is required.

Carbon dioxide (CO2)

Gaseous combustion product of all carbon-containing compounds
(e.g. coal, natural gas and oil).

Carbon Disclosure Project

The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is currently the world’s
largest and most important initiative by the financial sector on
climate change. Investors use the data to derive a climate risk
profile for companies, which they then use in their investment
decisions.

Carbon footprint

This shows the aggregate impact of all relevant carbon dioxide
emissions of the entity under consideration (e.g. an organization,
product or person).

Carbon monoxide (CO)

Odorless, toxic gas produced by incomplete combustion of
carbon-containing fuels with insufficient oxygen; converted into
CO2 in the atmosphere.

Chemical oxygen demand (COD)

Metric showing the sum of all organic substances in water. COD
shows how much oxygen is required to oxidize these substances.

CO2 equivalents

Parameter used to compare the global warming potential of
various different greenhouse gases. The reference basis is carbon
dioxide and the abbreviation is CO2e. The global warming
potential (GWP) provides information on the impact of the
various gases compared with CO2.

Compliance

Compliance refers to all activities to ensure that the conduct of
a company, members of its governance bodies and its employees
respects all applicable mandatory standards such as legal
provisions, statutory requirements and prohibitions, in-house
policies and voluntary undertakings.

Conflict minerals

Conflict minerals are minerals extracted in infringement of
human rights and that are sold to finance armed conflict. Under
the Dodd-Frank Act, they currently comprise tungsten, tantalum,
tin, gold and their derivatives from the east of the Democratic
Republic of Congo.

Corporate governance

Corporate governance comprises all principles on the management
and supervision of a company. As an expression of good and
responsible management, it is therefore a central element in a
company’s management philosophy. The principles relate mainly
to collaboration within the Executive Board and Supervisory Board
and between these two boards and the shareholders, especially
at Shareholders’ Meetings. They also relate to the company’s
relationship with other people and organizations with which it
has business dealings.

Corporate Responsibility (CR)
See sustainability.

Cross referencing

A sensitivity analysis of ecological impact, based on the results
of existing lifecycle assessments (LCAs). Cross referencing is
a comparative evaluation that covers the ecological impact
of products and product groups that are not directly included
in the underlying LCA. Certain preconditions have to be met.
For example, the production of identical products or products
with a very similar chemical structure at a different site and with
a different energy mix.

Dinitrogen oxide (N2O)

Colorless gas, also known as laughing gas. Its greenhouse gas
impact is about 300 times greater than that of CO2.

Diversity

Evonik defines diversity as a balanced employee structure, not
just in terms of gender, but also in relation to specialist areas,
experience of different organizational units and functional areas,
a broad age range and various nationalities, in other words,
diversity across the board.

• perspective change

Dodd-Frank Act, Section 1502

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act (known as the Dodd-Frank Act for short) was adopted
in 2010. Its prime aim is regulation of the US financial market.
Section 1502 has a humanitarian purpose and aims to protect
people in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo from
the violation of human rights and to counter financing of armed
conflict in the region.

Fluorinated hydrocarbons (HFC)

These compounds do not occur naturally. They have an extremely
damaging effect on the climate, even compared with methane
and dinitrogen oxide. They are sometimes used as refrigerants.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)

This organization publishes the world’s most commonly used
guidelines on sustainability reporting. The aim is to ensure
comparable presentation of the economic, ecological, social and
societal performance and impacts of the reporting company.
Evonik’s Sustainability Report 2015 has been prepared for the
first time on the basis of the GRI G4 Guidelines, in accordance
with the “core” level.

Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol)

The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is regarded as the most widespread
voluntary international standard for calculating and compiling
data on greenhouse gas emissions from industry. It was developed
by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute (WRI).

Incident frequency (plant safety indicator)

Process safety performance indicator based on the standards set
by the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic). Analogously
to the accident indicator for occupational safety, this indicator
covers incidents involving the release of substances, fire or explosion, even if there is little or no damage. It is calculated from
the number of incidents per 1 million working hours in the
operational units’ production facilities.

International Labor Standards

The International Labor Standards are set out in a Declaration
of the International Labour Organisation. This United Nations
agency sets global employment and social standards to improve
people’s living and working conditions.

Lifecycle assessment

A lifecycle assessment comprises compiling and assessing
the inputs and outputs and potential environmental impact of
a product system during its lifecycle, based on a standardized
international method (DIN EN ISO 14040/44). Alongside lifecycle assessments, Evonik performs lifecycle-based analyses with
reduced scope to obtain information on specific environmental
impacts (e.g. carbon footprints).

• Corporate responsibility

•Annex

Materiality

A materiality analysis is used to identify significant areas of
action for sustainability policy. The aim is to evaluate the relevance of issues from the viewpoint of stakeholders and the
company. A materiality matrix is derived from the expectations
of both groups.

Megatrends

Megatrends are long-term, global societal developments which
companies can help to solve through their business activities.
They are large, wide-ranging and durable trends of strategic
significance.

Methane (CH4)

Colorless, odorless combustible gas; main component in oil.
Methane is one of the most important natural greenhouse gases
and is utilized in synthesis reactions in the chemical industry.

Nitrogen oxides (NOX)

Compounds comprising nitrogen and oxygen; mainly generated
by combustion in production plants and engines.

Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC)

Collective designation for organic substances that are volatile
or present as gases at low temperatures—excluding methane gas.

Plant safety

See incident frequency.

REACH

REACH is an EU Regulation. It stands for Registration,
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. The
REACH Regulation aims to improve protection of health and
the environment from the risks that can arise from chemicals.
In addition, it encourages the development of alternative
methods of determining the damaging effects of substances
in order to reduce animal experiments.

Responsible Care

Responsible Care is a global initiative of the chemical industry,
which aims to bring about a continuous improvement in environmental protection, health and safety. As well as complying with
legislation, it encourages the industry to engage in voluntary
initiatives in cooperation with government agencies and other
stakeholders. The original principles were extended in the
Responsible Care Global Charter to include a greater focus on
modern demands with regard to transparency and communi­
cation. Responsible Care also dovetails with the principles set
out in the UN Global Compact. The International Council of
Chemical Associations (ICCA) monitors the implementation
and integrity of Responsible Care.

115

116

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

RSPO

The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is a multistakeholder initiative that aims to place global production on a
sustainable basis in the long term. The RSPO has set rules for
sustainable production of palm oil and monitors their observance.
Further, the RSPO encourages sustainable production and use
of palm oil through cooperation between palm oil plantations
and the subsequent supply chain. Evonik has been an RSPO
member since 2010.

Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions

To harmonize reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the
corporate sector, emissions are allocated to three categories
(scopes): emissions from a company’s own plants (Scope 1),
emissions from purchased energy (Scope 2), and indirect
emissions (Scope 3).

Stakeholders

Stakeholders are individuals or groups that have a legitimate
interest in the activities and decisions of a company or
organization. They may be, for example, the company’s shareholders, suppliers, customers, politicians, non-governmental
organizations, the media and people who live and work close
to its production facilities. They are often directly or indirectly
affected by the company’s business activities.

Sulfur oxides (SOX)

Sum parameter for various sulfur oxides. The main source is
sulfur contained in fuels such as hard coal, lignite and oil, which
is oxidized during combustion and released as sulfur dioxide.

Sustainability

Sustainability is based on the need to balance the economic,
ecological and social dimensions. Sustainable development
is a commitment to the perspectives for the lives of future
generations, as expressed in the Vision 2050 published by the
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
and the United Nations’ 17 goals for sustainable development.
At the same time, sustainable development is an opportunity
to establish a successful long-term corporate strategy that combines business success with social and societal responsibility
and protection of the environment.

Sustainable Development Goals

In fall 2015 the United Nations published 17 global sustainable
development goals, to be achieved by 2030. They replace the
eight Millennium Development Goals, which expired in 2015.

Together for Sustainability (TfS)

Together for Sustainability (TfS) is an initiative set up by a
number of multinational chemical companies. It aims to develop
and implement a global program for responsible procurement
of goods and services and use standardized audits to improve
suppliers’ ecological and social standards. A uniform questionnaire is used worldwide for all suppliers and TfS members. TfS
has selected EcoVadis, a rating agency based in Paris (France)
as its partner for sustainable procurement management.

Total nitrogen load (N), total phosphorous load (P)

The total nitrogen and phosphorous loads are sum parameters
indicating the amount of organic and inorganic nitrogen and
phosphorous compounds in water.

UN Global Compact

The United Nations’ Global Compact is a strategic initiative for
companies that undertake to respect ten universally recognized
principles relating to human rights, workers’ rights, environmental protection and fighting corruption in their business
operations and strategy. As a major driving force behind globalization, industry should ensure that all regions and societies
benefit from the development of markets and trade relations,
technologies and the finance sector. Companies that join the
Global Compact give an undertaking that they will report annually
on their progress (COP—Communication on Progress).

Vision 2050

The Vision 2050 of the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD) describes the pathway to achieving a
sustainable world with around 9 billion people living well within
the limits of the planet by 2050. Companies play a key role in this.

• perspective change

• Corporate responsibility

•Annex

List of tables and charts
Tables
No.	Title

T01 Key figures
T02 Change in sales 2015 versus 2014
T03 Adjusted EBITDA by segment
T04 ROCE by segment
T05 Breakdown of value added
T06	Major projects completed
or virtually completed in 2015

Page
FC3, 38
39
39
40
40

T07 Key data for the Nutrition & Care segment
T08 Key data for the Resource Efficiency segment
T09 Key data for the Performance Materials segment
T10 Key data for the Services segment
T11 TfS activities in 2015
T12 Suppliers at an advanced stage of examination
T13	Results of the evaluation of the
sustainability profile of suppliers in 2015
T14	Innovative strength and
patent protection at Evonik
T15 Main products introduced in 2015
T16	Evonik Venture Capital:
New investments in 2015
T17 Employees by segment
T18 Employees by contractual status
T19	Recruitment of employees
from the labor market in 2015
T00 Personnel expense 
T21 Employee fluctuation 2015
T22	Percentage of part-time employees
by gender and region
T23 Extended periods of leave 
T24 Status of our environmental targets
T25	Environmental protection investment
and operating costs
T26 Production inputs and output
T27 Energy inputs 
T28 Greenhouse gas emissions 
T29	Change in greenhouse gas emissions
along Evonik’s value chain
T30	Greenhouse gas emissions
along Evonik’s value chain
T31	Greenhouse gas avoidance
during the application lifecylce
T32 Other emissions into the air 
T33 Water intake by source 
T34 Water consumption 
T35 Water discharge 
T36 Wastewater loads
T37 Waste
T38 Waste management 
T39 Evonik sites adjacent to conservation areas

41
41
42
43
44
45
45
46
48
49
50
54
55
55
58
58
60
61
63
64
64
65
66
67
68
68
69
70
70
71
71
72
73
74

No.	Title

T40
T41
T42
T43
T44
T45
T46
T47

Outgoing shipments of hazardous goods
Outgoing shipments of other goods
Our objectives
Market positions 2015
Major sites a
Major shareholdings
Awards and accolades
GRI index and UN Global Compact

Page
80
80
89
94
96
97
98
100

Charts
No.	Title

C01 Corporate structure
C02 Sustainability management at Evonik
C03 Evonik’s stakeholder groups
C04	18 sustainability aspects identified
are bundled in six areas of action

C05	Percentage of sales generated

by our chemicals segments
covered by lifecycle analyses
C06	Structure of Corporate Responsibility
steering bodies
C07 Materiality analysis 2015
C08 Value chain
C09 House of Compliance
C10 Compliance Management System (CMS)
C11 Sales by region a
C12 Our claim: First-class in innovation
C13 R&D expenses
C14 Breakdown of R&D expenses
C15 Structure of Human Resources steering bodies
C16 HR strategy
C17	Age structure in the Evonik Group,
continuing operations
C18 Employees by region, continuing operations
C19 Structure of Corporate ESHQ steering bodies
C20 Framework of the safety culture
C21	Accident frequency indicator
(Evonik employees)
C22	Accident frequency indicator
(contractors’ employees)
C23 Incident frequency indicator
C24	Donations and sponsorship
of public projects in 2015

Page
FC3, 25
FC4, 27
FC4, 31
FC4, 30

26
27
29
30
35
35
39
47
48
48
53
53
54
54
63
75
76
76
78
84

117

118

sustainability Report 2015

Evonik Industries

This report contains forward-looking statements based on the present expectations, assumptions and
forecasts made by the Executive Board and the information available to it. These forward-looking
statements do not constitute a guarantee of future developments and earnings expectations. Future
performance and developments depend on a wide variety of factors which contain a number of
risks and unforeseeable factors and are based on assumptions that may prove incorrect.

119

CREDITS
PUBLISHER

PICTURE CREDITS

Evonik Industries AG

Page 1:

Getty Images

Rellinghauser Straße 1–11

Page 2:

Andreas Pohlmann/Evonik

45128 Essen

Page 4–5:

Gallery Stock, Getty Images (3)

Germany

Page 6–7:

Dieter Debo/Evonik, Dreamstime

www.evonik.com

Page 8–9:

Gallery Stock, Getty Images (3)

Page 10–11: Adrian Schmidt, Karsten Bootmann/Evonik (2)
CONTACT

Page 12–13: Getty Images

Communications

Page 14–15: wiivv/PR, Adrian Schmidt/Evonik

Patricia Vogt

Page 16–17: plainpicture, Getty Images (3)

Phone +49 201 177-3331

Page 18–19: Dirk Bannert/Evonik, Getty Images

Fax +49 201 177-3013

Page 20–21: Getty Images

patricia.vogt@evonik.com

Page 22–23: Karsten Bootmann, Dieter Debo/Evonik (2)

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Stefan Haver
Phone +49 201 177-3388
Fax +49 201 177-3181
stefan.haver@evonik.com
CONCEPT, DESIGN, AND REALIZATION
BISSINGER[+] GmbH
HGB Hamburger Geschäftsberichte GmbH & Co. KG
KNSK Werbeagentur GmbH
PRINTING
Griebsch & Rochol Druck GmbH
Editorial Deadline: February 29, 2016

PRODUCTION OF EVONIK’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015
This report is printed on environment-friendly FSC paper. The Forest Stewardship
Council seal is an assurance that the timber used to produce the paper comes from
sustainable forestry. The printing company used by us has its own environmental management system and uses state-of-the-art technology. Printing inks containing heavy
metals are not used. To minimize emissions resulting from distribution of this report we
utilize efficient transportation logistics. If you no longer need this report, please pass it
on to someone else or dispose of it in a paper recycling facility.

Evonik Industries AG
Rellinghauser Straße 1–11
45128 Essen, Germany
www.evonik.com

