ENERGY SUPPLY
FOR A NEW ERA
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015

Performance indicators

PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS

ENERGY SUPPLY
FOR A NEW ERA
2015

2014

Change
in %

7,819.3

8,134.2

-3.9

Operating EBITDA

864.0

849.2

1.7

Operating EBIT

428.1

427.5

0.1

EBIT

212.0

354.7

-40.2

-9.4

146.3

-106.4

9,744.3

9,800.9

-0.6

18.0

23.3

-22.7

4,237.1

4,120.7

2.8

Employees (average)

8,855

9,154

-3.3

Employees as full-time equivalents (FTE)

8,465

8,538

-0.9

in millions of euros

Turnover

Earnings in the period
Total assets
Equity ratio in %
Net financial position

Non-financial performance indicators1)
Installed electrical output from renewables
Specific CO2 emissions from electricity generation

322 MW

303 MW

6.3

536 g CO2/kWh el

540 g CO2/kWh el

-0.7

95.4

95.3

0.1

Health rate in %
1)

T he performance indicators ascertained through sustainability management correspond to the consolidated data for the major companies,
measured by strategic relevance and ability to cover at least 95 per cent of the EWE Group’s revenues (p. 44).

» G4-9

900

SPECIFIC CO2 EMISSIONS OF OUR
ELECTRICITY GENERATION
828

800

784

786
728

728

722

700

g CO2/kWh el

658

600

540

CONTENTS
U2

Performance indicators

01

Energy supply for a new era

02

Our business

04	Foreword
06

Sustainability at EWE

10	Our areas of action
12	Our sustainability strategy
at a glance
14	Security of supply and network stability
17	Innovation and product responsibility
20	Climate protection and generation
23	Environmental management
and resource efficiency
26
Regional responsibility
28
Supply chain
30	Market and transparency
34
Health and occupational safety
37
Employees and education
40	Data protection and information
security

The digitisation of our markets is a challenge
that we approach from a long-term and
­sustainable perspective to the benefit of our
company. In this context, renewable sources
of energy continue to play a major role, as
does the development of intelligent grids and
networks.

EWE wants to play a permanent role in shaping the new energy economy. To do this, we
act with a view to the future and in a reliable,
responsible way – for the regions in which we
are active, the people who live there, and their
environment. It is our belief that only corporate
commitment that also takes into account environmental and social developments can lead to
business success over the long term.

815
790

After the liberalisation of the power and natural
gas markets and in the middle of the ‘energy
revolution’ (the transition from fossil fuels to
renewable energy sources), the energy sector is
now undergoing the third transformation within
30 years. EWE is actively shaping this process.
After all, change brings with it new opportunities and potential.

Reducing energy demands is another challenge
and remains a key goal. After all, Germany
has set the target of cutting carbon dioxide
emissions by at least 80 per cent by the year
2050.

Accounting methods may result in rounding differences of +/- one unit (euro, per cent, etc.).

1

Energy supply for a new era

44

About this report

45

Appendix of indicators

50

GRI Content Index

56

Glossary and index of abbreviations

58

Imprint

536

Read our second sustainability report and find
out the goals we have set ourselves and the
progress we made in 2015.

500

Link to our
homepage

Link to
Sustainability Report

Link to
Appendix of indicators

Link to
Annual Report

400
2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2

Our business

3

Our business

POLAND

OUR BUSINESS

2

3
Warsaw

Warsaw

1

Warsaw

2

WHAT WE DO

OUR SITES

EWE GROUP

At EWE, around 9,000 employees generate
annual revenue of 8 billion euros – this makes
us one of the largest municipal companies
in Germany. Our customers in north-west
­G ermany and Brandenburg and on Rügen
benefit from innovative energy products and
powerful telecommunications. EWE has also
made a name for itself as a reliable provider
and trendsetter in modern energy ­markets in
Poland and Turkey. The Group headquartered
in Oldenburg has its own production capacities
from both renewable and conventional energy
sources. In addition, the companies of the EWE
Group operate advanced and safe networks
for electricity, natural gas and telecommuni­
cations. Our portfolio is rounded off with
­G ermany-wide IT solutions.

Energieverband
Elbe-Weser
Beteiligungsholding GmbH

Weser-Ems-Energie­
beteiligungen GmbH

64%

EnBW Energie Baden-­
Württemberg AG

20%

6%

(10% own shares)

Sales, Services
and Trading

International

swb

Group Central
Division

 oldings of Ems-Weser-Elbe-Versorgungs- und Entsorgungsverband
H
(Members: 17 local authorities and four municipalities)
Segments with operative business activities

» G4-3, G4-4, G4-5

GERMANY

» G4-7

EMPLOYEES
(2014: 9,154)

TELE­COMMUNICATION CUSTOMERS
(2014: 604,000)

ELECTRICITY
CUSTOMERS
(2014: 1.3 million)

8,855

615,000

1.3 mio. 1.7 mio.

» G4-9

» G4-9

» G4-9

GAS CUSTOMERS
(2014: 1.7 million)

TURKEY

POLAND
3 Poznań (Headquarters)

» G4-6, G4-8, G4-9

EMS-WESER-ELBE

BREMEN

BRANDENBURG/RÜGEN

TURKEY/POLAND

• Combined offer of
power, natural gas and
telecommunications
• Efficient network (80,000 km
for power, 55,000 km for gas
and 37,000 km for telecommunications)
• Pioneer in the field of
renewables with a main
focus on wind power

• The swb Group supplies
the state with energy,
­drinking water and
telecommunications
• It is one of the largest
regional energy suppliers in
the country and generates
its own power and heat
• Has belonged to the EWE
Group since 2009

• Establishment of a
­comprehensive supply of
natural gas since 1990
• Natural gas pipeline network
of around 14,000 km with
180,000 homes connected
to the network

• Active in Turkey since 2007:
Supplying natural gas in two
cities of over a million inhabitants (Bursa and Kayseri)
• Own trading company for
power and gas as well as
service company for energy
consulting
• Solid customer base in
Poland: Market entry
in 1999

» G4-4

» G4-4

HIGHLIGHTS OF 2015

» G4-9

ENERGY FOR TOMORROW
Shaping the energy revolution with the local
population – this is EWE’s goal as a regional
service provider. We are a municipal company
that combines the expertise for intelligent
energy systems with energy, telecommunications and IT.

74 per cent of our
strategic suppliers
in the materials
and services product groups have
acknowledged
our new suppliers’
code.
See p. 28

We invested
around 70 million
euros in 2015 in
the expansion
of broadband
networks – thus
ensuring faster
Internet in rural
regions.
See p. 16

50 million euros
funding from the
German government: Through the
enera project, EWE
hopes to work
with its partners
to establish the
north-west as a
model region for
the energy revolution.
See p. 19

In 2015, the number of electric vehicles registered in Germany increased by 6,500 to 25,500. EWE is expanding the charging infrastructure
in its region in order to help establish electromobility more effectively.

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

» G4-4

5

TURKEY
4 Istanbul (Headquarters)
5 Bursa
6 Kayseri

EWE GROUP
Renewables,
Grids and
Gas Storage

4

GERMANY
1 Oldenburg (Headquarters)
2 Region Brandenburg/Rügen

Giving electromobility the
green light: We
are expanding the
public charging
infrastructure and
set up 38 charging
posts in the year
under review.
See p. 18

A new wind farm
for the north-west:
We constructed
eight wind turbines
in Hatten, each
with 3.3 MW in
output, which
went into operation in 2016.
See p. 22

The new company
headquarters
of the Turkish
EWE subsidiary
­Bursagaz­ and
Enervis was
constructed in
accordance with
the Leadership
in Energy and
Environmental
Design (LEED)
international
standard for green
construction.
See p. 24

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

6

4

Foreword

5

Foreword

FOREWORD

BOARD OF MANAGEMENT OF EWE AG
(f.l.t.r.)

Wolfgang Mücher (Chief Financial Officer, CFO)
Ines Kolmsee (Chief Technology Officer, CTO)
Matthias Brückmann (Chief Executive Officer, CEO)
Michael Heidkamp (Chief Sales Officer, CSO)
Nikolaus Behr (Chief Human Resources and IT Officer, CHRO/CIO)

A new era of supplying energy is dawning. Our market environment is changing perhaps more fundamentally than ever before.
In 2026, renewables will form the basis for our energy supply
and the energy economy will be largely digitised and decentralised. For the industry, and for us, this means that old business
models will no longer be feasible and sources of income that
were once seen as secure will dry up.
2015 was a year of change for EWE. We laid the foundations
for a new strategy and prepared ourselves for major change in
two different ways – by lowering our costs and by optimising
business processes. In some places, this was an occasion for
sadness: by the end of 2017, we will have to shed 500 full-time
positions – albeit in a socially acceptable way and without the
need for any compulsory redundancies. This will be done in part
by doing away with vacant positions.
We are also seizing these times of change as an opportunity.
We are looking more closely at where potential and new business possibilities are arising, upon the basis of which new business models can be created. In the past year, for example, we
built on our activities in the field of electromobility. And we
have developed a whole range of products for customers who
want to take charge of their own energy supply. We are committed to helping to shape the new energy economy on a longterm basis, thus continuing to take responsibility for our region,
its people and the environment.
In many ways, we are already well placed to do this. The energy
revolution, decarbonisation and the advance of renewables – all
these have been fixed parts of our business profile for years. By
linking the three business divisions of energy, telecoms and IT,
we have laid a solid foundation for the expansion of intelligent
energy systems.
We are of the belief that, in order to be successful in the long
term, we not only need to take economic factors into account,
but also environmental and social developments, too. For this
reason, we are working on integrating sustainability even more
closely into our corporate strategy. Select non-financial performance indicators should in future become part of the Group’s
management model.

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

In 2015, we continued to pursue the goals that we set ourselves
in 2014 on the basis of the ten areas of action in our sustaina­
bility strategy, achieving considerable success. For example, we
managed to lower CO2 emissions per kilowatt-hour of electricity
generated by 35.3 per cent as compared with 2005 and are thus
one step closer to achieving our goal of a 40 per cent reduction
by 2020. Additionally, eight of our companies with the highest
energy consumption also launched an energy management
­s ystem. That’s four more companies reducing their own consumption in a systematic way than in 2014.
But taking responsibility is not just something we want to do
within our Group – we also want to take responsibility beyond
the Group itself. After all, this is where our business activities
also have an impact. For this reason, it is important for us that
our supply chain also complied with our principles on human
rights and working conditions, occupational safety and business
integrity. In the reporting year, we launched a Code of Conduct
for our strategic suppliers for the product groups of materials
and services, which 74 per cent of them have already acknow­
ledged. By 2020, we aim to increase this figure to 95 per cent.
These are just a few examples of many developments and
­p rojects that have taken part in this eventful year. We would
like to warmly invite you to find out more about them and
hope you enjoy reading our report. » G4-1

September 2016
Board of Management

Matthias Brückmann

Nikolaus Behr	Michael Heidkamp

		
Ines Kolmsee	Wolfgang Mücher
EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

6

Sustainability at EWE

7

Sustainability at EWE

SUSTAINABILITY AT EWE

KEY CHALLENGES IN OUR MARKETS
The German energy economy is going through a fast-paced
upheaval – and has been for years, despite the industry being
known for its reliability and pioneering investment decisions.
The hotly contested telecoms market and constant developments in the IT industry are also making for a fast rate of
change. For EWE, its markets are characterised by four central
challenges, which the company has readied itself for by looking
ahead.
DIGITISATION
Digitisation is essential for many products and services: The
intelligent management of energy systems, linking energy
­consumers with producers, or smart applications such as
remote-controlling heating systems when you’re away from
home all depend on a digital infrastructure. At the same time,
digitisation is the consequence of technical and social developments. It fundamentally changes the expectations of customers,
along with the way that value chains and business models work.
Energy companies are faced with the challenge of mastering
the valuable amounts of data and developing digital business
­m odels on this basis – with the aim of offering their customers
personalised products with a high level of convenience for the
user. To do this, we need new information technologies that
link operational and business processes.
ENERGY REVOLUTION
In the next few decades, the energy supply of Germany as an
industrialised nation will gradually be switched from a carbon-­
based to a CO2-neutral and nuclear-free system. Germany’s
rural regions are increasingly significant in this switch because
they have the necessary space available for the expansion of
renewable energy sources. The potential of the north-west in

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

particular is already being effectively tapped in terms of wind
turbines and the use of biomass and photovoltaics. In order to
integrate weather-dependent systems into the energy supply,
new s­ olutions will have to be found: Generation, consumption
and grid load flows have to be carefully coordinated and managed in a more flexible way than has previously been the case.
EFFECTS OF THE ENERGY MARKET
The liberalised electricity and gas markets, as well as the
­regulation of grid business, have lowered the earning power of
our company in the traditional nuclear energy segment. What
used to be stable sources of income are increasingly subject to
­p ressure on earnings. For example, the obligation to accept
electricity from renewable sources has primarily changed the
market situation for power generation from conventional
sources.
DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE
Another key challenge is posed by demographic change. This
will have a significant impact on the German labour market
in future: Across Germany, there are fewer and fewer well-­
qualified specialist staff available in terms of the number of job
vacancies. We want to enter the competition for the “best
minds” in the business as an attractive employer.
OUR CHANGING GROUP STRATEGY
In view of these challenges, many key actors in the energy
industry are in dire straits: Old business models no longer cut
the mustard, customer relationships have to be overhauled,
­digitisation has made inroads into our daily lives and require
new, attractive products and services. EWE sees this sea-change
as an opportunity to capitalise on its strengths in the market. To
do this, EWE regularly reviews its strategy.

Today, we assume that, by 2026, renewables will form the
basis for the energy supply, the energy economy will be largely
decentralised, the market and politics will require more and
more efficiency in all business segments and that the energy
economy will be largely digitised. EWE aims to offer exceptional
reliability and security of supply – with an efficient, future-proof
infrastructure in the fields of electricity, gas, broadband and
electromobility. EWE will continue to live by these guideposts
in the Group strategy. We can build on what is already a very
­p ositive situation: EWE has extensive expertise and a excellent
reputation when it comes to innovation and digitisation. It also
does not operate any nuclear power facilities and therefore is
not affected by reconversion obligations.
Primarily a municipal enterprise, the EWE Group bears respon­
sibility for the environment and its people in the regions where
it is active – as an employer, as a partner to its suppliers, as a
service provider to its customers and as a neighbour. We also
want to become the number-one reliable partner for secure,
affordable energy.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT
In order to anchor sustainable business practices in the Group,
EWE has developed a sustainability strategy with ten areas of
action. These are now to be fixed elements of the corporate
strategy: In future, select sustainability criteria will be part of
the Group management model – strengthening the significance
of sustainability at EWE.

RISK PREVENTION
The precautionary principle – a guideline issued by the
United Nations – aims to protect the environment from
potential damage. Monitoring environmental risks is also
significant for EWE. For example, its swb subsidiary has
certified environment management systems in place,
including for swb Erzeugung AG & Co. KG and swb Entsorgung GmbH & Co. KG. » G4-14
In addition to environmental risks, EWE also looks at the
consequences of threat scenarios that could arise, for
example, as a result of sudden natural disasters. As such,
EWE NETZ GmbH identified critical business processes
where any interruption in the event of a crisis could
endanger the company and thus also the security of
­supply. Based on this, the company derived concrete
measures and plans to be implemented in such cases in
order to keep the business operational.
In order to identify potential risks and opportunities in
business early and to actively manage them, EWE has
developed an integrated risk and opportunity management department within the Group. The department
conducts ­regular analyses of risks and opportunities. The
Group’s Board of Management and supervisory committees are informed of the results every quarter.
More information in the Annual Report 2015, page 82

This sustainability report provides information on the progress
made in the existing ten areas of action during 2015. As such,
it provides a comprehensive picture of what EWE has achieved
in terms of business, the environment and social issues.

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

8

Sustainability at EWE

MATERIALITY MATRIX

EWE STAKEHOLDERS

Very high

In the identification of the ten areas of action, we took into
account our major internal and external stakeholders:
­customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and NGOs.
» G4-25

7

Health and
occupational safety

6

Climate protection
and generation

Supply chain

Employees
and education

High

SIGNIFICANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS

Environmental management
and resource efficiency

Market and
transparency

Regional
responsibility

Security of supply
and network stability

Innovation and
product responsibility

5

Data protection and
information security

Medium

4

4
Medium

5

6
High

SIGNIFICANCE FOR THE COMPANY

» G4-19

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

9

Sustainability at EWE

»» E WE sees itself as a customer-friendly, service-oriented
company with a strong regional focus. For this reason,
EWE’s customers are a major stakeholder group.
»» Employees are key to EWE’s success. Their commitment,
loyalty and satisfaction make a significant contribution to
the success of our business. At the same time, they also play
a major role in the implementation of the sustainability
strategy.
»» E WE is primarily a municipal enterprise. For this reason,
its shareholders are another major interest group.
»» I n order to organise economic, environmental and social
topics effectively along the value chain, and to communicate our achievements in a transparent way, we rely on
the cooperation and support of our suppliers.
»» N on-governmental organisations represent specific expectations in terms of economic, environmental and social
issues that have not yet become fully established in society.
Since this may result in the necessity for future action on
the part of companies, it is important to identify such topics
in good time. » G4-24, G4-27

matrix illustrates the relative significance of the individual topics
for our stakeholders and for EWE. The value 7 represents a very
high relevance, while the value 4 r­ epresents a comparatively low
relevance.
» G4-18, G4-26
See materiality matrix, page 8

We assigned a goal for each area of action, which is then backed
up with concrete measures and initiatives. In addition, progress
criteria were defined for each area of action in order to make
our sustainability achievements measurable. A person from the
relevant unit within the organisation was designated as the
responsible officer for each area of action. This officer coordinates the experts and management staff from the Group
­companies. » G4-34
STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE
We are in regular dialogue with our customers, citizens,
­scientists, politicians and other stakeholders. For example,
we have joined the dialogue in customer and grid advisory
councils to discuss EWE topics. » G4-26
EWE also plays an active role in various industry and stakeholder associations. In some of these, we hold positions at the
management level, and in many we are involved with projects
and working groups. EWE is a member of the following associations, among others:

MATERIALITY ANALYSIS

7
Very high

We conducted a comprehensive analysis in 2013 in order to
determine the key sustainability topics for EWE and its stakeholders. To do this, we integrated aspects from the GRI standard,
which defines limits inside and outside of the company, as well
as determining other content that is relevant to our business
model. Taking into account the requirements of our stakeholders
and the significance of these topics for EWE, we derived the ten
areas of action for our sustainability strategy. A materiality

»» G
 erman Association of Energy and
Water Industries (BDEW)
»» German Association of Local Utilities (VKU)
»» G erman Association of Broadband
Communication (BREKO)
»» Federal Association for Information Technology,
Telecommunications and New Media (BITKOM)
»» Netzwerk Compliance » G4-16

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

10

Our areas of action

11

Our areas of action

OUR AREAS OF ACTION
We defined ten goals in ten specific areas that we want to achieve by 2020.
Using the EWE progress criteria, we measure our status and create transparency
with regard to our commitment.
www.ewe.com/nachhaltigkeit

SECURITY OF SUPPLY
AND NETWORK STABILITY
CLIMATE PROTECTION
AND GENERATION

MARKET AND TRANSPARENCY

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH AND
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

INNOVATION AND
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY

REGIONAL
RESPONSIBILITY

DATA PROTECTION AND
INFORMATION SECURITY

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION

12

Our sustainability strategy at a glance

13

Our sustainability strategy at a glance

OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
AT A GLANCE

Area of action

Target 2020
We develop and
­operate a future-proof
and efficient infrastructure on behalf of
the people in the
­region.

Security of supply
and network
stability
We unite energy, telecoms and information
technology to create
the intelligent energy
systems of the future.

Measures

Progress criteria

Target value 2020 Status 2014

 I mplementation of the
­maintenance and
reinvestment strategy
 Expansion of crisis and
­emergency management
 Supporting the expansion of
regional broadband networks
 Roll-out of research projects
and field tests for smart grids

Disruptions to the
electricity supply
in minutes per
customer per year

Better than the
­average value for
Germany given by
the German Federal
Grid Agency
(= SAIDI: System
Average Interruption Duration Index)


of an innovation portal
 Launch
 Interdisciplinary research and
development projects
 Expansion of the product
range and services for energy
efficiency

10 projects initiated Innovation portal
Number of ideas
per year
designed
submitted to the
innovation portal
that were integrated
into a project

5
 .5 minutes per
customer per year
(average value of
the German Federal
Grid Agency:
15.3 minutes per
customer per year)

Status 2015

Target 2020

Measures

Progress criteria

Target value 2020 Status 2014

We want to introduce
concrete sustainability
requirements for our
suppliers.

 I ntroduction of a suppliers’
code
 Training purchasing staff
in sustainability
 E stablishing a strategic
supplier management
system

Proportion of
strategic suppliers
in materials and
services acknowledging the suppliers’ code

Coverage of over
95% of strategic
suppliers for
materials and
services

Suppliers’ code was Suppliers’ code was
revised and
launched and has
launched in 2015
already been accepted by 74% of
strategic suppliers
of materials and
services

Status 2015

We are trusted service
providers for our customers and reliable
contractual partners.

 Implementing our customer
service strategy
 I ntensify customer loyalty
measures

Customer loyalty
index

74

72
(Energy division)

75
(Energy division)
75.6
(Telecoms division)

We maintain a safe
and healthy working
environment.

 L aunch leadership curriculum
on health management
 I ntensify promotions to
prevent stress, promote
healthy eating and fitness
 Introduce health, safety and
environment (HSE) guidelines
Group-wide

Health rate

97%

95.3%

95.4%

We are an appealing
employer for the
region.

 D evelop the employer
Staffing period
as a brand
 Establish a demographics management team
 Make it easier to reconcile
work and family life

75 week days

85.6 week days

83.4 week days

We are a trusted
partner when it comes
to data protection,
information security
and unbundling.

 L aunch of relevant
e-learning modules
 Continue to develop a
Group-wide information
security management
system in accordance with
ISO 27001

> 85%
(corresponds to
maximum quota
in practice)

Decision taken to
launch e-learning
modules

New learning units
were designed
and existing tools
developed

Supply chain

Service provider was
commissioned to
realise the online
concept

Innovation
and product
responsibility

S ee p. 30

Market and
transparency
We reduce the climate
impact of our energy
generation methods.


of wind power
 Expansion
 Increased flexibility and
efficiency for power stations
 Operation of the gas and steam
turbine power plant

CO2 emissions in
grams per kilowatt-­
hour of electricity
generated

Reduction of CO2
emissions in grams
per kilowatt-hour
of electricity generated by 40% as
compared with
2005

540 grams per kilowatt-hour of electricity generated
(corresponds to a
decrease of 34.8%
as compared with
2005)

536 grams per
­kilowatt-hour of
electricity generated (corresponds
to a decrease of
35.3% as compared
with 2005)

Climate protection
and generation

Health and
occupational safety
We take a responsible
approach to energy
as a resource and
­minimise our internal
consumption.

 E stablish a Group-wide energy
monitoring scheme
 Launch of energy management
systems and certification of
­additional companies

Certification of
Number of
12 companies
­companies whose
energy management
systems are certified in accordance
with ISO 50001

4 companies already 8 companies
certified
­a lready certified

Environmental
management and
resource efficiency

S ee p. 34

Employees
and education
Our activities make a
significant contribution
to the development of
the region.

Regional
responsibility

Area of action

6.3 minutes per
customer per year
(average value of
the German Federal
Grid Agency:
15.3 minutes per
customer per year)


public financing of
 Increase
wind farm projects
 Expansion of the grid
investment model
 Continue to align sponsoring
commitment to regional
requirements
 Promote occasions for dialogue

Regional focus index Better than the
­average from the
“Customer Focus –
Households”
(Kundenfokus
Haushalte) study
published by the
German Association
of Energy and Water
Industries (BDEW);
a minimum of 67 if
the average falls
below this level

72
(German
Association of
Energy and Water
Industries (BDEW)
“Customer Focus –
Households” study
average: 68)

76
(German
Association of
Energy and Water
Industries (BDEW)
“Customer Focus –
Households” study
average: 68)

Data protection
and information
security

Proportion of all
staff in affected
companies having
received training in
data protection,
information security and unbundling
via e-learning
­m odules

14

Security of supply and ­network stability

SECURITY OF SUPPLY AND
­NETWORK STABILITY

GUARANTEEING NETWORK STABILITY
In order to identify weak points in the grid, which could lead to
disruptions, Group subsidiary wesernetz Bremen conducts cable
diagnoses as a precaution. At the reporting date, around 25 per
cent of cables in the wesernetz grid had already been tested for
abnormalities. As a result of increasing automation in operation,
more and more faults caused by switching measures will be able
to be resolved directly by the grid control centre.

As a regional infrastructure service provider, we want to offer our customers futureproof and reliable services. As a result of our geographic location, we are aware of
the particularly challenges of decentralised generation structures and in the integration of
renewables in the network infrastructure. It is our goal to operate secure and cuttingedge networks. By systematically linking the fields of energy, telecoms and
information technology, we are able to create a stable basis for the intelligent energy
­systems of the future.

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA
Our overarching aim is to create and operate a future-proof,
efficient grid infrastructure. The reliability of electricity supply
is a central parameter in security of supply. As a result, we
measure our progress in this area of action by the disruptions to
the electricity supply in minutes per customer per year. Our
total value is comprised of the individual values from grid operator EWE NETZ, wesernetz Bremen and wesernetz Bremerhaven
and thus comprises all EWE electricity grids in Germany. The
comparative value refers to unplanned disruptions in the
­G erman low and medium-voltage grids. In Germany, the average annual disruption of supply amounted to 15.3 minutes in
2015. Disruptions to supply in the EWE grids amount to
6.3 minutes in 2015. The difference from the previous year’s
value (5.5 minutes) can be contributed to regular discrepancies
in grid operations. This means that, once again, in 2015, we
were significantly below the German average value. Our aim for
2020 is to continue to keep disruptions to supply below the
national average. » G4-EU29, EWE-FK01

More information in the Annual Report 2015, page 24/25

Number of power connections and electricity customers
Number

2015

2014

Households with electricity

994,300

984,800

+1%

Households with gas

862,300

851,100

+1%

37,700

32,600

+15%

Households with phone
and Internet
» G4-EU3

Length of electricity grids
km
Grid length Electricity
(Ems-Weser-Elbe
and Bremen regions)

2015

2014

Change
(in %)

92,800

92,500

+1%

Grid length Gas
(Germany, Turkey, Poland)

70,700

69,500

+1%

Network length Telecoms

38,000

36,600

+4%

of which copper cable

15,200

15,100

+1%

of which fibre-optic cable

22,800

21,500

+6%

» G4-EU4

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

Since 2015, the whole EWE grid has been able to draw on a
well-structured crisis and emergency management system.
­Simulations take place several times a year. The simulations test
key communication mechanisms, such as the proper functioning
of the chain of notification, which are crucial in the event of
­disruptions. The effects of potential hazard situations (high
tides, solar eclipse, etc.) on network stability are also simulated.

Change
(in %)

15

Security of supply and ­network stability

SMART GRIDS

generation capacity could be fed into the EWE grid if grid
­o perators were permitted to curb annual electricity generation
from these systems by up to 5 per cent. The positive effect
arises through the improved management of grid load. If too
much energy is recovered, the decentralised systems can be
shut down to avoid bottlenecks in the system.
EWE NETZ tested the 5% approach in 2014/15 as part of a field
test in the Jever/Wittmund area, equipping eleven power generation systems and all distribution stations with remote control
technology for high-resolution monitoring and controlling. The
generation systems were controlled in real time via software
provided by EWE subsidiary BTC. The government has now recognised the efficacy of the Oldenburg concept and introduced a
3% peak cap for wind energy and PV systems as part of the
German Energy Management Act (Energiewirtschaftsgesetz).
EWE NETZ expects that this will facilitate an increase in grid
connection capacity by around 50 per cent. This will reduce the
costs of grid integration and will also increase security in the
planning of grids.
magazin.ewe.com

Throughout Germany, the highest proportion of electricity from
renewables is generated in Lower Saxony. In the EWE NETZ
grids, the proportion of electricity from renewables is already at
75 per cent. In order to integrate the renewable energy sources
more effectively from both a technical
and e­ conomic point of view, EWE is
­gradually turning its electricity grid into
a smart grid. EWE continued with this
conversion in 2015. The construction of
more than 300 variable distribution
transformers, for example, enables automatic voltage control, which means the
existing grid infrastructure can be
­managed in a much more efficient way.

Intelligent distribution transformers automatically regulate the current
in the grid and prevent overloads. EWE already uses more than 200 of
these in its grid.

THE 5% APPROACH: EWE CONCEPT
SUCCESSFUL AND RECOGNISED
In terms of the smart grid of the future,
what is known as the 5% approach offers
an alternative to the physical expansion
of electricity grids: According to calcu­
lations, twice as much decentralised

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

16

Security of supply and ­network stability

EWE GAS STORAGE FACILITIES

MECKLENBURG- Moeckow
WESTERN POMERANIA

Nüttermoor
Huntorf
Jemgum

BREMEN

Rüdersdorf

Lesum
LOWER SAXONY

Gas storage:

Operational

speeds of up to 100 Mbit/s. In order to integrate as many users
as possible, we rely on a combination of different development
models. The expansion of the broadband network is financed to
a large degree by internal investments. In addition, we also draw
on European funding, develop regional partnerships and expand
on our cooperation with municipalities and local authorities.
In 2015, we invested around 70 million euros in the expansion
of the broadband network. This corresponds to an increase of
13 per cent on the previous year. » TK-IO1
For information on the topic see the Appendix of indicators, page 45

INNOVATION AND
­PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
We need smart energy systems in order to achieve the successful implementation of
the energy revolution. EWE combines expertise from the fields of energy, telecoms
and IT in order to come up with innovative solutions to create sustainable products
and services or integrate renewables into the market.

BERLIN

Planned

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA

HOW UNDERGROUND GAS STORAGE WORKS

Huntorf (Wesermarsch district), Nüttermoor, Jemgum in
East Friesland, Rüdersdorf near Berlin, Bremen-Lesum.
450 m

SECURITY OF SUPPLY THANKS TO
NATURAL GAS INFRASTRUCTURE
Natural gas storage contributes to security of supply by covering the demand for natural gas during failures in supply. With its
current portfolio of 38 underground gas storage facilities, EWE
is one of the biggest storage facility operators on the European
natural gas market. The usable natural gas stored by EWE is
­sufficient to supply a city with over a million inhabitants for a
year. The natural gas is stored in underground chambers, which
are built into naturally occurring salt domes in accordance with
strict environmental and safety criteria.

Underground
gas storage facility
Geometric volume
500,000 – 600,000 m 3

400 m

350 m

Eiffel Tower
Paris

300 m

250 m

200 m

150 m

HIGH-SPEED INTERNET: EXPANSION OF BROADBAND
NETWORKS AT EWE

100 m

High-performance telecoms networks with high bit rates are a
major prerequisite for smart (energy) applications. EWE is a key
player driving the expansion of broadband networks in northwestern Germany: In over 440 locations, we ensure that as many
people, companies and institutions as possible have fast Internet
access. Since 2013, over 5,800 serving area interfaces with fibre
optics have been integrated into the network; over half of these
are equipped with additional Vectoring technology to provide

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

17

Innovation and ­product responsibility

50 m

0m

Homes

In order to continually boost the innovative strength of the
company, EWE has come up with a virtual innovation portal.
This is where employees, and later, customers, can submit their
suggestions for innovation – from designing a more efficient
working process to new product ideas. In 2015, a service provider was commissioned with programming the innovation
­p ortal. EWE has also continued to create the organisational
framework within the Group to enable each idea implemented
to be remunerated in line with clear, consistent criteria.

added value to the market. In the 2015 business year, the
­p rimary focus was on questions related to implementing the
energy revolution in terms of future technological developments and solutions. In the 2015 business year, a total of
1.9 million euros was spent on research and development.
» EWE-ZA1

RENEWABLES FOR HOME USE

The innovation portal online tool aims to be a gateway for
ideas. The processing and decision-making pathways up to the
implementation or rejection of the idea are to be short, with the
processing status visible and therefore transparent for all those
involved. The innovation portal is to go online for staff in 2016.
By 2020, EWE wants to translate ten ideas generated via the
innovation portal into projects every year. » EWE-FK02
A NEW APPROACH FOR RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
In light of the fact that the markets are changing significantly,
we have made the decision to reorganise and refocus our
research and development activities. In the future, the focus will
lie more heavily on innovative business models than it has in
the past. For this purpose, we will pool existing innovation
activities together and expand them further. Our goal is to
unlock new business models for the Group and increase the

EWE has been offering electricity and gas products from
renewable energy sources since 2007. The swb Strom
proNatur, EWE Strom NaturWatt and EWE Grünstrom
products are all sourced from 100 per cent renewable
energies. EWE Strom NaturWatt and EWE Grünstrom
were awarded the “Geprüfter Ökostrom” (Certified
Green Energy) certificate by the TÜV NORD technical
­inspection authority in 2015.
» G4-4

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

18

Innovation and ­product responsibility

OWN ENERGY GENERATION
More and more private or business customers want to optimise
their energy system or generate their own energy from renewable sources. EWE responds to this trend for a more sustainable
supply with a wide range of new products and services. For
example, with the EWE mini-PV product: Customers who do
not have their own roof space can still generate solar energy
­themselves – on a balcony, for instance – with this solar panel
from EWE, which measures around one and a half metres

squared. EWE has also developed a power-generating heating
system, known as a home power station, based on fuel-cell
technology. What was launched as the “Callux” project in 2008
as a field test of
a new technology resulted in 2015 in the development of a
­marketable product.
For private and business customers wanting to cover the
­majority of their electricity needs with their own solar energy
system, EWE offers the EQOO photovoltaic storage system.

GOING CO2-FREE WITH ELECTROMOBILITY

In 2015, the number of registered electrical vehicles in
­G ermany increased by around 6,500 to 25,500 1). It’s a
­p ositive trend – after all, studies have shown that electric
vehicles result in much lower carbon emissions than vehicles
with standard combustion engines. Depending on the
­c alculation methods, the difference can be between 30 per
cent and 50 per cent. Powered by electricity from renewable
sources, it is possible to achieve virtually carbon-free
­m obility.

the electric vehicle is usually charged, the electricity rate is
particularly cheap. EWE is also planning to roll out a bundled
offer for charging at home and further afield.

For customers charging their vehicle at home EWE launched
its EWE Strom mobil product in 2015: In the evening, when
1)

Source: German Federal Motor Transport Authority

This system can cover, on average, 70 per cent of the customer’s
electricity consumption. The number of users increased to
around 400 in 2015. Other energy suppliers have the option of
selling the EQOO product from EWE under their own brand as a
white-label product. Seven partners were acquired during 2015.
In November 2015, the first training sessions took place for the
partners.
EWE Agrarenergie is a portfolio of products and services that
EWE is developing specially for agricultural businesses. The
range extends from a specific breakdown of energy consumption to the independent generation and sale of energy. EWE
Agrarenergie was developed on farms with the farmers as partners. The process was also aided by students from Hamburg
University of Technology. Several farms were selected and are
currently conducting tests of the online evaluation of energy
consumption. » G4-4
MAJOR FIELD TEST: ENERA
Another major topic at the moment is the integration of
­renewables into the market. In this context, a blueprint is to be
dev­e­loped in East Friesland and Friesland: In December 2015,
Germany’s Federal Ministry of Economics awarded a consortium
of 75 partners led by EWE approximately 50 million euros from
the “Schaufenster intelligente Energie” (intelligent energy showcase) subsidy programme. The project has now been planned in
detail as part of the application for funding. The consortium
partners currently expect to be able to bring
in further funding to the tune of 120 million euros.

To further broaden the popularity of electromobility, EWE is
expanding the public charging infrastructure in its region:
EWE constructed 38 charging stations in 2015 – many of
these were commissioned by municipalities. This means that
there are a total of over 80 charging opportunities in the
area overseen by EWE and its Bremen-based subsidiary swb,
with up to 100 per cent of the electricity at these points
coming from renewable sources. With its electricity charging
map, EWE has been offering a convenient, low-cost payment
method for a fixed price since 2015.

Infrastructure as a factor for success: Electric vehicles can recharge
at over 80 charging stations in the EWE and swb area.

19

Innovation and ­product responsibility

VIRTUAL POWER STATION
In another project, EWE wants to make the energy supply more
decentralised and flexible and is integrating micro-CHP plants
from 15 households and businesses in the Oldenburg area to
­c reate a virtual power plant. By doing this, we can test how to
manage lots of systems with smaller outputs as a network.
Since mid-2016, EWE has been selling the entire output
(200 MW) of the virtual power plant on the balancing market,
which is where flexible generation systems offer their capacity
in order to balance out short-term fluctuations in the supply
and demand of electricity. The balancing market is of increasing
­significance, particularly as a result of weather-dependent
renewable energy sources.
SWB: SMART TECH TROPHY FOR INNOVATIVE IDEAS
To give new start-ups a boost, swb in Bremen has founded its
“kraftwerk – city accelerator Bremen” scheme. In 2015, 42
start-up teams from 13 states competed for the Smart Tech
Trophy 2015 and the opportunity to turn their ideas into market-ready products. The mottoes were “Energy for my town”
and “Waste management of the future”. Of the pitches made to
the panel, the winner was a dry powder for extending shelf life
made from leftover fruit and vegetables. Currently, a total of
five start-up teams are being supported as part of the Accelerator scheme. The ideas for the Smart Tech Trophy 2016 have
already been submitted.
www.kraftwerk-accelerator.com
www.facebook.com/Kraftwerkcab

With the enera project, the partners want to demonstrate how
energy systems can be designed in a sustainable, efficient
­manner in the model region through the use of intelligent technologies. The results of this project should then be able to be
rolled out across Germany. The energy system in the administrative districts of Aurich, Friesland and Wittmund, as well as
the cities of Emden and Lingen, is to be equipped with up to
30,000 intelligent measurement systems. In addition, storage
systems are to be constructed and wind farms subjected to
technical upgrades. Existing market models are being expanded
in partnership with power trading centres to include regional
products.
www.energie-vernetzen.de

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

20

Climate protection and generation

CLIMATE PROTECTION AND GENERATION

21

Climate protection and generation

Specific CO2 emissions from electricity generation
Grams CO2 per kilowatt-hour
900
828

815
790

800

784

786
728

g CO2/kWh el

As an energy service provider, we bear a particular responsibility 1) for protecting
the climate. For EWE, the central aspect of protecting the climate is reducing
CO2 emissions. A major factor in this is our own electricity and heat generation,
and we want to lower their CO2 emissions over the long term.

728

722

700

658

600

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA

coal in EWE power plants and the renewed delay to the high-­
efficiency gas and steam-turbine power station going online.

The carbon footprint of our electricity generation is measured in
emissions per kilowatt-hour (kWh) of electricity generated. By
2020, we want to decrease this figure by 40 per cent as compared
with 2005. We want to do this by expanding the availability of
renewables in our regions and boosting the efficiency of existing
systems. In 2015, our specific CO2 emissions came to 536 grams
per kilowatt-hour (g/kWh), compared with 540 ­g /kWh­in 2014.
This means we had a reduction of 35.3 per cent in 2015 as compared with 2005.

» EWE-FK03, G4-EN18

This means that EWE is on the right track to achieving its own
target. As a result of weather conditions, lots of electricity was
generated by EWE wind farms in 2015. This trend was countered
by slightly higher amounts of electricity generated from refined

ONSHORE AND OFFSHORE WIND POWER
Over 30 per cent of electricity generated by EWE is already
gained from renewable sources. In terms of the expansion of
energy generation from renewables, EWE is putting its focus on
wind energy. Over 25 years ago, EWE was one of the first companies in Germany to champion the construction of onshore
wind farms and entered the offshore electricity generation business very early on, in 2008. EWE now operates onshore wind
farms with an output of around 164 MW and offshore wind
farms with an output of around 137 MW, with wind energy thus
making a significant contribution towards lowering CO2 emissions in 2015. » G4-EN19

Wind energy has made a significant contribution towards reducing carbon emissions.

With the Trianel public utilities partner­
ship, EWE put its name to a joint venture
extending through the second stage of the
expansion of the Trianel Borkum West wind
farm. A further 200 MW in capacity is to
be added to the existing 40 turbines off the
coast of Borkum, already producing an
­output of 200 MW. Statistically, this would
mean that Borkum West would be able to
supply 200,000 homes with power. EWE
holds a 40 per cent share in the development of this project and is responsible for
the technical project development.
1)

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

 ccording to estimates by the German Federal Environment
A
Agency, in 2014, around 39 per cent of greenhouse
­e missions were a result of the energy industry
(as at: March 2015)

540

536

2014

2015

500

400
2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Since 2005, EWE has continually reduced CO2 emissions per kilowatt-hour of electricity generated.

In November 2015, there was a defect in a cable that transported electricity from EWE’s Riffgat offshore wind farm to the
mainland. The wind farm had to go offline for several months
until the damage could be repaired by the transmission system
operator responsible. In late May 2016, the wind farm was fully
operational once again.
CONVENTIONAL GENERATION – PARTNERS IN THE
ENERGY REVOLUTION
EWE still finds it essential to use fossil fuels in order to balance
out the weather-related fluctuations in the availability of
renewable energies. EWE subsidiary swb operates conventional
power stations in Bremen, generating electricity from refined
coal and natural gas, and also operates two waste processing
plants. swb is constantly working on improving the efficiency of
its power stations. With standardised environment management systems, swb creates the framework for monitoring and
ensuring compliance with legal requirements and its own, internal goals. The power generation plants have been certified in
accordance with the EU’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme
(EMAS) since 2015, the mid-calorific power plant since 2009
and the Bremen waste-to-energy plant since 1998.

Biogenic fuels are used to replace fossil fuels in Unit 6, which is
powered by refined coal, thus minimising CO2 emissions. In
addition, the proportion of electricity from refined coal in the
EWE own generation portfolio has also decreased because
­coal-fired Unit 5 was put in cold standby in 2014. This means
that it is just available as an emergency reserve in the event of
bottlenecks in the power supply.
In Mittelsbüren, swb is joining forces with partners from the
energy industry to build a gas and steam turbine power station
that uses natural gas, supporting the energy revolution with
its high level of efficiency and flexibility. When construction
started in late 2011, it was due to last for 30 months. As a company with global expertise in the construction of power plants,
GE Energy came out on top in the European call for tenders for
the construction of the power plant. GE selected a Spanish
company to complete the construction. Since this Spanish
­company struggled with the technical standards in Germany,
however, the scheduled completion date had to be postponed
several times. swb is now hoping that the power station will go
online in the last quarter of 2016.

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

22

Climate protection and generation

NATURE CONSERVATION AND PARTICIPATION ARE
BOOSTING ACCEPTANCE
In addition to their positive effects on our carbon footprint,
wind farms also have an environmental impact. For this reason,
EWE creates conservation areas for animals and plants to balance out this effect for each of its construction projects. EWE’s
Hatten wind farm is testament to the fact that nature conservation and climate protection can be kept in harmony with one
another. EWE started construction of a total of eight turbines
there in 2015, each with a capacity of 3.3 MW. The wind farm is
due to start generating electricity in summer 2016.
In the area around the Hatten turbines, EWE has implemented
various compensation measures that have been tailored specifically to the site. For example, the habitats for birds and insects
that were destroyed by the wind farm have been reconstructed
in the immediate surroundings. A protective mechanism for bats
has also been incorporated: Because bats tend to go out hunting
on nights when wind levels are low, the wind farm is switched
off then so that they do not collide with the rotor blades.

COP21 – STATEMENT ON THE OCCASION OF THE
UN CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE IN PARIS

2015

2014

Total 1)

1,367

1,348

Renewables 2)

322

303

Wind, onshore

168

152

Wind, offshore

142

137

Other (biogas, photovoltaics,
hydroelectric power)

12

14

Conventional 3)

1,045

1,045

Refined coal

553

553

Blast furnace and converter gas

176

176

Natural gas

155

155

Light oil

86

86

Waste to energy

75

75

I n this figure, waste-to-energy is fully assigned to conventional generation, even if around half
of the energy generated from waste can be classed as renewable according to the EEC, because
a portion of the waste comes from vegetable sources and are thus CO2-neutral in combustion.
2)
Incl. pro rata capacity from at-equity holdings
3)
Major swb facilities for generation and waste disposal; includes units in cold standby
1)

Energy output broken down by primary energy source

www.ewe.com/klimaschutzerklaerung

(in GWh)

2015

2014

Total 4)

4,193

5,010

Refined coal

2,482

2,295

0

1,065

Wind

862

757

Waste to energy

593

595

Blast furnace gas 5)

Other (biogas, natural biogas, natural gas,
refuse-derived fuels, heating oil, sewage
biogas, solar, water)

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA
By 2020, our aim is for twelve companies in the EWE Group to
have introduced an energy management system that complies
with ISO 50001. In 2015, this was already the case for the eight
companies 1) with the highest energy consumption in the Group.
In 2014, there were four. This means that the certifi­c ation of our
companies is going to schedule. » EWE-FK04
ENERGY MONITORING STILL IN EXPANSION PHASE
One requirement for being able to manage energy is knowing
exactly how much is used and how trends develop. EWE is
developing its Group-wide energy monitoring system, which
aims to provide reliable information on internal energy consumption. In 2015, the focus was on the validation of existing
data and setting up new measuring points. The next thing was
to integrate additional companies with particularly high energy
requirements into the system.
EWE has been recording the consumption of its administrative
offices for years. In 2015, its administrative offices and data
centres used 290.7 terajoules (80.8 million kWh), 55 per cent of
which in the form of electricity and 45 per cent for heating.
» G4-EN3

INITIAL SUCCESSES IN ENERGY MANAGEMENT
256

298

I n contrast to Indicator G4-EU1, this also comprises electricity generated by cogeneration
plants.
5)
Since 2015, swb has been the operations manager of the blast furnace gas-fired power station
as part of a leasing model, but no longer the plant operator. The energy generated there is
shown on the leaseholder’s balance sheet.
4)

» G4-EU2
For information on the topic see the Appendix of indicators, page 45
EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

Treating the environment and its resources with care is part of the EWE philosophy.
In doing so, EWE puts the focus on its internal energy consumption.
Energy management systems aim to break down our energy consumption and
identify opportunities for saving energy.

Installed electrical output

» G4-EU1

In December 2015, EWE published a joint statement with
33 large and medium-sized companies from a wide variety of industries (including adidas, Otto Group, REWE and
Stadtwerke München), in which the companies greeted
the new climate change conference as a turning point in
the global energy revolution. At the same time, the companies also committed to driving forwards with the topic
of climate protection as pioneers and to demand a clear,
long-term and ambitious framework from the political
sphere for the decarbonisation of Germany and the EU.

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND
RESOURCE EFFICIENCY

In addition to nature conservation, EWE’s participation in such
projects is also a way of increasing the acceptance of wind
energy projects and expanding carbon-free energy even more
quickly. EWE gives citizens and municipalities the opportunity
to invest in wind farm projects themselves, which is also the
case in Hatten. The people living in Hatten can benefit from a
savings bond for wind farms in their area. In addition, land
­owners and the municipality of Zetel also hold a 30 per cent
stake each in the Spolsen wind farm.

as at 31.12. (in MW)

23

Environmental management and resource efficiency

With the systematic analysis of energy consumption, energy-­
saving measures have already been successfully implemented in
2015, for example in the operation of EWE’s data centres: In the
1)

 esernetz (Bremen and Bremerhaven), swb Erzeugung und Entsorgung, swb CREA,
w
EWE ERNEUERBARE ENERGIEN, swb Services, Bursagaz, EWE GASSPEICHER, EWE VERTRIEB

data centre with the highest consumption, in Oldenburg,
the system guaranteeing an uninterrupted electricity supply
was optimised. Energy consumption was reduced by 20 per
cent, equating to annual savings of 260,000 kWh of electricity.
In 2016, the efficiency of the cooling systems in the same data
centre, as well as a further site in Oldenburg, was enhanced.
We expect to see energy savings of around 15 per cent. EWE is
planning to implement other measures in 2017.
In the operation of gas storage facilities, a significant amount of
the primary energy consumption is due to drying the natural gas
before removing it from the storage facility. This is done using
triethylene glycol, which removes the water from the natural gas
and is recovered via a complex recovery process in order to
lessen the environmental impact. So that the use of the storage
facilities is kept as flexible as possible, warm glycol must always
be kept on hand as part of this process. To date, it has always
been kept constantly at the minimum temperature. Since summer 2015, an energy-efficiency measure has been implemented
here, too: The glycol is now only heated to the necessary temperature for the process two or three times a day and then cools
down to a specific threshold value. When natural gas is removed
from the storage facility, the preheated glycol is then brought
back to the process temperature. This means that the natural
gas-fired burners are no longer kept running around the clock –
instead, they operate for just a few hours a day. As a result of
this measure, EWE expects to see its annual natural gas consumption halve from around 65 million kWh to 32 million kWh.
There are also potential savings to be made in our offices: In our
administrative offices and data centres, standard lamps were
switched for energy-saving LED lamps. In 2015, we developed a
new printing concept and rolled it out in the first half of 2016.
The number of printers was reduced from around 1,100 to
EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

24

Environmental management and resource efficiency

25

Environmental management and resource efficiency

“It is already clear that energy management
is well worth it in both financial and
environmental terms.”
about 720. The old printers were swapped for more efficient
ones and their use was fundamentally changed. Employees now
only obtain their printouts if they identify themselves with their
staff pass at the printer. This aims to prevent things being
printed out by mistake, at the wrong printer, or from being forgotten. All printers are pre-set to two-sided printing, which also
lowers paper consumption. We estimate that this will reduce
annual paper consumption by around 20 per cent.
CONSISTENT STANDARDS FOR OUR COMPANY FLEET

INTELLIGENT PROTECTION OF RESOURCES
The Turkish EWE subsidiaries Bursagaz and Enervis Enerji
­S ervis have recently shown how energy efficiency can
work in buildings. The headquarters in Bursa is one of
around 100 buildings in Turkey constructed in compliance with the Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design (LEED) international standard for green construction. The six-storey building with office space of around
5,500 square metres went into use in mid-2016.

In 2015, energy consumption of the entire EWE fleet remained
roughly the same as the previous year at 121.7 terajoules
(33.8 million kWh). In total, the fleet comprised 2,257 vehicles
on the cut-off date of 31 December 2015. The increase of
around 9 per cent (2014: 2,063) is largely the result of overlaps
when exchanging older vehicles: Around 130 cars were replaced
by efficient gas-powered vehicles in 2015. This decreased the
annual energy consumption per vehicle from 16.4 megawatt-­
hours (MWh) to 15 MWh. » G4-EN3
The expansion of a Group-wide fleet management strategy progress well in 2015. Throughout the Group, vehicles are procured
and managed according to consistent standards. A common fuel
card system was also introduced. This enables us to simplify
processes within the Group, draw on purchasing advantages and
evaluate fuel consumption across the Group as a whole.
Fleet by types of fuel in 2015

EWE new-build in Bursa

in per cent (previous year)

12 (10)
Petrol

1 (–)
Electric

45 (49)
Diesel

42 (41)
Natural gas

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

An efficient cogeneration plant uses waste heat to heat
and cool the building. The power systems generate
10 per cent of the building’s own electricity from renewable sources. Rain and grey water are used for flushing
toilets. In addition, the building is easily accessible via
public transport, has charging stations for electric
­vehicles and offers parking spaces for bikes, as well as
showers.

THREE QUESTIONS
FOR ULF KNIGGE, ENERGY MANAGEMENT
OFFICER AT EWE AG.

Mr Knigge, what do the energy
­management officers at EWE AG do?
First of all, I am responsible for the certification of EWE AG. In addition, I coordinate
Group-wide topics, such as the legal implementation of the German Act on the
­Provision of Energy Services (Energiedienst­
leistungsgesetz) or integrating energy
­management systems into central purchasing. I regularly meet up with other energy
management officers in the Group in order
to draw on synergies and avoid unnecessary
duplication of work.
What are the main areas of focus
at EWE AG?
Running our sites is particularly energy-intensive. The topic is highly complex: Around
400 EWE properties have to be taken into
account – from office complexes to garages.
The data centres in particular pose particular challenges in
terms of building services technology as a result of their cooling
systems.
What do you particularly like about your job?
As a result of consistent analysis, we can determine exactly
where potential lies and have already been able to implement
some energy-saving measures. It is already clear that energy
management is well worth it in both financial and environmental terms – the extent to which it is worth it will be borne out
by the figures over the next few years.

ULF KNIGGE – Energy Management Officer at EWE AG

26

Regional responsibility

REGIONAL RESPONSIBILITY
As a predominantly municipal company, EWE stands by its regional responsibility
and wants to make a contribution to the development of the region – not
only as an economic factor that secures jobs and income, but also through social
commitment. To do this, we seek out dialogue with the people in our
regions in order to actively integrate them into our activities.

strategy: In addition to regional professional sport and major
cultural events in its regions, EWE also supports lots of smaller
local projects and associations.
Together with the operators in the EWE arena, EWE set up a
public wireless Internet network (hotspot) in 2015 for visitors to
the sports centre. Visitors can now benefit from one hour’s free
Internet every day. EWE customers can use the Internet for as
long as they like. In 2015, EWE set up a total of 170 hotspots in
the north-west of Germany, Osnabrück and Bremen.
TAKING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA
We use our regional focus index to measure how local people
evaluate the significance of EWE in the region. This figure is
based on an annual nationwide image study conducted by the
German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW),
known as the BDEW Kundenfokus (BDEW Customer Focus). On
a scale of zero (completely disagree) to 100 (agree completely),
the respondents evaluate their energy supplier in line with the
criteria “... is important for the region” and “... promotes education, sport, social issues and culture”. We calculate a weighted
value based on the feedback from EWE and swb customers.
Our aim is to keep our regional focus index consistently above
the national average until 2020, achieving over 67 points. In
2015, EWE attained this goal: The EWE and swb regional focus
index for 2015 was 76 points, while the national average for
Germany was 68 points. » EWE-FK05
ALONGSIDE THE PEOPLE IN THE REGION
The trend behind the regional focus index indicates a generally
positive perception of EWE. In the past few years, EWE has
­p ositioned itself as a regionally strong partner to its customers
via various dialogue-oriented communication methods. For the
people in the region, this became visible through concrete
­participation opportunities. For example, EWE implemented
wind farm projects with citizens and municipalities: In the
north-west, ten turbines with an output of over 30 MW have

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

been turning since the second half of 2016, and citizens and
municipalities participated in the investment process.
This joint approach can also be seen in the grid investment
model. Since 2013, EWE has offered municipalities in its grid
region the opportunity to become shareholders of the grid
operator, EWE NETZ GmbH, which is associated with a guaranteed dividend. The opportunity to acquire an interest of up to
25.1 per cent will be introduced in three stages by 2018. Until
now, 18 municipalities have taken this opportunity and acquired
a share of 3.1 per cent in total. In addition, they are represented
with two seats on the EWE NETZ Supervisory Board and are
thus able to actively shape company decisions.
CREATING VALUE
EWE wants to establish the north-west of Germany as a flagship region for the energy revolution through the enera project.
See page 19. A consortium of 75 partners led by EWE won the
bid to receive approximately 50 million euros in funding from
Germany’s Federal Ministry of Economics and will invest a
­f urther 120 million euros in the project, some of which will
remain in the region.
With around 280 sponsoring activities, EWE contributes to the
economic and cultural development of its regions and thus lives
up to its social responsibility. Although EWE had to cut its sponsoring budget as a result of the challenging economic situation
on the energy market, EWE is still staying true to its general

27

Regional responsibility

EWE champions social projects and education in its regions – for
example, via the EWE Foundation. The swb education initiative
provides up to 110,000 euros every year for education projects
in the State of Bremen. The Turkish companies are also getting

EWE FOUNDATION – COMMITTED TO THE
PUBLIC SINCE 2002

Sustainability, regional focus and future viability are the
pillars behind the non-profit EWE Foundation. Its aim is
to generate maximum benefit for the public, thus helping
to maintain the quality of life and efficiency of the EWE
regions of Ems-Weser-Elbe, Brandenburg and the Baltic
Sea island of Rügen. The EWE Foundation was set up in
late 2001 and started its funding activities in 2002. It
supports partners with the collective purposes of art and
culture, education and research and development, in line
with the realisation that it is only by working together
that we can fulfil the tasks of the future. In the 2015
business year alone, the EWE Foundation supported
151 projects with funds of around 490,000 euros. The
nine-person Foundation Committee decides on how to
award the funds several times every year.

involved: Bursagaz also supports educational projects. Until
2015, it converted 100 classrooms so that they now fulfil the
needs of children with disabilities. With Dragon Dolgi as its
mascot, Kayserigaz raises awareness among children for saving
energy and the environment through entertaining plays and
events.
In 2015, EWE set aside 250,000 euros to equip homes for asylum seekers in the north-west of Germany and Brandenburg
with free Internet hotspots, enabling the inhabitants to obtain
up-to-date information and to stay in contact with their friends
and family in their home country. These funds were sufficient
to create 160 hotspots, with 65 set up in 2015.
Many of our employees choose to forego amounts of under
one euro in their monthly payslips in order to support charity
projects. This helped to raise money so we were able to donate
26,000 euros in 2015 to 15 organisations helping refugees.
In 2015, EWE decided to set up its own shelter for refugees on
its own plot of land, ceded at cost to the City of Oldenburg.
­Construction was completed in mid-2016. Another detached
house belonging to the company in Westrhauderfehn was also
provided at cost. For several years now, EWE has been renting
an apartment block to the City of Oldenburg for low rates in
order to house asylum seekers.
Value creation by EWE in 2015
in millions of euros

Direct economic value generated in 2015 1)
Revenues (excluding electricity and energy taxes)

7,819.3

Economic value distributed
Material expenditures

6,067.4

Personnel expenses

727.3

Interest expenses

197.7

Dividends

88.0

Income taxes

40.5

Donations
of which investments in research activities
1)

7.6

More information on the figures can be found in the Annual Report 2015,
from p. 94 et seq.

» G4-EC1

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

28

Supply chain

SUPPLY CHAIN
Our business activities have an impact far beyond our company itself.
For this reason, we integrate our suppliers and service providers into
our sustainability management strategy. By doing so, we are able to take
full responsibility for our actions and create transparency.

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA
In 2015, we introduced concrete sustainability requirements in
our supply chain. These are set out in our suppliers’ code, which
has already been accepted by 74 per cent of our strategic suppliers in the product groups of materials and services – long-term
partners with a high level of relevance for EWE. By 2020, we
aim to increase this figure to 95 per cent – that is our aim.

Around

51.5%

10,000

of expenditure for materials
and services went to regional
suppliers in 2015

Company
Supplier relationships

The commodities of natural gas and coal often take a rather
roundabout route from the producer, via several intermediate
brokers on the international commodity trading markets. For
this reason, the exact origins of the raw materials are hard to
trace, along with the conditions under which they were produced. This limits our options in terms of applying sustainability
criteria to the procurement of energy resources.
SUPPLIERS’ CODE ESTABLISHES PRINCIPLES
The suppliers’ code is targeted at our strategic suppliers for
materials and services 1). The principles and minimum standards
it contains comprise the three major categories of human rights
and working conditions; health, safety and environment; and
business integrity. The first of these involves, for example,
ensuring appropriate pay for all employees in line with the
­relevant legislation, equal treatment of all employees, or the
­p rotection of young people in the workplace. The suppliers’
code thus forms the basis for our business with new and ­e xisting
suppliers.

» EWE-FK06, G4-56

In 2015, our expenditure for materials and services amounted
to about 1.05 billion euros. Around half of this – 51.5 per cent –
went to companies in the regions in which we are active (2014:
about 43 per cent). This corresponds to 542.2 million euros and
an increase of a good 8 per cent on the previous year. » G4-EC9
PURCHASING OF ENERGY RESOURCES
In the procurement of natural gas, we maintain long-term,
medium-term and short-term procurement agreements in order

» G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-HR10

If the results indicate potential risks, we seek out a dialogue
with the companies affected – with the proviso that they may
still be excluded from partnerships in the future. Over the
long term, we are also striving to gradually audit our existing
suppliers in addition to new business partners.

IN DIALOGUE WITH OUR PARTNERS:
SUPPLIER OPEN DAY AT EWE NETZ

AUDITING OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS

74%
of the strategic suppliers for
materials and services have
signed the new suppliers’
code

to achieve moderate prices
and to secure supply. We
obtain natural gas from various national and international upstream suppliers –
distri­butors, importers and
­p roducers.

For our regions in Germany,
we procure two thirds of the
natural gas from upstream suppliers in Germany, while we
import one third from the Netherlands. Fluctuations in demand
can be balanced out by our gas storage facilities and through
spot trading.
Our subsidiary swb covers two thirds of its demand for refined
coal with imports from Russia and one third from the US.
­Purchasing is done on the basis of short-term and medium-­
term procurement agreements.

Before entering into a business relationship, we audit any
­p otential contractual partners for the product groups of
­materials and services with an annual purchasing volume of
50,000 euros. In 2015, we revised the business partner auditing
process, integrating sustainability criteria, and the revised
­version entered into force in June 2016. It enables us to guarantee that we only maintain business relationships with reliable
partners with integrity.

Once a year, EWE NETZ invites its strategic suppliers to
join in the dialogue and exchange experience: On its
­Supplier Open Day, the EWE subsidiary provides infor­
mation on current challenges and an insight into new
­conditions and trends in the energy industry, including
digitisation. On average, around 50 civil engineering
companies and materials suppliers take part in the event,
which took place for the seventh time in early 2016.
The open dialogue boosts trust and partnership.
» G4-26

The business partner audit comprises two steps: The “quick
check” involves an assessment of corruption prevention,
­e nvironmental and social standards. If potential risks are
­determined in this analysis, the second step involves a detailed
audit. This audit primarily involves investigating concrete
­business practices with regard to our sustainability criteria:

1)

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

»» I s the business partner heavily active in developing or
emerging countries, where legal requirements in terms of
environmental protection, biodiversity and waste disposal
are less strict than those in Germany? What environmental
protection measures are carried out voluntarily?
»» What standards form the basis for occupational safety and
health management?
»» A re local minimum wage requirements adhered to?

www.ewe.com/de/konzern/nachhaltigkeit/lieferkette

OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Our supply chain comprises the purchasing of materials and
services, as well as of energy resources such as coal and gas.
We maintain supplier relationships on a regional, national and
international level with around 10,000 companies from a variety of industries, including systems and mechanical engineering,
the metal industry, electrical engineering, marketing, consultancy and information technology. » G4-12

29

Supply chain

Concerns the suppliers of all German companies that are majority shareholders,
with the exception of GTG NORD
EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

30

Market and transparency

MARKET AND TRANSPARENCY
The trust and satisfaction of our customers are the basis for our economic
­business success. In order to strengthen both aspects and to continue
to remain attractive in an increasingly competitive environment, we rely on
our high-quality service and transparent business processes.

We measured the success of the project using the BDEW
s­ ervice monitor, another survey carried out annually by the
industry association, which focuses on the quality of service in
customer contact situations. The results: Our customer service
has improved in almost all areas as compared with 2014, with
­s atisfaction increasing in particular for customer service by
phone, the main contact channel. Customers gave the highest
ratings to one-to-one advice at our service points and
­customer centres.
TELECOMS DIVISION EVEN MORE TRANSPARENT

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA
The extent to which our customers perceive us as a good
service provider and partner is measured via our customer
­loyalty index. This is based on four variables relevant to
­customer ­service:
Customer satisfaction
Willingness to recommend
Willingness to remain with the company
Comparison to the competition
The customer loyalty index for the Energy business division is
based on the results of the BDEW Customer Focus study
(“BDEW-Kundenfokus”)1), an image study by the German
Associ­ation of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW). The value
for the Telecoms division was calculated for the first time in
2015. It is based on a customer satisfaction survey that was carried out by a market research institute commissioned by EWE.

1)

With a value of 75, the Energy division improved by three points
on the previous year. This means we are above the industry
average of 73 – and have already achieved our target value of
74 for the year 2020.
In the Telecoms division, we are also above the industry average
with 75.6 points. We will strive to maintain this level in both
divisions. » EWE-FK07
IMPROVED CUSTOMER SERVICE IN THE ENERGY
DIVISION
Eight work packages, 16 measures, one plan: The goal of EWE
VERTRIEB’s major “Customer service” project finalised in 2015
was to boost the quality of customer service in the Energy
­business and thus increase the long-term loyalty of customers.
The correspondence management system was optimised from
both a technical and content point of view so that our employees can process customer queries more quickly as part of the
central and regional customer service. Additionally, employees
were trained in customer communication and customer letters
were made easier to understand.

31

Market and transparency

We also identify areas for improvement on a regular basis in
the Telecoms division and we are working on these constantly.
In 2015, EWE TEL optimised its communications processes, for
example: If a customer query cannot be resolved upon initial
phone contact, we keep the customer informed of every step in
processing the query. This creates transparency and gives the
customer peace of mind as we actively manage the process.

EXCEPTIONAL SERVICE

Aspect

2015

Service management

Excellent

Service and customer advice

Very good

Effectiveness of service

Very good

Overall

Very good

EWE VERTRIEB’s customer service once again achieved a
“very good” rating from the agency ServiceRating

In addition, the service for disruptions in supply as a result of
storms was also improved. Lightning strikes cause voltage
­f luctuations in the public grid, which can result in damage to
our customers’ end devices. In order to help them more quickly
in such circumstances, there is now also the option to report
damage online, as well as via the hotline. We have also
­o ptimised our technology in order to
­p revent damage: Serving area interfaces –
switch cabinets that link main and branch
cables – are now equipped with a lightning protection system.

Great scores for personal customer service in our service points
and customer centres.

T he four parameters of the “BDEW-Kundenfokus” study are available for both EWE and swb.
These are then used to create an aggregate value.

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

32

Market and transparency

33

Market and transparency

“If the person providing the information wishes to remain
anonymous, they can always speak to me in confidence.”

COMPLIANCE GUIDELINES INTEGRATED MORE
FULLY INTO INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

TRAINING SESSIONS ROLLED OUT, SUPPLIERS’
CODE INTRODUCED

Integrity and transparent business processes are major
­requirements for responsible management. In this context, we
established our business principles in the EWE Code of Conduct,
which was introduced in 2012: It is based on the principles of
sustainability, fairness and safety and provides guidance on how
to avoid conflicts of interest, for example, as well as how to deal
with business partners, gifts and sensitive company information.

Our employees are fully informed about the Code of Conduct
and our compliance guidelines. In 2015, we expanded our
­training programme with a new module on competition and
antitrust law. As part of our seminars, we always make concrete
references to business-related and practical topics, for example,
the expansion of broadband networks. This ensures that our
staff can apply their knowledge in day-to-day business operations.

www.ewe.com/konzern/unternehmen/compliance

THREE QUESTIONS
FOR LAWYER JÖRN BEYER, WHO SUPPORTS THE
EWE COMPLIANCE ORGANISATION AS AN EXTERNAL
OMBUDSMAN.

JÖRN BEYER – External ombudsman of EWE

» G4-56

We are currently working to gradually establish the Code of
Conduct throughout the Group. One current area of focus is
on our major international subsidiaries. Our Polish companies
introduced the Code of Conduct in 2014 and our Turkish companies also brought it into force in early 2016. In addition, the
compliance guidelines had already been integrated into the new
site owned by our IT subsidiary BTC in Romania at the time the
new site was established.

COMPLAINTS OR SANCTIONS

In the reporting year, we also revised our measures to prevent
money laundering: Instructions have been rephrased, employees
trained and the data collection process standardised with regard
to existing business relationships within the relevant Group
companies in order to comply properly with legal documentation requirements.

In order to ensure that compliance with the minimum wage
­legislation that entered into force in 2015 is not only maintained
within the Group but also by suppliers, we obtained the relevant
statements from our partners and integrated this aspect in the
newly launched business partner audit.
See “Supply chain” chapter, page 28
For information on the topic see the Appendix of indicators, page 45

There were no complaints or sanctions due to non-­
compliance with laws or regulations during the 2015
reporting year. » G4-SO8

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

Why do people not contact the compliance officer directly?
First of all, the issues and questions should be resolved internally by involving the compliance officer. If the person providing
the information wishes to remain anonymous, however, they
can always speak to me in confidence. As a lawyer, I am bound
to confidentiality.

So that we are able to take full responsibility for our business
activities even beyond the company itself, we introduced a
­suppliers’ code in 2015. It covers the principles of human
rights and working conditions, occupational safety, health,
the ­e nvironment and business integrity.

Mr Beyer, what does an ombudsman do?
The word “ombudsman” comes from Swedish and means something like “unbiased arbitrator”. Employees, customers and
­business partners can approach me, for example, if they suspect
that rules are being violated in the company – anything from
granting advantages to matters pertaining to competition law.
In this role, I support the compliance framework within EWE.

What happens to the information passed on to you?
With the consent of the person providing it, I forward the
­suspicions to the EWE compliance officer, along with a recommendation for taking action. The case is then checked internally
in accordance with a fixed process. I then report back to the
whistleblower with the results.

34

Health and occupational safety

HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
The health of our employees is our top priority. As an employer, we take
responsibility for our employees by promoting their health and ensuring
their safety as far as possible at work.

35

Health and occupational safety

The results were analysed and presented to the companies in
our Group by a consortium of employees from HR and HSE
(health, safety, environment) roles in the holding company,
from BKK EWE, from social counselling, members of the works
council and company doctors. We hope to develop tailored
strategies to avoid such symptoms on the basis of this information in partnership with management. Typical stresses for the
individual roles are thus taken into account and the health of
our employees is strengthened in a specific way.
NEW PROGRAMMES FOR HEALTHY EATING

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA

HEALTH MANAGEMENT NOW CENTRALISED

We aim to provide our staff with a safe and healthy working
environment. We measure the success of our initiatives via the
Group health rate 1). We want to increase this to 97 per cent by
2020. As 95.4 per cent in 2015, the health rate was almost the
same as the previous year’s value of 95.3 per cent.

The central coordination point for health management, which
was established in the holding company in 2014, has already
implemented several measures in 2015. We created reports, for
example, based on anonymised data obtained from our BKK
EWE company health insurance fund. These reports provide
information about specific symptoms at EWE AG and its major
subsidiaries.

The fact that this is a positive result is highlighted by the
­counter-trend in Germany: Nationwide, the health rate has
been continuing to decrease over the past decade. Employees
were off sick for an average of 17.3 days in
2015 2); at EWE, this figure was 11.76 days.
Additionally, the current economic challenges facing the energy industry are associated with internal restructuring at EWE
that could have a negative impact on the
health rate. The consistently high health
rate motivates us on our path to expanding
both our health management and safety at
work initiatives.
» EWE-FK08

High-altitude rescue team training at the gas and steam turbine power
plant in Bremen-Mittelsbüren.

One area of focus for our health management system is to
­c reate new ways to promote healthy eating. In early 2015, for
example, we launched our “After-work cooking” seminar. It
offers our employees the opportunity to learn important information about maintaining a balanced diet as part of a cookery
evening headed by an external nutritional advisor. The event
was well received: The frequency of the event has been
increased from once a month to three times a month as a
result of high demand.
In addition, in partnership with the building services management team, surveys were carried out among the guests at
our canteens at various sites with the aim of integrating the

requirements and requests of our staff. Based on the results,
consistent requirements in terms of meal plans were determined and, where required, canteen staff also received training
in healthy eating.
SAFETY AT WORK: GROUP-WIDE FUNCTION
GUIDELINES LAUNCHED
As an energy company, EWE is subject to industry-specific risks
such as dealing with gas handling equipment and live electrical
facilities. Our Group health, safety and environment department develops programmes to ensure occupational safety, to
protect health and the environment and to ensure the greatest
possible degree of safety at work. It supports the companies’
management teams in compliance with legal requirements and
other relevant regulations.
In order to group together existing activities by the individual
Group companies, we introduced the Group HSE guidelines in
2015. This comprises Group-wide regulations on occupational
safety, health and the environment. As such, our management
and staff throughout the Group receive consistent information
on how to apply and implement the guidelines.
For information on the topic see the Appendix of indicators, page 45

Accidents subject to compulsory reporting, including commute-related accidents,
decreased by 23 per cent across the Group
Rate per 1,000 members of staff 1)
25
19.96

20

19.75

15
10.972)

11.502)
9.15

10
5

8.41

9.45

8.78

1.99

2.02

2014

2015

0
T he health rate is the opposite of the absentee rate, i.e., with
an absentee rate of 3 per cent, the health rate is 97 per cent.
The absentee rate is derived from the ratio of days taken as
sick leave to the intended number of working days during the
reporting period. This also includes days of holiday.
2)
Source: BKK Dachverband. www.bkk-dachverband.de
1)

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

EWE total

EWE Germany

EWE International

2014: Five-year EWE average 2009 – 2013
2015: Five-year EWE average 2010 – 2014

2014: Five-year BG ETEM average 3) 2009 – 2013
2015: Five-year BG ETEM average 2010 – 2014

In addition to the companies stated as the boundary of the report, BIBER GmbH, EnergieCampus GmbH, GSN Gebäudesicherheit Nord GmbH and
EWE Biogas GmbH & Co. KG, with a total of around 160 staff, are also taken into account for accident statistics (indicator G4-LA6).
The figure for 2014 was corrected upwards slightly: In Germany, there were 98 (not 97) accidents subject to compulsory reporting.
3)
Berufsgenossenschaft Energie Textil Elektro Medienerzeugnisse (Professional Association for Energy, Textiles, Electricity, Media)
1)

2)

» G4-LA6

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

36

Health and occupational safety

“Healthy, productive and motivated staff are a major factor
in the success of our company. My task is to tie all the
health-related measures in the Group in with a consistent
structure, tailor them to one another and manage them.
I increase awareness among our staff and management
team with regard to healthy behaviours and support them
as best I can with specific measures.”

37

Employees and education

EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION
Retaining highly qualified staff over a long period of time is a decisive factor in the
success of our company. The effects of demographic change, however, make it
harder and harder to obtain well-qualified staff and to retain them over the long
term. For this reason, in addition to recruiting well-qualified youngsters, we also
set great store by our own apprenticeships and the ongoing training of our staff.

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA

Employee demographics
in % (change compared to the previous year)

HEIDI SAGEMANN – Health Manager for the EWE Group

We want to become a highly desirable employer in our regions –
one that shapes the energy supply of the future with well-qualified employees. One indicator of our appeal is the length of the
staffing period. We are aiming to reduce this to 75 working
days, i.e. the time from issuing the job ad to concluding the
employment contract, by 2020. With 83.4 working days in
2015, this value increased slightly as compared to the previous
year (2014: 85.6 days). » EWE-FK09
NEGOTIATIONS ON “DEMOGRAFIE” COLLECTIVE
LABOUR AGREEMENT PROCEED
Demographic change is already starting to have a long-term
effect on our business success and the employment situation of
our staff. In order to master the challenges associated with this,
employer and employee representatives at EWE have agreed to
negotiate an “EWE Demografie” (EWE Demography) collective
labour agreement. A letter of intent from 2015 established the
areas that required contractual regulation and which instruments would be useful in implementing the regulations.

45

39.4

30

18.0
15

10.8
5.6

5.4
0

20.8

< 30 years

30 – 50 years

> 50 years

TOTAL
16.2 (-1.4)

TOTAL
57.4 (-2.0)

TOTAL
26.4 (+3.4)

First signs of demographic change: The proportion of under-30s, as
well as those aged between 30 and 50, decreased slightly in comparison
to the previous year; the proportion of over-50s increased by 3.4 per
cent. » G4-LA12

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

38

Employees and education

GENDER QUOTA: AIMS ESTABLISHED FOR 2017
INITIATIVE FOR REFUGEES SEEKING WORK
We want to offer women and men the same career opportunities. Key positions should always be filled with the most suitable
candidate, regardless of gender. For this reason, it is our aim to
increase the number of women in management positions.
To do this, we are drawing on options that make it possible to
balance having a career and a family, such as the crèche at our
Oldenburg site, and flexible working hours. On the basis of the
­G erman legislation to promote equal opportunities for men and
women in management positions, we have set ourselves quotas
for the companies subject to this law. We want to implement
these quotas, which relate to the proportion of women in
the Supervisory Board, Board of Management and executive
positions, by 30 June 2017.
More information in the Annual Report 2015, page 75

Target quota for the Supervisory Board and
Board of Management of EWE AG

Company

Board or
level of
management

EWE AG Supervisory
Board
Board of
Management

Percentage
of women
(as of
31.12.2015)

Target
percentage
by
30.06.2017 Defined by:

5%

5% EWE AG
Supervisory
20% Board

20%

Target quota for the top two levels of
management of EWE AG

Company

Level of
management

Percentage
of women
(as of
31.12.2015)

EWE AG Head of
department

9.1%

Team leader

24.0%

Target
percentage
by
30.06.2017 Defined by:
12.5% EWE AG
Board of
24.4% Management

For information on the topic see the Appendix of indicators, page 45

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

39

Employees and education

THREE QUESTIONS
FOR REINHOLD BLÖMER, EWE OFFICER FOR
APPRENTICESHIPS AND TRAINING.

The not-for-profit organisation “pro:connect – Integration
durch Bildung und Arbeit” (Integration through Education
and Employment) has set itself the task of providing
advice to refugees and enabling their entry into the labour
market. EWE subsidiary BTC is an active member in the
initiative, which was founded by the City of Oldenburg,
the district of Ammerland and business represen­tatives.
It supports the organisation in setting up an IT infrastructure and offers supervised work experience placements
for refugees looking for work. This means BTC is helping
to offer them a brighter future and also secures itself the
opportunity to get potential expert staff on board.

Around 135 young people start work for EWE every year in order
to complete apprenticeships in one of 24 different job categories offered by the Group, or as part of dual courses. Available
at EWE as of 2015: Systems Technician and Retail Salesperson.

Mr Blömer, EWE has added two new job titles to its
­apprenticeship programme. Why?
We need well-qualified systems technicians and retail sales­
people – however, it’s getting harder and harder to find suitable
staff. This is partly to do with demographic change, but also
partly due to EWE’s requirements. It was clear, therefore, that
we needed to launch apprenticeships in these two fields.
What advantages does that have?
We can adopt content that is specifically tailored to our company and get young people on
board who bring with them the relevant level of
interest. For example, the retail staff at our service points not only need to be talented at making a sale – they also require in-depth specialist
knowledge about energy and telecommunications. This combination is quite rare. Our
apprenticeship plan contains lots of different
seminars and training sessions to communicate
this knowledge.

“Apprenticeships secure us
the expert staff we need”
EWE also trains more staff than it needs, though, right?
Our main aim is to secure ourselves enough specialist staff
through our apprenticeship scheme. However, as a predominantly municipal company, we also see apprenticeships as a
matter of social responsibility: Our regions benefit from
well-qualified young people.
www.ewe.com/karriere

REINHOLD BLÖMER – Officer for apprenticeships and training at EWE

40

Data protection and ­information security

DATA PROTECTION AND
­INFORMATION SECURITY
The confidential and secure treatment of customer and company data is an
integral part of our corporate policy. Our information management team works
according to strict security and compliance regulations, covering the fields
of data protection, information security and unbundling.

OUR PROGRESS CRITERIA
DATA PROTECTION
In order to train our employees consistently in data protection,
information security and unbundling, we are working on introducing consistent e-learning modules. In 2015, we designed new
course content and developed existing tools further. By 2020,
we want 85 per cent of the employees in companies where
training sessions are compulsory in one or several of the three
topics to have taken part in the training scheme. This takes into
account the fact that a quota of 100 per cent can never be
achieved as a result of sick leave and holiday absences, as well
as fluctuations in staff numbers. » EWE-FK10
ON THE HOME STRAIGHT: DEVELOPING THE
E-LEARNING PROGRAMMES
In the context of the digitisation of our business processes and
the generally increasing significance of digital business models,
the knowledge of how to protect personal data and company
information is becoming ever more important. Our e-learning
programmes aim to train as many of our staff as possible in as
short a time as possible, and in a flexible way. By doing so, we
can raise awareness of information security and data protection
risks, as well as the legal basics of unbundling.

In 2015, a new training module on unbundling was created,
which was tested in the first half of 2016 and will gradually be
rolled out across all EWE companies. For the online training
­sessions in data protection-related content, we have expanded
existing tools with additional content so that they will be able
to be used across the Group in future. These training tools have
already been used to train around 15 per cent of the Group
employees for whom training is compulsory.
A Group-wide training programme for the area of information
security is due to be introduced in practice at the end of 2016.
Around 20 per cent of staff also received training through
decentralised, company-specific learning modules in 2015.
INFORMATION SECURITY: NEW GUIDELINES,
ESTABLISHED ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
The Group-wide information security team aims to protect
the information key to business success from loss, misuse and
manipulation, as well as to support digital business processes.
It also promotes a security culture that serves to protect the
employee and that strengthens the trust that customers and
partners have in our services and products. In 2015, we developed a new Group guideline that entered into force in 2016. It
lays out the principles of information security throughout the
Group.

At EWE, the protection of personal data has the highest
priority. Our data protection team take special care to
ensure compliance with current legal regulations. Our
measures are effective: In 2015, we had no justified complaints leading to a significant restriction of the rights of
the ­p erson or persons affected as a result of data protection infringements. » G4-PR8

41

Data protection and ­information security

Additionally, the organisational structure for information
­security agreed upon in 2014 was established in practice in
2015. The newly appointed Chief Information Security Officer
(CISO) represents the Group’s requirements in terms of information security. The CISO is responsible for carrying out and
developing the information security management, and functions as an interface between the companies and other Group
positions, such as data protection, compliance and crisis
and emergency management.

INFOGRAPHIC OF NEW INFORMATION
SECURITY STRUCTURE

EWE BOARD OF
MANAGEMENT
Overall responsibility ­for
information security
(IS) in the Group
Division Head on the Board
of Management responsible:
HR and IT

DECISION-MAKING COMMITTEE

CISO
(ISC COMMITTEE)
Chief Information Security
Officer (CISO) Information
Security Council (ISC)
Centralised performance
of tasks resulting from the
­I nformation Security Division
Head on the Board of
­Management’s expertise in
issuing guidelines

ISO
Information security
officer (ISO)
Decentralised performance of
tasks from the responsibility
for implementing information
security in the companies

MANAGEMENT/
BOARD OF
­M ANAGEMENT
FOR THE
­COMPANY

– Professional reporting channels
– Responsibilities

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

42

Data protection and ­information security

43

Data protection and ­information security

“It is our goal to make use of the
opportunities presented by the
world of digital business while
also controlling risks.”
Security standards and guidelines are developed by the infor­
mation security council (ISC) headed by the CISO. The council
is made up of the information security officer and IT security
teams of the Group companies. Its recommendations are
­p resented to a decision-making committee, which is chaired
by the HR and IT Division Head on the Board of Management.
The responsibility for the implementation of the measures
lies with the companies.

IN DIALOGUE WITH THE INDUSTRY

THREE QUESTIONS
FOR RALF STRACKE, CHIEF INFORMATION SECURITY
OFFICER AT EWE AG.

UNBUNDLING
The German Energy Management Act (Energiewirtschaftsgesetz) requires that grid operations and sales should be separated under corporate law: The grid operator has to guarantee
all service providers discrimination-free access to the grid. In
order to fulfil these requirements, EWE works in accordance
with a comprehensive programme to ensure equal treatment.
Our subsidiaries EWE NETZ, EWE GASSPEICHER, wesernetz
Bremen, wesernetz Bremerhaven and Gastransport Nord GmbH
report on current developments in annual equal treatment
reports, which have to be presented to the German Federal
Grid Agency on 31 March each year.
w ww.ewe.com/de/konzern/nachhaltigkeit/datenschutz-undinformationssicherheit

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

Data protection, information security, unbundling: EWE is
involved with working groups of the German government
and industry associations in order to help shape legal
­initiatives and industry standards in these areas. For
example, we are a member of the public/private partnership between the German government and operators of
critical infrastructures (KRITIS), which deals with the
implementation of the national cyber security strategy.
In terms of unbundling, we engage in regular dialogue in
the German Association of Energy and Water Industries
(BDEW) working group meetings. EWE TEL takes part in
the BfDI (Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of Information) events and is active in relevant
data security associations. » G4-15, G4-26

Mr Stracke, in 2015, EWE created a new Group guideline on
information security. Why does EWE need this guideline?
New requirements of our company are arising as a result of the
increasing digitisation of business processes. Secure energy
­supply is increasingly dependent on digital processes, and more
and more products are based on online apps. This makes information of critical importance as a business value. It is our goal
to make use of the opportunities presented by the world of
­digital business, while controlling the risks associated with this.
The guideline establishes the scope of action in terms of
­information security.

Who is involved in the development of your information
­security measures?
We develop all measures together with the information security
officers from the subsidiaries. The guideline was also developed
in the same way. By doing this, we can ensure that we do not
simply operate a theoretical “textbook” security strategy but
that we can integrate corporate requirements to their fullest
extent.

The organisation of information security within
the Group was restructured in 2015 and is now
coordinated centrally. What advantages does
that have?
As a result of the major changes in EWE’s business, the increasing number of cyber attacks
and far-reaching legislative requirements, we
have to view our information security strategy
as a whole. Thanks to the Group-wide organisational structure, we obtain a certain proximity
to operative business. At the same time, we are
able to assess risks that occur in one of our
companies for their relevance to the Group as a
whole. As an operator of critical infrastructures,
we bear a high level of responsibility. Our customers, business partners and the German
­government expect that we can handle information appropriately.

RALF STRACKE – Chief Information Security Officer at EWE AG

44

About this report

ABOUT THIS REPORT

Our second sustainability report, “Energy supply for a new era”,
directly ties in with the first report from 2014. It presents the
developments and progress made by our sustainability projects
in 2015 in an economic, environmental and social level. Together
with the Annual Report, this enables us to give a deeper insight
into the financial and non-financial activities of the Group.
www.ewe.com/de/investor-relations/publikationen

This report has been created in accordance with the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and includes
industry-­specific information about energy and telecommunications. It fulfils the requirements of the “Core” option. The
report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures
­S ervice and GRI has confirmed the correctness of the position
of the G4 Materiality Disclosures (G4-17 – G4-27). Every year,
we report on the financial and non-financial indices in our
­company. » G4-30, G4-32
CONTENT AND STRUCTURE
The principles and aims of our sustainability management
­s trategy are described in the “Sustainability at EWE” chapter.
See page 6. The report is structured in line with the ten areas
of action in our sustainability strategy:

APPENDIX OF INDICATORS

The relevance of a major topic inside or outside of EWE is
­disclosed for each individual aspect in the GRI Content Index.

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

In the appendix, we will report on other specific indicators
relating to the EWE areas of action.

» G4-20, G4-21

In 2015, we checked the aspects and indicators reported on in
the previous year once again. Some GRI indicators 1) from the
­p revious year are no longer reported on because we have set
ourselves an even stricter focus on the key topics.
REPORT BOUNDARIES
All information and indices in this report refer to the 2015
­business year (1 January to 31 December), provided no other
information to the contrary is given. Information relevant to
reporting that became apparent after the 31 December cut-off
date has also been included in the report. » G4-28
Our sustainability management strategy is based on the consolidated data of the major companies 2), measured by strategic
­significance and ability to cover at least 95 per cent of the EWE
Group’s revenues. 3) Any discrepancies are highlighted in the
report. The company profile does not fall under this boundary.
» G4-17

AREA OF ACTION
SECURITY OF SUPPLY AND NETWORK STABILITY
CO2 emission allowances

Losses on the electricity grid
2015

2014

2.16

2.10

Losses on the German medium and
low-voltage grid (in %)

Total number of carbon credits
Carbon credits allocated

» G4-EU12

Carbon credits acquired by auction

AREA OF ACTION
CLIMATE PROTECTION AND GENERATION

2015

2014

2,362,984

2,186,372

126,402

139,319

2,236,582 2,047,053

Proportion of carbon credits allocated
(in %)

5.3

6.4

» G4-EU5

Installed output (in MW thermal energy)
2015

2014

Installed thermal output 1)

746

746

Refined coal

178

178

Natural gas

445

445

Waste to energy

123

123

1)

See Our business, page 2

security of supply and network stability, innovation and product
responsibility, climate protection and generation, environmental management and resource efficiency, regional responsibility,
supply chain, market and transparency, health and occupational
safety, employees and education, as well as data protection and
information security.
The areas of action were defined via a multi-stage materiality
analysis based on surveys, with the input of our stakeholders.
See page 9. The topics and projects described in the individual
chapters for the areas of action cover our major activities in
2015. » G4-18, G4-19

45

Appendix of indicators

T he indicator is recorded at all large-scale combustion and gas turbine power plants
(in accordance with the 13th Federal Emission Control Act), as well as in all plants
that incinerate or co-incinerate waste (in accordance with the 17th Federal Emission
Control Act).

2015

2014

Refined coal

44

44

Blast furnace gas

– 4)

38

Waste

30

29

Light oil

16

11

Utilisation rate (total efficiency)
of thermal power plants

Power efficiency of
thermal power plants

» G4-EU1

Net energy generation (in GWh)
2015

Generation efficiency of thermal power plants (in %) 3)

2014

Refined coal

36

37

Blast furnace gas

– 4)

38

Light oil

16

11

I ndicator is recorded in all plants that incinerate or co-incinerate waste (in accordance with
the 17th Federal Emission Control Act), as well as in all large-scale combustion and gas turbine power plants (in accordance with the 13th Federal Emission Control Act). The conversion of blast furnace gas into electricity was not evaluated.
4)
Since 2015, swb has been the operations manager of the blast furnace gas-fired power station as part of a leasing model, but no longer the plant operator. The energy generated there
is shown on the leaseholder’s balance sheet.
3)

	S pecific standard disclosures G4-EC8, G4-EU10, G4-EN1, G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN20,
G4-EN21, G4-EN22, G4-EN29, G4-EN34, G4-LA3, G4-LA4, G4-HR3, G4-HR4, G4-SO1,
G4-SO 2, G4-PR9; Sector Disclosures Electric Utilities: G4-EU30, G4-EU13, G4-EU22,
Sector Supplement GRI Telecommunications TK-PA1; TK-IO3.
2)
	T he focus of the sustainability report is on the major companies, measured by their strategic
relevance and ability to cover at least 95 per cent of the EWE Group’s revenues. These are:
BTC Business Technology Consulting AG, BTC IT Services GmbH, Bursagaz Bursa Şehiriçi
Doğalgaz Dağıtım Ticaret ve Taahhüt A.Ş., EWE AG, EWE VERTRIEB GmbH, EWE energia
Sp. z o.o., EWE ERNEUERBARE ENERGIEN GmbH, EWE GASSPEICHER GmbH, EWE NETZ
GmbH, EWE Offshore Service & Solutions GmbH, EWE Polska Sp. z o.o., EWE TEL GmbH,
EWE TRADING GmbH, EWE WASSER GmbH, Gastransport Nord GmbH, Kayserigaz Kayseri
Doğalgaz Dağıtım Pazarlama ve Ticaret A.Ş., swb Abrechnungsservice GmbH, swb AG,
swb Bremerhaven GmbH, swb CREA GmbH, swb Entsorgung GmbH & Co. KG, swb Erzeugung AG & Co. KG, swb Erzeugung und Entsorgung AG & Co. KG, swb Services AG & Co. KG,
swb Vertrieb Bremen GmbH, swb Vertrieb Bremerhaven GmbH & Co. KG, wesernetz Bremen
GmbH, wesernetz Bremerhaven GmbH.
3)
	For a comprehensive list of all companies consolidated in the annual financial statements,
see the Annual Report 2015, p. 180 et seq.
1)

Heat generation by primary
fuel source 2)

1,344

1,307

Refined coal

523.3

505

Natural gas

356

365

Waste to energy

279

262

145.2

139

40.5

36

Biomethane
Other (biogas, refuse-derived fuels,
heating oil, sewage biogas)
2)

» G4-EU11

Direct CO2 emissions 5)

I n contrast to Indicator G4-EU1, this also comprises heat generated by cogeneration plants.

» G4-EU2

Direct CO2 emissions
(in Mg)
5)

2015

2014

Change
in %

2,386,506

2,263,475

5.4

Direct emissions from electricity and heat generation plants; not including CO2 emissions
from blast furnace gas.

» G4-EN15, G4-EN19

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

46

Appendix of indicators

AREA OF ACTION
MARKET AND TRANSPARENCY

AREA OF ACTION
EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION

Information and training on
guidelines and procedures for fighting corruption
2015
Total number of members
of the controlling body
having received information

5

Results of surveys on
customer satisfaction (index value) 1)
2015

2014

5

Brand level

70.3
(Energy);
76.6 (TC)

67.2
(Energy);
75.8 (TC)

Main business region

71.3
(Energy);
77.0 (TC)

68.8
(Energy);
76.0 (TC)

100

100

Total number of staff
having received information

1,105
(rounded and
taking double-­
clicks into
account)

~2,100
(taking
double-­­
clicks into
account)

Percentage of staff
having received information

13

~24

Suppliers’ Suppliers’ code
code was
introduced
introduced in
from 2015
2015;
see “Progress
criteria” p. 28

Total number of training sessions
Staff in controlling body
Percentage of training sessions
Staff in controlling body

5
100

1)

Queries for the Compliance Officer

67

84

168

144

65

59

Queries for the Compliance team

» G4-SO4

30

2015
Work-related deaths
(number of deaths)

2014

0

0

Germany

0

0

International

0

0

5.57

7.34
(1.46) 4)

Injury rate 3) (number of injuries/
1,000,000 working hours)
Germany

Days lost 3) (number of days lost/
1,000,000 working hours)

Total value of political contributions

» G4-SO6

9,099

Permanent

7,792

7,683

of which female

2,120

2,105

of which male

5,672

5,578

412

440

of which female

156

163

of which male

256

277

12

17

0

1

12

16

Special groups of employees (trainees,
support staff, work experience placements,
apprentices)

Absences due to illness, injury and work-related deaths 2)

Germany

In line with its internal Group policy, EWE does not
make any political donations.

9,217

of which male

AREA OF ACTION
HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

International
68

Total number of employees by
contract and gender 1)

of which female

Percentage of training
sessions Staff
Training of new staff

2014

Partial retirement, active

» G4-PR5

5
100

2015

Temporary

 T he indices are made up of the two variables of customer satisfaction and willingness
to ­recommend. The calculations are based on the “BDEW-Kundenfokus” survey
(Energy division) and a customer satisfaction survey (Telecommunications division)
­commissioned by EWE.

Total number of training
sessions Staff
Training of new staff

Staff structure

2014

Percentage of members
of the controlling body
having received information

Total number of business partners
having received information

47

Appendix of indicators

International

5.88

7.82
(1.55) 4)

1.13

1.06
(0.21) 4)

95.78

83.82
(16.54) 4)

102.02

89.81
(17.73) 4)

5.66

4.24
(0.85) 4)

 ot including subcontractors and staff bound by instruction (external temp staff);
N
­information on workplace accidents not broken down by gender. In addition to the companies stated as the boundary of the report, BIBER GmbH, EnergieCampus GmbH, GSN
Gebäudesicherheit Nord GmbH and EWE Biogas GmbH & Co. KG, with a total of around
160 staff, are also taken into account for accident statistics (indicator G4-LA6).
3)
T he number of working hours make up the total working time. The total working time is
either calculated as hours worked, or as planned hours minus public holidays, holidays and
statistical health-related absences.
4)
T he reference value was adjusted from 200,000 working hours to 1,000,000 working hours
in the reporting year 2015 because this corresponds to the internationally applicable
­reference value.
2)

623

605

of which female

184

170

of which male

439

435

Inactive (passive part-time retirement,
early retirements, parental leave, national
service, alternative service)

378

354

of which female

184

166

of which male

194

188

2015

2014

Total number of staff by employees/staff
bound by instruction and gender

9,293

9,250

Employees (incl. Board of Management/
management staff and special employee
groups)

9,217

9,099

of which female

2,660

2,605

of which male

6,557

6,494

76

151

of which female

48

61

of which male

28

90

Staff bound by instruction 2)

Total number of employees by
region and gender 1)

9,217

9,099

Germany

8,687

8,596

of which female

2,478

2,440

of which male

6,209

6,156

530

503

of which female

166

165

of which male

364

338

International

Total number of employees by type of
employment and gender 1)

9,217

9,099

T he total number of staff given in the sustainability report is based on the number of
­contractual relationships at the cut-off date of 31.12.2015. This includes dormant contracts.
As a result of this, as well as due to the boundaries of the sustainability report (see G4-17),
there is a discrepancy to the total number of staff stated in the Annual Report.
2)
Staff entrusted to complete work at a German EWE company by third parties (e.g. temping
companies) in accordance with the German Temporary Employment Act (AÜG).

Full-time

7,234

7,217

» G4-10

of which female

1,457

1,496

of which male

5,777

5,721

982

923

of which female

819

773

of which male

163

150

Part-time

Special groups of employees (trainees,
support staff, work experience placements,
apprentices)

623

605

of which female

184

170

of which male

439

435

Inactive (passive part-time retirement,
early retirements, parental leave,
national service, alternative service)

378

354

of which female

184

166

of which male

194

188

1)

Staff under collective labour agreements
Staff under collective labour agreements

2015

2014

8,489

8,402

» G4-11

» G4-LA6

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

48

Appendix of indicators

 umber and rate of new employees,
N
staff fluctuation by age, gender and region
2015
Number

Proportion of employees likely to retire
in 5 to 10 years (in %)
2015

2014
% Number

712

7.7

839

9.2

≤30 years

455

4.9

506

5.6

of which female

169

1.8

183

2.0

of which male

286

3.1

323

3.6

240

2.6

277

3.0

71

0.8

65

0.7

169

1.8

212

2.3

17

0.2

56

0.6

6

0.1

14

0.2

11

0.1

42

0.4

of which female
of which male
>50 years
of which female
of which male
Total number of employees
by region and gender

712

7.7

839

9.2

Germany

646

7.0

787

8.6

of which female

223

2.4

249

2.7

of which male

423

4.6

538

5.9

66

0.7

52

0.6

of which female

23

0.2

13

0.2

of which male

43

0.4

39

0.4

International

715

7.8

823

9.0

≤30 years

334

3.6

382

4.2

of which female

129

1.8

135

1.5

of which male

205

2.2

247

2.7

230

2.5

290

3.2

66

0.7

88

1.0

164

1.8

202

2.2

151

1.6

151

1.7

of which female
of which male
>50 years
of which female
of which male

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

29

0.3

27

0.3

122

1.3

124

1.4

2014
% Number

%

2015

2014

Proportion of employees likely to retire
in 5 to 10 years, by job category

8.1

10.2

Executives

0.3

0.5

Staff paid in excess of tariff agreements

0.5

0.7

Staff paid according to tariff agreements

5.6

7.5

1.7

1.5

Total number of
ex-employees by region
and gender

715

7.8

823

9.0

Staff not subject to tariff agreements

Germany

657

7.1

780

8.5

of which female

201

2.6

235

2.6

Proportion of employees likely to retire
in 5 to 10 years, by country

8.2

10.2

of which male

456

4.9

545

5.9

Germany

8.0

9.6

58

0.1

43

0.5

International

0.2

0.6

» G4-EU15

International
of which female

23

0.2

15

0.2

of which male

35

0.4

28

0.3

Average length of
service of ex-employees
by age group
≤30 years

(in years)

(in years)

11.6

17.7

1.5

2015

2014

2.5

2.1

2.2

Staff not subject to tariff agreements

32.9

28.2

of which male

1.9

2.0

of which male

22.2

18.9

0.6

1.4

of which male

2.0

2.4

31–50 years

Composition of the controlling body and
employees by employee category, gender
and age group (in %)
Executives

of which female

2015

≤30 years

0.0

0.0

≤30 years

31–50 years

1.1

1.3

31–50 years

2014

2.9

2.7

15.6

13.6
2.6

7.3

12.7

6.8

7.7

>50 years

0.8

0.7

>50 years

3.7

7.8

13.0

of which female

0.2

0.2

of which female

10.7

9.3

23.3

27.3

≤30 years

0.0

0.0

≤30 years

2.1

2.0

of which female

24.6

14.3

31–50 years

0.1

0.2

31–50 years

7.4

6.4

of which male

23.9

28.2

>50 years

0.1

0.0

>50 years

1.2

0.9

Staff paid in excess of tariff agreements

7.4

7.4

of which male

of which female
of which male
>50 years

Total number of
ex-employees by age group
and gender

31–50 years

Number

%

Total number of employees
by age group and gender

31–50 years

49

Appendix of indicators

» G4-LA1

Programmes for knowledge management and lifelong learning
EWE offers its staff regular training sessions in the Group’s own
Training Centre. We train management staff and young executives in the EWE Academy. The management programmes’
strong focus on strategy and entrepreneurial behaviour helps
the participants to develop new approaches and integrate this
new impetus into their own company. » G4-LA10

6.1

6.1

≤30 years

0.1

0.1

31–50 years

3.5

4.2

>50 years

2.6

1.7

of which female

1.3

1.3

≤30 years

0.0

0.0

31–50 years

1.0

1.1

>50 years

0.3

0.2

Staff paid according to tariff agreements

57.5

62.2

of which male

40.9

44.3

7.9

8.6

31–50 years

19.3

22.6

>50 years

13.7

13.1

of which female

16.6

17.9

≤30 years

3.2

4.1

31–50 years

9.4

10.1

>50 years

4.0

3.7

≤30 years

Proportion of Supervisory Board members
by age groups and gender
of which ≤30 years old

0.0

0.0

female

0.0

0.0

male

0.0

0.0

15.0

10.0

of which 31–50 years old
female
male
of which >50 years old
female
male

0.0

0.0

15.0

10.0

85.0

90.0

5.0

5.0

80.0

85.0

» G4-LA12

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

50

GRI Content Index

51

GRI Content Index

GRI CONTENT INDEX

The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service.
The GRI has confirmed the correctness of the position of the G4 Materiality
Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27. Page references without any further information
refer to this sustainability report. References to the annual report (AR) pertain
to the Annual Report 2015.

GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 1)
Indicator

GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 1)

Indicator abbreviation

Reference/comment

Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

Reference/comment

G4-1

Foreword by the Group’s Board of Management

5

G4-22

Reformulation of information from previous reports

No reformulations were made.

G4-3

Company name

2

G4-23

Changes to aspect boundaries in previous reports

There were no changes.

G4-4

Major brands, products, services

2, 3, 17, 19

G4-24

Stakeholders engaged

9

G4-5

Company headquarters

2

G4-25

Selection of stakeholders

9

G4-6

Number and names of countries in which
the company is active

3

G4-26

Integration of stakeholders

9, 29, 42

G4-7

Ownership structure and legal form

2

G4-27

Stakeholder issues

9

G4-8

Markets served

3

G4-28

Reporting period

44

G4-9

Size of the company

2, 3, AR U2

G4-29

Publication of the previous report

July 2015

G4-10

Staff structure

47

G4-30

Reporting cycle

44

G4-11

Staff under collective labour agreements

47

G4-31

Representative

58

G4-12

Description of the supply chain

28

G4-32

Chosen “In Accordance”-option

Core option

External audit review

No external audit was conducted.

G4-13

Significant changes to the ownership structure
of the company during the reporting period

G4-33

Change effective 01.04.2016, see p. 2, AR p. 98–99

G4-14

Precautionary approach

7

G4-34

Governance structure, including
responsibility for sustainability

9, AR p. 42-43, 57-58

G4-15

Support of external initiatives

42

G4-56

Mission statement, corporate values
and codes of conduct

28, 32

G4-16

Membership of associations and interest groups

9

G4-EU1

Installed output

45

G4-EU2

Net energy production

45

G4-EU3

Number of power connections and
electricity customers 2)

16

G4-EU4

Length of electricity grid 3)

16

G4-EU5

Number of CO2 emissions allowances

45

G4-17

Reporting boundaries

44

G4-18

Processes for determining the content of the report

9, 44

G4-19

Major aspects of the report

8, 44

G4-20

Aspect boundaries within the company

Aspects that have an significant economic, environmental or social impact within the
organisation and are listed in the GRI Content Index, are always deemed relevant to the
­companies defined in G4-17 (Reporting boundaries). Any discrepancies for individual
­companies are highlighted in the report.

G4-21

Aspect boundaries outside of the company

Relevant aspects within the organisation that are addressed and managed outside
of EWE with external stakeholders are highlighted in the GRI Content Index.

Indicators with the abbreviation EU (in accordance with GRI G4 Sector Disclosures Electric Utilities) apply for the energy sector.
 N ow includes homes connected to gas supply and number of gas and telecommunications customers; the German Energy Management Act (Energiewirtschaftsgesetz)
regulates the separation of grid operations and sales for power and gas.
3)
Now includes network lengths for gas and telecoms.
1)

2)

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

52

GRI Content Index

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

53

GRI Content Index

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Reference

Omission

Reason for omission

Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

Reference

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT EMPLOYMENT

Economic performance (aspect boundary within EWE)

Employment (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)

6-7, 12-13

DMA
G4-EC1

Economic value generated
and ­d istributed

27

EWE-ZA1

Research and development
­e xpenditures 1)

17

Reason for omission

13, 37-39

DMA

Procurement (aspect boundary within EWE)

Omission

G4-LA1

Number and rate of new employees,
staff fluctuation by age, gender and
48
region

G4-EU15

Proportion of employees likely
to retire in 5 to 10 years

49

Occupational health and safety (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
13, 28-29

DMA
G4-EC9

Proportion of regional procurement

28

GRI term “local” replaced by “regional”

EWE Group wording

13, 34-35

DMA

System efficiency (aspect boundary within EWE)
12

DMA
G4-EU11

Generation efficiency of thermal
power plants

45

G4-EU12

Losses on the electricity grid

45

G4-LA6

G4-LA10

23, 24

Limited to fleet and building services
­m anagement

Group-wide accounting is still
being established.

Direct CO2 emissions

G4-EN18

CO2 emissions in grams per kilowatt-hour of electricity generated
(intensity of CO2 emissions)

G4-EN19

Reduction of CO2 emissions

45

20

20, 45

Other plants and emissions are of
secondary importance.

Limited to power plants generating
electricity and heat

Other power plants and emissions are of secondary importance and/or reporting is still
being established (Scope 2), or the data is not
currently being collected (Scope 3).

Limited to power plants generating
electricity and heat

Other power plants and emissions are of secondary importance and/or reporting is still
being established (Scope 2), or the data is not
currently being collected (Scope 3).

G4-LA14

Assessing new suppliers with
regard to social aspects

29

No details available for suppliers in 2015

The management and reporting
process is still being established.

HUMAN RIGHTS
Evaluation of suppliers with regard to human rights (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
13, 37-39

DMA
G4-HR10

Assessing new suppliers with
regard to human rights criteria

29

Not broken down by region

Not relevant

13, 28-29

DMA

1)

37

13, 28-29

DMA
Limited to power plants generating
electricity and heat

Evaluation of suppliers with regard to environmental aspects (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)

G4-EN32

G4-LA12

Composition of the controlling
body and employees by employee
category, gender and age group

Evaluation of suppliers with regard to labour practices (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)

12, 20-22

G4-EN15

48

13, 37-39

DMA

Emissions (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
DMA

Programmes for knowledge
management and lifelong learning

Diversity and equal opportunities (aspect boundary within EWE)

12, 23-25
Internal energy consumption

13, 37-39

DMA

Energy (aspect boundary within EWE)

G4-EN3

35

The management and reporting process is
still being established. Not broken down by
gender in order to avoid cases being linked
with specific individuals.

Training (aspect boundary within EWE)

ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

DMA

Absences due to illness, injury
and work-related deaths

Not including occupational illnesses; not
including subcontractors and staff bound by
instruction; information on workplace
accidents not broken down by gender.

Assessing new suppliers with
regard to environmental aspects

29

No details available for suppliers in 2015

The management and reporting process is still
being established.

Additional disclosure made by EWE.

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

54

GRI Content Index

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

55

GRI Content Index

PROGRESS CRITERIA FOR THE AREAS OF ACTION 1)
Reference

Omission

Reason for omission

Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

Reference

COMPANY

EWE-FK01
(G4-EU29)

Disruptions to the electricity supply in minutes per customer per year

14

Anti-corruption (aspect boundary within EWE)

EWE-FK02

Number of ideas submitted to the innovation portal that were integrated into a project

12

DMA

EWE-FK03
(G4-EN18)

CO2 emissions in grams per kilowatt-hour of electricity generated

20

EWE-FK04

Number of companies whose energy management systems are certified
in accordance with ISO 50001

12

EWE-FK05

Regional focus index

12, 26

13

EWE-FK06

Proportion of strategic suppliers in materials and services acknowledging
the suppliers’ code

13

Total value of political contributions 46

EWE-FK07

Customer loyalty index

13, 30

EWE-FK08
(G4-LA6)

Health rate

35

EWE-FK09

Staffing period

13, 37

EWE-FK10

Proportion of all staff in affected companies receiving training in data protection,
information security and unbundling via e-learning modules

13

G4-SO4

32-33
Anti-corruption information
and training measures

46

Not broken down by region

Not relevant

Politics (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
DMA
G4-SO6

Compliance (company) (aspect boundary within EWE)
13

DMA

G4-SO8

Fees and fines resulting
from non-compliance with
laws and r­ egulations

32

1)

T he indicators marked with the abbreviation EWE-FK refer to the progress criteria for the areas of action. These are not always GRI indicators.
For the sake of completeness, the progress criteria are also presented here.

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Labelling of products and services (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
12-13,
30-31

DMA
G4-PR5

Results of surveys on
customer ­s atisfaction

31, 46

Protection of customer privacy (aspect boundary within EWE)
13, 40-43

DMA

G4-PR8

Total number of justified
complaints related to data
privacy infringements

40

Complaints must arise from serious
infringements of rights or the legitimate
interests of the person affected

Alignment with the German Federal
Data Protection Act

Access (electric utility sector) (aspect boundary within EWE )
12, 14-16

DMA

G4-EU29

Disruptions to the electricity
supply in minutes per customer
per year in Germany

14

Access (telecommunication sector) (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
12, 14-16

DMA
TK-IO1

Investments in the
telecoms network

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

16

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

56

Glossary

57

Glossary

GLOSSARY

BIOGAS
Biogas refers to a mixture of gases primarily made up of methane and carbon dioxide. The most valuable part, i.e. the part
used to generate energy, is the methane, which is obtained
from biomass.
BIOMASS
Biomass is used in the context of the use of renewable energies
to describe all organic (plant-based or animal-based) substances that are suitable as fuel and can be used to generate
power or heat.
BLAST FURNACE GAS
Blast furnace gas is a natural waste product in the manufacture
of pig iron. It contains so much carbon monoxide (about 30 per
cent) that it can be used directly as a local energy source. As a
result of its low energy value to volume ratio, it is not worth
either transporting or storing it.
CO2 EMISSIONS
One way in which carbon dioxide is made is through the
­combustion of carbon-based fuels. The enormous amounts of
gas generated by humans, emitted by power stations, businesses, buildings and vehicles, for example, change the natural
CO2 ­balance in the atmosphere and accelerate the greenhouse
effect, the warming of the Earth’s surface and the atmospheric
strata nearest to the Earth.
COGENERATION PLANT
Cogeneration plants are special heating plants that generate
electricity and heat at the same time – here, we speak of the
cogeneration of heat and electricity. This means the fuel is used
in a particularly efficient way.
CONVERTER GAS
Converter gas results from the steel manufacturing process.
Excess carbon is removed from pig iron in the converter.

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

DIRECT SALE OF RENEWABLE ENERGIES
Operators of renewable energy facilities may sell the electricity
they generate directly to a customer via a public grid instead of
selling it to a regional grid operator. The direct sale of electricity
is supported with what is known as an optional market premium
or an additional management premium. This aims to motivate
facility operators to operate their systems in a market-oriented
way.

PRIMARY ENERGY
Primary energy sources are those that occur naturally, such as
crude oil, natural gas, coal or biomass.

EMISSIONS TRADING AND CARBON CREDITS
Emissions trading is a market-based instrument and concerns
the trading of the rights to emit greenhouse gases, documented
in what are known as carbon credits. Within the EU, operators
of facilities subject to emissions trading have to prove their
(CO2) emission rights, which are restricted by the state and
­allocated accordingly. If they produce amounts in excess of this
level, the company has to purchase additional carbon credits
or reduce its emissions. Excess carbon credits can be sold on to
other greenhouse gas emitters.

WASTE TO ENERGY
The process that obtains power and heat from waste incineration is known as waste to energy.

ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Energy management is the term used to describe the recording,
planning and control of energy generation and usage with the
aim of boosting energy efficiency and reducing consumption.
A company’s energy management strategy initially records the
energy requirements in detail, analysing them and then using
this to derive suitable energy-saving measures. This may involve
the optimised management of facilities, the use of more efficient devices or tailoring power generation precisely to demand.

INDEX OF ABBREVIATIONS
BTC

REFUSE-DERIVED FUELS (RDF)
Refuse-derived fuels are fuels that are obtained from waste.
In co-incineration, they can replace primary fuel sources such
as coal in power stations.

BTC Business Technology Consulting AG

DSL	Digital subscriber line
EBIT	Earnings before interest and taxes
EEG	Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetz
(German Renewable Energy Sources Act)
GW

Gigawatt

GWh

Gigawatt-hour

kW

Kilowatt

kWh

Kilowatt-hour

Mg	Megagram
MW	Megawatt
MWh	Megawatt-hour
RDS

Refuse-derived fuels

FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY
Fuel cells are used to generate power from hydrogen and are a
type of renewable energy source. Through the conversion of the
energy resulting from a chemical reaction into power and heat,
fuel cell technology can guarantee a practically emission-free
energy supply. The fuel cell heating devices used by EWE obtain
the hydrogen they need from natural gas.

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

58

IMPRINT

Published by
EWE Aktiengesellschaft
Tirpitzstraße 39
26122 Oldenburg
Germany
Editing and text
EWE Aktiengesellschaft
Corporate Communication
Phone: +49 (04 41) 48 05-18 30
E-mail: nachhaltigkeit@ewe.de
Concept, design and layout
Kirchhoff Consult AG
Hamburg, Germany
www.kirchhoff.de
Photography
Stephan Meyer-Bergfeld, Oldenburg, Germany
Sigrun Strangmann, Hatten, Germany (p. 4)
Thorsten Ritzmann, Oldenburg, Germany (p. 15)
Thomas Ebert, Hamburg, Germany (p. 18)
Hans Hochstöger, Istanbul and Vienna (p. 24)
EWE online
www.ewe.com
» G4-31

EWE AG Sustainability Report 2015

Imprint

EWE Aktiengesellschaft
Tirpitzstraße 39
26122 Oldenburg
Germany
www.ewe.com

