SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2014
CREATING VALUE
FOR OUR REGION

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

THE MAGNIFYING GLASS
indicates more detailed information
on the subject

GEO PIN
indicates the locations of introductions
to sections and subjects

GRI INDICATORS AND
EWE PROGRESS CRITERIA
>> G4-XX and >> EWE-FKXX refer to reported
GRI indicators or to our EWE progress criteria.
A detailed overview is available
in the GRI Index from p. 82 onwards.
The hook þ indicates the start and end
of information in the text that is subject
to review by auditors (p. 92).

1

CONTENTS

CONTENTS

FOREWORD 8
COMPANY PROFILE 10
SUSTAINABILITY –
PART OF OUR GROUP STRATEGY 15
OUR AREAS OF ACTION 23
Security of supply and network stability
Innovation and product responsibility
Climate protection and generation

24
29

34

Environmental management and resource efficiency
Regional responsibility
Supply chain

44

50

Market and transparency

54

Health and occupational safety
Employees and education

58

63

Data protection and information security
ABOUT THIS REPORT

72

FACTS AND FIGURES

74

Appendix of indicators

75

GRI Index

82

Glossary

90

68

Independent auditor’s report

92

CONTACT AND PUBLICATION DETAILS

94

40

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

We believe that acting responsibly
is a basis for long-term corporate success.
Our sustainability strategy defines
specific targets in ten areas of action
that we want to achieve by 2020.
This enables us to systematically pool
and strengthen our activities.
This report is our first
comprehensive overview of what we mean by
sustainability and regional responsibility –
and how we put them into practice.

2

3

Providing high-speed internet to rural areas with low population density
is a challenge. EWE is working together with the people
to tackle this challenge and establish modern infrastructure
even outside urban centres. More information about our area of action

SECURITY OF SUPPLY AND NETWORK STABILITY
is available from page 24 onwards.

More and more members of the public are taking an active role
in the energy turnaround. And EWE is giving them a helping hand.
The EQOO domestic storage system helps them get the most out
of the solar ­power that they generate themselves.
More information about our area of action

INNOVATION AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
is available from page 29 onwards.

4

After just 14 months of construction, Riffgat now generates energy for around
120,000 homes. EWE has shown that it is possible to ­construct offshore wind
farms quickly without compromising the environment or cost efficiency.
EWE makes its expertise in planning, construction and operation available to
other companies. More information about our area of action

CLIMATE PROTECTION AND GENERATION
is available from page 34 onwards.

EWE wants to consistently decrease how much energy it uses over the coming
years. The headquarters for the Turkish subsidiaries Bursagaz and Enervis will use
highly efficient building technology in accordance with the international LEED
sustainability standard. More information about our area of action

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
is available from page 40 onwards.

5

What does the future of energy look like? That’s a question that utility
companies can’t answer without the help of citizens. Under the motto
“The North Gets It Done”, EWE’s 2014 Energy Turnaround Forum gave
the ­people of the region an opportunity to present and discuss their ideas,
and to develop them until they are ready to implement.
More information about our area of action

REGIONAL RESPONSIBILITY
is available from page 44 onwards.

EWE wants long-term partnerships with its suppliers. One such supplier
is cable manufacturer Waskönig+Walter. Quality, adherence to delivery
time-scales, and environmentally friendly production processes
have fostered a relationship of trust between EWE and this Saterland-based family
company. More information about our area of action

SUPPLY CHAIN
is available from page 50 onwards.

6

Reliability is the foundation for any long-term customer relationship.
That’s why EWE wants its three customer advisory boards in Weser-Ems,
Weser-Elbe and Brandenburg to show what private customers want
from their energy provider. The customer advisory boards also help EWE
to inform citizens about the complexities of the energy world.
More information about our area of action

MARKET AND TRANSPARENCY
is available from page 54 onwards.

Occupational health and safety is extremely important to EWE – a commitment
to safety measures, daily checks, training and proactive risk mitigation prevented
serious accidents during the construction of the gas and steam turbine ­power plant
in Bremen-Mittelsbüren. More information about our area of action

HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
is available from page 58 onwards.

7

95 young adults from all of the EWE regions live and work on the
EnergieCampus in Oldenburg. EWE uses the EnergieCampus for training
workshops, and doesn’t leave residents to their own devices after work. Mentors
support EWE apprentices on-site and help them to organise their free time.
More information about our area of action

EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION
is available from page 63 onwards.

EWE stores its customers’ information in Oldenburg. Security at the two regional
data centres is tight, with extensive measures taken to protect images, emails,
account transactions and trade secrets of individuals and businesses against hackers,
theft and fire. These data centres are also subject to Germany’s strict data protection
laws. More information about our area of action

DATA PROTECTION AND INFORMATION SECURITY
is available from page 68 onwards.

8

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

DEAR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
FRIENDS OF THE COMPANY,

The European energy industry is in upheaval, and EWE is also

That’s why we are committed to reducing our CO2 emissions

undergoing some major changes. Why, in times of constant

per generated kilowatt hour by 40 per cent by 2020, com-

change, is it now right to set ourselves up systematically

pared to 2005 levels. In 2014, we brought the first commer-

for a sustainable future? The answer lies in how we see our-

cial offshore wind farm in the German North Sea online, with

selves – as a predominantly municipally-owned company,

Riffgat providing electricity to 120,000 homes.

sustainability means acting reliably, responsibly and with a
view to the long term – for our regions, for the people who
live there, and for the environment. The only way to deal with
key challenges like climate protection is hand in hand with
our customers, employees, shareholders and other partners.
And we firmly believe that the only way to achieve long-term
economic success is by taking ecological and social developments into account in the course of our commercial dealings.
We were quick to integrate energy, telecommunications and
information technology, as these are the key areas of expertise required for sustainable energy supply. For decades now,
we have also been committed to education and science, for
social projects, culture and sport. We are a regular part of
the social life in our regions of Ems/Weser/Elbe, Branden-

“We firmly believe
that the only way to achieve
long-term economic success
is by taking ecological and
social developments into
account in the course of
commercial dealings.”

burg and Rügen, as well as parts of Poland and Turkey. The
swb group of companies, which is part of the EWE Group, has
been ­responsible for establishing modern energy supply in
the state of Bremen for 160 years.

We are investing in modern infrastructure and are conducting practical research into “smart grids” in order to keep our

We adopted a sustainability strategy in 2014 to combine our

networks stable, despite the fluctuating amounts of elec-

existing activities and launch new ones. We have set our-

tricity being fed into the network from renewable energies.

selves specific targets in ten areas of action, which we want

Our electricity network is one of the most reliable in Germa-

to achieve by 2020, and which we will use from now on to

ny, and we want to keep our network downtime below the

gauge our performance. “Creating Value for our Region”, our

­national average in future, too.

first sustainability report, is our outlet for presenting our
strategy. We want to keep you informed about where we are

In order to discover potential energy savings within the com-

and where we’re going.

pany and to reduce our own consumption, we will introduce
energy management systems in twelve of our companies and
establish a Group-wide energy monitoring system by 2020.
We are also incorporating business partners outside of our

9

FOREWORD

BOARD OF MANAGEMENT OF

company into our sustainability management system. As part

EWE AG

of this process, we have drawn up a code of conduct, and we
plan for 95 per cent of our strategic suppliers to sign up to it
by 2020.
A study published by the CONOSCOPE research institute in

Dr. Werner Brinker
Chief Executive Officer

2014 showed that we are already a significant regional economic force. Around half of every euro spent by EWE stays in
the region. Our capital expenditure and the purchases made
by our employees provide around 17,000 additional jobs in
our regions. Our sustainability strategy is a roadmap for how
we can continue to contribute to the development of our

Matthias Brückmann
Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Sales

regions.
We are overcoming both this challenge and others by making
sustainability an integral part of our core business. We have
established a Group-wide sustainability management system
that we will expand in the coming years. Our employees help
us every day to achieve the goals we have set ourselves.

Nikolaus Behr
Member of the Board of
Management, Human Resources

It is important for us to make our progress measurable and
comparable. That’s why we have prepared our report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. An independent auditor has
performed an audit of the report and has raised no objections
in this connection.

Ines Kolmsee
Member of the Board of
Management, Technology

Dear reader, we are delighted to present the first EWE sustainability report, and we hope that you will find it informative. >> G4-01

Dr. Heiko Sanders
Member of the Board of
Management, Finance

June 2015
Board of Management

10

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

COMPANY
PROFILE

11

COMPANY PROFILE

BUSINESS MODEL
With energy, telecommunications and information technology (IT), EWE combines the key expertise needed for a modern

A PIONEER

energy supply. With more than 9,000 employees and sales

IN SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SUPPLY

in excess of EUR 8 billion, the Group is one of the largest
municipally-owned companies in Germany. EWE does business in the Bremen, Brandenburg, Rügen and Ems/Weser/
Elbe regions, as well as parts of Turkey and Poland >> G4-06.

+	One of the world’s first commercial wind turbine
operators in the 1980s

þ EWE provides electricity to just under 1.3 million customers and natural gas to 1.7 million. It also provides tele-

+	Leading member of the consortium involved in

communication services to around 700,000 customers1 >>

building Germany’s first offshore wind farm, alpha

þ G4-EU03. The Group can generate its own energy from

ventus

renewable and conventional sources, and operates secure
energy and telecommunication networks. Its subsidiary BTC
provides IT products and services.
EWE considers itself a network infrastructure expert and a
pioneer in the field of renewable energies. The company’s

+	Riffgat – the first commercial offshore wind farm
in the German North Sea
+	Research and field tests investigating the use of fuel
cells in domestic energy supply since 1998

strategy is completely focused on the German energy turnaround. By combining energy, telecommunications and IT,
EWE has the expertise needed for intelligent energy systems

+	Developed the E3 electric car in 2009 as a test
platform for modern storage technologies

>> G4-08. The energy supply of the future requires a new
mindset – energy needs are rising and our fossil fuels are
limited. We also have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions

+	Large-scale field test in Cuxhaven investigating
decentralised energy management (eTelligence)

to counteract climate change. To do this, we need to strike
an intelligent balance between energy conservation, e­ nergy
efficiency and expanding the use of renewable energy
­

+	Field test for first intelligent local network stations
running since 2013

­sources. This requires closely knit systems that are able to
flexibly and efficiently provide electricity and heat.

+	Around 75 per cent of the electricity transported in the
EWE network already comes from renewable energies

1 — Including customers of htp GmbH

12

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

CORPORATE STRUCTURE

+	The Infrastructure business area encompasses the
electricity grid, natural gas grid and telecommunications

EWE AG is based in Oldenburg, Germany >> G4-03, G4-05.

networks, as well as drinking water/wastewater.

As the Group’s holding company, it manages the Group companies and their activities. Most of the company is owned by

+	The Sales and Trading business area includes the

local government, which holds a 74 per cent stake in EWE

energy and telecommunications sales entities and the

AG. The shares are held by 21 cities and communities in the

Group’s energy trading business.

Ems/Weser/Elbe region. 26 per cent of the shares are held by
EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG >> G4-07.

+	The Foreign Business and IT business area, which
brings together the business activities in Turkey and

As a capital market-oriented public limited company

Poland as well as the Information Technology division.

(­Aktiengesellschaft), EWE is subject to the German Stock
Corporation Act. The Group is led by a Board of Management which is solely responsible for managing the Group’s

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

transactions and developing its strategic direction. It takes
action in agreement with the Supervisory Board. The Board

EWE offers its customers energy, telecommunications and

of Management provides the Supervisory Board with regular

IT products and services from a single provider. In addi-

information about the company’s course of business, strat-

tion to electricity, gas, telephone and internet services, it

egy and potential opportunities and risks. The Supervisory

also provides its customers with innovative combinations

Board monitors the activities of the Board of Management.

which bring all three areas together. One example is the

In accordance with the German Codetermination Act, (Mit­

solar-­powered EQOO domestic storage system, which

bestimmungsrecht), the Supervisory Board has an equal

EWE launched in 2014 to respond to widespread customer

number of shareholder representatives and employee repre-

demand for self-sufficiency. Households can use EQOO to

sentatives >> G4-34.

generate up to 70 per cent of their electricity from their own
solar panels. > p. 29, Innovation and product responsibility

The EWE Group is separated into the following business
areas:
+	The Central Divisions/Consolidation business area
mainly comprises EWE AG as the holding company and
other associated companies like swb AG and VNG Verbundnetz Gas Aktiengesellschaft.
+	The Generation business area contains the Renewable
Energies, Conventional Generation, Waste Disposal and
Gas Storage business units.

13

COMPANY PROFILE

GROUP KEY FIGURES

þ
2014

2013

Change in %

8,134.2

8,862.6

-8.2

847.1

983.2

-13.8

Operating EBIT

425.4

497.9

-14.6

EBIT

357.7

410.9

-12.9

Result for the period

146.3

57.2

155.8

Cash outflows for capital expenditure (total)

721.3

573.5

25.8

Cash flow from operating activities

770.3

406.4

89.5

Balance sheet total

9,800.9

10,370.4

-5.5

Shareholders’ equity

2,285.2

2,395.7

-4.6

23.3

23.1

0.9

9,154

9,163

-0.1

EUR million

Sales
Operating EBITDA

Equity ratio in %

Employees (Ø)

þ G4-09

> Please refer to the 2014 annual report of EWE AG for further key figures

14

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

EWE also provides procurement, marketing and balancing

RISK MANAGEMENT

group management services for electricity and gas through
its Energy Trading division. For example, EWE trades CO2

The purpose of the Precautionary Principle, which was adopt-

­certificates on behalf of customers and is a leading p
­ rovider

ed by the United Nations, is to prevent harm to the environ-

of direct marketing services for electricity from facilities

ment. Monitoring environmental risks is also important for

­governed by the Renewable Energy Act (EEG).

EWE. Its subsidiary swb, for example, uses environmental
management systems in swb Erzeugung GmbH & Co. KG

The Telecommunications division provides a full complement

(swb Erzeugung) and swb Entsorgung GmbH & Co. KG (swb

of modern services for private and business customers on the

Entsorgung), among other areas >> G4-14.

basis of the Group’s infrastructure in parts of EWE’s regions.
These range from landline and mobile telephone services to

In addition to addressing environmental risks, EWE also deals

internet connections and TV products to cloud services. It

with the consequences of danger scenarios, which could for

also provides data centre services and tailored service pack-

example arise as a result of sudden natural disasters. EWE

ages for business customers.

NETZ GmbH (EWE NETZ) has defined every business process
which would put the company and therefore the security of

EWE provides consulting, system integration as well as

supply at risk in a crisis. The company then drew up specific

­application and system management services through its IT

measures and plans which would be implemented in these

division. Innovative energy software products are a key part

situations.

of its product portfolio. These include solutions and innovations related to smart metering and smart grids >> G4-04.

EWE has established an integrated risk and opportunity
management system for the Group to detect and address
potential risks and opportunities arising from its activities.
This system is used to analyse risks and opportunities on a
regular basis. The Group’s Board of Management and supervisory bodies are informed of the results of these analyses
on a quarterly basis. > Please refer to p. 66 of the 2014 annual
report for further information

SUSTAINABILITY – PART OF OUR GROUP STRATEGY

SUSTAINABILITY – PART OF OUR
GROUP STRATEGY

15

16

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

MAIN CHALLENGES

electricity market, the obligation to use electricity from renewable energies is having a particularly strong impact on

ENERGY TURNAROUND

the market for conventional generation.

In the light of global warming, one of the main challenges of

DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES

the coming decades will be to gradually migrate the energy
supply of Germany, an industrial nation, from a carbon-based

Demographic changes are another significant challenge

energy supply to one that is CO2 neutral. In spring 2011, the

which will have a major impact on the German labour ­market

German government responded to the nuclear disaster in

in future. We want to establish ourselves as an attractive

Fukushima, Japan by setting up the political framework for

employer when competing for the best minds. The changes

revamping its energy supply, dubbed the German energy

to the age structure of our customer groups also come with

turnaround.

new requirements and expectations regarding services and
­products, and we are preparing for this early on.

Germany’s rural areas will play an increasingly important
role during this reform process. An above-average number of
decentralised renewable generation plants are used in these

OUR GROUP STRATEGY

areas because of the amount of land available and due to the
weather conditions. A significant amount of this potential is

FOCUS ON THE ENERGY FUTURE

already being exploited, particularly in the north-west, with
the construction of wind turbines and the use of biomass

EWE has long believed that creating a sustainable energy

and photovoltaic p
­ ower plants. The amount of electricity

sector is the way forward. We already began investing in

fed in from renewable energies is volatile. Despite this, it is

­renewable energies back in the 1980s. Because it takes smart,

important to ensure that there is always enough electricity

flexible network load management to use it to its full poten-

­available. This necessitates new solutions. We have to be

tial, we have been building up key expertise for smart energy

smarter and more flexible in how we coordinate the various

systems through our Telecommunications and Information

pathways involved in electricity generation, electricity con-

Technology business areas and integrating it into our busi-

sumption and the load flows in our networks.

ness model since the 1990s.

IMPACT OF THE ENERGY MARKET

The majority of the EWE Group is municipally owned, and
the Group is particularly aware of its responsibility to the

Deregulated electricity and gas markets and the regulation

environ­ment and people in its regions – as an employer, a

of network business have decreased the profitability of our

partner to our suppliers, a service provider for our customers,

company in its traditional core business. Pressure is growing

and a neighbour. We want to remain a reliable partner for a

on previously stable sources of income. This is exacerbated

secure and economically viable energy supply in future. Our

by the current situation on the gas market, which is a chal-

strategy for achieving this is built on three main pillars:

lenge to our storage marketing activities, for example. In the

17

SUSTAINABILITY – PART OF OUR GROUP STRATEGY

Focus: With energy, telecommunications and information
technology, we combine the core fields of expertise under
one roof to provide a forward-looking system of energy
­supply. We focus here in particular on activities which repre-

OUR PRIMARY OBJECTIVE

sent a sustainable strategic and operational addition to our
core business.

Environmentally friendly energy and quality
of life for local people

Concentrated growth: We aim to achieve profitable growth
with business activities, technologies and partnerships that
enable us to actively participate in the transformation of

OUR PROMISE

­energy supply in northern Germany. The emphasis is currently on renewable energies and the electricity networks.

EWE is a municipal utility company with
a responsibility to our region. We ­create

We are also more positive about the Offshore business area

­sustainable value for our customers,

than we were two years ago. Our experience with the Group’s

­employees and shareholders and are shaping

two wind farms (Riffgat and alpha ventus) showed that off-

the energy turnaround in partnership with

shore wind energy is more profitable and less risky than

people and companies from the regions.

previously thought. We want to use the Group’s expertise
to grow this area going forward. The biogas production and
processing situation is quite different. EWE will be reducing

VALUES OF THE EWE GROUP CULTURE

its involvement in this area in future, partly due to the 2014
amendment to the Renewable Energy Act (EEG).

Entrepreneurial
Forward-thinking

We have successfully expanded our market position in ­Turkey

Responsible

over recent years. The Group and its Turkish shareholdings

Committed to partnerships

have an excellent reputation among customers, business

Efficient

partners and political decision-makers. EWE will use this

Varied

foundation to selectively exploit growth potential among
private customers and in the distribution network.
EWE MANAGEMENT VALUES
Passion for the customer
Courage for change
Responsibility for the outcome

18

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

Sustainability and regional roots: We want to fulfil our

OUR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT

responsibilities to the regions and its people by sustainable
entrepreneurship. That’s why we have set up a comprehen-

EWE STAKEHOLDERS

sive sustainability management system for the EWE Group,
on which we will be reporting on a regular basis in future.

EWE has drawn up a sustainability strategy with ten areas of

We want to be judged on the basis of the targets and per-

action to make sustainability an integral part of the Group’s

formance figures that we include in these reports. We use

philosophy. These areas of action cover economic, ecological

our traditional links with the regions and our many years of

and social issues. þ Because our company is involved with a

­local experience to involve the regions and their people in the

wide variety of internal and external shareholders, we took

shaping of an environmentally friendly energy supply system.

their needs into account when drawing up the strategy.

PRINCIPLES AND GROUP CULTURE

We started by using a multi-stage process to identify our
main stakeholder groups. Customers, employees, sharehold-

The basis of our success is our integrity in all business rela-

ers, suppliers and NGOs have a particularly important part

tionships. Because of this, we have set up a code of conduct

to play in terms of our regional roots and have a significant

for all of our employees to make compliance a key part of our

impact on our company’s success >> þ G4-25.

company. This code of conduct covers compliance with laws
and directives, regulations, internal guidelines, contractual
obligations and voluntary commitments.

+	
þ EWE considers itself a customer-focused and service-oriented company with strong regional roots, which

The EWE code of conduct was introduced in the German busi-

is why customers are a major stakeholder group for EWE.

ness regions at the end of 2012 and in the Polish business
regions in 2014. The management of the Turkish companies

+

Employees play a major role in EWE’s success. Their per-

have already approved the code of conduct and will imple-

formance, loyalty and satisfaction are a vital part of the

ment it in due course. > Further information from p. 54 onwards

success of the company’s business operations. They are
also involved in implementing the sustainability strategy.

The approved management values and the Group culture
provide a frame of reference alongside our code of conduct

+	EWE is predominantly owned by local government, which

for our activities and decisions. Our employees come from an

is why shareholders are an important stakeholder group

extremely wide range of technical and cultural backgrounds.

>> þ G4-24, þ G4-27.

We need Group-wide values to use this variety constructively
and pool our expertise in the best possible manner > See box
p. 17; >> G4-56.

19

SUSTAINABILITY – PART OF OUR GROUP STRATEGY

VERY HIGH

MATERIALITY MATRIX

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
6

HIGH

CLIMATE PROTECTION AND GENERATION

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

REGIONAL
RESPONSIBILITY

EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION

SECURITY OF SUPPLY AND
NETWORK STABILITY

INNOVATION AND
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY

MARKET AND
TRANSPARENCY

5
DATA PROTECTION AND
INFORMATION SECURITY

4

MEDIUM

IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS

7

4
MEDIUM

5

6

7

HIGH

VERY HIGH

IMPORTANCE FOR THE COMPANY

OUR AREAS OF ACTION
SECURITY OF SUPPLY AND NETWORK STABILITY — INNOVATION AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
CLIMATE PROTECTION AND GENERATION — ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
REGIONAL RESPONSIBILITY — SUPPLY CHAIN — MARKET AND TRANSPARENCY — HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL
SAFETY — EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION — DATA PROTECTION AND INFORMATION SECURITY

OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
> Our sustainability strategy, p. 21

20

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

+	
þ We are committed to partnering with and supporting

þ Our ten areas of action therefore comprise the main eco-

our suppliers in order to provide transparent communi-

nomic, ecological and social issues for the EWE Group. We

cation about services and be effective in our organisa-

have allocated a target for each area of action, along with

tion relating to economic, ecological and social issues

specific measures and initiatives. We also defined an im-

throughout the value chain.

provement criterion for each area so that our sustainability
can be measured. We aim to use this to identify areas where

+

NGOs represent expectations about economic, e­ cological

we can improve and to help us develop our sustainability

and social issues which are not widely represented in

strategy >> þ G4-27.

­society as a whole. Because these can result in areas of
action for companies in future, it is important to recog-

INTEGRATION IN THE GROUP

nise these issues ahead of time >> þ G4-24, þ G4-27.
The task of strategic management for these activities has been
assigned to the Corporate Development holding function,
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS AS A BASIS FOR THE STRATEGY

which reports directly to the Board of Management. A separate Corporate Development unit is the Group-wide point of

þ We have carried out a comprehensive analysis to ­identify

contact for sustainability issues. A person from each of the

the main sustainability issues for EWE and its stakeholders.

­relevant organisational units has also been assigned to each

We incorporated aspects based on the GRI standard and set

area of action. Under their leadership, experts and managers

thresholds for these aspects within and outside of the com-

from individual Group companies work on the challenges in-

pany. We also identified additional content that is relevant

volved in each area >> G4-34. We will be expanding our sus-

for our business model. We systematically investigated

tainability management system continuously over the coming

the expectations of our stakeholders regarding responsible

years in order to reach our targets and thus implement our

­entrepreneurship by recording them in a survey and weight-

strategy successfully.

ing them.
We derived the main areas of action for our sustainability
strategy on this basis while taking the importance of these
issues for EWE into account. A materiality matrix shows the
relative importance of each area for our stakeholders and
EWE. A value of 7 represents a very high degree of relevance,
while 4 represents a proportionally lower degree of relevance
> See p. 19; >> þ G4-18; þ G4-26.

1 — An aggregate score from four customer service indicators
(customer satisfaction, willingness to recommend our company,
likelihood of staying with the company and comparison with
­competitors) based on the results of the BDEW Customer Focus
study (see p. 44, Regional responsibility).
2 — For the energy field
3 — The healthy employee rate stands in opposition to the absence
rate. This means that if the absence ratio is 3 per cent, the healthy
employee rate is 97 per cent. The absence rate is the ratio of days
of absence resulting from incapacity to work to the target number
of working days assigned to the reporting period. This also includes
annual leave.

SUSTAINABILITY – PART OF OUR GROUP STRATEGY

21

SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY

þ

Area of action Objective by 2020

Measures

Progress criterion

Target value for 2020

Current status in 2014

Better than the average for
Germany determined by the
German Federal Network
Agency (= SAIDI: System
Average Interruption Duration Index)

5.5 minutes per year,
per customer
(Average value from
German Federal
Network Agency: 15.3
minutes per year, per
customer)

1
Security of
supply and network stability

We are building a
+ Implementing the maintenance
sustainable and efficient
and reinvestment strategy
infrastructure for the
+ Expanding crisis and emergency
people in the region.
management
+ Supporting the expansion of the
regional broadband network
+ Expansion of smart grid research
projects and field tests

­ ower outage durations
P
in minutes per year, per
customer in Germany

2
Innovation
and product
responsibility

We bring energy, tele+ Launch of an innovation portal
communications and
+ I nterdisciplinary research and developinformation technology
ment projects
together to create the
+ Expanding the range of energy
intelligent energy supply ­efficiency products and services
systems of tomorrow.

Number of ideas submit- 10 projects initiated per
ted via the innovation
year
portal that culminated in
a project

3
Climate
protection and
generation

We are making our ener- + Expansion in the use of wind p
­ ower
CO2 emissions in grams
gy generation processes + M
 aking our ­power plants more flexible per generated kilowatt
more environmentally
and more efficient
hour of electricity
friendly.
+ Bringing the steam turbine ­power
plant online

4
Environmental
management
and resource
efficiency

We handle energy re+ Establishment of a Group-wide energy
sponsibly and minimise
monitoring system
our consumption within + Launch and certification of further
the company.
energy management systems

Number of companies
Twelve companies certified
with ISO 50001-certified
energy management
systems

4 companies have
already been certified
+ swb Services
+ Bursagaz
+ EWE GASSPEICHER
+ EWE VERTRIEB

5
Regional
responsibility

Our activities make a
significant contribution
to the development of
the region.

+ Greater involvement of members of
the public in wind farm projects
+ Expansion of the network investment
model
+ Continued tailoring of sponsorship
commitments to the needs of the
region
+ Supporting forums for discussions

Regionality index

Better than the average from
the “Customer Focus –
Households” (Kundenfokus
Haushalte) study published by
the German Association of
Energy and Water Industries
(BDEW); a minimum of 67 if
the average falls below this
level

72
(German Association
of Energy and Water
Industries (BDEW)
“Customer Focus –
Households” study
average: 68)

6
Supply chain

We are implementing
specific sustainability
requirements for our
suppliers.

+ Introduction of a supplier code of conduct
+ Providing purchasers with sustainability training
+ Establishment of a strategic supplier
management system

Proportion of strategic
materials and services
suppliers who commit
to the supplier code of
conduct

Over 95% of strategic ma- The supplier code
terials and services suppliers of conduct has been
covered
developed and will be
introduced in 2015

7
Market and
transparency

We are a trustworthy
+ Implementation of customer service
service provider for our
strategy
customers and a reliable + Intensify customer loyalty measures
contract partner.

Customer loyalty index1

742

722

8
Health and
occupational
safety

We guarantee a safe
and healthy working
environment.

97%

95.3%

75 weekdays

85.6 weekdays

+ Introduction of leadership curriculum Healthy employees rate3
on health management
+ Expansion of training on working
hours and self-management
+ Intensification of measures related to stress
prevention, healthy eating and fitness
+ Introducing Group-wide Health, Safety, Environment (HSE) policy

Reduction in CO2 emissions
in grams per generated
kilowatt hour of electricity
by 40% compared to 2005
levels

9
We are an attractive
+ Development of a brand identity as
Employees and employer for the region.
an employer
education
+ Establishing a demographic management system
+ Helping employees to have a healthy
work/life balance

Time taken to fill
positions

10
Data protection
and information security

Proportion of all
> 85%
employees in all relevant (the maximum proportion in
companies who have
practice)
been trained in data
protection, infor­mation
security and unbundling
using e-learning modules

We are a reliable partner + Introduction of relevant e-learning
in the areas of data
modules
protection, information + Continued development of a
security and unbundling. Group-wide information security
management system in accordance
with ISO 27001 requirements

Innovation portal has
been designed

540 grams per generated kilowatt hour of
electricity
(equivalent to a 34.8%
reduction compared to
2005)

Resolution on introduction of e-learning
modules has been
prepared

þ EWE-FK01 to EWE-FK10

22

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE

EWE is also represented in scientific associations like the
Association for the Promotion of Science and Humanities

þ We have been in dialogue with our customers, and with

in Germany (Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft

citizens, scientists, politicians and other stakeholders for a

e. V.) and the National Academy of Science and Engineering

number of years. For example, we have set up customer and

– a­ catech e. V. >> G4-15.

network advisory boards in our regions and established the
Energy Turnaround Forum to let members of society share

In future, we want to intensify our dialogue with our stake-

their ideas about the region’s energy future >> þ G4-26.

holders and establish new formats for communication. Our
aim is to communicate our activities in a transparent and

EWE also initiated the Bullensee Group. This is a group of

trustworthy manner and give our stakeholder groups addi-

­renowned scientists and practitioners who meet on a regular

tional opportunities to share their concerns. In this way, we

basis to discuss future issues. The experts met for the first

want to play an active role in shaping major economic, ecolo-

time near the Bullensee lake near Bremen in 2005 and drew

gical and social developments and find sustainable solutions

up ten assumptions about the energy supply of the future.

with our stakeholders.

EWE also plays an active role in a variety of industry and
special interest associations. We hold leadership positions
in some, and are involved in projects and working groups for
several others.
EWE is part of the following associations, among others:
+	German Association of Energy and Water Industries
(BDEW)
+

German Association of Local Utilities (VKU)

+	German Association of Broadband Communication
(BREKO)
+	Federal Association for Information Technology,
Telecommunications and New Media (BITKOM)
+	German Working Group for Environmentally Friendly
Management (BAUM)
+

Netzwerk Compliance >> G4-16

23

OUR AREAS OF ACTION

OUR AREAS
OF ACTION

24

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

SECURITY OF SUPPLY
AND NETWORK STABILITY

As a regional energy provider, we want to guarantee that our

OUR WAY FORWARD

customers have a secure energy supply. We are bringing the
­areas of energy, telecommunications and information technol-

NETWORK, STORAGE AND GENERATION SOLUTIONS

ogy together to prepare for “smart energy systems”, an issue

FOR A RELIABLE SUPPLY

which is set to be important for the future. The networks have a
decisive role to play in this process as the link between genera-

The distinguishing feature of EWE’s network companies’ me-

tion and consumption. Due to our geographical situation, we

dium and low voltage network is that almost 100 per cent of

are familiar with the special challenges of decentralised gener-

the cables are underground. This makes them less susceptible

ation structures and integrating renewable energies into the

to disruption than cables that are laid above ground. This has

network infrastructure. Around 75 per cent of the electricity

a positive impact on the number of ­power outages in our net-

transported in the EWE NETZ network already comes from re-

work, which is relatively low for the nation as a whole.

newable sources. With network outages of less than six minutes per year per customer, the EWE Group’s network compa-

The EWE network companies are also reliable gas network

nies lead the field in Germany.

operators, with downtime totalling less than one minute per
customer and year. EWE laid the first large-scale natural gas
network in Germany over 50 years ago. We have been expand-

OUR OBJECTIVE

ing our infrastructure consistently ever since. We are currently
expanding the networks in our Polish and Turkish regions. We

SUSTAINABLE INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE REGION

are building a new, modern natural gas infrastructure in the
cities of Iznik and Develi.

Our primary goal is to build and operate a sustainable and
efficient infrastructure for people in the region. The reliabili-

Natural gas storage facilities make a significant contribution

ty of the electricity supply is a key yardstick in determining

to the security of our gas supply. With a working gas volume

security of supply and network stability. That’s why we meas-

of around 1.9 billion cubic metres, EWE is one of the major

ure our progress on the basis of p
­ ower outages in minutes per

storage facility operators in the European natural gas market.

customer, per year, resulting from unplanned interruptions in

We have facilities in Huntorf in the district of Wesermarsch,

the German medium and low voltage network. ­Power outages

in Nüttermoor, in the East Frisian municipality of Jemgum, in

lasted 15.3 minutes on average in 2013. þ The figure for EWE’s

Rüdersdorf near Berlin, and in Bremen-Lesum. These store gas

network companies is already much lower, at 5.5 minutes in

in caverns which are created in naturally-occurring salt domes

2014. This figure covers the networks of Group subsidiaries

according to strict environmental and safety criteria.

EWE NETZ, wesernetz Bremen GmbH (wesernetz Bremen)
and wesernetz Bremerhaven GmbH (wesernetz Bremerhaven),

In order to guarantee a secure supply of electricity, conven-

swb’s urban networks >> þ G4-EU29, þ EWE-FK01. We want

tional ­power plants will continue to be needed alongside re-

to remain better than the national average by 2020.

newable sources of energy over the coming decades. These include the conventional ­power plant blocks which swb operates
in Bremen and whose flexibility and efficiency has been continuously improved. > p. 34, Climate protection and generation;
see also Risk management, p. 14

25

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
SECURITY OF SUPPLY AND NETWORK STABILITY

SMART GRIDS
Network infrastructure operators face the challenge of integrating renewable energies without endangering network

NETWORKS

stability. Smart grids will play an ever increasing role in
overcoming this hurdle. They use information and communications technology alongside modern control technology

þ In Germany, our networks supply around

to compensate for fluctuations in the supply and demand of

984,800 houses with electricity, 851,100

energy.

houses with gas and 32,600 houses with
telephone and internet services

EWE NETZ is currently using smart local network stations in

>> þ G4-EU03.

Emsland to test how to feed in more electricity from photovoltaic ­power plants and other renewable sources without
expanding the network. These stations control the voltage

þ Our electricity network in the Ems/Weser/

automatically, avoiding the increases in voltage which push

Elbe and Bremen regions covers 92,500

the networks to the limits of their capacity. Local network

kilometres.

stations use a transformer to connect the local low-voltage
networks with regional medium-voltage networks, which are
operated at a higher voltage.

Our 69,500 kilometre gas network supplies gas

As part of the 2009 eTelligence project, EWE conducted field

Turkish cities of Bursa and Kayseri, and in parts

tests in Cuxhaven to determine how smart decentralised

of south and west Poland.

to customers in our German regions, in the

­energy management could work. The ongoing Green Access
research project is developing control concepts to enable
the components in the network to communicate with one

15,100 kilometres of our telecommunications

­another. As autonomously learning systems, they are de-

network is copper, with fibre optic cable

signed to adapt to changes like the connection of new elec-

accounting for a further 21,200 kilometres. At

tricity generators and consumers. EWE is working together

36,300 kilometres, our telecommunications

with partners from the fields of science and industry to test

network is one of the largest and most ­powerful

how automation solutions like these can be implemented.

> Continue on p. 28

networks in Germany >> þ G4-EU04.

26

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

BROADBAND EXPANSION:
EWE AND MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
WORKING TOWARDS A SHARED GOAL

“Disastrous”, “terrible”, “unbearable” – these words come

stede. “Everything would just stop working in the afternoon

up again and again when council chairmen Heino Neumann

and evening. Children couldn’t do their homework and the

and Wolfgang Siems talk about what the internet used to

only way our local fire brigade could communicate with the

be like in the villages of Hollriede and Tarbarg near Wester-

new command centre in Oldenburg was by radio,” ­Heino
­Neumann recalled. “We complained about the issues for
years, but things only improved when EWE got involved at
the start of 2014.”

“It got a lot easier for people
to find tenants as soon as we
announced that high-speed
internet was on its way.”
Wolfgang Siems

The 300 residents of Tarbarg and 400 residents of Hollriede
now have access to a broadband network with transfer rates
of up to 50 megabits per second (Mbps), as do the 25 ­houses
along the five-kilometre road connecting the two villages.
Technology that would provide internet access to hundreds
of people in a city was installed just for them.
Ralf von Dzwonkowski, EWE’s municipal supervisor in Ammer­
land, still remembers how it all began. The local a­ ssociations
invited every high-speed internet provider to an informational meeting, and EWE was the only one that came. He quickly
realised that EWE was a local supplier and service provider
that wouldn’t let the residents of Hollriede and Tarbarg be
left behind when it came to internet access. However, it was
also clear that five kilometres of fibre o
­ ptic cable and three
service area interfaces would be needed to connect the 220
houses in the areas. “Financially, it just wasn’t viable.”
This dilemma was solved when EWE joined forces with the

Engaging with EWE – council chairmen Wolfgang Siems (left) and
Heino Neumann

local residents and the members of the local associations
decided to handle the excavation work themselves. Local

27

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
SECURITY OF SUPPLY AND NETWORK STABILITY

High-speed internet makes
­communication easier between the
local Westerstede fire brigade and its
command centre in Oldenburg.

construction companies provided excavators and diesel and

Broadband availability has spurred development in the

also offered their specialists to cross domestic connections or

­villages. Building plots are selling again in Hollriede and

tunnel under intersections. EWE kept a close eye on the work.

the Chairman of Tarbarg’s local association Wolfgang Siems

Having members of the public set up the infrastructure in-

knows that. “It got a lot easier for people to find tenants as

stead of specialist companies was the exception rather than

soon as we announced that high-speed internet was on its

the rule for the company.

way,” he said. “For EWE,” said Ralf von Dzwonkowski, “the
project is tangible proof of what members of the public can

The local associations provided around 4,000 man-hours,

achieve when they work together with their provider. Set-

which weren’t enough to make the project economically

ting up a broadband connection is worth it economically if it

­viable over the long term. EWE needed a connection agree-

­results in long-term customer loyalty.”

ment from half of the households; these residents would also
have to pay a one-off fee of 200 euros to go towards the construction costs. EWE and the local associations managed to
overcome this hurdle together in just a few weeks.

28

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

> BROADBAND EXPANSION IN RURAL REGIONS
EWE is at the forefront of broadband expansion in north­POWER OUTAGE TIMES

5.5

over 4,000 service area interfaces – cabinets which connect
­secondary cables to main cables – to our fibre optic network. We connected over 1,000 in the reporting year alone.
We c­ urrently have a network of around 36,000 kilometres.

min.

This puts us in a position to supply over a million households
with high speed internet. We are connecting not only towns
and cities, but also selected rural areas, thereby making the

per customer

­region more competitive.

in 2014

EUR

west Germany. Over the past few years, we have connected

62

We are combining a number of different models to connect
as many households as possible while remaining cost-effective. A significant proportion of this expansion is being
financed with our own investment. We are also using European subsidies and entering into regional partnerships with
municipalities and districts. þ We invested around EUR

million

62 million in broadband expansion in 2014 >> þ TC-IO01.

was invested by EWE

­years. Around another 13,300 residential units in 29 local

in broadband expansion in 2014.

network regions will reap the benefits of 32 funding ­schemes

þ We will continue with this expansion over the coming

awarded to EWE subsidiary EWE TEL GmbH (EWE TEL) in

75

%

of the electricity

transported by EWE NETZ
comes from renewable sources.

2014 >> þ TC-PA01. Over 220,000 households will be connected to the broadband network in 2015 alone off the back
of our own investment.

29

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
SECURITY OF SUPPLY AND NETWORK STABILITY
INNOVATION AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY

INNOVATION
AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY

EWE is committed to weaving energy, telecommunications and

OUR WAY FORWARD

information technology together to form intelligent systems
and help shape the energy supply of the future. We focus on

RESEARCHING SMART ENERGY SYSTEMS

growth opportunities which will provide significant added value for our stakeholders. We believe that our customers and em-

Our research and development activities are focused on

ployees should shape the energy turnaround instead of just

­preparing for the upcoming changes in the energy industry.

being passive participants. That‘s why we want to incorporate

We concentrate on decentralised energy management issues.

their ideas into our innovation management process. Through

We create networks and further the transfer of knowledge

our research and development activities, they are brought to

by working together with industrial partners and scientific

market in the form of sustainable products and services.

institutions.
One example is the “green2store” collaborative project. The

OUR OBJECTIVE

objective of this project is to combine decentralised storage
capacities to form a large virtual storage unit and manage it

BRINGING ENERGY, TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND IT

centrally. These capacities will be provided to energy traders,

TOGETHER TO CREATE INNOVATIONS

electricity generators and consumers temporarily on demand
without them needing to operate the storage units them-

We want to make our company more innovative. That’s

selves. This represents a better way to use p
­ ower from renew-

why EWE is developing a virtual innovation portal so that

able energies and integrate it into the electricity network. We

­employees (and later customers) have a system to submit

will be conducting a technical field test with nine domestic

their ideas. We will measure our progress based on how many

battery storage units in the Lower Saxon city of Friesoythe

of the ideas submitted through the portal are incorporated

in 2015.

into a project. We intend to work on ten innovative ­proposals
per year by 2020. þ Until the innovation portal is implemented, employees can write their proposals on cards and
put them in suggestion boxes at any of EWE’s sites. An innovation team of managers from every area was set up in 2013
to evaluate and follow up on interdisciplinary suggestions
­related to new markets or technologies >> þ EWE-FK02.

30

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

The focus of the research project “Controlled Charging V3.0”
is designing IT systems which use a smart energy management system to optimise the process of charging electric
vehicles. The project takes the fluctuating supply of energy
from renewable sources and the current infrastructure into
AWARDS

account, and aims to make good use of the existing infrastructure while avoiding peak loads and maintaining the
mobility of the user. EWE is developing a controllable home
charging station which takes every issue related to the energy industry and marketing into consideration – such as com-

EWE AG named

patibility with all standardised electric vehicles.

“Best Innovator”
for sustainable innovation management

þ We invested a total of EUR 2.6 million in research and de-

(2009)

velopment in 2014 >> þ EWE-ZA01. The Association for the
Promotion of Science and Humanities in Germany (Stifter­
verband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft e. V.) gave us their
“Innovation through Research” seal of approval for our
­

EWE subsidiary E3/DC

­activities in 2014.

presented with the
“pv magazine award top innovation”
(2014)

MAKING ENERGY EFFICIENCY A FOCAL ELEMENT OF
OUR PRODUCTS
We are committed to providing products, services and technologies which are environmentally friendly and tailored

Offshore wind farm Riffgat recognised as

to the requirements of our customers. EWE developed the

“Best project of the year”

EQOO domestic storage system > p. 32, “EQOO makes the

with German Renewable Award

Tepe family more independent”, which lets our customers cov-

(2014)

er up to 70 per cent of their annual energy requirements with
solar ­power that they produce themselves.

31

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
INNOVATION AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY

We provide our private customers with advice about energy
efficiency, and also prepare energy reports for local authorities. We provide energy management advice for business

ENERGY EFFICIENCY

­customers, including energy audits for their facilities, training for employees and implementation services for projects.
The German Energy Agency presented the “Energy controlling in performance contracting” project, developed by
EWE VERTRIEB GmbH (EWE VERTRIEB) and the municipality
of Grossenkneten, with the “Energy Efficiency Good Practice”

8,000

award. The purpose of this project is to set up a municipal

enquiries responded to

­energy management system not only to reduce the energy

by EWE regarding energy

consumption and CO2 emissions of properties in the mu-

and building technology

nicipality, but also to reduce pressure on the municipality’s

and EWE Strom NaturWatt products come 100 per cent from

10,000

renewable sources. TÜV NORD awarded the latter its “Certi-

consultations performed

fied Green Energy” certificate in 2014. TÜV NORD certified

on energy services

our natural gas fuel product (CNG) as a “Certified Biogas

in 2014

budget. Energy costs have already gone down by six per cent
just one year after the system was implemented.
We have provided electricity and gas products generated
from renewable sources since 2007. Our swb Strom proNatur

Product” due to the share of biogas.

6,000
downloads
of the EWE Energy Manager App
in 2014

32

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

EQOO
MAKES THE TEPE FAMILY
MORE INDEPENDENT

The sun provides enough energy for everyone on Earth –

In June 2014, EWE installed a photovoltaic p
­ ower plant on

that’s a cornerstone of the energy turnaround. Electricity

their roof and the EQOO domestic storage system, which is

should be available everywhere and at any time – that’s a

shaped like a box and about one square metre in size, in an

basic foundation for our day-to-day life. To reconcile these

alcove in the hall of their house. The smart system routes the

two principles, we have to develop storage technology until

solar electricity directly to the family’s computers, lights and

it is ready for the market; EWE did just that with the EQOO

appliances. If Patric, Gaby, Ayleen and Fynn Tepe aren’t using

domestic storage system. People also have to be prepared

a lot of electricity at the moment, the excess ­energy is stored

to invest in these technologies, and that’s just what the Tepe

in the batteries. When those batteries are fully charged and

family in Cloppenburg did.

the photovoltaic p
­ ower plant is generating more p
­ ower than
the house requires, the excess is fed into the EWE network
and the family is compensated. However, if the storage

The Tepe family from Cloppenburg uses solar ­power from the EQOO
domestic storage system.

­system is empty and the sun happens to duck behind the
clouds, EWE provides the Tepe family with p
­ ower.

“We didn’t want
to be tied in
to rising electricity prices.”
Gaby Tepe

33

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
INNOVATION AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY

turn on the appliances which use the most p
­ ower, like their
washing machine, when the sun is shining. But Gaby Tepe
also added: “We both work, so the system does have its
­limits.” The family can see how much solar p
­ ower is available
at any given moment by checking an app on their phones.
“But if we’re not home, we can’t react when we get some
­unexpected sunshine.” So there’s still room for improvement
A photovoltaic p
­ ower plant on the roof enables solar energy to
be captured and fed into the domestic storage system.

in the technological development of smart homes.
Patric and Gaby Tepe will become even more self-sufficient if
they decide to expand their electricity storage system. Their
heating system is twenty years old, and there would be quite

Self-sufficiency is the immediate response when you ask

a few benefits to using a heat pump to get heat energy from

them why they chose the EQOO system. “We didn’t want to

the outside air. “The pump would draw p
­ ower from the larger

be tied in to rising electricity prices,” said Patric and Gaby

storage unit.”

Tepe. In the past, they always just went with the cheapest
provider. “We were fed up with switching all the time. It just
wasn’t getting us anywhere. Now that we have the EQOO,
we can be pretty certain about how much we will be spending
on electricity for the next 15 or 20 years.”
The first nine months have convinced Patric and Gaby Tepe
that they made the right decision. The Tepe family reduced
their electricity bill by around 65 per cent between June and
October. The solar energy that they produced covered 27 per
cent of their energy needs between November and February,
when there wasn’t much sun.
The family helped themselves by matching their electricity
consumption habits to their energy supply. They normally

An app shows the Tepe family how much solar ­power is
currently available.

34

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

CLIMATE PROTECTION
AND GENERATION

As an energy provider, we are particularly responsible for the

base to monitor our CO2 emissions. This calculation includes

protection of the climate. We want to drive the growth of re-

conventional, combined heat and p
­ ower plants (CHP plants),

newable energies in our regions. That’s why we have been in-

waste processing plants and renewable energy facilities.

vesting in wind ­power for over 25 years – first on land, and also
offshore since 2008. Over 30 per cent of the electricity1 that
we generate comes from renewable energies, and this number

OUR WAY FORWARD

is increasing every year. Conventional p
­ ower generation must
complement renewables until they can cover all of our energy

MAKE GREATER USE OF RENEWABLE ENERGIES:

requirements. EWE’s Bremen-based swb operates efficient

A FOCUS ON WIND POWER

coal, gas and blast furnace gas ­power plants on three different
sites along with two waste processing plants.

We use the renewable sources of wind, sun, biomass, waste3
and water to generate electricity and heat, and are focused
on expanding the use of wind p
­ ower.

OUR OBJECTIVE
We have been operating onshore wind turbines for 25 years,
MAKE ENERGY GENERATION MORE ENVIRONMENTALLY

with just under 100 plants in our regions producing 152

FRIENDLY

­ ower. We have also been involved in
mega­watts (MW)4 of p
offshore wind p
­ ower for over five years. In 2008, EWE played

Reducing CO2 emissions is at the heart of climate protection

a leading role in the construction of Germany’s first offshore

and is an integral part of the EU’s climate protection targets

wind farm, alpha ventus. The purpose of this pioneering pro-

for 2030. We are playing our part by increasing the efficiency

ject was to demonstrate that wind farms are economically

of our generation facilities and expanding the use of r­ enewable

and technically viable. Another milestone was passed in Feb-

energies. We measure our progress in this area on the basis of

ruary 2014 when Riffgat, the first commercial wind farm in

how effectively we reduce our CO2 emissions per generated

the German North Sea, came online. Riffgat has 30 wind tur-

kilowatt hour (kWh) of electricity. We want to reduce this

bines with a total capacity of 108 MW > p. 38 “EWE setting

number by 40 per cent by 2020 compared to 2005 levels.

new offshore standards”. In 2014, Riffgat and alpha ventus

þ In the reporting year, our specific CO2 emissions were 540 g/

generated a combined 592,346 megawatt hours (MWh) of

kWh >> þ EWE-FK03, þ G4-EN18. This represents a 34.8 per

electricity. That is equivalent to the annual electricity con-

cent decrease compared to 2005. We are using 2005 as a refer-

sumption of around 170,000 homes.

2

ence point because that is when we started using a CO2 data­
1 — Not including electricity generation from blast furnace gas
2 — Not including CO2 emissions from blast furnace gas. The
entire carbon footprint of our thermal waste management
comes from the products and consumables that are disposed
of. Our electricity and district heating from waste incineration
energy products are therefore considered CO2-neutral, i.e.
they produce net emissions of 0 g CO2/kWh.

3 — According to the Renewable Energy Act (EEG), around half of the
energy generated from waste is considered renewable. This is
because some of the waste comes from plant-based sources and is
therefore CO2-neutral when burned.
4 — Including partially-owned capacity from shareholdings measured
using the equity method

35

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
CLIMATE PROTECTION AND GENERATION

2011

2012

658

722

728

728

g CO2 /kWh el

786

2006

784

2005

800

790

815

900

828

SPECIFIC CO2 EMISSIONS FROM ELECTRICITY GENERATION

700

540

600

500

400
2007

2008

2010

2009

2013

2014

YEAR

EWE has reduced its CO2 emissions per generated kilowatt hour or electricity continuously since 2005.

INSTALLED ELECTRICAL CAPACITY

ELECTRICITY GENERATION IN 2014, BROKEN DOWN

AS AT 31.12.2014 (in MW)

BY PRIMARY ENERGY SOURCES (in GWh)

þ

þ

Total5

Total7

5,010

303

Hard coal

2,295

Onshore wind

152

Blast furnace gas

1,065

Offshore wind

137

Wind

757

Waste to energy

595

Other (bio natural gas, raw biogas, natural gas,
replacement fuels, fuel oil, sewage gas, solar, water)

298

Renewables4

Other (raw biogas, photovoltaic, hydroelectric)

1,348

14

Conventional6

1,045

Hard coal

553

Blast furnace gas/converter gas

176

Natural gas

155

Light oil

86

Waste to Energy

75

þ G4-EU01

þ G4-EU02

5 — Waste-to-energy is listed entirely under conventional generation
in this representation, even if the Renewable Energy Act (EEG)
deems around half of the energy generated from waste to be
renewable. This is because some of the waste comes from plantbased sources and is therefore CO2-neutral when burned.
6 — Major facilities of swb Erzeugung und Entsorgung;
including mothballed blocks
7 — Contrary to indicator G4-EU01, this also includes electricity
generation from combined heat and ­power plants.

36

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

This shows how significantly wind energy contributed to our

and Audit Scheme (EMAS) since 1998. The same scheme has

improved CO2 balance in the reporting year .

been used for the medium calorific p
­ ower plant since 2009.

8

MAKING CONVENTIONAL FACILITIES MORE EFFICIENT

CONSTRUCTION OF A GAS AND STEAM TURBINE
­­POWER PLANT

In addition to expanding our use of renewable energies, we
are investing systematically in the efficiency and flexibility

In order for the energy turnaround to be successful, we need

of our conventional facilities. The EWE subsidiary swb com-

flexible conventional p
­ ower plants which are able to com-

mitted to this path in 2009 by building and bringing into ser-

pensate for the fluctuating amount of energy coming from

vice a modern waste processing plant and medium calorific

renewables over the next few decades. That’s why swb built

­­power plant. Around half of the waste comes from plant-

a gas and steam turbine ­power plant in Bremen-Mittels-

based sources and is therefore CO2-neutral when burned. The

büren, which is scheduled to go online in 2015. The distin-

2013 renovation of the waste incineration ­power plant also

guishing feature of this p
­ ower plant is that it can increase

improved performance, with it now generating three times as

and decrease its output quickly. The plant will run on envi-

much electricity from the same amount of waste.

ronmentally friendly natural gas and has a capacity of around
445 MW. It has an efficiency coefficient of around 58 per

swb increased efficiency by around two per cent in the re-

cent, the highest of any fossil fuel p
­ ower plant. This means

porting year by modernising the largest coal block in the

that it generates the most electricity possible from the fuel

­Bremen-Hafen ­power plant. We also took two hard coal

that it uses. A significant part of the generating capacity of

blocks in the Bremen-Hastedt and Hafen ­power plants ­offline

the plant has already been sold on a long term basis.

at the end of 2013 because they no longer met our efficiency
and economic viability requirements. We will keep them in

PROTECT BIODIVERSITY

­reserve so that they can be used in an emergency. We have
also modernised a number of combined heat and p
­ ower

We are committed to having as little impact on ecosystems

plants and switched to the CO2-neutral fuel biomethane.

as possible. When this is unavoidable, we repair any damage
that we cause. We comply with all relevant environmen-

swb uses standardised environmental management systems

tal requirements as a matter of principle. þ EWE only has

to monitor and comply with legal requirements and internal

a small number of sites in protected areas. The Ems Emden

targets. Its generation facilities have been ISO 14001-certified

wind p
­ ower plant, one of over 20 onshore wind ­power sites

since 2009. The Bremen waste incineration p
­ ower plant has

that our Group operates, is located in a flora/fauna habitat

been monitored in accordance with the EU ­Eco-Management

region. EWE has established a recovery area of 3.6 hectares
to implement flora and fauna regeneration measures >> þ
G4-EN11, þ G4-EN12, þ G4-EU13.

8 — The 592,346 MWh of electricity generated relates to 100 per cent
of the shareholdings; only the equity interest allocated to EWE
was used to calculate the specific CO2 value.

37

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
CLIMATE PROTECTION AND GENERATION

þ We also have three transformer stations that were
built between 1970 and 1995 in an area in the District of
­Wittmund, and this area was designated an ornithological
­reserve in 2011. The gas storage facility that was built in 2013
in Jemgum, East Frisia is located on the outskirts of an ornithological reserve. Measures to improve biodiversity were
implemented over an area of 40 hectares to compensate for
this. There were no new sites in protected areas during the
reporting year >> þ G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EU13.

108

MW

Offshore wind farm brought online in 2014
(Riffgat offshore wind farm)

EWE supports biodiversity research projects. The German
Federal Environment Ministry’s RAVE research initiative (Re-

than expected. The scientists found that fish biodiversity had

20

increased. The foundations of the turbines serve as artificial

þ Reduction in CO2 emissions 20149

reefs, where mussels, sea anemones and other species have

compared to 2013 of just under 20 per cent to

settled. There was no wide-spread destruction of fauna, as we

2,263,475 Mg2

had feared, neither were large numbers of migrating birds in-

>> þ G4-EN15, þ G4-EN19

search at Alpha Ventus) has examined for example the impact that the construction and operation of the alpha ventus
wind farm have had on biodiversity. After a five year research
period, the conclusion was reached that the offshore wind
facilities have had much less of an impact on the ecosystem

%

jured as a result of colliding with the wind turbines. Researchers also found that operating the wind farm had no impact on
marine mammals.

31.3

%

Share of renewable energies
in electricity generation in 2014

9 — Direct emissions from electricity and heat generation facilities;
not including CO2 emissions from blast furnace gas.

38

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

EWE
SETTING NEW
OFFSHORE STANDARDS

Planning is underway for more than 50 wind farms in the

The company needed just 14 months, from June 2012 to July

North Sea. North Sea ports are ready for an offshore boom,

2013, to build 30 Siemens wind turbines with a total output

and several companies in the Northwest are raring to invest.

of 108 MW 15 kilometres off the coast of Borkum and con-

With the Riffgat wind farm, EWE has demonstrated that off-

nect them to the transformer substation in the wind farm.

shore wind farms can be built in a feasible time frame and an

According to Irina Lucke, Riffgat Technical Project Manager

environmentally friendly manner.

and Managing Director of EWE Offshore Service & Solutions
GmbH (EWE OSS), “this was possible because we had a com-

The transformer station transforms the generated electricity
and feeds it into the onshore transmission network through a
70 kilometre long export cable.

“We had a competent team to
plan the construction in detail and
make the plan a reality.”
Irina Lucke, Riffgat Technical Project Manager
and Managing Director, EWE OSS

petent team to plan the construction in detail and make the
plan a reality.” The first commercial wind farm in the North
Sea now generates enough green energy for more than
120,000 homes.
EWE focused on minimising the environmental impact of the
construction of the wind farm in the planning phase. One of
their main concerns was protecting fish and marine ­mammals
against the noise emissions that would be caused when sink-

39

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
CLIMATE PROTECTION AND GENERATION

Within 14 months, EWE has installed
30 wind turbines over an area measuring around six square kilometres.

ing the pillars. To do this, EWE used a vibratory pile driver to

EWE’s Riffgat project not only bolstered the coastal region’s

drive the pillars into the first few metres of the seabed. A sec-

reputation as a source of environmentally friendly energy, but

ond metal tube was then lowered into the water around the

also increased the region’s expertise in this area. “Offshore

monopiles. The space between the two was then filled with

wind farms are still pretty unusual,” said Irina Lucke. “But

air bubbles. This was the first time that this technique had

standards and processes are generally becoming more and

been used commercially. Instead of reverberating un­impeded

more important when it comes to building and operating off-

through the North Sea, the sound waves created by the ram-

shore wind farms. That’s why our recent ISO 9001 certifica-

ming lost energy as they moved through the metal, water

tion is an important factor for EWE OSS.” EWE is also making

and bubbles. EWE’s experience with its previous offshore pro-

the expertise that it has gathered from planning, building and

ject alpha ventus shows that marine life will s­ helter near the

operating the wind farm available to others. EWE OSS helps

wind farm because fishing is not allowed in its ­vicinity. 3,000

companies in both the planning and construction phase, and

Heligoland lobsters were introduced at four wind turbines

can also take on responsibility for operating offshore wind

in summer 2014 to investigate the new habitat among the

farms upon request. Irina Lucke: “This is a real a­ dvantage of

rocks that will protect the turbines against scour.

our regional structure. We’re based on the coast, so it doesn’t
take us long to get to any of the wind farms.”

Environmental awareness was one of the reasons that the
Renewable Energy Hamburg Cluster named Riffgat the “Best
Project in 2014”. The network presented the company with
the German Renewable Award in front of 2,000 guests on the
opening day of the WindEnergy fair in Hamburg.

40

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY

Handling resources and the environment responsibly is part of

OUR WAY FORWARD

EWE’s identity. That’s why a comprehensive environmental management system was set up in 1998 at the ­power plants of EWE’s

SAVING ENERGY SYSTEMATICALLY

subsidiary swb. The subsidiary also publishes relevant indicators
such as CO2 emissions in a regular environmental report.

þ The EWE company swb Services and our Turkish network
company Bursagaz were ISO 50001-certified in 2011. Group

We focus on reducing internal energy consumption to conserve

subsidiary EWE GASSPEICHER GmbH (EWE GASSPEICHER)

resources. We want to identify and utilise potential improve-

was certified in 2013, while EWE VERTRIEB was certified in

ments in this area across the Group. Setting up energy manage-

2014 >>þ EWE-FK04. They were followed in 2015 by EWE

ment systems will give us the framework we require to do so.

ERNEUERBARE ENERGIEN, swb CREA, swb Erzeugung und
Entsorgung, wesernetz Bremen and wesernetz Bremerhaven.
We want to continue down this path in the next few years

OUR OBJECTIVE

and have other companies certified, including our largest,
EWE NETZ.

TO MINIMISE INTERNAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION
INTRODUCTION OF AN ENERGY MONITORING SYSTEM
In 2014, we decided to put a system in place to record and
­analyse our internal electricity, heat and fuel consumption

We will also set up an overarching Group-wide energy

and to define measures to minimise this consumption. We are

­monitoring system into which we will integrate our existing

using energy management systems to set up standardised

and future energy management systems. Companies which

processes, which we will improve continuously. We measure

have not begun the process of implementing a management

our progress in this area based on the number of certificates

­system by the end of 2015 will carry out an energy audit in

that our companies are awarded. We want to have twelve

accordance with the German Energy Services Act (Energie-

selected companies ISO 50001-certified for energy man-

dienstleistungsgesetz). This will also be integrated into the

agement systems by 2020. These are EWE AG as the holding

energy monitoring system.

company and subsidiaries with a high level of energy consumption.

We have been recording the energy consumption of our administrative buildings for years. In future, they will form an
important part of the energy monitoring system. We will
evaluate energy conservation measures that have already
been implemented for these buildings and expand them to
other sites if suitable. These measures include building a geothermal facility for heating and cooling buildings or introducing floor lamps and proximity sensors. We will be focusing on
our data centres in 2015.

41

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY

þ Our administrative buildings and data centres consumed
297.1 terajoules (TJ) in the reporting year >> þ G4-EN03.
This is equivalent to 82.5 gigawatt hours (GWh). 47.5 GWh
of this was electrical energy for lighting, IT and communi-

ISO 50001

cations equipment, cooling for data centres, air conditioning

ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

and ventilation technology, etc. 35 GWh were used to heat
rooms and for other heating.
OPTIMISING FLEET CONSUMPTION
EWE has implemented pilot projects to optimise fuel consumption in the areas of employee mobility and the c­ ompany
fleet. For example, we have introduced pedelecs and electric
vehicles at some sites, and have set up electric charging
stations at various branch offices. 49 per cent of our 2,063
company vehicles are diesel-­powered. 41 per cent are natural
gas-­powered, and a further 10 per cent run on petrol. þ The
energy consumption of our fleet was 121.6 TJ in the reporting

12
OBJECTIVE 2020

certified

companies

year >> þ G4-EN03. This corresponds to around 16.4 MWh
per vehicle. We will set up a Group-wide fleet management
system in 2015 to combine the existing fleets of individual
companies and make them more efficient.

4
STATUS 2014

certified

companies

42

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

ENERGY CONCEPT FOR
NEW HEADQUARTERS IN BURSA MEETS
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD

EWE’s Turkish subsidiaries Bursagaz and Enervis are building
their new headquarters in accordance with the criteria of
the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design)
international standard for ecological construction. The 300
employees in Bursa, 90 kilometres from Istanbul, will be able
to move into the six-storey building, which provides around
5,600 square metres of office space, in the middle of 2015.
“We want to have as little impact on the environment as
possible and take a stand for energy efficiency, which is still
very much in its infancy in Turkey,” said Dr. Frank Quante, the

“We want to take a stand
for energy efficiency.”
Dr. Frank Quante,
Managing Director of EWE Turkey Holding

Managing Director of EWE Turkey Holding. “The building will
generate a significant amount of the electricity and heat that
it uses. We will also optimise our energy and water consumption,” added Sükrü Özden, Bursagaz’s Managing Director in
charge of technology. Their EWE colleagues in Oldenburg
helped them to do this with their specialist expertise. The
Green Building Council based in Washington, DC has awarded
the LEED certificate to just 100 buildings in Turkey. The gold

The new corporate building in Bursa has its own combined heat
and ­power plant, solar generators and wind turbines to enable it
to generate part of the needed electricity itself.

43

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY

“The new headquarters
will strengthen the reputation
of Bursagaz and Enervis
as role models for the Turkish
energy market.”

You can’t reach the gold level with energy efficiency alone,
though. Rainwater and wastewater which is not heavily contaminated will be collected inside the building to be reused in
the toilets. The plot which EWE purchased for the new building also has good links to public transport. Special ­bicycle
spaces, showers and changing rooms are available for employees who cycle to work. There are also charging stations
for electric vehicles. At night, the building is lit in a way that

Dr. Frank Quante

is appropriate for the surrounding area in accordance with the
LEED criteria. Any waste created during construction will be
separated at the construction site and prepared for recycling.

status of this standard, which the EWE subsidiaries hope to
achieve, has only been awarded once there.

The new headquarters meet our own demanding energy efficiency requirements as well as regulations set by the Turkish

The new building in Bursa incorporates efficient building

government. These regulations require the industrial s­ ector

technology that meets the criteria of the gold level. At its

to use 15 per cent and buildings to use 27 per cent less e­ nergy

heart lies a combined heat and ­power plant whose waste

by 2023. For Dr. Frank Quante, this not only provides extra

heat can be used to cool and heat the building simultane-

motivation, but also increases the size of the market for

ously. This will reduce CO2 emissions by 30 per cent. Ten per

­efficiency services. “The new headquarters will strengthen

cent of the building’s electricity needs will also be generated

the reputation of Bursagaz and Enervis as role models for the

from renewable sources, with a 45-kilowatt-peak (kWp) solar

Turkish energy market.”

­power system installed on the roof. An additional 100 square
metres of semi-permeable solar cells with a nominal output
of 5 kWp has been installed on the façade. The building also
has two 2 kW wind turbines which can provide electricity
even when wind speeds are low. The subsidiaries also plan to
install a system that will use fibre optic cables to bring sunlight to rooms which don’t have any access to natural light
and the basement.

44

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

REGIONAL
RESPONSIBILITY

As a predominantly municipally owned utility company, EWE is

OUR WAY FORWARD

committed to regional responsibility. We actively seek out dialogue with the people in our regions. We are committed to ed-

TO SUPPORT REGIONAL VALUE CREATION

ucation, science, culture, sport and social issues, and to creating value in the region. Our Group’s activities create jobs and

We want everyone involved to play an active role, and to

generate income in our regions. This was confirmed by ­a

this end, EWE has developed a variety of different business

scientific investigation by the research and consultancy firm

models. EWE is setting up new wind farms in the region in

­C ONOSCOPE. EWE has a significant indirect and direct eco-

partnership with citizens, local authorities and landowners.

nomic impact on the region. > see box on the next page

The first wind farm to be partially owned by a local authority
is located near Spolsen in the district of Frisia and has been
providing electricity since the end of 2013.

OUR OBJECTIVE
We also allow towns, cities and municipalities to invest in
TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE REGION’S DEVELOPMENT

our network companies and receive a guaranteed dividend.

We have set ourselves the objective of continuing to contrib-

tract undecided local authorities and those looking to add to

ute to the region’s development through our activities. We

their existing shareholdings. A total of 25.1 per cent of EWE

use a regionality index to check how effectively we do this.

NETZ is available to invest in until 2018. The cities of ­Bremen

This index is calculated on the basis of the BDEW Customer

and Bremerhaven have held a 25.1 per cent stake in each of

Focus (German Association of Energy and Water Industries)

the network companies wesernetz Bremen and wesernetz

study. The index is based on two survey criteria which our

Bremerhaven since July 2014.

EWE publicised an additional investment offer in 2014 to at-

customers rate on a given scale: “EWE is important to the
region” and “EWE supports education, sport, culture and so-

EWE sponsors around 300 cultural, social and sporting pro-

ciety”. We use the ratings to calculate a weighted index val-

jects each year. In addition to the Oldenburg-based basket-

ue between zero (completely disagree) and 100 (completely

ball team EWE Baskets, football team Werder Bremen and

agree).

Turkish sports club Bursaspor, EWE cofinances events such as
the Bremen Music Festival, the Brandenburg State Orchestra

Our aim is to achieve a result that outperforms the industry
average by 2020. This average in 2014 was 68. þ Collectively, the figure for EWE and swb came to 72; this figure was
calculated using the individual figures for the two companies
>> þ EWE-FK05. We want to keep it at this level, despite
challenging market conditions and the ensuing need for cost
reduction measures. If the industry average falls in coming
years, we will strive to keep our index value over 67.

of Frankfurt and the Beethoven Festival in Warsaw.

45

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
REGIONAL RESPONSIBILITY

EWE IS A SIGNIFICANT REGIONAL ECONOMIC FACTOR
The figures2 from the 2012 CONOSCOPE study1 show that
þ

1. EWE CREATES 25,000 JOBS

4. O
 VER EUR 1 BILLION IN INCOME TRICKLES DOWN TO
WORKERS IN THE REGION

EWE creates 17,043 additional full-time jobs in the region
indirectly through its business activities (purchases, capital

In addition to the direct income of EWE employees, which

expenditure, tax payments) and the expenditure of its 7,746

totals EUR 479.4 million, the business activities of EWE gen-

employees. This means that each EWE employee accounts for

erate an additional EUR 555.6 million of indirect and induced

two other jobs.

income. This means that every euro of Group income results
in EUR 1.20 income in the region.

2. EVERY OTHER EURO REMAINS IN THE REGION
5. E UR 600 MILLION IN TAXES AND LEVIES FLOW INTO
Around 43 per cent of EWE’s expenditure (purchases, wages

REGIONAL BUDGETS

and salaries, taxes, profits) remain in the regional economy,
equal to almost every other euro. A total of around EUR 1.7

EWE provides tax revenues of around EUR 1.3 billion. EUR 367

billion remains in EWE’s regions.

million of this remains in regional budgets. Orders submitted
to regional supply companies and the consumer spending of
employees generate additional tax payments worth EUR 227

3. EWE CREATES VALUE WORTH EUR 1.9 BILLION

million on an indirect and induced level >> þ G4-EC08.

Around EUR 1.9 billion of the region’s gross domestic product
can be traced back to the EWE Group’s activities. Personnel
expenses, tax payments and distributions of profits create
EUR 774.9 million in added value. An additional EUR 1,074.2
million of value is created at an indirect and induced level3,
e.g. as a result of purchases from suppliers or the expenditure
of employees in the region.

1 — Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft GmbH only audited
how well external study reports were incorporated.
2 — Incorporates data from all fully consolidated EWE companies based
in Germany. The analysis is based on data from the 2012 financial
year. The term “region” in this case refers to the three regions which
EWE is active in – Ems/Weser/Elbe, Bremen/Bremerhaven and Brandenburg/Rügen. CONOSCOPE GmbH is a medium-sized research
and consultancy firm based in Leipzig and Essen.
3 — “Indirect effects” are defined as effects that occur at a supplier level.
“Induced effects” are effects caused by the consumer spending
of EWE’s employees and the employees of companies that profit
indirectly.

46

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

DIALOGUE WITH PEOPLE IN THE REGION

COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

þ We have set up Group-wide dialogue formats to promote

EWE supports social projects and promotes education in

dialogue with the people in our regions. They allow local au-

its regions. Bremen-based EWE subsidiary swb launched an

thorities to have a say about the plans of our company and

education initiative in 2003. It encourages nurseries, schools

the issues facing it. One example is the Energy Turnaround

and other educational institutions to implement innovative

Forum, which enabled members of the public to say what

learning methods and content. The Turkish EWE subsidiaries

they think about the energy turnaround at nine sites in the

Bursagaz and Kayserigaz hold regular energy efficiency semi-

Ems/Weser/Elbe region between March and September 2014.

nars in schools.

In a second stage, any particularly promising ideas were presented to business, political and government representatives

Our employees also have a part to play – they can choose

to get projects up and running with companies. > p. 48, “Get-

to donate the cent amount of their monthly salary as part

ting citizens involved speeds up the regional energy turnaround”

of the ‘last cents’ scheme. EWE matches the total and uses
the funds to support social projects in the region. In 2014,

Since 2011, network advisory boards have given local autho-

these projects included the Varel hospice movement and the

rities the opportunity to voice their opinion about planned

children’s and family centre in Tostedt.

or intended network expansion in each district without the
need for financial commitment. Three advisory boards, each

The EWE Foundation was established in 2002 and supports

with 20 members, allow customers to provide new ideas, cri-

local projects to do with education and childcare, science and

ticism or approval for the regions of Weser/Ems, Weser/Elbe

research, art and culture. These include art weeks, children’s

and Brandenburg. > p. 56, “Increasing customer loyalty with

and youth theatre as well as literacy programmes. The

openness and transparency”; >> þ G4-SO01

Foundation’s sole mandates are the causes it represents and
it serves only the general public.

The ZentrumZukunft in the Emstek ecopark near Cloppenburg provides information about new energy technologies.
Group subsidiary EWE NETZ uses this site to demonstrate
how to integrate renewable energies into the network. Training about the energy turnaround is available for schools and
colleges, tradespeople, architects, planning offices, local authorities and associations. Over 40,000 people have visited
the ZentrumZukunft since it opened in 2008.

47

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
REGIONAL RESPONSIBILITY

VALUE CREATED BY EWE IN 2014

þ
in EUR million

Direct economic value generated in 20144
Sales without electricity and energy tax

8,134.2

Distributed economic value
Cost of materials and services

6,506.4

Personnel expenses

669.6

Interest expenses

230.5

Dividends

88.0

Income taxes

11.3

Investment in the community (donations)5

11.4

þ G4-EC01

4 — Additional information about the KPIs is available from p. 80 of the
2014 annual report onwards.
5 — Around 70 per cent of the donated funds were invested in research
activities.

48

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

GETTING CITIZENS
INVOLVED SPEEDS UP THE REGIONAL
ENERGY TURNAROUND

EWE is shaping the energy future in partnership with citizens.

Almost every idea presented at the Energy Turnaround Forum

The company’s Energy Turnaround Forum gave people in the

had two things in common. Firstly, they made it clear that

Ems/Weser/Elbe region a framework for discussing and devel-

attendees had a clear picture of their region and their living

oping ideas about a climate-friendly energy supply. Around

conditions. And secondly, they all asked, “It’s so obvious how

450 citizens took part in the Forum last year. They drew up

we can save energy locally, increase efficiency and change

70 suggestions for a local energy turnaround in Wittmund,

how we behave. Why doesn’t anyone else see that? Why isn’t

Cloppenburg, Varel, Bad Bederkesa, Papenburg, Tostedt,

anyone else using these opportunities?” This is why the main

Delmenhorst, Bremervörde and Oldenburg. Fifteen of these

point of the ideas that came out of the Energy Turnaround

ideas were developed at the subsequent idea exchanges until

Forum was to bring all of the different stakeholders t­ ogether

they were ready to be implemented.

to get local initiatives and projects up and running. “This series of events gave us a good picture of what’s important to
people in the region. It broadened our horizons,” said EWE
Project Manager Sigrid Justus.
One local initiative was the idea of training school pupils to
be energy guides, which was presented in Wittmund. The plan
is to hold short seminars to train them on how to identify and
implement potential energy-saving measures. This knowledge will spread from schools to families, allowing them to
make use of these ideas in their homes.
Attendees also discussed the issue of mobility among themselves and with specialists. The general consensus at the
event in Varel was that it’s just not right for drivers to be the
only person in their car. They agreed that more support was
needed for new usage concepts and alternative propulsion
systems. They proposed developing sharing projects for mobility involving electric cars and bikes.

Participants at the Energy Turnaround Forum discuss their
ideas in Varel.

49

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
REGIONAL RESPONSIBILITY

There was lively debate in Papenburg as well.

This in turn gave rise to the proposal that local authorities
should buy electric cars, use them during work hours and
then make them available to their citizens on weekends. This
could improve people’s willingness to engage with new usage concepts and environmentally friendly transport alternatives. Bernd Hoinke, the Head of Zetel District Council, is
in favour of making this idea a reality in Frisia. His district
bought an electric car and a car that runs on natural gas before the Energy Turnaround Forum, but can’t use them in a
car sharing model because of the leases they signed. “It just
didn’t occur to us,” he said regretfully. “That shows how important it is to partner together with members of the public
when looking for ideas for the energy future.” Fleet managers
and environment officers from other municipalities in Frisia
are now working on getting an electric vehicle sharing model
off the ground.

“This series of events
gave us a good picture
of what’s important
to people in the region.
It broadened our horizons.”
Sigrid Justus, Energy Turnaround Forum Project Manager

50

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

SUPPLY CHAIN

EWE is committed to acting sustainably in its dealings with par-

OUR WAY FORWARD

ties outside the company. We incorporate our suppliers and
service providers into our sustainability management system

EXPANDING THE STRATEGIC

to take full responsibility for our activities, make production

SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

methods transparent and preserve our reputation.
We have been expanding the strategic supplier management
system continuously since 2011. This system provides the
OUR OBJECTIVE

framework for our sustainable approach to procurement: We
intend to make signing up to the supplier code of conduct

TO ESTABLISH A SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT

a requirement for all product groups and tenders where we
evaluate the suitability of potential suppliers (pre-qualifica-

We are implementing specific sustainability requirements for

tion). The code of conduct should also be part of our ten-

our suppliers. þ We drew up a supplier code of conduct in

der documents so that suppliers can sign up to it before any

2014 to set specific standards regarding human rights and

agreements are finalised.

working conditions, occupational safety, health, environmental protection and integrity þ G4-EN32, þ G4-HR04, þ

We are committed to engaging with our business partners

G4-HR10, þ G4-LA14, þ EWE-FK06. We will be incorporating

about the issue of sustainability in order to increase ac-

the supplier code of conduct into our existing processes from

ceptance of our sustainability requirements. This will give

2015 onwards. Our objective: We want 95 per cent of our

us ­valuable input which we can use to improve our internal

strategic suppliers (long-term, significant partners of EWE)

sustainability management system. We will provide our em-

of materials and services to sign up to the code of conduct by

ployees in the Purchasing Corporate Centre function with

2020. We will be measuring our progress based on how many

regular training about the main aspects of the sustainability

of these suppliers have signed up to the code of conduct. We

management system, and will also involve employees of our

want to gradually expand our sustainability standards to the

subsidiaries in this process.

procurement of coal and gas.
IMPLEMENTATION OF A BUSINESS PARTNER REVIEW
PROCESS
We also implemented a business partner review at the start
of 2015. The review covers sustainability criteria. For the purpose of this review, we receive information about our partners’ business practices.

51

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
SUPPLY CHAIN

OUR SUPPLY CHAIN

þ Our supply chain encompasses the purchase of ­material

We use long-term, medium-term and short-term natural

and services, as well as coal and gas. We have regional, na-

gas purchase agreements to guarantee moderate prices and

tional and international supply relationships with around

­secure the supply of gas. We purchase the majority of our

10,000 companies from a wide range of sectors, including

natural gas from a range of international upstream suppliers.

plant and mechanical engineering, the metal industry, elec-

Two thirds of the natural gas for our German regions comes

trical engineering, marketing, consultancy and information

from German upstream suppliers; one third comes from the

technology. In 2014, our expenses were around EUR 1.05 bil-

Netherlands. We also use our gas storage facilities and short-

lion for materials and services >> þ G4-12.

term trading to compensate for fluctuations in demand.

EWE is committed to long-term partnerships with suppliers.

We cover two thirds of our demand for hard coal with im-

We award contracts to companies from the regions in which

ports from Russia, with one third coming from the USA. Only

we are active whenever possible. þ Regional suppliers re-

short-term and medium-term coal purchase agreements are

ceived a large proportion of our expenses for material and

possible because of the volatile market price.

services in 2014 (approx. 43 per cent or EUR 450.8 million)
>> þ G4-EC09.

52

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

MORE THAN JUST CABLES –
A LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIP
FOR A STRONG REGION

Long-term commitment, regional roots, high quality and fair

EWE gets more than just cables from Waskönig+Walter. “As

prices are the main criteria that EWE uses when choosing its

an independent family-run company, we think in genera-

suppliers. This is demonstrated by EWE’s long-term partner-

tions rather than quarters,” said Michael Waskönig, who is

ship with Waskönig+Walter, which is based in Saterland in

the fifth generation of his family to manage the company,
along with his brother Jörg and also Stefan Nestler. “For us,
financial success means maintaining our independence with
long-term profitable growth.” This keeps jobs safe for people
in the ­region and makes sure that the company will be able to
train and support its own staff in future. It is also committed
to a high standard of healthcare and occupational health and
safety. The company is OHSAS 18001-certified, which helps
the company to identify accident risks ahead of time and
minimise the impact on the health of its employees.
From EWE’s perspective, Waskönig+Walter’s responsible
approach and actions guarantee reliability and consistent
quality. Michael Waskönig used logistics and adherence to
delivery time-scales to demonstrate what this means: “When
we promise to deliver a certain length of this cable to a construction site ready for laying at a specific time, we follow

Raw materials and cables are stored in a 240 metre long hall.

through.” Knowing that you won’t have to delay construction
because you were given the wrong cable or it didn’t arrive on
time gives the company an advantage over competitors that
offer lower labour rates. With the right overall package, you

the district of Cloppenburg. The family company, founded in

can manufacture cables in Germany’s industrial centres, pro-

1873, has over 500 employees. It uses 10,000 tonnes of alu-

vided that getting the cheapest price isn’t the only criterion.

minium, 50,000 tonnes of copper, 80,000 tonnes of plastic
and a little steel every year to make cables for low-voltage,
medium-voltage and high-voltage networks.

53

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
SUPPLY CHAIN

Michael Waskönig,
Managing Director of family
company Waskönig+Walter

“When we promise to deliver a certain length
of this cable to a construction site
ready for laying at a specific time,
we follow through.”

Waskönig+Walter’s products are investment items for EWE.
The family company’s manufacturing processes reuse waste
and are constantly improving in terms of energy efficiency.
Heat, generated for example from the wire drawing process,
is used to heat the office building. The company has also
committed itself to reducing the amount of energy that it
consumes per tonne of cable by a few percentage points each
year. The small quantities of scrap material that the streamlined manufacturing process produces are collected and sorted. The company then puts this scrap in a copper or aluminium smelter to produce the wires that Waskönig+Walter uses
as the base material for its cables. Any unavoidable plastic
remnants left over from the manufacture and processing of
insulation and cable sheaths are cleaned off and fed back
into the production process. The company is also happy to
calculate the carbon footprint of its products on behalf of its
customers.

The cable manufacturer uses 50,000 tonnes of
copper a year in its production facilities.

54

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

MARKET AND
TRANSPARENCY

The trust and satisfaction of our customers plays an important

OUR OBJECTIVE

part in the financial success of our company. We are committed
to high-quality services and transparent business processes in

TO BE A TRUSTWORTHY SERVICE PROVIDER AND

order to remain attractive to our customers in an increasingly

RELIABLE CONTRACT PARTNER

competitive environment over the long term. This is particularly important when pricing energy products because our in­

We want our customers to see and appreciate us as trust-

fluence here is limited by a range of factors which we have no

worthy service providers and reliable contract partners. We

control over.

use an annual customer loyalty index to gauge our success in
achieving this objective. We calculate this index on the basis
of the BDEW Customer Focus study. We form an aggregated
value from four customer service indicators, all of which are
available for EWE and swb: customer satisfaction, willingness to recommend our company, likelihood of staying with
the company and comparison with competitors. We aim to

ELECTRICITY PRICE COMPOSITION

1

(in EUR)

achieve a score of 74 on a scale of 0 (completely disagree)
to 100 (completely agree) by 2020. Our average customer
loyalty index was 68 between 2010 and 2013, slightly under
the average for the sector of 70. þ We improved this to 72 in
the reporting year. This score is for the Energy business area

Interruptible loads: 0.5
Energy costs incl.
sales: 306

Combined Heat
and Power Act
(KWKG): 6
VAT: 170
Offshore levy: 9

>> þ EWE-FK07. In future, it will also cover the telecommuNetwork
costs: 227
Concession
fee: 50
Electricity
tax: 72
Industrial
levy: 3
Renewable
Energy Act (EEG)
levy: 218

nications business area.

OUR WAY FORWARD
INTEGRITY AND TRANSPARENT COMPANY
MANAGEMENT
We believe that compliance is at the heart of responsible and
transparent company management. This includes compliance

FACTOR WHICH CAN BE INFLUENCED BY EWE

with laws, regulations, obligations, internal guidelines and
voluntary commitments on the part of our employees and
their agents like service providers, consultants or agents. We

1 — Composition of the electricity price with EWE Strom comfort with
an annual consumption of 3,500 kWh in EWE VERTRIEB electricity
sales region 7. As of: 1.1.2014

guarantee fair market behaviour by keeping EWE compliance
requirements.

55

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
MARKET AND TRANSPARENCY

Compliance officers work together with other specialist divi-

We also worked on improving our service in 2014. Our sales

sions to help the company comply with requirements. They

companies are currently revising their customer service

review the regulations on a regular basis and amend them

strategies for energy and telecommunications products.

if necessary. The Internal Audit division also reviews past

We have launched a “Customer Service” project in the EWE

events. Employees and external parties can contact an ex-

­VERTRIEB and EWE TEL companies. As part of this project, we

ternal ombudsman to report potential rule violations. The

will provide employees with training about communicating

ombudsman is committed to keeping this information secret,

with customers, amend our correspondence with customers

and may only release anonymised information about the case

and optimise IT processes.

to have it reviewed at the request of the person who reported
the incident.

We also research trends and analyse markets. We use
post-contact surveys and customer satisfaction question-

þ There were no complaints or sanctions of a monetary or

naires to check whether our measures are having the desired

non-monetary nature arising from non-compliance with laws

result. This helps us to continuously identify areas where we

and regulations during the reporting year. There were also no

could improve.

complaints related to the ecological impact of our activities
>> þ G4-SO08, þ G4-EN34.

CERTIFIED PROCESSES, AWARD-WINNING SERVICE

CODE OF CONDUCT PROVIDES GUIDANCE

Our telecommunications business area is ISO 9001 and ISO
10002-certified, showing that our quality management and

EWE introduced a Group-wide code of conduct in 2012. It

complaints management processes meet the demanding re-

provides standards which our employees have to meet when

quirements of our customers. The computer magazine CHIP

dealing with customers, business partners or officials. These

confirmed the high quality of the customer service provided

standards cover issues like accepting gifts or invitations or the

by our telecommunications division in 2014, with EWE’s DSL

handling of information about the company and the property

and landline service hotline judged to be “very good”. They

and resources of the EWE Group. Every new employee is in-

were particularly impressed by the availability of the hotline

formed about compliance and our code of conduct.

and how quickly they were able to speak to someone.

BEING ACTIVE WHERE OUR CUSTOMERS ARE

Energy customers also receive high quality service from
EWE. The magazine gave this service area a “good” rating.

Our customers contact us about five million times per year.

The reviewers were particularly positive about our availabil-

We endeavour to provide them in good time and in person

ity, service and transparency.

with a high level of service. We achieve this with a dense
network of customer centres and service points in our regions – with more than 40 sites, this is one of EWE’s unique
selling points.

56

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

INCREASING CUSTOMER LOYALTY
WITH OPENNESS AND
TRANSPARENCY

“It needs to be easy to understand how energy is supplied,”

Heinz Schirmer brings this information to bear in the nu-

said Heinz Schirmer, who started his eighteen-month ten-

merous “energy chats” that he has. “I have been going up to

ure on EWE’s Brandenburg customer advisory board in the

people in the supermarket or on the street and asking them

middle of last year. Here’s what he makes of the board’s first

how satisfied they are with their electricity and gas suppli-

three meetings: EWE pays close attention when he tells them

er for years now. We talk about using modern technology in
their home,” explained the 66-year-old. His takeaway from
these chats? “People want to be involved. A lack of transparency leads to people making bad decisions and getting stuck
in their ways.” If people feel like they’re being ignored, they
tend to be more negative about wind farms, gas storage facilities and cable routes. Their choice of energy supplier then
becomes based on price alone.
Heinz Schirmer agrees that price is an important criterion,
“but customers shouldn’t lose sight of the advantages that

Heinz Schirmer,
member of the EWE
customer advisory
board in Brandenburg

come with using a regional energy provider.” For instance,
customers can go into their local EWE customer centre to get
advice about which tariff is right for them or find out about
the latest technological developments. Regionality is a vital
prerequisite for a transparent energy market.
Heinz Schirmer frequently meets elderly and young people

about what citizens want from their energy provider or are-

who are stuck in their ways because of a lack of transparency.

as where they do not have enough information or have pre-

“Elderly people resign themselves because there’s nobody to

conceived notions. EWE is also very open with the advisory

help them understand all of the new technology and offerings

board members about why it does what it does and provides

that are available.” On the other hand, young people, he said,

extensive information about the legal framework and energy

take energy for granted and expect it to just work without

policy.

any issues. “If it doesn’t, then it’s someone else’s fault.” Both
of these attitudes prevent energy from being used as well as

57

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
MARKET AND TRANSPARENCY

Constructive criticism wanted: meeting of the customer advisory board in Wildau, Brandenburg

it could be. That’s why Heinz Schirmer told the customer ad-

CUSTOMER ADVISORY BOARDS

visory board that “we have to increase awareness of how to
use energy efficiently. EWE can help do this in Brandenburg.”
According to Nadine Auras, who is responsible for the customer advisory boards in the Brandenburg/Rügen business
region, “that’s exactly the kind of information that we want
from our customer advisory boards.” EWE would then use
the feedback from the advisory boards to get better. “They
show us the areas where we need to be more transparent and
communicate more with customers.” That’s why the advisory boards focus on straight talk rather than small talk when
they meet, she said. The members of the advisory boards set
the agenda. The first two meetings focused on the future of
energy supply. Now service, customer loyalty and prices are
on the docket.

EWE has also been communicating with customers through three customer advisory boards in
the Weser-Ems, Weser-Elbe and Brandenburg
regions since 2011. The 15 members on each of
the first advisory boards served for two years.
As a result of their work, EWE made the pricing
leaflets that it sends out with its bills easier to
understand and developed new services for its
customers like thermography checks. The second
generation of advisory board members has been
meeting since 2014. EWE found in the first phase
that the advisory boards became less willing to
be critical after a certain amount of time, so the
members serve in their positions for 18 months.
The number of board members was also increased from 15 to 20. Any customer can become
an advisory board member.

58

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

HEALTH AND
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

The health of our employees is integral to the success of our

tral health management team. This gives employees the op-

company. As an employer, we take responsibility for our

portunity to play an active role in helping the company to be

­employees by helping them to stay healthy and making their

healthy and allows us to take a more systematic approach to

working environment as safe as possible.

health management. Corporate Centre’s Working Group for
Health has the same objective. This working group is made
up of employees from the HR and HSE (Health, Safety &

OUR OBJECTIVE

Environment) Corporate Centre functions, EWE’s company
health insurance scheme (BKK EWE), social welfare officers,

TO OFFER A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKING ENVIRON-

members of the Works Council and the company’s doctors,

MENT AT ALL TIMES

all working together on ways to improve the health of our
workforce.

We want to make sure that our employees stay healthy and
are always safe in their workplace. We have set up the healthy

REGULAR TRAINING SESSIONS, SEMINARS AND WORK-

employees rate1 as a central management tool so that we

SHOPS

can measure our progress in this area. þ The figure for 2014
was 95.3 per cent, which shows that we are already doing

The EWE Group provides regular training sessions devoted

extremely well in this area >> þ EWE-FK08, þ G4-LA06. We

to health issues such as stress prevention. These events also

want to improve this figure to 97 per cent by 2020.

involve activities like yoga or Pilates. We provide seminars
about time management and self-management to help employees and managers handle stress properly and realise their

OUR WAY FORWARD

personal limits.

A SYSTEMATIC APPROACH TO HEALTH MANAGEMENT

We are currently planning a management curriculum which
will make managers aware of how important the health

In 2014, we set up a central health management coordina-

of their employees is. We will also be providing follow-up

tion unit at the Corporate Centre level. The German Group

­seminars about topics like “healthy management”. This will

companies also have coordinators who help to organise and

help our managers to spot potential health issues which

implement measures. EWE’s subsidiary BTC, for example, has

could ­affect their employees and do something about them.

introduced health scouts at its German sites. They serve as a
point of contact between the sites’ employees and the cen1 — The healthy employee rate stands in opposition to the absence
rate. This means that if the absence ratio is 3 per cent, the healthy
employee rate is 97 per cent. The absence rate is the ratio of days
of absence resulting from incapacity to work to the target number
of working days assigned to the reporting period. This also includes
annual leave.

59

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

þ REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS INCL. ACCIDENTS ON THE

HEALTHY EATING AND DAY-TO-DAY FITNESS

WAY TO WORK (RATE PER 1,000 EMPLOYEES )
2

EWE picked up the issue of healthy eating in 2014 as part of
the City of Oldenburg’s “Sustainable consumption - pleasure
with a healthy conscience” initiative and provided sustainable meals at some of its canteens for a month. All of the

19.96

meals were prepared only with seasonal, fair-trade and regional products or ingredients from sustainable sources. In
future, we want to make similar meals a part of our canteen’s
10.86

11.38

regular menus.
9.15

Fitness is also part of EWE’s approach to health management.
BKK EWE launched a fresh initiative in March 2014 that encouraged employees to cycle to work. This is a fixed compo-

1.99

nent of the annual health programme. Around 100 people
took part and switched to taking their bike for at least 20
business days. The winner was awarded a prize. The health
programme was well received, with around 35 per cent of our
EWE
TOTAL
2014

EWE
GERMANY
2014

EWE
ABROAD
2014

þ G4-LA06

þ G4-LA06

þ G4-LA06

5-YEAR
EWE AVERAGE3

5-YEAR AVERAGE OF THE EMPLOYER’S
LIABILITY INSURANCE ASSOCIATION FOR
ENERGY TEXTILES ELECTRONICS MEDIA
PRODUCTS (2009–2013)4

employees taking part in the various initiatives we offered in
2014.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY INTEGRAL
TO EWE

2 — In addition to the companies listed as part of the scope of the
report (see p. 75), the accident indicators (indicator G4-LA06)
include the companies BIBER GmbH, EnergieCampus GmbH and
GSN Gebäudesicherheit Nord GmbH, which have around 150
employees.
3 — Not identical to the scope of the sustainability report (see p. 75).
The EWE average does not include the following companies: BTC
AG, BTC IT Services GmbH, EWE TEL, swb AG (including subsidiaries) and the Turkish and Polish EWE companies.
4 — Source: 2013 annual report of the Employer’s Liability Insurance
Association for Energy Textiles Electronics Media Products
(BG ETEM)

EWE’s occupational health and safety is coordinated by the
HSE Corporate Centre function. Each of the companies has
occupational health and safety specialists who take care
of our employees’ safety. They help managers to draw up
­safety requirements, such as how to operate equipment and
machinery correctly or when to wear personal protective
equipment, and work together to make sure they are complied with.

> Continue on p. 62

60

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

POWER PLANT CONSTRUCTION
IN MITTELSBÜREN:
PUTTING SAFETY FIRST

On average, twice as many people have accidents on con-

Jürgen Müller is the Head Safety Engineer at EWE’s subsidiary

struction sites than anywhere else in the industrial and trade

swb, which holds a majority 52 per cent stake in the Mittels-

sectors. And it’s not hard to see how a major construction site

büren gas and steam power plant. He believes that the site’s

could be unsafe – heavy loads dangling overhead, trip hazards

excellent safety record was primarily down to swb bringing
three different approaches to occupational safety together:

There were no serious accidents
or accidents with long-term
consequences over the course
of the three-and-a-half-year
construction project, which
took more than 3.2 million
man-hours.
lurking everywhere, employees from different companies
working together and a steady stream of vehicles bringing
new materials. The construction site for the steam turbine
power plant in Bremen-Mittelsbüren, on the other hand, was
not an unsafe area where accidents were waiting to happen.
There were no serious accidents or accidents with long-term
consequences over the course of the three-and-a-half-year
construction project, which took more than 3.2 million manhours. There were just eight workplace accidents that caused
anyone to miss any time, amounting to 50 lost days in total.

“At swb, we came at the issue from the traditional German
angle of mitigating hazardous situations in advance; the consortium was headed up by General Electric (GE), which came
from the Anglo-Saxon tradition of written codes of conduct;
and GE’s Spanish partner Cobra came from the Southern
­European tradition of extremely cautious safety measures.”

The team approves security measures.

61

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

Employees in the
rescue-at-height team
train to abseil with a
rescue stretcher on the
construction site.

Training, monitoring and coordination were needed to imple-

identify with our safety philosophy,” said Arantxa Casado and

ment the shared safety philosophy – construction workers

Cedric Moulin, speaking from experience. Because of this, the

had to make themselves familiar with it online or using termi-

Health and Safety Managers for Cobra and GE were generous

nals on-site before they were allowed onto the construction

with praise and handing out small rewards whenever anyone

site. After passing a test about what they know, they were

showed particular care for their own safety and the safety of

issued additional instructions about site regulations, working

their colleagues.

at height and working in potentially explosive environments.
The construction companies also met over 700 times over

For Matthias Schaup, the Managing Director of the pow-

the past three and a half years to coordinate their work and

er plant company, the positive outcome shows that safety

rule out putting each other at risk.

training should focus on safety measures in future. According
to the accident statistics of the Employer’s Liability Insurance

Compliance with the rules was monitored on a daily basis.

Association for Energy Textiles Electronics Media Products,

Each company with more than 20 employees on the con-

30 per cent of all accidents were due to falling, slipping or

struction site had to provide at least one safety officer. Safe-

tripping. But hardly any accidents like these happened on the

ty specialists from swb, GE and Cobra were always on site.

construction site for the Mittelsbüren power plant.

“These checks alone can’t guarantee that employees really

62

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

> The occupational health and safety specialists work together with company doctors, safety officers and works

1.46

councils on occupational health and safety committees in

þ injuries per 200,000 work hours5 in 2014

safety measures are kept up to date. These assessments in-

>> þ G4-LA06

each Group company. They advise the management and executives of the subsidiaries on occupational safety, health and
accident prevention.
þ Management performs regular risk assessments to make
sure that safety requirements and occupational health and
volve evaluating safety measures and amending them if
­necessary >> þ TC-IO03. þ The low number of reportable
work accidents (including accidents on the way to work) show

95.3

%

that our occupational health and safety measures are effective. In 2014, there were 10.86 accidents per 1,000 employees2
>> þ G4-LA06. According to the Employer’s Liability Insurance ­Association for Energy Textiles Electronics Media Products, the industry average was 19.96 accidents per 1,000 employees between 2009 and 2013, almost twice as high.

þ 2014 healthy employee rate
>> þ EWE-FK08, þ G4-LA06

16.54
þ lost days per 200,000 work hours5 in 2014
>> þ G4-LA06
5 — The amount of working hours is equal to the total working time.
These were calculated as either the number of hours worked or the
number of planned hours less public holidays, annual leave and
illness statistics.

63

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION

EMPLOYEES
AND EDUCATION

Long-term retention of qualified employees is a vital part of

We want to reduce this figure to 75 weekdays by 2020. The

EWE’s success. Because we are involved in so many areas –

national benchmark is around 60 days. When we set our tar-

­energy, telecommunications, information technology – EWE

get, we calculated that the amount of time required to fill

needs employees with a wide range of skills and expertise. The

­positions will rise across the sector between now and 2020

impact of demographic changes on the labour market is making

because of the anticipated lack of qualified personnel. We

it increasingly difficult for the company to attract specialists

also took note of the fact that EWE generally advertises

and retain them in the long-term. That’s why we are committed

­vacant positions internally first. EWE then advertises them

to providing apprenticeships in line with our requirements and

publicly if they can’t be filled internally. This tends to in-

training our employees, in addition to recruiting qualified per-

crease the amount of time needed to fill positions.

sonnel for the future.
We have a long-term human resources plan in place to keep

OUR WAY FORWARD

key expertise in the company. The economic situation has also
put us in the challenging situation of having to cut 500 jobs by

INCORPORATING DEMOGRAPHIC FACTORS

2017. We will strive to do this in a socially acceptable manner
without redundancies for operational reasons.

Demographic changes will transform the age structure of
EWE’s workforce. That’s why we launched a demographics
management system in 2014, through which we have derived

OUR OBJECTIVE

important information from an analysis of the age structures
in the company. The age-related contraction of the workforce

TO BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER FOR OUR REGIONS

will pick up pace significantly from 2020 onwards as people
born in baby boom years go into retirement. In 2025, more

Despite the challenging economic conditions currently facing

than half of our employees will be over 50 years old.

us, we want to be an employer who is in demand and able to
shape the energy future with employees who perform well

We have drawn up HR measures to keep expertise in the com-

and possess relevant expertise and skills. þ We use the time

pany and recruit new employees with an eye to the future.

taken to fill positions as an indicator of how attractive we are

We are implementing a Group-wide strategic human resourc-

as an employer. This is the number of weekdays between a

es planning system to make sure that we have the personnel

position being advertised and the employment contract be-

required to be successful as a business and to draw up human

ing signed. In 2014, this number was 85.6 days. This calcula-

resources programmes that will help us achieve this goal. We

tion covers all internally and externally advertised jobs, with

also want to establish new ways of working together, such

the exception of apprentice, trainee and internship positions

as making sure that teams are made up of mixed age groups.

>> þ EWE-FK09.

We want to be more attractive to specific target groups, in
particular women, apprentices and young employees for
­
non-academic and business divisions, and to promote the
transfer of knowledge from older to younger employees. We

64

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

want to set up our health, professional training and career
programmes so that they are tailored to the various stages of
life that every age group in the company is at.
2014 AWARDS
We have been developing a brand identity as an employer
since 2014. This brand identity will help employees to identify with the company and help us to attract qualified employees.
“BERUFUNDFAMILIE”

INVESTING IN PROFESSIONAL TRAINING

(CAREER AND FAMILY)

AND APPRENTICESHIPS

swb recertified

EWE is training around 320 young people in a wide range of

with “berufundfamilie” audit

professions. They include industrial engineering electricians,
IT specialists, home economists and wastewater technology
specialists. The company has another 95 young adults going
through parallel vocational training and degree programmes
in electrical engineering, business administration or industrial engineering and management. EWE’s EnergieCampus is a

“GREAT PLACE TO WORK”

central education facility in Oldenburg which provides workshops, classrooms and accommodation. It allows apprentices

Bursagaz named

from outside the Oldenburg area to stay on the campus in

best employer

company-owned accommodation. The EnergieCampus provides them with mentoring and specialist training. > p. 66
“A place to live and learn”
We also help students from a variety of disciplines with their
Bachelor’s or Master’s thesis. We provide a 24 month trainee

“GLEICH-WICHTIG”
(EQUALLY IMPORTANT)
EWE Polska named fairest employer
in “Gleich-Wichtig” competition

programme for university graduates.

65

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION

AGE STRUCTURE OF OUR WORKFORCE (in %)

þ We provide our employees with regular training at the

þ

Group’s professional training centre. We provide training
for current and future managers at the EWE Academy. The
management programme’s strong focus on strategy and entrepreneurship helps participants to develop new solutions
and feed their suggestions into their company >> þ G4-LA10.
BALANCING CAREER AND FAMILY
EWE wants to enable its employees to balance the demands

2014

of work and family. Flexible working hours, healthcare and
retirement benefits, childcare at the Oldenburg site and
working time accounts in some companies are just some of
the measures which EWE uses to create a healthy working
environment.
SAFEGUARDING THE RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES
≤ 30 YEARS
MALE

31–50 YEARS
MALE

> 50 YEARS
MALE

≤ 30 YEARS
FEMALE

31–50 YEARS
FEMALE

> 50 YEARS
FEMALE

We place great importance on treating all employees equally.
Works Councils have been set up in all German EWE companies to ensure that the rights of employees are safeguarded
and their concerns are given a voice. þ The right to freedom
of association and collective bargaining is guaranteed in all
of our German companies >> þ G4-HR04. þ Whenever there
are significant operational changes, EWE notifies its employ-

Total

Male

Female

≤ 30 years

17.6

16.0

21.4

31–50 years

59.4

58.5

61.7

> 50 years

23.0

25.5

16.9

þ G4-LA12

ees within the legally required country-specific timescales
>> þ G4-LA04.

66

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

A PLACE
TO LIVE AND LEARN

Ricardo Breßler is learning at EWE too – namely how to play

best offer around.” Now, after spending just under a year on

guitar. The trainee IT systems technician lives on the compa-

campus, he says, “No one else can offer what I get here –

ny’s EnergieCampus in Oldenburg and does his training in the

well-rounded training in the workshops, a great room, good

workshops that are right next door. On Thursday evenings he

food and a brilliant range of leisure activities that they have

plays music with a music teacher employed by EWE and other

clearly put a lot of thought into.”

residents who came to the Northwest to train with EWE.
95 teenagers and young adults live on the campus. All of the
Ricardo Breßler grew up 500 kilometres to the east, in Frank-

rooms have a generous bathroom and high-speed internet.

furt an der Oder. When he came across EWE’s advertisement

Breakfast, lunch and dinner are served in the sunny canteen

in the newspaper, one thing was clear to him: “That’s the

with a view of the green Hunte lowlands. Rolf Röttgers, team

Trainee IT systems technician Ricardo
Breßler learns in the EWE workshops.

67

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION

leader in charge of technical training, explains: “EWE can’t
provide training for technical vocations everywhere because
of the high requirements for our training setup. However, we
look for apprentices who come from all of our business regions, because they are expected to go back there to work
when their training is complete.” That’s why EWE provides a
single location for apprentices to live and train at in Olden-

Proactive ways to switch off – music lessons are
some of the leisure activities available on the
campus.

burg, he said. This approach also means that parents don’t
have to worry about how their children are going to get to
a workplace that might be a long distance away from where

mentors are responsible for organising recreational activities.

they live.

They are also available around the clock for the young adults
to talk to. “We decide what we do in our free time, but EWE

“No one else
can offer
what I get here.”
Ricardo Breßler

doesn’t just leave us to our own devices when the working
day is over,” said Ricardo Breßler, summing up campus life.
The 18-year-old likes the campus, but is particularly appreciative of the quality of his training. The company is usually
among the best-rated training institutions when Chambers
of Industry publish their reviews. The workshops are fully
equipped and the training staff is completely committed to
the next generation coming through. If you think that the

Trainee IT system technicians spend a lot of their working

campus doesn’t give the young trainees a realistic experience

hours in front of a screen. “We spend a lot of our free time

of working life, think again. “The workshop is a service pro-

there as well,” said Ricardo Breßler. The campus provides

vider for the companies in the EWE Group,” said Rolf Rött-

trainees with proactive ways to switch off, like cooking cours-

gers. “We invoice our clients meticulously.” For example, the

es or music lessons. “Playing guitar is a way to focus on some-

campus has manufactured control cabinets for the alpha ven-

thing completely different.” Trainees also use the Facebook

tus and Riffgat wind farms.

group to arrange times to meet up to play sports, cards or
billiards, or to watch TV together in the common rooms. Four

68

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

DATA PROTECTION
AND INFORMATION SECURITY

Treating customer and company data as confidential is an inte-

OUR WAY FORWARD

gral part of our company policy and processes. In these digital
times, we use an information management system that is

GUARANTEEING DATA PROTECTION

aligned with the security and compliance requirements of our
company. It covers the areas of data protection, information

The data protection officers of our individual companies are

security and the unbundling of the Network and Sales business

subject to especially stringent confidentiality requirements

areas.

and are responsible for ensuring that the requirements of
German data protection legislation and other data protection regulations are complied with. We have a Group functio-

OUR OBJECTIVE

nal division policy devoted to data protection which governs
tasks, personal duties and responsibilities. Our data protec-

TO BE A RELIABLE PARTNER FOR DATA AND

tion officers discuss issues on a regular basis. They evaluate

INFOR­M ATION SECURITY

new IT projects to determine the security of customer data,
discuss the impact that new data protection legislation will

We provide our employees with regular training about how

have on the Group, and identify ways in which existing struc-

to be a trustworthy custodian of data in order to ensure that

tures can be optimised. þ And they have been successful –

we are a reliable partner for our customers. þ We have set

EWE had no substantiated complaints regarding breaches of

ourselves the target of implementing standardised e-lear-

data protection in 2014 >> þ G4-PR08.

ning modules for data protection, information security and
unbundling by 2020 >> þ EWE-FK10. These are to be made
available to all companies in which training about one or
more of these three issues is mandatory. We want to reach
over 85 per cent of all our employees with the e-learning
measure. According to recognised models for evaluating
company processes, this is the maximum proportion of our
employees that we can practically achieve. Our calculations
also incorporated the fact that achieving a rate of 100 per
cent is impossible due to employees being away because of
illness or holiday or fluctuating employee numbers.

69

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
DATA PROTECTION AND INFORMATION SECURITY

PROTECT THE GROUP AND EMPLOYEES WITH

MAKING SURE THAT NETWORK AND SALES

INFORMATION SECURITY

ARE UNBUNDLED

Group-wide information security is managed by the central

The Energy Economy Law (EnWG) requires that the network

information security officer in the Corporate Centre, with

and sales divisions of utility companies must be kept separa-

support provided by local information security officers in

te to ensure that networks are operated neutrally and that

each business area. They continuously review the effective-

network access is granted on a non-discriminatory basis in

ness of our security measures, including how effectively

Germany. The purpose of this is to unbundle network busi-

they protect us against cyber attacks. In addition to imple-

ness as a monopoly from the electricity and gas businesses

menting legal requirements in the companies, the infor-

(which are in competition with each other) from a company

mation ­security officers are responsible for improving the

law, operational, information and accounting perspective.

Group-­
wide information security management system in

This includes keeping customer data separate, as such infor-

accordance with ISO 27001 requirements. They also provide

mation may not be exchanged between the network unit and

advice about innovations related to the digitalisation of the

the sales unit of a company. This is to avoid distorting com-

energy economy.

petition.

EWE also takes part in working groups, federal government

EWE has set up a comprehensive equal access programme

committees and industry associations so that it can take an

which provides binding specifications for measures desig-

active role in shaping general legal requirements and industry

ned to ensure that network business is conducted on a non-

standards.

discriminatory basis. Equal access officers provide the employees of our network companies with regular training and
are available for them to contact. The annual equal access
reports of our subsidiaries EWE NETZ, wesernetz Bremen,
wesernetz Bremerhaven, EWE GASSPEICHER and Gastransport Nord GmbH document our progress. We apply labour
law sanctions when requirements are violated.

70

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

EWE’S DATA CENTRES:
KEEPING INFORMATION SAFE
IN OLDENBURG

The data on the servers of EWE’s two data centres in Ol­

He added that hacking poses a greater danger to the data

denburg lies safe behind a series of firewalls, steel doors and

than unauthorised individuals trying to physically access the

access codes. EWE uses these data centres to store internal

technical systems. Because of this, servers which only need

data as well as information about its private and business

to be available through a company intranet are not connect-

customers. Personal information is also protected by Ger-

ed to the internet. Professional firewalls are used to protect

many’s strict data protection laws – a major advantage of

everything that can be accessed through the internet. These
firewalls are regularly tested by EWE specialists and their

“In this country, legislation is
based on the principle
that information belongs
to the person that provides it.”

manufacturers. In front of these firewalls is a system that
monitors data traffic for irregularities and deflects suspicious
attempts to make a connection.

Ingmar Schmidt

­keeping the data within the country. “In this country,” says
Ingmar Schmidt, the Data Protection and Information Security Officer at EWE’s Group subsidiary EWE TEL, “legislation
is based on the principle that information belongs to the
person that provides it.” In some other countries, information becomes the property of whoever receives it.
EWE provides its customers with a regional partnership as
well as more security than a lot of international clouds. “For
example, EWE can draw up individual agreements with its
customers for the storage of company secrets,” said Ingmar
Schmidt. These don’t enjoy quite the same level of protection as personal information under German law.

Ingmar Schmidt, the Data Protection and Information
Security Officer at EWE TEL, checks one of the servers.

71

OUR AREAS OF ACTION:
DATA PROTECTION AND INFORMATION SECURITY

Suspicious attempts to make a connection are deflected.
The data in EWE’s data centre is well protected.

Power cuts and fires can also make data insecure or inacces-

by the German Society for the Certification of Management

sible. If there is a power cut, the data centres will fall back to

Systems and TÜV. “But that won’t be that much help to the

battery power until the generator at the centre starts pro-

customer if they don’t take care online.” That’s why EWE pro-

viding electricity. This generator uses a diesel motor capable

vides customers with detailed advice on how they can pro-

of powering a sizeable cargo ship. A second back-up power

tect themselves online.

system is available to cover all eventualities. A gas system is
on hand to quickly extinguish any fire that breaks out in the
data centre. Any data that has to be available permanently
is mirrored and stored on multiple servers. “Having two data
centres means that EWE can keep copies of particularly sensitive information in different places,” said Ingmar Schmidt to
emphasise the extent of EWE’s services.
The data centres are also protected against break-ins. Cameras monitor every way into the data centres, and the buildings can only be accessed through a series of steel doors and
secure airlocks. “Our security measures comply with the
latest standards,” said Ingmar Schmidt, summing it up. This
is backed up by the fact that EWE TEL is regularly certified

72

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

ABOUT
THIS REPORT

73

ABOUT THIS REPORT

OUR FIRST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

­survey-based materiality analysis to identify the issues that
are relevant for our companies and our stakeholders. The re-

“Creating Value for our Region” is EWE’s first sustainability

port focuses on our ten areas of action: Security of supply

report. In conjunction with EWE AG’s 2014 annual report, the

and network stability, innovation and product responsibili-

report provides a comprehensive overview of our company’s

ty, climate protection and generation, environmental man-

performance on the basis of financial and non-financial in-

agement and resource efficiency, regional responsibility,

formation.

supply chain, market and transparency, health and occupational safety, employees and education, and data protection

The information provided in the sustainability report covers

and information security. The structure of the report, which

economic, environmental and social issues. Please refer to

is broken down by sustainability action areas, reflects the

our annual report for detailed information about the EWE

main economic, environmental and social issues for the EWE

Group’s performance and economic situation.

Group. þ Issues that we identified as being relevant for the
success of our business with the help of our stakeholders

þ This report was prepared in accordance with the Glob-

were allocated to each area of action >> þ G4-18.

al Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines, as well as the guidance specific to the energy and
telecommunications sectors. We believe that it meets the

SCOPE OF THE REPORT

requirements of the “Core” application level. In future, EWE
AG’s sustainability report will be published annually >> þ

þ The report covers the 2014 financial year (1 January to 31

G4-32; þ G4-30.

December) >> þ G4-28. The performance indicators in the
report relate to this period. Any relevant, qualitative infor-

The indicators in the GRI Index (p. 82) have been audited by

mation that went beyond 2014 and was available by the pub-

Ernst & Young GmbH. þ Their findings are provided in the

lication date has been included in the report.

independent assurance report on page 92 >> þ G4-33.
þ The information and key figures come from the EWE Group
companies listed in the Appendix (measured by strategic relCONTENTS AND STRUCTURE

evance and coverage of at least 95 per cent of total generated sales). Any deviations from the scope of the report are

Detailed information about the principles of our sustaina-

indicated at the relevant location. This scope does not apply

bility management system is provided in “Sustainability –

to the “Company Profile” section (p. 10) >> þ G4-17.

part of our Group strategy”, along with the targets (p. 21) by
which we measure our sustainability efforts.
When preparing this report, we collated the sustainability issues that were potentially significant for EWE in line
with the GRI’s reporting principles and used a multi-stage

74

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

FACTS
AND FIGURES

75

FACTS AND FIGURES

APPENDIX
OF INDICATORS

The Appendix covers indicators which are not mentioned in the

SECURITY OF SUPPLY AND NETWORK STABILITY

areas of action sections.

AREA OF ACTION
þ G4-EU30 — Average availability of power plants (in %)

ABOUT THIS REPORT
þ G4-17 — Scope of accounting 1
The sustainability report focuses on the main organisations,
measured by strategic relevance and coverage of at least 95
per cent of the sales of the EWE Group.
BTC Business Technology Consulting AG, BTC IT Services

Total generation

87.71

Hard coal

83.63

Blast furnace gas/converter gas
Natural gas

95.71
0

2

Light oil

97.53

Total disposal

90.20

GmbH, Bursagaz Bursa Şehiriçi Doğalgaz Dağıtım Ticaret ve
Taahhüt A.Ş., EWE AG, EWE VERTRIEB GmbH, EWE Energia
sp. z o.o., EWE ERNEUERBARE ENERGIEN GmbH, EWE

2 — The gas-powered block 14 of the Bremen-Hastedt CHP plant is
currently mothballed.

GASSPEICHER GmbH, EWE NETZ GmbH, EWE Offshore
Service & Solutions GmbH, EWE Polska Sp. z o.o., EWE swb
ISIS GmbH, EWE TEL GmbH, EWE TRADING GmbH, EWE
WASSER GmbH, Gastransport Nord GmbH, Kayserigaz

þ G4-EU12 — Electricity network losses
Our losses in the German medium and low-voltage network are 2.1 per cent

Kayseri Doğalgaz Dağıtım Pazarlama ve Ticaret A.Ş., swb
Abrechnungsservice GmbH, swb AG, swb Bremerhaven
GmbH, swb CREA GmbH, swb Entsorgung GmbH & Co. KG,
swb Erzeugung AG & Co. KG, swb Erzeugung und Entsorgung
AG & Co. KG, swb Services AG & Co. KG, swb Vertrieb
Bremen GmbH, swb Vertrieb Bremerhaven GmbH & Co. KG,
wesernetz Bremen GmbH, wesernetz Bremerhaven GmbH

1 — Please see page 167 of the 2014 annual report for a comprehensive
list of all the companies that were consolidated in the financial
statements.

76

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

CLIMATE PROTECTION AND GENERATION

Conventional (MW electric)

AREA OF ACTION
þ G4-EU01 — Installed electrical capacity (in MW thermal)
Installed thermal capacity3

746

Hard coal

178

Natural gas

445

Waste to energy

123

Hard coal

553

Blast furnace gas/converter gas

200

Natural gas

306

Light oil

86

Waste to energy

75

Conventional (MW thermal)3

3 — Indicator is recorded at all major combustion and gas ­turbine
facilities (in accordance with 13th German Immission ­Control
­Directive) and all facilities involved in burning waste (in
­accordance with 17th German Immission Control Directive).

1,220

746

Hard coal

178

Natural gas

445

Waste to energy

123

þ G4-EU11 — Generation efficiency of
þ G4-EU02 — Net energy output

thermal plants3 (in %)

(in GWh)

Heat generation by primary fuel resource4

1,307

Average generation efficiency of thermal plants

Hard coal

505

Hard coal

44

Natural gas

365

Blast furnace gas

38

Waste to energy

262

Waste

29

Bio natural gas

139

Light oil

11

Other
(biogas, biogenic replacement fuels, fuel oil, sewage gas)

36

4 — Contrary to indicator G4-EU01, this also includes heat generation
from combined heat and power plants.

Electrical efficiency of thermal power plants
Hard coal

37

Blast furnace gas

38

Light oil

11

þ G4-EU05 — Number of CO2 emissions allowances
þ G4-EN20 — Emissions of ozone-depleting substances
Total CO2 certificates
Allocated CO2 certificates

139,319

Auctioned CO2 certificates

2,047,053

Proportion of granted CO2 certificates (in %)

(ODS)

2,186,372

6.4

EWE did not use any ozone-depleting substances.

þ G4-EN21 — N itrogen oxides, sulphur oxides and other
air emissions 4

þ G4-EU10 — Planned generation capacity
Renewables (MW electric)

Emissions from generation facilities (in kg/year)

366

Onshore wind

215

Offshore wind

137

Other (biogas, photovoltaics, hydroelectric)

14

Nitrogen oxides (NOx)

1,553,353

Sulphur dioxide (SO2)

1,443,324

Dust

135,663

Fine dust – PM10 (93%)

122,097

Fine dust – PM2.5 (60%)

81,398

77

FACTS AND FIGURES

Chalk

Emissions from waste disposal facilities (in kg/year)

29,759 Mg

Heavy fuel oil

1,523 Mg

55,147

Fuel oil

1,765 Mg

Dust

5,302

Waste

Fine dust – PM10 (93%)

4,771

Renewables

Fine dust – PM2.5 (60%)

3,181

Biomass

Hydrogen chloride (HCl)

41,347

Carbon monoxide (CO)

101,653

Nitrogen oxides (NOx)

909,556

Sulphur dioxide (SO2)

Total carbon (Ctotal)

2,931

442,190 Mg

3,168 Mg

Waste

442,190 Mg

Raw biogas

13,973,924 Nm³

Biomethane

34,396,527 Nm³

Vegetable oil

Emissions from generation facilities (in kg/MWh)
Nitrogen oxides (NOx)

0.416

Sewage gas

Sulphur dioxide (SO2)

0.386

Wood

Dust

0.036

Fine dust – PM10 (93%)

0.033

Fine dust – PM2.5 (60%)

0.022

Emissions from waste disposal facilities (in kg/MWh)

0 Mg
137,603 Nm³
204 Mg

þ G4-EN22 — Wastewater by quality
and destination (in m3)
Brine

1,456,541

Nitrogen oxides (NOx)

1.211

Wastewater at treatment sites5

Sulphur dioxide (SO2)

0.073

Process water

205,640

Dust

0.007

Cooling water

647,522,864

Fine dust – PM10 (93%)

0.006

Fine dust – PM2.5 (60%)

0.004

Hydrogen chloride (HCl)

0.055

Carbon monoxide (CO)

0.135

Total carbon (Ctotal)

0.004

16,219,236

5 — This is purified wastewater that is fed directly into watercourses.

REGIONAL RESPONSIBILITY
AREA OF ACTION
þ G4-EU22 — N
 umber of people displaced and

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCE
EFFICIENCY AREA OF ACTION

Nobody was displaced and no compensation was paid during the reporting
period.

þ G4-EN01 — M
 aterials used by weight or volume (fuels)
Non-renewables
Blast furnace gas
Converter gas
Hard coal
Natural gas
RF, non-bio

compensation

2,916,424,300 Nm³
28,431,600 Nm³
914,895 Mg
63,241,188 Nm³
0 Mg

78

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

MARKET AND TRANSPARENCY

þ G4-SO06 — Total value of political contributions

AREA OF ACTION

An internal Group directive forbids EWE from making political donations.

þ G4-EN29 — F ines and penalties for non-compliance
þ G4-PR05 — Results of surveys measuring customer

with environmental laws and regulations

satisfaction (index)

There were no fines and penalties incurred for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the reporting period.
Brand level

67.2 (energy); 75.8 (TC)

Main business region

68.8 (energy); 76.0 (TC)

þ G4-PR09 — F ines for non-compliance with laws and
regulations concerning the provision and
use of products and services
HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

There were no fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning
the provision and use of products and services in the reporting period.

AREA OF ACTION
þ G4-LA06 — L ost days due to illness, number of injuries,

þ G4-SO04 — Communication and training on

number of work-related fatalities 6

anti-corruption policies and procedures
Work-related fatalities (number of deaths)
Total number of
governing body members having received
information

5

Percentage of
governing body members having received
information

100

Total number of
employees having received information

~2,100 (taking double clicks
into account)

Percentage of
employees having received information

~24

Total number of
business partners having received information

The supplier code of conduct
will be introduced in 2015

Percentage of
business partners having received information

The supplier code of conduct
will be introduced in 2015

Total number of
governing body members having received
training

5

Percentage of
governing body members having received
training

100

Total number of
employees having received training
New employees having received training
Enquiries to the compliance officer
Enquiries to compliance representatives

84
144
59

Percentage of employees having received training
New employees having received training

30

Enquiries to the compliance officer

2

Enquiries to compliance representatives

1

0

Germany

0

Overseas

0

Injury rate
(number of injuries per 200,000 work hours)7

1.46

Germany

1.55

Overseas

0.21

Lost day rate
(number of lost days per 200,000 work hours)7

16.54

Germany

17.73

Overseas

0.85

6 — Excluding subcontractors and supervised workers (external
temporary staffing); information about work accidents without
breakdown by gender. In addition to the companies listed as part
of the scope of the report, the accident indicators (indicator G4LA06) include the companies BIBER GmbH, EnergieCampus GmbH
and GSN Gebäudesicherheit Nord GmbH, which have around 150
employees.
7 — The amount of working hours is equal to the total working time.
These were calculated as either the number of hours worked or the
number of planned hours less public holidays, annual leave and
illness statistics.

79

FACTS AND FIGURES

EMPLOYEES AND EDUCATION
AREA OF ACTION
þ G4-10 — Workforce structure
Total number of employees
by employment contract and gender8

9,099

Permanent

7,683

of which female

2,105

of which male

5,578

Temporary

440

of which female

163

of which male

277

Active phased early retirement
of which female
of which male
Special employee groups (trainees, assistants, apprentices)

17
1
16

170

of which male

435
354

of which female

166

of which male

188

Total number of employees
by employment type and gender8

9,099

Full-time

7,217

of which female

1,496

of which male

5,721

Part-time

923

of which female

773

of which male

150

Special employee groups (trainees, assistants, apprentices)

605

of which female

170

of which male

435

Inactive (passive phased early retirement, early retirement,
parental leave, military service, civil service)

9,250

Employees (incl. Board of Management/Boards of Directors and
special employee groups)

9,099

of which female

2,605

of which male

6,494

Supervised workers

151

9

of which female

61

of which male
Total number of employees by region and gender
Germany

90
8

9,099
8,596

of which female

2,440

of which male

6,156

Overseas

503

of which female

165

of which male

338

605

of which female

Inactive (passive phased early retirement, early retirement,
parental leave, military service, civil service)

Total number of employees by direct employment/supervised workers and by gender

354

of which female

166

of which male

188

8 — Differences in the number of employees compared to the information in the annual report are due to differences in the scope
of accounting (cf. G4-17, p. 75) and the reporting date analysis
performed on 31.12.2014 which serves as the foundation for the
sustainability report.
9 — Personnel hired via third parties (e.g. temporary employment
agencies) to render services for a German EWE company according
to the German Temporary Employment Act (AÜG).

þ G4-11 — Employees covered by collective bargaining
agreements
A total of 8,402 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements in
the reporting period.

80

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

þ G4-LA01 — T
 otal number and rates of new employee
hires and employee turnover by age group,
­gender and region

Total employee turnover
by region and gender

823

9.0

Germany

780

8.5

of which female

235

2.6

of which male

545

5.9

43

0.5

of which female

15

0.2

of which male

28

0.3

Number

%

Total number of new employee hires
by age group and gender

839

9.2

≤ 30 years

506

5.6

of which female

183

2.0

of which male

323

3.6

277

3.0

65

0.7

Average length of employment of employees who
have left by age group

212

2.3

≤ 30 years

56

0.6

of which female

1.4

of which female

14

0.2

of which male

2.4

of which male

42

0.4

Total number of new employee hires
by region and gender

839

9.2

Germany

787

8.6

of which female

249

2.7

of which male

538

5.9

52

0.6

of which female

13

0.2

of which male

39

0.4

Total employee turnover
by age group and gender

823

9.0

≤ 30 years

382

4.2

of which female

135

1.5

of which male

247

2.7

290

3.2

88

1.0

202

2.2

151

1.7

Percentage of employees who can retire in the next 5 to 10
years by country

27

0.3

Germany

9.6

124

1.4

Overseas

0.6

31–50 years
of which female
of which male
> 50 years

Overseas

31–50 years
of which female
of which male
> 50 years
of which female
of which male

Overseas

Years
17.7
2.5

31–50 years

12.7

of which female
of which male

7.7
13.0

> 50 years

27.3

of which female

14.3

of which male

28.2

þ G4-EU15 — P
 ercentage of employees eligible to retire
in the next 5 to 10 years (in %)
Percentage of employees who can retire in the next 5 to 10
years by job category

10.2

Management employees

0.5

Employees above the general pay scale

0.7

Employees on pay scale

7.5

Non-pay-scale employees

1.5

10.2

81

FACTS AND FIGURES

þ G4-LA03 — Return to work and retention rates after
parental leave

Employees on pay scale

62.2

of which male

44.3

≤ 30 years
Employees entitled to parental leave

9,099

of which female

2,605

of which male

6,494

Total number of employees that took parental leave

357

of which female

182

of which male

175

Total number of employees who returned to work after
parental leave ended

236

of which female

63

of which male

173

8.6

31–50 years

22.6

> 50 years

13.1

of which female

17.9

≤ 30 years

4.1

31–50 years

10.1

> 50 years

3.7

Non-pay-scale employees

28.2

of which male

18.9

≤ 30 years

2.7

31–50 years

þ G4-LA12 — Composition of governance bodies and
breakdown of employees per employee
category according to gender and age group
(in %)

Breakdown of employees by job category,
gender and age group

13.6

> 50 years

2.6

of which female

9.3

≤ 30 years

2.0

31–50 years

6.4

> 50 years

0.9

Management employees

2.2

Breakdown of Supervisory Board members by age group
and gender

of which male

2.0

of which ≤ 30 years old

0.0

≤ 30 years

0.0

female

0.0

31–50 years

1.3

male

0.0

> 50 years

0.7

of which female

0.2

female

≤ 30 years

0.0

male

31–50 years

0.2

> 50 years

0.0

female

Employees above the general pay scale

7.4

male

of which male

6.1

≤ 30 years

0.1

31–50 years

4.2

> 50 years

1.7

of which female

1.3

≤ 30 years

0.0

31–50 years

1.1

> 50 years

0.2

of which 31–50 years old

10.0
0.0
10.0

of which > 50 years old

90.0
5.0
85.0

þ G4-HR03 — Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
Number of incidents of
discrimination and actions taken10

7

10 — Mutually agreeable solutions were found for all incidents listed
here. The action taken in each individual situation is not reported
for data protection purposes.

82

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

GRI
INDEX

GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Short name of the indicator

Page

Externally
audited1

G4-01

Foreword by the Group Board of Management

9

-

G4-03

Name of the organisation

12

-

G4-04

Primary brands, products, services

14

-

G4-05

Location of organisation's headquarters

12

-

G4-06

Number and names of countries where the organisation operates

11

-

G4-07

Nature of ownership and legal form

12

-

G4-08

Markets served

11

-

G4-09

Scale of the organisation

13

þ p. 92–93

G4-10

Workforce structure

79

þ p. 92–93

G4-11

Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements

79

þ p. 92–93

G4-12

Description of supply chain

51

-

G4-13

Significant changes during the reporting period regarding ownership

As this is the first report, no statement can be made with
regard to this in this year.

-

G4-14

Precautionary approach

14

-

G4-15

Support for external initiatives

22

-

G4-16

Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations

22

-

G4-EU01

Installed electrical capacity

35, 76

þ p. 92–93

G4-EU02

Net energy output

35, 76

þ p. 92–93

G4-EU03

Number of electricity connections and electricity customers

11, 25

þ p. 92–93

G4-EU04

Electricity network length3

25

þ p. 92–93

G4-EU05

Number of CO2 emissions allowances

76

þ p. 92–93

G4-17

Scope of accounting

73, 75

þ p. 92–93

G4-18

Process for defining report content

20, 73

þ p. 92–93

2

1 — The information marked with “þ” was audited by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the 2014 financial year. Please refer
to the independent assurance report on page 92–93.
2 — Also includes domestic gas connections and number of gas and telecommunications customers. The Energy Economy Law (EnWG) governs the
separation of network and sales for electricity and gas.
3 — Also includes network lengths for gas and telecommunications.

83

FACTS AND FIGURES

GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Short name of the indicator

Page

Main material Aspects of the report

The most important issues for the EWE Group were
identified using a materiality analysis and are listed in the
GRI Index.

Aspect Boundary within the organisation

Aspects which have a material economic, ecological or social impact within the organisation and are listed in the GRI
Index are generally considered relevant for the companies
defined in G4-17 (scope of accounting). Differences betþ p. 92–93
ween individual companies are highlighted in the report.

G4-21

Aspect Boundary outside the organisation

Relevant aspects within the organisation which EWE also
addresses and manages in partnership with external stakeþ p. 92–93
holders are highlighted in the GRI Index.

G4-22

Restatements of information provided in previous reports

As this is the first report, no statement can be made with
regard to this in this year.

-

G4-23

Changes to Aspect Boundaries compared to previous reports

As this is the first report, no statement can be made with
regard to this in this year.

-

G4-24

Stakeholders engaged

18, 20

þ p. 92–93

G4-25

Selection of stakeholders

18

þ p. 92–93

G4-26

Engagement of stakeholders

20, 22

þ p. 92–93

G4-27

Concerns raised by stakeholders

18, 20

þ p. 92–93

G4-28

Reporting period

73

þ p. 92–93

G4-29

Date of most recent previous report

As this is the first report, no statement can be made with
regard to this in this year.

-

G4-30

Reporting cycle

73

þ p. 92–93

G4-31

Contact

94

þ p. 92–93

G4-32

Meets the requirements of the „In accordance“-Core option

73

þ p. 92–93

G4-33

External assurance

73

þ p. 92–93

G4-34

Governance structure including responsibility for sustainability

12, 20, 21

-

G4-56

Values, principles and codes of conduct

18

-

G4-19

G4-20

Externally
audited1

þ p. 92–93

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Short name of the indicator

Page

Omissions

Reason for omissions

Externally
audited1

CATEGORY: ECONOMIC

Aspect: Economic Performance (Aspect Boundary within EWE)4
DMA

11–14, 44–49

-

G4-EC01

Direct economic value
­generated and distributed

47

-

-

þ p. 92–93

EWE-ZA01

Research and development
costs5

30

-

-

þ p. 92–93

4 — The Aspect Boundaries are hereinafter allocated to all aspects contained in the GRI Index.
5 — This is additional information provided voluntarily by EWE.

84

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Short name of the indicator

Page

Omissions

Reason for omissions

Externally
audited1

Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts (Aspect Boundary within EWE)6
DMA
G4-EC08

44–49
Type and extent of significant
45
indirect economic impacts

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Procurement Practices (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA
G4-EC09

50–53
Proportion of spending on
local suppliers

51

GRI term “local” replaced with
“regional”

Standard EWE Group wording

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Availability and Reliability (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA
G4-EU106

34–39
Planned generation capacity

76

Without comparing planned
output with forecast demand

Not a focus for German market

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: System Efficiency (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

24–28; 34–39

-

G4-EU11

Generation efficiency of
thermal plants

76

-

-

þ p. 92–93

G4-EU12

Electricity network losses

75

-

-

þ p. 92–93

CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL

Aspect: Materials (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA
G4-EN01

40–43
Materials used by weight or
volume (fuels)

77

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Energy (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA
G4-EN03

40–43
Energy consumption within
the organisation

41

Limited to fleet and building
management

A Group-wide report is being
prepared.

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Biodiversity (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

34–39

-

1 — The information marked with “þ” was audited by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the 2014 financial year. Please
refer to the independent assurance report on page 92–93.
6 — Indicators with the abbreviation EU (in accordance with GRI G4) are relevant for the electricity sector.

85

FACTS AND FIGURES

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

G4-EN11

Short name of the indicator

Sites in protected areas

G4-EN12

Impacts of business activities
on biodiversity

G4-EU13

Biodiversity of protected
­areas compared to bio­
diversity of affected areas

Page

Omissions

Reason for omissions

Externally
audited1

36, 37

Limited to some sites in northwest Germany and companies
with potential material impact
on the environment

A Group-wide report has not
been prepared because our activities have had very little impact
þ p. 92–93
on biodiversity.

36, 37

Limited to some sites in northwest Germany and companies
with potential material impact
on the environment

A Group-wide report has not
been prepared because our activities have had very little impact
þ p. 92–93
on biodiversity.

36, 37

Limited to some sites in northwest Germany and companies
with potential material impact
on the environment

A Group-wide report has not
been prepared because our activities have had very little impact
þ p. 92–93
on biodiversity.

Aspect: Emissions (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA

34–39

G4-EN15

Direct CO2 emissions

G4-EN18

CO2 emissions in grams per
generated kilowatt hour of
electricity (CO2 emissions
intensity)

37

34

Limited to electricity and heat
generation facilities

Other facilities and emissions are
þ p. 92–93
of minor importance.

Limited to electricity and heat
generation facilities

Other facilities and emissions
are of minor importance or the
report is currently in preparation
(scope 2) or the data is not currently collected (scope 3).

þ p. 92–93

þ p. 92–93

G4-EN19

Reduction of CO2 emissions

37

Limited to electricity and heat
generation facilities

Other facilities and emissions
are of minor importance or the
report is currently in preparation
(scope 2) or the data is not currently collected (scope 3).

G4-EN20

Emissions of ozone-depleting
substances (ODS)

76

-

-

þ p. 92–93

G4-EN21

Nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides and other air emissions

76

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Effluents and Waste (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA
G4-EN22

40–43
Wastewater by quality and
destination

77

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Compliance (environmental) (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

G4-EN29

54–57
Fines and penalties for
non-compliance with
environmental laws and
regulations

78

-

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA

50–53

-

86

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Short name of the indicator

G4-EN32

Screening of new suppliers
using environmental criteria

Page

Omissions

Reason for omissions

50

No information available for
suppliers in 2014

The management and reporting
process is currently in development.

Externally
audited1

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

54–57

G4-EN34

Number of grievances about
environmental impacts

55

-

-

þ p. 92–93

CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK

Aspect: Employment (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA

63–67

-

G4-LA01

Total number and rates of
new employee hires and
employee turnover by age
group, gender and region

80

-

-

þ p. 92–93

G4-EU15

Percentage of employees
eligible to retire in the next
5 to 10 years

80

-

-

þ p. 92–93

81

Not including those who return
from parental leave and were
still employed 12 months after
The management and reporting
returning; also excludes return
rate and parental leave retention process is currently in development.
rate

G4-LA03

Return to work and retention
rates after parental leave

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Labour/Management Relations (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

63–67

G4-LA04

Minimum notice periods
regarding significant operational changes

65

-

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA

58–62

-

G4-LA06

Lost days due to illness,
number of injuries, number of
58, 59, 62, 78
work-related fatalities

Excluding occupational illnesses;
excluding subcontractors and
supervised workers; information
about work accidents without
breakdown by gender

The management and reporting
process is currently in development. No breakdown by gender
in the interest of preventing
identification of individuals.

þ p. 92–93

TC-IO03

Practices to ensure health
and safety of telecommunications field personnel8

-

-

þ p. 92–93

7

62

1 — The information marked with “þ” was audited by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the 2014 financial year. Please refer
to the independent assurance report on page 92–93.
7 — Indicators with the abbreviation TC (in accordance with GRI3) are relevant for the telecommunications sector.
8 — Voluntarily includes all technical facilities, i.e. also includes energy networks and is not restricted to telecommunications.

87

FACTS AND FIGURES

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Short name of the indicator

Page

Omissions

Reason for omissions

Externally
audited1

Aspect: Training and Education (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

G4-LA10

63–67
Programmes for skills
management and lifelong
learning

65

-

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

G4-LA12

63–67
Composition of governance
bodies and breakdown of
employees per employee
category according to gender
and age group

65, 81

-

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA

G4-LA14

50–53
Screening of new suppliers
using social criteria

50

No information available for
suppliers in 2014

The management and reporting
process is currently in development.

þ p. 92–93

CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS

Aspect: Non-discrimination (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

G4-HR03

63–67
Total number of incidents of
discrimination and corrective
actions taken

81

-

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA

G4-HR04

50–53; 63–67
Operations and suppliers
identified in which the right
of employees to exercise
freedom of association and
collective bargaining may be
violated or at significant risk

50, 65

-

No information available for
suppliers in 2014

The management and reporting
process is currently in development.

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA

G4-HR10

50–53
Screening of new suppliers
using human rights criteria

50

No information available for
suppliers in 2014

The management and reporting
process is currently in development.

þ p. 92–93

88

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Short name of the indicator

Page

Omissions

Reason for omissions

Externally
audited1

CATEGORY: SOCIETY

Aspect: Local Communities (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA

44–49

-

G4-SO01

Percentage of operations
with implemented local
community engagement
programmes

46

-

-

þ p. 92–93

G4-EU22

Number of people displaced
and compensation

77

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Anti-corruption (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

G4-SO04

54–57
Communication and training
on anti-corruption policies
and procedures

78

-

Not broken down by region

Not relevant

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Public Policy (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA
G4-SO06

15–22
Total value of political contributions

78

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Compliance (social) (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

G4-SO08

54–57
Fines and penalties for
non-compliance with laws
and regulations

55

-

-

-

þ p. 92–93

CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY

Aspect: Product and Service Labelling (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA
G4-PR05

54–57
Results of surveys measuring
customer satisfaction

78

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Customer Privacy (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

G4-PR08

68–71
Total number of substantiated complaints regarding
breaches of data protection

68

Complaints must have a serious
impact on the rights and protectable interests of the affected Based on German data protection
þ p. 92–93
legislation
party

1 — The information marked with “þ” was audited by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the 2014 financial year. Please refer
to the independent assurance report on page 92–93.

89

FACTS AND FIGURES

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Short name of the indicator

Page

Omissions

Reason for omissions

Externally
audited1

Aspect: Compliance (Product Responsibility) (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

G4-PR09

54–57
Fines for non-compliance
with laws and regulations
concerning the provision and
use of products and services

-

78

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Access (Electric Utility Sector) (Aspect Boundary within EWE)
DMA

24–28

-

G4-EU29

Power outage duration
in minutes per year, per
customer in Germany

24

-

-

þ p. 92–93

G4-EU30

Average availability of power
plants

75

-

-

þ p. 92–93

Aspect: Access (Telecommunications Sector) (Aspect Boundary within and outside EWE)
DMA

24–28

-

TC-IO01

Investment in telecommunications networks

28

-

-

þ p. 92–93

TC-PA01

Expansion and access to telecommunications networks in
in remote and low population
28
density areas areas

-

-

þ p. 92–93

PROGRESS CRITERIA FOR AREAS OF ACTION9
Indicator

Short name of the indicator

Page

2014 status,
externally
audited1

EWE-FK01
(= G4-EU29)

Power outage durations in minutes, per year, per customer in Germany

21, 24

þ p. 92–93

EWE-FK02

Number of ideas submitted via the innovation portal that culminated in a project

21, 29

þ p. 92–93

EWE-FK03
(=G4-EN18)

CO2 emissions in grams per generated kilowatt hour of electricity

21, 34

þ p. 92–93

EWE-FK04

Number of companies with ISO 50001-certified energy management systems

21, 40

þ p. 92–93

EWE-FK05

Regionality index

21, 44

þ p. 92–93

EWE-FK06

Proportion of strategic materials and services suppliers who commit to the supplier code of
conduct

21, 50

þ p. 92–93

EWE-FK07

Customer loyalty index

21, 54

þ p. 92–93

EWE-FK08
(=G4-LA06)

Healthy employees rate

21, 58

þ p. 92–93

EWE-FK09

Time taken to fill positions

21, 63

þ p. 92–93

EWE-FK10

Proportion of all employees in all relevant companies who have been trained in data protection,
information security and unbundling using e-learning modules

21, 68

þ p. 92–93

9 — Indicators with the abbreviation EWE-FK are the progress criteria for areas of action. Not all of these are GRI indicators. The progress criteria
are also provided here to provide a complete picture.

90

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

GLOSSARY

BALANCING GROUP MANAGEMENT

CO2 EMISSIONS TRADING AND CO2 CERTIFICATES

A balancing group is a virtual energy account for electricity and

CO2 emissions trading is a market instrument and involves

gas. This account is used to balance consumption and feed-ins,

trading rights to emit greenhouse gases in the form of CO2

for example from power plants or trading transactions, with

certificates. Within the EU, operators of facilities that are

other balancing groups. Most virtual accounts are managed

subject to emissions trading requirements must have rights

centrally by a transmission network operator and administered

for their (carbon dioxide) emissions. Governments limit the

by so-called balancing group managers like an energy supplier.

amount of rights that are allocated. If they produce more
emissions than they hold the rights for, they have to purchase

BIOGAS

additional emission rights or reduce their emissions. They can

Biogas is a mixture composed mainly of methane and carbon

sell any excess emissions rights to other companies.

dioxide. The valuable part which is used for generating energy
is the methane component, which is obtained from biomass.

COMBINED HEAT AND POWER (CHP)/CHP PLANTS
A CHP plant uses both the generated electrical energy and

BIOMASS

the resulting (waste) heat. This increases the efficiency of

In the context of renewable energy, biomass is the total mass

these plants considerably.

of plant or animal-based organic material which is capable of
storing energy and can be utilised to generate electricity or

COMBINED HEAT AND POWER PLANT

heat.

Combined heat and power plants are special heating plants
which produce electricity and heat at the same time. This

BLAST FURNACE GAS

means that the fuel is used particularly efficiently.

Blast furnace gas is a natural by-product of the production of
pig iron. It contains just enough carbon monoxide (around 30

CONVERTER GAS

per cent) to use it directly as a fuel in the production facility. It

Converter gas is generated during the production of steel. Ex-

is not worth transporting or storing because of its low energy

cess carbon is removed from pig iron in the converter.

content.
DIRECT MARKETING OF RENEWABLE ENERGIES
CO2 EMISSIONS

Operators of renewable energy facilities can sell the electric-

Carbon dioxide is created by burning fuels that contain carbon.

ity they generate directly to a buyer via a public network in-

Power plants, factories, building and vehicles emit enormous

stead of a regional network operator. Power that is marketed

amounts of man-made greenhouse gases. These are changing

directly is subsidised with a so-called optional market premi-

the natural CO2 balance in the atmosphere and intensifying the

um and an additional management premium. This is aimed at

greenhouse effect, resulting in an elevation of the temperature

offering facility operators an incentive to take a market-driv-

on the earth’s surface and in the lower atmosphere.

en approach to operating their facilities.

91

FACTS AND FIGURES

ENERGY CONTROLLING IN PERFORMANCE CONTRACTING

REPLACEMENT FUELS

Energy controlling in performance contracting is an innova-

Replacement fuels are fuels derived from waste. They are be-

tive approach to partnerships with local authorities which

ginning to replace primary fuels like coal for combustion in

EWE has trialled. It involves EWE performing services for

power plants.

municipal authorities like preparing energy reports, energy
analyses, evaluating measures that have been implemented

WASTE TO ENERGY

or regular energy monitoring. The compensation that EWE

Waste to energy is the process of generating electricity and

receives for these services is made up of a basic component

heat by burning waste.

and a proportional amount which comes from the saved energy costs.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Energy management is the measurement, planning and control of energy generation and usage with the goal of increasing energy efficiency and thereby reducing consumption.
Energy management within a company involves the energy
needs of a company first being documented and analysed in
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

detail before appropriate energy-saving measures are identified. These can include optimising the operation of equipment, the use of more efficient machinery, or the generation
of electricity on a precise, as-needed basis.
PRIMARY ENERGY
Primary energy is energy that occurs in a natural form or
comes from natural sources, like crude oil, natural gas, coal
or biomass.
RENEWABLE ENERGY ACT (EEG) REVISION
The most recent revision of the Renewable Energy Act (EEG)
came into effect on 1 August 2014. The purpose of the amendment is to bring renewable energies closer to the market and
make it possible to expand their use in a controlled fashion.
For instance, under the amended Act, operators of new facilities must market the electricity that they generate on the
energy exchange. The revision also added target ranges for
the national expansion of renewable energies.

BTC
DSL
EBIT
EEG

> BTC Business Technology Consulting AG
> Digital Subscriber Line
> Earnings before interest and taxes
> Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetz
(Renewable Energy Act)
el
> Electric
GW > Gigawatt
GWh > Gigawatt hour
kW > Kilowatt
kWh > Kilowatt hour
Mg > Megagram
MW > Megawatt
MWh > Megawatt hour
Nm3 > Standard cubic metre
RF > Replacement fuels

92

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE
REPORT

The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young (EY)

references to other sections of the report and other sources,

relates exclusively to the German printed version of the EWE

or study reports conducted by third parties.

AG Sustainability Report 2014. The following text is a translation of the original German Independent Assurance Report.

CRITERIA
We assessed the report against the criteria set out in the

TO THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT OF EWE AG,

Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 issued by the Global

­OLDENBURG

Reporting Initiative (GRI). We believe that these criteria are
suitable for our assurance engagement.

OUR ENGAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on information marked with the symbol þ in EWE

The Board of Management of EWE AG, Oldenburg is responsi-

AG’s 2014 sustainability report (referred to in the following

ble for the preparation and the content of the report in com-

as the report) for the reporting period from 1 January to 31

pliance with the above-mentioned criteria. This responsibili-

December 2014. The information included in our limited as-

ty includes the design, implementation and maintenance of

surance engagement is marked with the symbol þ in the GRI

internal controls for the preparation of a report that is free

Index on pages 82 to 89 and covers the following areas:

from material misstatements, in accordance with the above
mentioned criteria and based on suitable methods for gath-

+	
General standard disclosures, including sector-specific
indicators, as long as they relate to performance indica-

ering source data, including judgements and estimates of the
individual sustainability data.

tors;
+	
General standard disclosures on identified material as-

OUR RESPONSIBILITY

pects and boundaries, stakeholder engagement and the
report profile;
+	
Progress criteria for the EWE-specific areas of action
(current status in 2014);
+	
Specific standard disclosures, including sector-specific information.
LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT

Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report on information marked with the symbol þ in EWE AG’s 2014 sustainability report for the reporting period from 1 January 2014 to
31 December 2014 based on our work performed for a limited
assurance engagement.
We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engage-

Our engagement is limited to the information marked with

ments (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that we comply

a þ symbol in the German-language printed version of the

with our professional duties and plan and perform the as-

sustainability report. Our engagement did not include any

surance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance

forward-looking statements, information for previous years,

to preclude that the information marked with the symbol þ

93

FACTS AND FIGURES

in EWE AG’s 2014 sustainability report is not in accordance,

data and disclosures during our visit at the head quarter

in material respects, with the above mentioned criteria. In a

office of EWE AG Oldenburg and during site visits at swb

limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering pro-

Erzeugung AG & Co. KG in Bremen and EWE NETZ GmbH

cedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a
reasonable assurance engagement.

in Oldenburg
+	
Analytical measures regarding the quality of the reported
data
+	
Review of incorporation of study reports conducted by

We are independent from the company in compliance with
professional requirements and the IESBA Code of Ethics for

third parties, to the extent that those are relevant for the
information marked with a þ symbol

Professional Accountants (IESBA Code), which is founded on

+	
Critical review of the draft report to assess plausibility

the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, profes-

and consistency with the information marked with a þ

sional competence and due care, confidentiality and profes-

symbol.

sional behaviour, and we have also complied with our other
professional requirements and the IESBA Code.

OUR CONCLUSION

KEY PROCEDURES

Based on our procedures performed to obtain a limited level
of assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes

The performance of our engagement mainly involved the fol-

us to believe that the information marked with a þ symbol in

lowing work:

EWE AG’s 2014 sustainability report for the reporting period
from 1 January to 31 December 2014 has not been prepared,

+	
Inquiries of employees concerning the ­
sustainability
strategy, sustainability principles and sustainability

in all material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria.

management of EWE AG, including dialogue with stake­
holders and materiality analysis
+	
Inquiries of employees responsible for the preparation of
information marked with a þ symbol in the sustainability

Munich, 3 June, 2015
Ernst & Young GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

report in order to assess the sustainability reporting system, the data capture and compilation methods as well
as internal controls to the extent relevant for a review of
the information marked with the þ symbol
+	
Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems
and processes for compiling, analysing and aggregating
sustainability data in the reporting period and testing
such documentation on a sample basis
+	
Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis
relating to the collection and reporting of sustainability

Nicole Richter		

Nina Müller

German Public Auditor

German Public Auditor

94

EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014

CONTACT AND
PUBLICATION DETAILS

>> G4-31
PUBLISHED BY

CONCEPT, DESIGN AND LAYOUT

EWE Aktiengesellschaft

Berichtsmanufaktur GmbH, Hamburg, Germany

Tirpitzstrasse 39
26122 Oldenburg

www.berichtsmanufaktur.de

Germany
www.ewe.com

PHOTOGRAPHY
Stephan Meyer-Bergfeld, Oldenburg, Germany

CONTACTS
Matthias Ibeler, Emsdetten, Germany
EWE Aktiengesellschaft

(Pictures from Riffgat: Title; p. 38–39)

Corporate Development –
Sustainability Team
Dr. Friedrich Janssen

PRINTED BY
Zertani Die Druck GmbH,

Phone: +49 441 4805 1101
E-mail: nachhaltigkeit@ewe.de

TEAM EDITORIAL AND TEXT
EWE Aktiengesellschaft
Corporate Communication
Wolfgang Witte, Aurich, Germany
Berichtsmanufaktur GmbH, Hamburg,
Germany

Bremen, Germany

CREATING VALUE FOR OUR REGION
EWE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
EWE Aktiengesellschaft
Tirpitzstrasse 39, 26122 Oldenburg,
Germany
www.ewe.com

