WE ARE BUILDING THE
LEADING ENERGY COMPANY
IN NORTHERN GERMANY.
INTEGRATED REPORT 2016

OUR

BUSINESS
At EWE, around 9,000 employees generate annual revenue of around 8 billion euros – this makes
us one of the largest municipal companies in Germany. Our customers in north-west ­Germany and
Brandenburg and on Rügen benefit from innovative energy products and powerful telecommunications. EWE has also made a name for itself as a reliable provider and trendsetter in modern energy
­markets in Poland and Turkey. The Group headquartered in Oldenburg has its own production
­capacities from both renewable and conventional energy sources. In addition, the companies of
the EWE Group operate advanced and safe networks for electricity, natural gas and telecommuni­
cations. Our portfolio is rounded off with ­Germany-wide IT solutions.

EMS-WESER-ELBE

BREMEN

BRANDENBURG/RÜGEN

TURKEY/POLAND

• I ntegrated supply of
­electricity, natural gas and
telecommunications
• G eneration, household and
mobility services
• H igh-performance
­infrastructure
(grids and storage)
• Renewable energy generation,
primarily from wind

• T he swb Group supplies
energy, drinking water
and telecommunications
in the state of Bremen
• It is one of the largest
regional energy suppliers with
proprietary electricity and
heat generation in Germany
• H as been part of the EWE
Group since 2009

• A wide-ranging natural gas
supply network has been
under construction since
1990
• Electricity since 2008
• E WE’s first electric vehicle
recharging point was opened
in 2016

• Active in Turkey since 2007:
natural gas supply in two
major cities (Bursa and
Kayseri)
• E WE has its own power and
gas company and an energy
consultation service provider
company
• Telecommunications
since 2016
• S olid customer base in
Poland: market entry in 1999

Rügen

POLAND
Oldenburg (EWE headquarters)
Poznań
(headquarters)

Brandenburg

GERMANY

Istanbul
(headquarters)

TURKEY

EMPLOYEES
(2015: 8,855)

TELE­COMMUNICATION
CUSTOMERS
(2015: 615,000)

ELECTRICITY CUSTOMERS
(2015: 1.3 mio.)

GAS CUSTOMERS
(2015: 1.7 mio.)

9,048

631,000

1.3 mio.

1.8 mio.

  OUR

BUSINESS MODEL
WHERE WE ARE GOING
EWE – THE LEADING ENERGY COMPANY FOR NORTHERN GERMANY.

EWE Group
(Own share in EWE AG: 10%)
Weser-Ems-Energie­beteiligungen GmbH
64%

Energieverband Elbe-Weser
Beteiligungsholding GmbH
20%

EnBW Energie
Baden-­Württemberg AG
6%

HOW WE CREATE VALUE
in the segments

Renewables, Grids
and Gas Storage

Sales, Services
and Trading

International

Group Central
Division

swb

along the value chain

RESOURCES
Environment

Plants and
networks

Electricity
Gas

Know-how

Generation
Procurement

Trading
Storage

Telecommunications
Information technology

Sales

7,566.3 million euros

Employees

Social aspects
and relationships

Grids
Trading

Grids
Consultation

Operating EBIT

534.6 million euros

Finance

Sales
Grids

Sales
Sales

System integration

EBIT

649.2 million euros

System management

Dividend

88.0 million euros

OUR

GROUP KEY FIGURES
| T 001

in millions of euros

Sales

2016

2015

Change in %

7,566.3

7,819.3

-3.2

Operating EBIT

534.6

428.1

24.9

EBIT

649.2

212.0

>100

Result for the period

332.9

-9.4

–

Cash outflows for capital expenditure (total)

469.2

666.9

-29.6

Cash flow from operating activities

471.6

708.2

-33.4

8,435.2

9,744.3

-13.4

23.0

18.0

–

3,399.7

4,237.1

-19.8

Employees (on average)

9,048

8,855

2.2

Full time employees (FTE)

8,607

8,465

1.7

Balance sheet total
Equity ratio in %
Net financial position

Non-financial performance indicators1)
Installed electrical output from renewables
Specific CO2 emissions from electricity generation
Health rate in %
1)

374 MW

322 MW

16.1

563 g CO2/kWhel

536 g CO2/kWhel

5.0

94.8

95.4

–

T he data in the non-financial report are based on the consolidated data of the key companies, as defined by their strategic relevance and
coverage of at least 95 per cent of the sales generated by the EWE Group.

The accounting methods applied may result in rounding differences of +/- one unit (euro, per cent, etc.).

1

WE ARE BUILDING THE

LEADING ENERGY COMPANY
IN NORTHERN GERMANY.

We aim to use our core skills to build the best possible energy system for the future and
provide optimal solutions for every single customer. We will rely on lucrative partnerships
and seize the opportunities presented by new markets and digitisation.

CONTENT
U2
02

Our business model
I n conversation with the
­B oard of Management
06	Report from the
­Supervisory Board
08
Our strategy
10 Digitisation
12 Customer focus
14 Renewable
16 Efficiently

PDF

REFERENCE
INTEGRATED
REPORT 2016

REFERENCE
INTERNET

18

Our resources
20 Environment
22	Plants and ­networks
24 Know-how
26 Employees
28	Social aspects and
relationships
30 Finance

32 Our stakeholders
34	Responsible
management
36	Combined
management report
64	Consolidated financial
­s tatements
145 Facts and figures
U3	5-year financial ­summary
EWE Group

2

  INTERVIEW WITH THE

­BOARD OF MANAGEMENT

THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT OF EWE AG
Wolfgang Mücher, Chief Financial Officer, and Michael Heidkamp, Chief Sales Officer
	The full interview can be found online at:
report.ewe.com/ir2016/management.html

3

SEIZE OUR GREAT
OPPORTUNITIES WITH BOTH HANDS.
WE WILL

2016 was a good year for EWE and the company is looking to the future with optimism.
Why? The members of EWE’s Board of Management Wolfgang Mücher and Michael
Heidkamp answer this question in an interview: EWE does not have to depreciate coal
or nuclear power plants, the company possesses the key technologies of the future
with renewable energy generation, efficient grids, telecommunications and IT and
has started to develop and test business models for a digital world. The interview was
conducted by the independent editor Wolfgang Witte.

In light of recent events, my first question
does not concern the 2016 business year or
the future of EWE, but rather the present.
The dismissal of the Chairman of the Board
of Management and the reports on apparent
irregularities, these do not fit EWE’s traditional image. What can you say about the
state of play?

“

Wolfgang Mücher:
Mr Witte, you are absolutely right. Integrity is
one of the guiding principles of EWE. Integrity
is part of our business success and we know
that our customers, business partners, owners
and, of course, our employees, deserve to be
treated with it. We take these allegations very
seriously and will investigate them quickly,
thoroughly and impartially. This will be in coordination with our auditing and compliance
departments as well as two external consulting
agencies.

We will be in an even stronger,
more solid position for the next
few years.

When will the Board of Management
be complete again?
Michael Heidkamp:
That is up to the Supervisory Board. We expect
that our Supervisory Board will not rush the
issue and make the necessary personnel-related
decisions in the near future. For Mr Mücher and
myself, the highest priority is that we continue
to provide our customers with the same quality
of service. We must also work internally to
return the company to an even keel.
These regrettable circumstances have
­overshadowed EWE’s positive business
­p erformance. What was behind this
success?
Wolfgang Mücher:
Yes, the 2016 business year was a good year.
Our earnings were significantly higher than in
2015. This was due to three elements in particular: for one, our operating units worked
really well. Our success is also the result of the
hard work of our employees. Secondly, 2016
was a normal weather year without the mild
temperatures we experienced in 2015 and 2014.
Finally, the statement of financial position
­features two extraordinary line items: the sale
of the shares in VNG and swb’s restructuring
of its company pension regulations.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

4

We were therefore able to distribute a healthy
dividend in 2016 and guard against risks. We
will be in an even stronger, more solid position
for the next few years.
You have adopted a new Group strategy.
How does EWE want to be successful in
the future? Many energy companies find
it difficult to answer this question.

“

Wolfgang Mücher:
The energy sector is on the precipice of an
unprecedented transition. Large nuclear and
fossil fuel power plants will disappear from
the market. Fortunately, this problem barely
affects us. We rely on decentralised, renewable
energy. We also rely on intelligent networking
and digitisation. We focus on customer orien­
tation and experience. We are in an excellent
position with regard to the transition in the
energy sector. We can be successful in the market. It is now a matter of seizing these major
opportunities with both hands.

I n future our customers will be
able to control their lighting,
heating and smart e-mobility
solutions using apps.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

What does that mean specifically?
Michael Heidkamp:
Specifically, it means that we provide
everything we think we do well in our domestic
market, i.e. in the north west, throughout
­G ermany. We will work to expand our business
with customers geographically. Secondly, it
means that we will merge our energy products
with our telecommunications and IT products.
The first stage might be a flat rate for energy
and Internet connections. In the future we
will be able to provide a full household package;
we are drawing closer to intelligent solutions
for smart homes or smart living, for example.
Thirdly, in specific terms this means installing
fibre optic cables in every house in order to
­provide every one of our customers with ultrafast Internet. This is the only way to fully
embrace digitisation. Finally, it means that in
a decentralised world we do not try to do
everything ourselves and instead work with
partners to provide customers with comprehensive solutions and extend our value chain. This
is what we are currently doing in a project
­entitled “enera”. To put it simply, with “enera”
we aim to show that grids can be controlled in
real time through a digital platform. This would
be revolutionary in Germany and serve as a
blueprint for the new electricity market.

5

“

 e are learning what the
W
customer of tomorrow would like.
The word “digitisation” has been used.
­D igitisation will be a decisive factor in
the transformation of the energy sector.
How has EWE prepared for this?
Michael Heidkamp:
In addition to the energy segment, our
­company has a major IT subsidiary in BTC and
­telecommunications in EWE TEL. We are the
only company in Germany that has all of the
resources it needs to offer its customers
­something digitally. We are gradually becoming
familiar with new ways of working, i.e. more
agile work, which not everyone would believe
the energy sector capable of implementing at
the moment. In addition to the “enera” project
that I mentioned earlier, we are trying other
things out. We are learning what the customer
of tomorrow would like. We are looking at
start-ups and have even created three of our
own with digital business models. Essentially,
digital business models mean that products
and even switching services are ­provided automatically over digital platforms. You will have
seen this kind of thing on Check24, although
we aim to do it even better. And in future our
customers will be able to c­ ontrol their lighting,
heating and smart ­e -mobility solutions using
apps or other ­applications.

You are not releasing a traditional annual
report for the first time, but instead an
Integrated Report. Why?
Wolfgang Mücher:
Even here we are moving with the times.
We want to present ourselves as more modern
and target-group-oriented in our business
reports. Our stakeholders’ expectations are
changing with regard to our reporting methods.
We are offering a condensed financial report
with facts, figures and dates, yet our Integrated
Report also contains information on our strategy and on the ecological, economic and societal issues that affect EWE. And that is what
the people in the region, the public sector, our
shareholders, our employees and other groups
want to know. We are certain that this type
of annual report will appeal to a number of
people. I believe that we are among the first in
the energy sector to introduce a report such
as this. We can be proud of that.

“

  Integrity is part of our business
success.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

6

  REPORT FROM THE

­SUPERVISORY BOARD
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
Over the course of the 2016 business year, the Supervisory Board continuously monitored the company’s
­management and received regular, comprehensive reports from the Board of Management on the company’s
position, all significant events and company performance, both verbally and in writing.
The Supervisory Board thoroughly discussed all matters requiring its approval either by law or the company’s
articles of incorporation and made the necessary decisions. In a total of five meetings in 2016, the Supervisory
Board dealt in particular with the annual and consolidated financial statements, the current earnings position
(including the risk management system), investments and their financing, and individual transactions of particular importance. The Supervisory Board provided guidance regarding the company’s strategic focus, regarding
­resolutions on planned offshore investments, regarding expansion of the broadband network expansion in the
region and regarding its commitment to the Turkish market in light of the current political situation. The Super­
visory Board approved the re-securitisation of global registered shares in EWE AG by providing written consent in
lieu of holding a meeting. Additionally, the Supervisory Board passed resolutions to terminate the appointment
and dissolve the employment contracts of the members of the Board of Management Ines Kolmsee and Nikolaus
Behr. The Group auditing department provided the Supervisory Board with regular reports on the audits carried
out. An external forensic investigation has been commissioned following anonymous reports of legal violations,
espe­­cially in connection with donation promises and the illegal awarding of contracts. The investigations will be
­o ngoing in the 2017 business year and will continue to be the subject of frequent Supervisory Board resolutions.
The Supervisory Board of EWE AG underwent the following changes since 1 January 2016: Following the decrease
in the shares of the shareholder EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, Mr Stefan Brok, Dr Hans-Josef Zimmer
and Dr Frank Mastiaux have stepped down from their roles as shareholder representatives on the Supervisory
Board. Shortly after his withdrawal, Dr Frank Mastiaux was re-appointed to the Supervisory Board of the company.
­Additionally, Ms Beatrix Kuhl and Mr Peter Bohlmann were appointed to the Supervisory Board as representatives
of the shareholders. Mr Jürgen Humer resigned from his position as employee representative. Ms Heike Klattenhoff
has been appointed his successor by the Local Court (Amtsgericht) of Oldenburg. Mr ­Gregor Heller, who stepped
down from the Supervisory Board at the end of 2015, has been replaced by Mr Claus Christ as an employee representative. Dr Hans-Josef Zimmer resigned from his position as a member of the working committee, the finance
and audit committee and the mediation committee pursuant to Article 27 (3) of the German Co-deter­mination
Act (MitbestG). Ms Beatrix Kuhl was appointed to the working committee, Mr Peter Bohlmann was appointed to
the finance and audit committee and Mr Heiner Schönecke was appointed to the mediation committee.
The Supervisory Board thanks its former members for their committed, constructive work and for their efforts
to further the interests of the company.
Together with the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board committees prepared the meetings and the
­resolutions of the Supervisory Board. All in all, the steering committee met eight times, the working committee
twice and the finance and audit committee a total of two times. No meetings of the mediation comittee pursuant
to Article 27 (3) MitBestG were held.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

7

The annual financial statements of EWE AG prepared by the Board of Management in accordance with the
­G erman Commercial Code (HGB), the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS and
the combined management report for EWE AG and the Group for the 2016 business year have been audited
by the accounting firm Ernst & Young GmbH, which was elected as auditor at the Annual General Meeting on
4 May 2016, and subsequently hired by the Supervisory Board. The auditors’ reports were distributed to the
members of the Supervisory Board, officially acknowledged and incorporated into the discussion and review of
the annual and consolidated financial statements. The auditors participated in the meeting of the finance and
audit committee on 4 April 2016 and the Supervisory Board meeting dealing with the financial statements, where
they reported on the major findings of their audit and were available to answer questions. Having conclusively
examined the annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements prepared by the Board of
­M anagement, the management report for EWE AG and the Group management report as well as the proposal for
the appropriation of net profit, the Supervisory Board expresses no objections. The Supervisory Board today
adopted the annual financial statements, approved the consolidated financial statements and concurred with the
Board of Management’s proposal for the appropriation of net profit.
The Board of Management also prepared a report as required by Article 312 of the German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG) on relationships with affiliated companies as per Article 313 AktG. The auditors have audited this
report and issued the following auditor’s opinion:
“On the basis of our audit and in our professional opinion, we confirm that:
1. The factual statements of the report are correct
2. T he consideration paid by the company for the transactions mentioned was not inappropriately high.”
Each member of the Supervisory Board was provided with a copy of the annual financial statements and management report, the consolidated financial statements and Group management report, as well as the audit reports
from the company’s auditor. After our own review of the report, the Supervisory Board concurs with the results
of the audit and expressly states that it has no objections to the statements by the Board of Management at the
end of the report on transactions with affiliated companies.
The Supervisory Board would like to thank and express its appreciation to the Board of Management, all
­e mployees and the members of the works councils for their hard work in the 2016 business year.
Oldenburg, Germany, 25 April 2017
The Supervisory Board

Dr Stephan-Andreas Kaulvers
Chairman

EWE Integrated Report 2016

9

EWE IS UNDERGOING A STRATEGIC

TRANSFORMATION.
EWE is at ease with tradition and the future. We are proud of our years of ­
experience and our reputation as a major energy company in northern Germany.
We have often headed in new directions in the past, be it because the general
political and regulatory conditions required it or with a view to opening up new
lines of business through which we were able to provide our customers with
attractive products and services.

We are facing the current challenges in the energy sector with the same perspective.
EWE was one of the first companies in Germany to create the conditions for the
energy, t­ elecommunications and mobility markets to merge. We rely on our proven
expertise and experience – we want to grow and shape the optimal energy supply
for the future. To this end we are investing in partnerships and heading in new
directions in order to improve our networks even further. And not only in northern
Germany.
We are focusing our high level of innovation on a digital world. Through the networking of intelligent devices, our world will be shaped by new, highly efficient
technical processes and markets designed to meet individual customer requirements. The changes are happening quickly. We have started to digitise our grids
and develop holistic solutions for the energy transition. We are investing in renewables, our telecommunication networks and in expanding our e-mobility charging
infrastructure. We are equally determined to implement the necessary changes
within our company. We have the expertise to offer impressive price-performance
ratios in all lines of business. Our personnel strategy is centred on employee and
manager qualification and talent development, especially in the field of digitisation.
EWE aims to continue consolidating its position as a leading energy company for
­northern Germany. We have set four key strategic focal points:
• We will use the opportunities of DIGITISATION.
• We are a point of contact for our CUSTOMERS in a world of decentralised
energy supplies.
• We rely on RENEWABLE ENERGY and an intelligent grid infrastructure.
• We work EFFICIENTLY in all business segments.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

11

WE WILL USE THE OPPORTUNITIES OF

DIGITISATION.
The energy supply of the future is digital. As a leading energy company
in northern Germany, EWE will play a decisive role in digitisation in the
coming decade.

By operating energy and telecommunication
networks and as an expert in e-mobili­t y, we
are prepared for the dynamic merging of
these markets. We possess the necessary
IT systems to evaluate the necessary data
and can promise our customers maximum
data security.
The intelligent use of data is of key impor­
tance to the energy supply of the future.
These data can be used to generate additional value for customers. Therefore,
EWE also intends to develop products and
services relating to its traditional electricity
and gas business that are based on new
requirements. We are prepared for tough
competition from start-ups, successful
Internet concerns and other energy companies in the emerging smart living products
market.

In order to allow this full potential, we will
restructure our internal processes over the
next few years and increase the speed at
which we develop new products. Digitisation will also revolutionise the operation
of grids. By fitting sensors and intelligent
transformers to a grid, it will be possible to
view detailed information on current flow
in individual households, districts and even
regions. Intelligent grid load management
helps lower the costs of grid operation
in the long term. In this market EWE will
advocate intelligent assistance systems
and digital platforms that make the lives
of customers easier, more secure, more
comfortable and less resource-intensive.

E W E is well prepared for the merging
of the energy, telecommunications
and IT markets.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

13

WE ARE A POINT OF CONTACT FOR OUR

CUSTOMERS

IN A WORLD OF DECENTRALISED ENERGY SUPPLIES.

The energy supply of the future is reliant on integrated solutions. Whereas
in the past almost everything depended on the augmentation of production
technology, the future of the energy transition will be characterised by new
and changing customer requirements.

We want to continue to be the best partner to our customers in the decentralised,
digital energy future. Our high technical
expertise serves as a reliable platform for
this partnership, yet ultimately we want to
impress our customers not with techno­
logy, but with tailored offers. These include
services that improve a person’s quality of
life as well as helping business customers
optimise their technical and administrative
processes.
The energy supply of the future will be
decentralised: the increasing networking
of intelligent devices will create a demand
for assistance systems that will cause
areas of life that are currently separate to
merge. We therefore believe that our future
lies in holistic offers that facilitate the
conscientious, responsible use of energy
and provide access to other cost-effective
services. We will rely on the emergence
of regional energy markets with digital
billing systems in which all customers can
participate. With our digital platforms, we
are available round the clock to provide our
customers with exceptional service.

We will pave the way for e-mobility with
a dense network of charging points, simple charging processes, special tariffs for
green electricity and smart applications.
In the digital world, EWE will create new,
favourable conditions for grid customers to
start feeding in electricity generated from
wind and solar power. We will also offer
this know-how to other energy companies
with no personal resources or strong financial base so that they can develop these
services independently.

Our customers should receive a customer
experience from a single source.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

15

WE RELY ON

RENEWABLE ENERGY
AND AN INTELLIGENT GRID INFRASTRUCTURE.

EWE is driving the energy transition in northern Germany.
Ever since our formation we have considered ourselves experts
in grids and pioneers in renewable energy.

We have been making a name for ourselves
as a pioneer in wind power since the 1980s
and made a significant contribution to the
fact that wind farms in good locations
now generate competitive amounts of
electricity. We preserve this tradition and
will continue to expand our expertise all
along the value chain.
We want to supply our customers with the
most cost-effective clean energy possible;
we will therefore continue to move away
from fossil fuels and invest in onshore wind
farms, solar parks and, depending on the
political situation, battery storage in the
future. We will also drive the digitisation
of grids forward and support the growing
number of our customers who generate,
store and use their own energy. The
smoother the interplay between renewable energy power stations, energy storage
facilities and local grid stability, the more
cost-effectively electricity can be generated from renewables and transported to
our customers.

Not only will we build wind farms and
solar power stations with our own funds,
we will also do it alongside partners from
the region and from other sectors more
frequently. Given the expected level of
income, more capital from new lines of
business is flowing into renewable energy.
In partnership with communities, residents
and landowners, EWE will shape the development, construction and operation of
renewable energy power stations and provide attractive investment opportunities.

E W E already has an excellent
reputation as a driver of the energy
transition in the sector.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

17

WE WORK

EFFICIENTLY

IN ALL BUSINESS SEGMENTS.

Energy efficiency is a cornerstone of the energy transition. By using
energy more productively, we can make a significant contribution to
keeping global warming beneath the 2°C mark. What other challenges
will the upheaval of the energy industry bring?

We associate the transformation at EWE
with a new awareness of efficiency. Our
divisions and employees will therefore be
much more closely connected than in the
past. As a group, we will develop innovative products for the markets of tomorrow
whilst promoting a new corporate culture.
The landscape has changed dramatically
for energy providers. Decentralised energy
supplies require intelligent technologies.
A new generation of customers want to
manage their energy consumption independently and value energy efficiency. EWE
is embracing this change.
We are increasing efficiency on all levels
of the company. This will have an effect on
almost all of our operations. Our profits are
being squeezed by increasing competition,
high price pressure and comprehensive
regulations. Therefore, being efficient
also means focusing on successful fields
of business and investing in partnerships
with other companies.

Our employees are of key importance to
the completion of our strategic objectives.
More than 9,000 employees are contributing to the success of our customers. Our
personnel strategy therefore places great
importance on qualification, advanced
training, innovative ways of working and
the promotion of diversity. As part of our
transformation we also aim to make EWE
one of the most attractive employers in
northern Germany.

Being efficient also means
focusing on successful fields of business.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

18

  OUR

­RESOURCES
Financial and non-financial value drivers contribute to the success of our company.
We report how we create value – economic, ecological and societal value – by the
following resources: environment, plants and networks, know-how, employees,
social aspects and relationships and finance.

ENVIRONMENT
Page 20

PLANTS AND
NETWORKS
Page 22

EWE Integrated Report 2016

KNOW-HOW
Page 24

19

EMPLOYEES
Page 26

SOCIAL ASPECTS AND
RELATIONSHIPS

FINANCE
Page 30

Page 28

EWE Integrated Report 2016

20

ENVIRONMENT

SIGNIFICANCE
As a company actively involved in shaping the energy transition, we want to promote energy generation
from renewable sources. We develop solutions to balance out the fluctuations in renewable energy generation caused by the weather and ensure a reliable energy supply at all times. However, it goes without
saying that we strive to treat our environment responsibly. We monitor and reduce our energy consumption throughout our Group, we make our employees aware of the impact of what they do and we train
them in energy-related aspects that are of significance to the environment. We are working hard to cut
the CO2 emissions from our own electricity generation activities. We are applying our expertise to develop
environmentally friendly solutions and energy-saving products.

SELECTED MEASURES IN 2016
• O pening of Hatten and Köhlen wind farms
• Energy management expanded: with EWE AG, EWE NETZ and EWE WASSER, eleven Group companies
are now certified:
• E WE AG: in partnership with EWE TEL, around one million kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity
have been saved in a data processing centre. Measure: optimised cooling of server rooms
• E WE NETZ: gas pressure monitoring systems identified as one of the largest energy consumers.
Measure: The company is examining the potential for optimisation of the gas pre-heating process
• E WE WASSER: electricity requirements of the pumping station at the waste water purification plant
in Cuxhaven lowered by approx. 90 per cent. Measure: modernise the waste water pumping facility

VALUE CREATION
Expansion of wind power
24 new turbines with a total capacity of almost 75 megawatts (MW) were connected to the grid in 2016.
EWE granted some residents and landowners a stake in the turbines, e.g. with a savings certificate model.
Ongoing reduction of energy consumption
In 2016 we almost met our target of having twelve companies certified by 2020. On the basis of specific
energy-saving targets in the companies, we are continuously identifying potential ways to save energy and
deriving specific energy-saving measures from them.
Temporary increase in specific CO2 emissions from electricity generation
In 2016 the specific CO2 emissions of the electricity generated by EWE were higher than in 2015 (see
image). Nevertheless, we expect to reach our target of 40 per cent lower emissions in 2020 compared
to 2005. In 2016 the reduction was 32 per cent compared to 2005. In order to meet this target, we will
expand wind power with even more determination over the next few years, including in partnership
with private individuals and partner companies. EWE currently holds a 37.5 per cent stake in the Trianel
Windpark Borkum II offshore wind farm.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

21

900

828

815

g CO2/kWh el

800

Specific CO2 emissions
from electricity generation
Grams CO2 per kilowatt-hour

790

784

786
728

728

722

700

658

600

540

536

2014

2015

563

500
400

2005

2006

2007

ONSHORE AND OFFSHORE WIND POWER
For over 25 years EWE has been reliant900primarily
on wind
828
815
power as it expanded its renewables. EWE
operates
plants790
800
with a capacity of around 220 MW onshore and around
700
142 MW offshore. A wide range of environmental
protection measures have been implemented for the Hatten wind
600
farm (with eight turbines). The 16 turbines at the Köhlen
wind farm are a joint project between 500
PNE Wind AG and
EWE; Köhlen is one of the largest wind farms in northern
400
Germany. Private individuals and municipalities
will be2007
2005
2006
able to acquire stakes in both wind farms.
CO2 EMISSIONS FROM ELECTRICITY GENERATION
900
828
The increase in specific CO2 emissions from
815 electricity
790 784 786
800
generation is due primarily to the decrease in generation
728
from wind power. Compared to 2015,7002016 was a poor
wind year. This combined with the fact that the RIFFGAT
600 for a number of
wind farm was rendered non-operational
months by a technical problem resulted in lower genera500
tion from wind power. The opening of the high-efficiency
gas and steam turbine plant in Bremen 400
in December 2016
’05
’06
’07
’08
’09
’10
has not yet had a relevant effect on the CO2 emissions
for the reporting year.

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2016

CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE:
THE KEY TO SUCCESS IN E-MOBILITY
786 cannot become more widespread without a
784
E-mobility
728
722
larger network 728of charging
stations. EWE and its sub658
sidiary swb in Bremen operate more
than 240 public
charging points throughout Germany (as at 2016), 120
563
540
536
of which are located in the EWE service area
in the
north
west. EWE has also been awarded a contract by an e-fleet
customer with around 100 charging points. In the vehicle
fleet
EWE’s
services
include
charging
2008 segment,
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013connecting
2014
2015
2016
points to the grid, operation and maintenance as well as
metering and the delivery of energy. More information
on e-mobility at EWE.
OUR FOCUS IN THE FUTURE
722
We will continue to augment electricity generation from
658
wind power. We plan to invest around 116 million euros
in this in 2017.
563 With regard to e-mobility we will spur on
540 536
the expansion of our charging infrastructure in the north
west in future. We aim to double the number of charging
points in the EWE service area in the north west by late
’11
’12
’13
’14
’15
’16
2017. For example, EWE is installing charging points at 60
locations run by the supermarket chain Edeka. We remain
focused on holistic solutions for our private customers.
For example, with wall boxes we can make it possible
to charge electric vehicles quickly at home. Using solar
panels in combination with an EQOO energy storage
system, home owners can independently cover 70 per
cent of their electricity requirements on average.

728

EWE Integrated Report 2016

22

PLANTS AND NETWORKS

SIGNIFICANCE
The expansion of renewable energy and changing customer expectations are making it necessary to
restructure and increase the flexibility of the infrastructure that we, as a service provider, make available.
We face up to the regional challenges and fit our power grid with intelligent monitoring technology.
We are seizing the opportunities presented by digitisation. By systematically integrating energy, telecommunications and information technology, we can pave the way for cutting-edge, smart energy systems.
We guarantee security of supply with our power generation plants and gas storage facilities.

SELECTED MEASURES IN 2016
• Smart Grid: our entire power grid is being converted, for example 60 per cent of all switchboards have
now been fitted with fibre optic connections.
• Broadband network expansion: a multi-billion-euro fibre optic expansion project has been agreed
• enera is paving the way for the energy transition.
• E WE NETZ was one of the first German grid operators to be certified under the German Federal
IT S­ ecurity Act (IT-Sicherheitsgesetz): legislators have obliged the operators of critical infrastructure
to heighten their information security and have their standards certified. EWE NETZ passed the
certification audit for the operation of power and gas grids in 2016.
• Joint project: a highly efficient natural gas power plant became operational on 1 December 2016
• Smart metering: EWE is a co-founder of the joint venture GWAdriga, a service provider specialising in
gateway administration and measurement data management
www.gwadriga.de

VALUE CREATION
Investments in infrastructure in 2016
E WE NETZ invested 162.4 million euros in the reporting year
Expansion of broadband infrastructure
E WE invested around 61 million euros in broadband network expansion in 2016. Investments totalling
1.2 billion euros are to be made in the networks over the next few years. In doing so EWE is making a
­significant contribution to digitisation in north-western Germany.
Smart Grid
The power grid of EWE NETZ can be controlled intelligently in the event of unexpected fluctuations
in electricity production from renewable sources and reacts automatically before the situation
becomes critical.
A secure natural gas supply
With 38 underground gas storage facilities in its portfolio, EWE is contributing to a secure supply in
the event of supply shortages.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

23

EWE has been investing in wind
energy for 25 years. In future,
EWE will focus even more intensely
on expanding renewables.

OUR POWER GRID: EFFICIENT AND RELIABLE
In 2016 we fitted our grid with intelligent technology
(Smart Grid) in order to improve the integration of renewable energy. Renewables provide 80 per cent of the power
in the networks operated by EWE NETZ. EWE’s power grid
currently features 270 controllable mains transformers
that make it possible to manage voltage efficiently.

1 December 2016. swb carried out the project in collaboration with partners from the energy sector. One such
partner was DB Energie which will receive the majority
of the plant’s output. The new power station has a net
electrical capacity of around 445 MW and an efficiency
level of over 58 per cent. Modern coal power stations
have an efficiency level of just 45 per cent.

ENERA – FOR THE ENERGY TRANSITION IN GERMANY
In late 2016 the German government decided to provide
the “enera” project with a subsidy of 50 million euros. In
collaboration with our partners, we are working to make
the energy systems in the districts of Friesland, Aurich and
Wittmund and in the town of Emden future-proof, flexible
and largely digitised by installing smart technologies. For
example, around 32,000 smart meters are due to be rolled
out in the model region. In future it will be possible to
generate the same results throughout Germany.
www.energie-vernetzen.de/en

EXTENSIVE BROADBAND NETWORK EXPANSION
FOR AN INCREASINGLY CONNECTED REGION
Direct fibre optic building connections are the future
of broadband infrastructure. Fibre optic cables replace
less effective copper cables, guaranteeing large bandwidths and fast Internet. EWE already offers around
90,000 households the option of having a fibre optic
connection fitted. This number will increase sharply in the
near future: over the next years we plan to invest 1.2 billion euros into an extensive fibre optic expansion project.
Expanding the fibre optic network is a key milestone on
our road to becoming the leading energy company in
northern Germany.

POWER GENERATION: RENEWABLES ON THE RISE
EWE has continued to invest in the expansion of onshore
wind power. In future EWE will focus on renewable energy
projects, including in partnership with companies and
private individuals. Over the next few years EWE will gradually move away from conventional energy generation and
focus on projects with customers and partners. Overall,
three block-unit power plants are currently being operated
by our subsidiary swb. In late 2016 blocks 5 and 14 were
shut down permanently after having been in cold reserve.
Following a number of construction-related delays, the
gas and steam turbine plant went into operation on

OUR FOCUS IN THE FUTURE
In the long term, the accelerating integration of renewables will require a withdrawal from conventional energy
generation. The investments due to be made in the
Renewables, Grids and Gas Storage segment in 2017
total approx. 345 million euros. The investments are
mostly in the infrastructure of the electricity, gas and
telecommunications networks (approx. 206 million euros),
in the offshore wind farm TWB II and in onshore wind
farms (approx. 116 million euros).

EWE Integrated Report 2016

24

KNOW-HOW

SIGNIFICANCE
We apply our decades of experience in the fields of energy, telecommunications and information
technology. This experience has given us a profound understanding of connections and processes in
the energy sector. Our research and development work is focused on innovative, new business models
that will increase the potential revenue of EWE and provide our customers with better value. To this
end we are steadily pooling our expertise from the fields in which we operate and merging it with what
we learn through strategic partnerships. This will enable us to develop holistic solutions in a connected,
digital energy landscape.

SELECTED MEASURES IN 2016
In 2016 we implemented a range of measures designed to promote business model innovations:
See PDF Integrated Report, page 39 – 40
PDF

• T he German government has pledged 50 million euros in subsidies to the major project “enera”
www.energie-vernetzen.de/en
• I nterest in sovanta AG and future strategic collaboration: in 2016 we acquired a stake in sovanta AG,
a software specialist. The objective is to simplify business processes and to develop mobile
IT applications, digital services and products for EWE.
• Support for EWE’s NEXT ENERGY research centre
www.next-energy.de/en
• E WE’s innovative portal – an online tool that employees can use to submit suggestions – is due
to go online in April 2017; the portal can also be accessed by external users in the medium term.

VALUE CREATION
Positioning
New sources of revenue can be generated with innovative business ideas.
EWE is increasingly focused on market trends and the opportunities presented by digitisation.
Partnerships
EWE is more actively pooling expertise obtained through strategic partnerships.
Focus on the customer
EWE is boosting customer value with intelligent and holistic solutions.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

25

Creativity through teamwork:
resourceful minds are on the
lookout for new business model
ideas on Innovation Friday.

A MOVE TO INNOVATION AND BETTER
KNOWLEDGE: OUR APPROACH
We are enhancing our expertise in three ways: for one,
we are integrating our practical expertise into our fields
of business by having EWE companies collaborate across
disciplines. We are also promoting the emergence of an
innovative culture within our company. To this end we are
changing existing processes and testing flexible working
methods more frequently. In line with our new strategy,
we have started to enter into strategic partnerships
with other companies. This way we can gain access to
external know-how and be ready for the digitised energy
landscape.
DATA SCIENCE IN THE “ENERA” PROJECT
The joint project “enera” aims to create a model region
for the energy transition in districts including Friesland,
Aurich and Wittmund, as well as the town of Emden. The
consortium of over 30 partners under the leadership of
EWE will serve to develop shared and specific expertise in
order to drive the energy transition onwards. We expect
our in-depth data evaluations and analyses of consumer
requirements and energy consumer habits (data science)
to produce detailed findings that can be used to develop
new business models. The project is due to finish in
December 2020.

THE BEST IDEAS AND CONCEPTS FOR THE FUTURE
A project such as “enera” produces creative potential
that we will not leave untapped. We are making more
and more room for creativity because good ideas need
to be able to grow. The introduction of Innovation Friday
in autumn 2016 is just one example of a format which
enables creative minds from the Group and the “enera”
team to put their business model ideas on the Group’s
internal innovation development path. The Group’s
increasing employment of flexible working methods
(hackathons, kanban, scrums etc.) promotes creative
thinking. In particular, our subsidiary swb supports
start-ups entering the market with “Kraftwerk – City
Accelerator Bremen”. We bring together experience and
innovation to make our vision a reality and develop successful products and services to meet new requirements.
http://kraftwerk-accelerator.com/en/
OUR FOCUS IN THE FUTURE
We will continue to do our utmost to shape the energy
transition. Our work focuses on customer value and holistic solutions. We support the continued intertwining of
expertise with interdisciplinary collaboration and accelerated communication channels. Our strict information
security standards will deliver the necessary basis of
trust for us to pursue new strategies in connection with
big data and big data analyses. We will also intensify
our increasing use and application of flexible working
methods (hackathons, kanban, scrums etc.) and roll them
out throughout the Group.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

26

EMPLOYEES

SIGNIFICANCE
Energy, telecommunications and information technology provide a diverse field of activity and varied
opportunities for an average of 9,048 EWE employees. The success of the Group is the result of their
skills and motivation. Our employees undergo continuous development in order to survive in a sector
­characterised by rapid developments and intense competition. In the face of change processes and
sometimes challenging conditions, EWE strives to remain an attractive employer in the future.

SELECTED MEASURES IN 2016
The comprehensive integration of employees into Group-wide change processes gained major
significance in 2016.
• Employee development: full digitisation and expansion of the workshop portal
• Introduction of the new profession of plant mechanic
• Occupational safety: new measures as part of the health, safety and environment guidelines
• Company-wide agreement on the integration of severely disabled people
• Health management continuously advanced
At the same time EWE still aims to cut 500 full-time jobs by late 2017 in line with its redundancy
­p rogramme “Sozialplan 500”.

VALUE CREATION
Personnel development	
In 2016 almost 1,000 employees took part in interdisciplinary advanced training opportunities. Additionally, as part of the separation of the roles of EWE VERTRIEB and EWE NETZ on the market, around
1,500 employees were trained for their new duties. This required the support of 50 colleagues who had
previously qualified as internal trainers. The entire advanced training portal was digitised and 34 e-learning
opportunities were added. This has significantly broadened and facilitated employee access to advanced
training opportunities. Data protection e-learning unit: more than 1,000 EWE TEL employees (approx.
80 per cent of its staff) were trained in data protection with the existing e-learning unit in 2016.
Around 160 people at BTC took part in 2016.
Health rate
E WE pressed on with health management in 2016 with a view to keeping the health rate high and
closing in on its target of 97 per cent by 2020. In 2016, 30 per cent of employees took part in the health
management measures provided by EWE. The health rate (EWE Group including International segment)
was 94.8 per cent in 2016.
Vocational training
T he Group employed 441 vocational trainees in 2016. The EWE Group as a whole provides training in
24 different professions and integrated degree programmes.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

27

COURAGE to change:
We encourage thinking outside of the box, acting
with self-confidence and seizing opportunities.

PASSION for the customer:
We motivate everyone to understand our customers
and impress them with an excellent service.

Our leadership values
At the EWE Group we lead on the basis of
trust and encourage our employees to act as
entrepreneurs and on their own responsibility.

TRANSFORMATION AND CULTURAL CHANGES
The energy sector is experiencing a massive upheaval. At
EWE we have spent years considering how best to involve
our employees in the changes. The development of the
new EWE strategy in 2016 also involved the revision of
its personnel strategy. The new strategy is centred on
employee and manager qualification, talent development
and, in particular, taking the requirements of digitisation
into consideration. EWE therefore carried out a review of
its situation in 2016. The review highlighted some issues
for which specific measures are being implemented in
2017. Our employees and managers are being prepared
to face the new challenges on the basis of our value
structure.
OUR FOUNDATION: OUR VALUES
Our values serve as a basis for cohesion, even in challenging times. The fundamental values of EWE are courage,
passion and responsibility. Additionally, in 2016 EWE formulated an Employee Value Proposition in which it defines
its values, targets, identity and culture as an employer.
An implementation concept is currently being drawn up.

RESPONSIBILITY for the outcome:
We agree targets, assign responsibility, expect transparency and let the results speak for themselves.

of the “digital natives” are explained to the executives and
they are shown how Snapchat etc. work. In return, young
colleagues gain insights into how experienced managers
think. Mutual appreciation is necessary for this seemingly
unusual approach to work. And it sometimes also takes a
little courage not to let go of the reins. Especially because
your mentee might be your boss.
OUR FOCUS IN THE FUTURE
The example of an internal nursery shows that the worklife balance is a key aspect of our human resources work.
Health awareness remains another significant element.
Besides health management, flexible working hour models and smooth retirement models are just some of the
subjects on which EWE is currently working. Likewise, over
the next few years we will focus more heavily on diversity
and the advancement of women. We are addressing the
upcoming lack of experts by strengthening our image as
an employer and establishing a strategic personnel plan.

DIGITISATION FOR BEGINNERS:
ROLE SWITCHING WITH REVERSE MENTORING
Reverse mentoring, a pilot project launched in 2016, is one
example of EWE’s new theoretical approaches. In reverse
mentoring, experienced executives are given advice by
vocational trainees or students on integrated degree
programmes, i.e. by far younger colleagues. Both sides
benefit from this arrangement: the communication habits

EWE Integrated Report 2016

28

SOCIAL ASPECTS AND
RELATIONSHIPS
SIGNIFICANCE
Everything we do is centred on the trust and satisfaction of our customers – be they private households,
business customers or municipalities. Our increasingly digitised world is causing customer requirements
to change fundamentally. By carrying out studies and surveys we can keep ourselves up to date regarding
trends and expectations. This way we can keep close to our customers and provide them with an excellent
service. Our relations with suppliers and the public are characterised by the values we have defined for
EWE and by transparency and a focus on dialogue.

SELECTED MEASURES IN 2016
• E WE customer service: rated excellent once again in 2016
•C
 ombination of the portals for energy and telecommunications products:
all EWE services can be accessed through a single log-in screen
• 54 per cent of our suppliers have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct

VALUE CREATION
Customer relations
The Group’s new strategy focuses on the customer, which means that EWE is working continuously to
improve the value and added value of its services for customers.
Supplier relations
The introduction of the Supplier Code of Conduct will raise the levels of transparency and engagement
in relationships with suppliers.
The general public
EWE supports the region through sponsoring and the EWE FOUNDATION.
See page 29, 34

EWE Integrated Report 2016

29

To be independent and supply
your own energy – this is what
customers want today.

OUR CUSTOMER RELATIONS
We are taking an increasingly holistic approach to customer relations too: for private customers, we aim to be
the leading provider in our domestic market of sustainable,
integrated products and services designed for households.
For our business customers and municipalities, we are a
partner specialising in the specific requirements of the
sector that provides sustainable, leading solutions and
products centred on the energy transition and telecommunications.
SELF-DETERMINATION: CUSTOMERS ARE
“PROSUMERS”
We expect the decentralised self-supply market to
­continue to grow. With our product “Mini PV” even tenants
and flat occupants can generate electricity with a solar
module, for instance on a balcony. It is due to be released
in 2017. The marketing of our solar power storage system
EQOO for private and business customers – with which
home owners can meet 70 per cent of their electricity
requirements on average – remained successful in 2016.
We have attracted eight other public utility companies as
white label partners.
SATISFIED CUSTOMERS
We learn what our customers expect from us by carrying
out regular customer surveys. For example, in 2016 we
made our switching service easier for our customers to
use. We are also working to avoid high additional payments towards annual energy bills by more accurately
estimating monthly payments. In 2016 we introduced
mystery shoppers to our business. We want to continue
to expand this new means of customer analysis.
OUR SUPPLIERS: PROCUREMENT AND
SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
Our supply chain encompasses the acquisition of materials, services and energy resources such as gas and coal.
We maintain supply relationships with around 10,000
companies in a range of sectors including plant and

machine construction, metalworking, electrical engineering, marketing, consultation and information technology
on a regional, national and international level.
At the moment, 54 per cent of our strategic suppliers
have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct. This statistic
cannot be compared with the previous year (74 per cent)
because we have since carried out a re-assessment of
which suppliers are of strategic significance to us on the
basis of our new corporate strategy. We are working
to persuade new suppliers to sign the Supplier Code
of Conduct too, which will cause the ratio to increase
significantly. Our goal remains to have 95 per cent of
our strategic suppliers recognise the EWE Supplier Code
of Conduct by 2020. www.ewe.com/en/compliance
In 2016 we spent around 1 billion euros on materials and
services. Of this amount, 52 per cent was attributable to
regional suppliers.
FOR THE REGION: THE EWE FOUNDATION
The EWE FOUNDATION has been supporting charitable projects in the fields of art, culture, education and
research and development in the regions of Ems-WeserElbe and Brandenburg and on the island of Rügen since
2002. In 2016 the Foundation subsidised 198 projects
with a total of 745,000 euros. However, the EWE FOUNDATION never considers itself merely a financial backer.
It strives to encourage its project partners to use their
creativity, perseverance and commitment to the benefit
of the region. This way, responsibility for shaping our
society is shared equally.
OUR FOCUS IN THE FUTURE
We will work on customer satisfaction in particular.
We aim to expand our energy storage and solar power
generation portfolios further and augment our customer
services from the perspective of a “prosumer”. We are also
developing solutions for energy-efficient construction
and renovation.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

30

FINANCE

SIGNIFICANCE
We use our financial strength and finance management to finance our operative business and our growth.
The energy sector is on the precipice of an unprecedented transition. Traditional business models featuring
large fossil and nuclear power plants will die out. The focus will shift to decentralised, renewable energy,
investments in grid infrastructure and new digital customer solutions. EWE’s strategy aims to build the
leading energy company in northern Germany by 2026. To do so we need a solid financial basis.

SELECTED MEASURES IN 2016
• Renewal of the syndicated credit facility of 750 million euros
• T he bond buy-back totalling around 300 million euros will significantly reduce
future interest expenses
• Moody’s confirms EWE’s rating with a stable outlook (Baa1)

VALUE CREATION
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from investing activities
Cash payments to shareholders of the parent company and
minority shareholders (dividends)
Incoming payments from the acquisition of financial liabilities
Payments from the repayment of financial liabilities
Cash flow from financing activities
Change in cash and cash equivalents related to currency translation
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period
All of these statistics are based on the 2016 business year.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

471.7 million euros
570.8 million euros
-225.5 million euros
7.5 million euros
-815.2 million euros
-1,033.2 million euros
-9.4 million euros
352.3 million euros
352.2 million euros

31

bp
180
150
120
90
60
30
0
Jan.

Performance of EWE bonds in 2016
Spread vs. mid-swaps (bp)

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

Jun.

Jul.

Aug.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

EWE 4.875% Oct.-19
EWE 4.125% Nov.-20
EWE 5.250% Jul.-21
Euro-Aggregate: Industrials
Euro-Aggregate: Utilities

EWE BONDS AND THE CREDIT MARKET
The Debt Issuance Programme launched in 2014, a standIn spite of several periods of volatility the credit markets ardised documentation platform for capital market finance,
fared consistently well in 2016, driven primarily by the enables EWE to obtain debt more quickly and efficiently.
European Central Bank’s (ECB) bond-buying scheme. At The programme has been inactive since 1 August 2016 and
the start of the year, concerns about Chinese and global is expected to remain inactive for the foreseeable future.
180
growth temporarily slowed the issuance of bonds. Howwww.ewe.com/en/debt-issuance-­programm
150 announced by
ever, the corporate bond-buying scheme
the ECB represented a clear turning 120
point on the credit Short-term financing instruments are primarily used to
market, improving the conditions on the aftermarket ensure EWE’s ongoing solvency and as a liquidity reserve.
90
as well as the conditions of new bond issuances in the As at 31 December 2016 EWE had a syndicated credit
60 as the British EU
long term. Political developments such
facility of 750 million euros as well as other bilateral credit
facilities totalling around 250 million euros.
referendum, the US presidential election
and
the
Italian
30
referendum were unable to stifle the mood on the credit
0
market. A total of 300 billion euros was issued in the FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
May
Jun.
Jul.
Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
investment grade corporate bond market in 2016, which
EWE 4,875% Oct-19
EWE 4,125% Nov-20
EWE 5,250% Jul-21
is a new record. Driven by the ECB’s bond-buying
scheme,
profile
of the bonds and private
Euro-Aggregate:
Industrials Maturity
Euro-Aggregate:
Utilities
EWE was even able to surpass the positive performance placements of EWE
in millions of euros
of the supplier sector.
FINANCING INSTRUMENTS
EWE AG has been represented on the capital market
since 2004. As a market-oriented yet unlisted company,
EWE finances itself primarily by means of long-term debt
instruments such as public bonds, private placements and
bonded loans. Bilateral bank loans are another source of
long-term finance.

500

464
372

400

365

300
200

150

100
0

PDF

50
0
2017

2018

0
2019

2020

2021

…

2032

See PDF Integrated Report, page 110

900
828

815
790

800

784

786
728

728

722

700

658

600

540

500

EWE Integrated Report 2016
400
2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

32

OUR

STAKEHOLDERS
STAKEHOLDERS OF EWE

EWE stakeholders

Following EWE’s strategic reorientation, it has become even more
essential to be connected, to have partners and to enjoy the absolute trust of our employees and customers. The transition of the
energy economy is making it increasingly important to forge partnerships and pool strengths. Yet the change can only take place if
all groups of stakeholders are included. This requires transparency.
Our stakeholders are important to us, as is a regular dialogue with
them. Not least because as an energy company, we bear an even
greater responsibility for societal issues, especially for shaping the
energy transition.

»»
»»
»»
»»
»»

Customers
Employees
EWE shareholders
Suppliers and business partners
Society and politicians

» G4-24

» G4-25

7

Environmental management
and resource efficiency
Health and
occupational safety

6

Climate protection
and generation

Supply chain

Employees
and education

High

SIGNIFICANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS

Very high

MATERIALITY MATRIX

Market and
transparency

5

Regional
responsibility

Security of supply
and network stability

Innovation and
product responsibility

Data protection and
information security

Medium

4

4
Medium

5

6
High

SIGNIFICANCE FOR THE COMPANY

» G4-19

EWE Integrated Report 2016

7
Very high

33

KEY ISSUES

UP KRITIS

Most recently in 2013 we carried out a materiality analysis to
determine the key issues to us and our stakeholders. The previous
matrix maps the aspects identified by the analysis. The X and Y
axes of the matrix indicate the relative significance of the aspects
to EWE and its stakeholders.

In close collaboration with industry and the German government,
EWE was also actively involved in information security and critical
infrastructure in 2016. UP KRITIS is a public-private initiative
between operators of critical infrastructure (KRITIS), industrial
associations and the relevant government offices. EWE has been
working with this initiative for a number of years. In 2016 more
important application assistants were made available to help
affected companies implement the strict legis­l ative requirements
with regard to information security more e­ asily. For example,
standards were developed for supplier obligations, methods were
developed for executing reporting processes and industry-specific
standards were developed to ensure safety.

These aspects have not lost their significance in light of EWE’s
new corporate strategy. In this, the first integrated report by
EWE, we present more detailed information on these aspects
alongside key indicators in the sections entitled “Our Resources”
(page 18 et seqq), “Responsible ­Management” (page 34 – 35)
see PDF Integrated Report,
and in the “Indicator Notes”
page 147 et seqq.
PDF

» G4-18

IN DIALOGUE
To open a dialogue with our stakeholders and nurture an exchange
of ideas is a fundamental objective on which we never stop working on a variety of levels. Dialogues never fail to present opportunities, even in the face of challenging times and difficult subjects.
Here are two selected examples from the reporting year:
GRID ADVISORY BOARDS AT EWE NETZ
The grid advisory board dialogue format introduced in 2014 took
root in 2016. EWE NETZ held a total of 14 events where subjects
such as planned investments, construction measures and regulatory issues were discussed with municipal representatives. The
open dialogue supports trusting collaboration, for instance in the
renegotiation of easements or in the opening up of new regions.
Representatives from 13 districts in the north west and the city of
Oldenburg entered into a dialogue with EWE in 2016.

Generally speaking, EWE uses the regular dialogue with companies
and authorities and the resulting contacts to glean detailed information and to prepare for the rapid changes in information security legislation. In turn, the sector benefits from the practical experience of EWE through the exchange.
EWE memberships
»»
»»
»»
»»

German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW)
German Association of Local Utilities (VKU)
Bundesverband Breitbandkommunikation e. V.
B undesverband Informationswirtschaft, Telekommunikation
und neue Medien e. V.
»» Netzwerk Compliance e. V.
» G4-26, G4-27

EWE Integrated Report 2016

34

RESPONSIBLE

MANAGEMENT
OUR CODE OF CONDUCT

OUR SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT

Integrity and transparent business processes are key prerequisites
for responsible management. The EWE Code of Conduct introduced in 2012 sets out the principles which guide our actions.
The Code is based on the concepts of sustainability, fairness and
safety and contains rules designed to avoid conflicts of interest
and on how to treat business partners, gifts and sensitive company information. www.ewe.com/en/compliance

EWE assumes responsibility for its business activities outside of
its own sphere of influence, which is why it introduced a Supplier
Code of Conduct in 2015. This Code sets out principles relating
to human rights and working conditions, occupational health and
safety, environmental protection and the integrity of business.
In 2016 we had our business partners undertake to adhere to our
Supplier Code of Conduct. www.ewe.com/en/compliance

Conduct consistent with the law and the rules is the highest
­p riority of EWE: around 5,300 employees of the EWE Group –
75 per cent of our employees in Germany – took part in internal
training courses on compliance in 2016. In order to establish
the Code of Conduct throughout the Group, it was introduced by
the Turkish subsidiaries in 2016 as well. The Code came into
effect in the Polish companies in 2014.

INFORMATION SECURITY

DONATIONS BY THE EWE GROUP AND THE
EWE FOUNDATION
Donations are part of EWE’s work in the public domain. We
­consider ourselves a responsible company with a sustainable business model and we dedicate our resources to selected projects.
We primarily contribute to education, science, art, culture and
social and humanitarian causes. EWE donated a total of 6.6 million euros in 2016.
New rules on donations were introduced by the Group in the
reporting year. As a result, in future EWE’s charitable commitments will be largely pooled into the legally independent EWE
FOUNDATION. In line with its articles of association, the voluntary management board of the foundation decides on applications
it receives for grants independently. The EWE FOUNDATION is
regulated by the regulatory agency of Lower Saxony and the
­G erman tax authorities. The capital of the foundation has been
increased to 50 million euros, enabling it to support even more
effective and comprehensive charitable projects.
Sponsoring is an element of EWE’s communication with customers. Besides marketing and sales objectives, sponsoring fulfils
other corporate objectives such as improving the attractiveness
of a location whilst taking the public responsibility of the EWE
Group into consideration. We inspect our sponsoring activities
regularly. In 2016 the decision was made to gradually reduce
­certain commitments to sports over the next few years. This
was due to planned cost reductions.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Information plays an important role in the business model of
EWE. The security of information is therefore a crucial factor in
the ­success of the company. EWE has established Group-wide
information security management systems for this very purpose.
These are based on the standard ISO 27001. The Group guideline
on information security sets out the framework for information
­security.
CHANGES TO THE COMPOSITION OF THE SUPERVISORY
BOARD AND THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
The memberships of Stefan Brok, Dr Frank Mastiaux and
Dr Hans-Josef Zimmer on the Supervisory Board ended on 21 April
2016. The Annual General Meeting appointed Peter Bohlmann
and Beatrix Kuhl to be their successors on 17 May 2016. Dr Frank
Mastiaux was also reappointed to the Supervisory Board. Jürgen
Humer stepped down from the Supervisory Board on 31 January
2016. He was succeeded by Heike Klattenhoff by judicial appointment on 28 April 2016. On 17 June 2016 Dr Frank Mastiaux was
reappointed Vice-chairman of the Supervisory Board.
The Board of Management of EWE AG currently consists of two
members. Wolfgang Mücher joined the Board of Management
with effect from 1 March 2016. He is responsible for the Finance
department. Nikolaus Behr resigned from his office as Head of
Human Resources and IT on 19 September 2016. Ines Kolmsee,
Head of Technology, stepped down from the Board of Management on 1 January 2017. On 22 February 2017 the Supervisory
Board accepted the recommendation of the Executive Committee
and removed Matthias Brückmann from the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board will address the new appointment
to the Board of Management in one of its upcoming meetings.

35

PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN MANAGERIAL POSITIONS

CRISIS AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

EWE wishes to increase the percentage of women in managerial
positions over the next few years. To do so we will rely on triedand-tested and new measures to strengthen the work-life balance
and promote diversity in professional and career development.
Key positions should be filled by the most suitable candidate,
regardless of gender. In order to ensure that men and women have
equal opportunities to occupy managerial positions and in line
with the statutory regulations, EWE has set the following target
percentages for women on the Supervisory Board, the Board of
Management and other executive boards, as well as the two upper
levels of management:
Target percentages for the Supervisory Board and
Board of Management of EWE AG
Percentage of
women
(as at
31.12.2016)

Target
percentage by
30.6.2017

Supervisory
Board

15.0%

5.0%

Board of
­Management

20.0%

20.0%

Board or level of
management

Target percentages for the top two levels of
management of EWE AG
Percentage of
women
(as at
31.12.2016)

Target
percentage by
30.6.2017

Department
heads

12.0%

12.5%

Team leaders

15.0%

24.4%

Level of
­m anagement

| T 002

Defined by:
Supervisory
Board
of EWE AG

| T 003

Defined by:
Board of
Management
of EWE AG

We have established a crisis and business continuity management
system to protect and maintain our most vital business processes
and the infrastructure required for them to function. For this
­reason EWE NETZ identified all critical business processes and
resources that, if impaired, would quickly cause major damage to
customers or financial and reputational damage to EWE. In the
subsequent stage, potential threat scenarios such as natural disasters, IT failures or attacks on EWE’s infrastructure were analysed
and their effects estimated. Specific measures and plans that can
be implemented in such cases to preserve business operations
were derived from the results of these analyses. By February 2017
all of the critical processes of EWE NETZ had been integrated into
the crisis and business continuity management system.
TRANSPARENT REPORTING
For the sake of optimal transparency, we update our investors,
financial analysts, the media and the public on the situation of the
company and on significant changes in its business promptly and
regularly. Twice a year EWE reports on business developments and
on the net assets, financial position and results of operations of
the company, including its opportunities and risks. The annual
financial statements of EWE AG, the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report are published within
120 days of the end of each business year. EWE uses the Internet
as a continuously up-to-date publication platform. The website of
the Group lists the dates of its major publications and events such
as the Integra­ted Report and the financial reports released over
the course of the year (half-year reports). In addition to our regular reports, we publish ad-hoc announcements of not generally
known circumstances that, if become known, would have a considerable effect on the price of the bonds of EWE.

RISK MANAGEMENT
EWE has established an integrated risk and opportunity management system across the Group in order to quickly identify and
actively manage potential risks and opportunities in connection
with its business activities. This involves regular analyses of risks
and opportunities. The Board of Management of the Group and its
supervisory committees are notified of the results on a quarterly
see PDF Integrated Report, page 55 et seqq.
basis.
PDF

EWE Integrated Report 2016

36

“

 verall, the Board of Management of EWE AG can
O
look back on 2016 as a successful financial year.
At 332.9 million euros, the Group’s net income for
the period recovered significantly following the
slump in the previous year.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

37

COMBINED
MANAGEMENT REPORT
2016

38	BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL
FRAMEWORK
38 THE EWE GROUP
40	GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
44

CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
44	OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF BUSINESS
PERFORMANCE
44 FORECAST DEVIATIONS
44 EARNINGS PERFORMANCE
45	SIGNIFICANT CHANGES TO THE
­CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
­COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
46 SEGMENT PERFORMANCE
48 ASSET POSITION
48 FINANCIAL POSITION
49	NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS
49 EMPLOYEES OF THE EWE GROUP

51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS
AND THEIR KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
51
FORECAST REPORT
55	REPORT ON RISKS AND
OPPORTUNITIES
59	KEY CHARACTERISTICS OF THE
EWE GROUP’S ACCOUNTING-­
RELATED INTERNAL CONTROL
­SYSTEM (PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 289
(5) AND ARTICLE 315 (2) NO. 5 OF
THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE)
60

CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG
60 EARNINGS PERFORMANCE
61
ASSET POSITION
62 FINANCIAL POSITION
63 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

EWE Integrated Report 2016

38

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
THE EWE GROUP
ORGANISATION AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES
We are an energy company which operates primarily in the fields
of energy, telecommunications and information technology (IT) in
Germany, Turkey and Poland. Besides operating state-of-the-art,
reliable energy grids, we are a pioneer in the field of renewable
energy and, as the first company in Germany to do so, tap the
joint potential of energy, telecommunications and IT. The EWE
Group comprises EWE AG, an “Aktiengesellschaft” (public limited
company) incorporated under German law, as well as its subsi­
diaries. Our company’s headquarters are located in Oldenburg,
Germany. In the 2016 business year, the Group had an average of
9,048 employees (previous year: 8,855).
This business year the management report has been revised in
order to improve its clarity and transparency.
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Renewables, Grids and Gas Storage segment
In the Renewables segment, we plan, build and operate renewable
power generation plants, including within the scope of investment
and partner models. We market our expertise in the construction
and operation of offshore wind parks internationally. In the current
business year we have improved our power generation capacity
(including proportional capacities of holdings consolidated using
the equity method), from 245 MW to 297 MW.
In the Grids segment, we operate state-of-the-art, efficient power
grids and natural gas networks in the Ems-Weser-Elbe region of
Germany, as well as natural gas networks in Brandenburg, Rügen
and Nordvorpommern totalling 138.5 thousand km in length
­( previous year: 137.7 thousand km). Thanks to low outage times,
our distribution grids are some of the safest in Europe. We also
operate a wide telecommunications network approx. 38.8 thousand km in length (previous year: 37.7 thousand km). The company
is continuously pushing forward with the broadband network
expansion in the rural areas of north-western Germany. We also
operate s­ everal drinking water networks and, as an energy company with regional roots, are active in the waste water business.
We purified 17.6 million cubic metres of water in the reporting
year (previous year: 17.4 million cubic metres).

EWE Integrated Report 2016

In the field of Gas Storage we construct, acquire and operate
­s ystems to store as well as inject and withdraw gaseous and liquid
energy carriers such as high-pressure natural gas, hydrogen,
­liquefied petroleum gas and compressed air, and render all related
­services. In this business area we operate a total of 38 underground reservoirs in locations throughout northern Germany, as
well as in Rüdersdorf near Berlin, and sell storage capacity to
internal and external customers. With a total storage capacity of
2.1 billion cubic metres, we are one of the largest operators of gas
storage reservoirs in the German-European natural gas market.
Sales, Services and Trading segment
The Energy and Telecommunications segment combines the sale
of energy products with telecommunications. In the domestic
market, the sale of energy products takes up the leading position
in the competitive environment. The focus of its telecommuni­
cations sales lies primarily in north-western Germany, parts of
Brandenburg, on the island of Rügen and in the Ostwestfalen-­
Lippe region. We support commercial customers nationwide.
Through the establishment of new business activities such as light
contracting, power storage and energy audits, we are currently
transitioning into a service provider for which – in addition to the
classic power, gas and heat products and telecommunications –
customer-specific services and solutions will open up new business opportunities.
The IT segment contains our holistic range of IT products and services designed especially for the energy and telecommunications
sectors, the public sector, industrial companies and service providers. Our key areas of expertise lie in consulting, system integration
and applications and system management. We place a focus on
energy-related software products.
The Trading segment encompasses services relating to the procurement and marketing of electricity and gas. Additionally, the
Trading business area facilitates the optimisation of the entire
energy portfolio of the EWE Group, allowing it to provide its
­customers and partners with a wide range of services, for instance
portfolio and balancing group management. Trading services to
provide market access to our Group’s sales and generation
­activities.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

39

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

International segment
In Turkey and Poland, the distribution and sale of natural gas
are key components of our business operations. Our business
in Turkey holds long-term gas trade and liquefied natural gas
licences as well as a power trading licence. We supply natural gas
to industrial customers, industrial zones, gas power plants and
utility companies throughout the country. We have also supplied
business customers with power since 2014. Following the acqui­
sition of Millenicom in 2016, we are also active in telecommuni­
cations in Turkey.
swb segment

Earnings before interest and taxes are of key importance, represented by the leading key performance indicator operating EBIT.
Operating EBIT represents earnings before interest and taxes,
adjusted for special items. This includes valuation effects from
derivative financial instruments, impairment (such as goodwill
impairment, impairment of tangible fixed assets and impairment
of investments) and special items resulting from changes to the
basis of consolidation, as well as those resulting from restructuring measures and donations.
At the level of operative segments, the main key performance
indicator operating EBIT is complemented by specific figures.
­Furthermore, investments and their distribution across the
­individual segments represent a further focus of Group-wide
reporting.

This segment encompasses our business activities in the cities of
Bremen and Bremerhaven. swb and its subsidiaries are active in
the fields of electricity, natural gas, heating, drinking water and
telecommunications. Likewise, this segment includes the Conventional Generation and Disposal business unit of swb.

Internal and external Group reporting is continuously adjusted
to meet the operative requirements of managing the EWE Group
as well as current legal stipulations.

Group Central Division segment

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

EWE AG manages the EWE Group as its holding company. Its
duties lie in the strategic and cross-market development of the
business areas as well as strategic planning and assuring the
Group’s financing. In addition, EWE AG performs centralised
­corporate services for the Group’s companies.

In the 2016 business year we reorganised our research and
develop­m ent activities. In the future, the focus of the Group’s
innovation work will lie on business model innovations in order
to unlock new potential revenue for the business of EWE. The previously central research and development projects were either
completed or operational responsibility for them was transferred
to the b­ usiness areas in 2016.

INTERNAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The EWE Group uses a multilevel management system which
makes it possible to decentralise corporate responsibility and at
the same time create a high level of transparency. The internal
management system differentiates between the Group and the
segment level. The operative segments Renewables, Grids and Gas
Storage; Sales, Services and Trading; International and swb form
the basis of the internal reporting structures and external reporting (segment reporting). Internal and external reporting is based
on the same management information system. This technological
platform enables the use of a uniform database for a variety of
reporting needs and ensures that the content of information is the
same between reporting levels and within one reporting level.
As the parent company, EWE AG has defined clear targets for
measuring and controlling company performance which will
ensure the long-term success of the company. Integral com­
ponents of this overarching objective include long-term value
­c reation, assuring adequate financing and stabilising the com­
pany’s external rating.

The enera project “Digital Agenda for the Energy Transition” aims
to show how energy systems can be designed to overcome the
challenges of the future and operated more efficiently with smart
technologies. It involves grids, markets and data. Grids will be
­f itted with intelligent measuring technology in order to improve
grid stability and make distribution grids capable of balancing
energy supply and demand on a regional level. Energy will be
traded on regional markets in order to minimise the necessity for
transmission grids. The various generation, storage and consumption plants will regularly supply data that can be transferred to
a central data platform and merged with external data. This will
provide us with an excellent platform on which to develop new,
data-based business models. The project started in January 2017
and is expected to end in late 2020; its conceptual and structural
frameworks were prepared in 2016.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

40

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

One example of the continuous intertwining of our research
­activities is the project “Regional Virtual Power Plant Field Test on
the Basis of Micro-CHP Technology”. The project aims to make
progress towards a decentralised energy supply by connecting
peripheral urban areas. These are dominated by detached and
semi-detached houses and therefore represent a potential market.
In the project, economic strategies must be developed for the
sample micro combined heat and power systems (micro-CHP
­s ystems) that we have installed in real households. This can be
done by fitting the micro-CHP systems with smart metering and
control technology and by building on the virtual power plants
of EWE AG. At the same time, the findings from the project will
pave the way to integrating even small plants into modern energy
grids.
The project “green2store” is an element of the developing field of
energy storage. It is currently in the fourth and final year of its
funding phase. This year focused on the interregional field test in
which the digital networking of decentralised storage facilities
was tested in an energy storage cloud. The results show that there
is demand for a storage network that can be marketed to the
energy trading and services markets. Business model concepts
for marketing storage systems highlight the potential of this
approach.
GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF THE MARKET
The business of EWE is more greatly affected by developments
in the energy and telecommunications sectors than by global
­e conomic developments, which is why the information provided
below focuses on the energy and telecommunications markets.

In principle, the commodities gas and coal followed the developments on the crude oil market. Isolated cases of extreme weather
and discussions regarding the availability of the Dutch Groningen
gas field had the opposite effect on the gas price in the meantime.
The prices of CO2 emissions certificates appeared unaffected. For
one, this market was driven by political debates about its future
structure. Additionally, low fossil fuel prices led to growing
demand for fossil fuels and in turn the certificates. The electricity
market was largely dependent on developments in the coal market and less so on the gas and emissions markets. At the end of
the previous year, the relatively low availability of France’s nuclear
power plants caused electricity prices to increase again.
According to preliminary calculations by the Working Group on
Energy Balances (Arbeitsgemeinschaft Energiebilanzen – AGEB), in
2016 energy consumption in Germany increased by around 1.6 per
cent compared to the previous year. Primary energy consumption
in the reporting year totalled 458.2 million tonnes of coal equivalent (TCE), compared to 451.1 million TCE in the previous year.
This growth was due to the slightly colder weather compared to
the mild year before and this year’s leap day, although the increase
was slowed by improvements in energy efficiency. Adjusted for
weather, energy consumption increased by just 1.0 per cent. With
regard to CO2 emissions, the AGEB is expecting a slight increase of
0.9 per cent from the previous year, or just 0.6 per cent if adjusted
for temperature.
Natural gas consumption increased dramatically by 10.0 per cent
to 103.8 million TCE. This was due primarily to the cooler weather,
especially in the fourth quarter, than in the previous year, as well
as the increased usage of natural gas in power plants. Comprising
22.7 per cent of total primary energy consumption, natural gas
slightly increased its share compared to the previous year
(20.9 per cent).

Energy market and prices
International commodity prices, particularly of oil, gas and coal, as
well as the prices of CO2 certificates, are the predominant factors
that affect price trends on the power and gas markets. The petroleum market can be considered a leading indicator. Following a
short recovery period in 2015, the price of the front-month contract on the crude oil type Brent fell to 27.10 US dollars per barrel
in January 2016 as OPEC failed to enact any measures to stabilise
the crude oil market. The year 2016 was characterised by discussions and speculation about imposing output cuts on OPEC and
non-OPEC producers which were then passed in late November.
This move caused the front month price of Brent Crude to increase
to just under 58.00 US dollars per barrel, its highest level since July
2015.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Renewable energy increased its contribution by 2.9 per cent to
57.7 million TCE. Biomass increased by 3.0 per cent year-over-year.
Hydroelectric power generation (without pump storage) increased
by 13.0 per cent. As a result, the proportion of renewables in the
overall energy mix increased slightly to 12.6 per cent (previous
year: 12.4 per cent).

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

41

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

Energy market and prices
Electricity, gas, CO2, coal and Brent
in euros

in US$

60

120

50

100

40

80

30

60

20

40

10

20

0

0
Q4/2013

Q1/2014

CO2 certificate price (in €)

Q2/2014

Q3/2014

Natural gas price (in €)

Q4/2014

Q1/2015

Q2/2015

Wholesale electricity price (in €)

Q3/2015

Coal price (in US$)

Q4/2015

Q1/2016

Q2/2016

Q3/2016

Q4/2016

Crude oil price (in US$)

Telecommunications market

POLITICAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT

The total revenue in the telecommunications services market in
Germany was around 60.5 billion euros in 2016. It was therefore
0.8 per cent higher than in the previous year (60.0 billion euros).
Of this figure, around 26.4 billion euros were attributable to
mobile communication services (previous year: 26.5 billion euros)
and around 34.1 billion euros were attributable to landlines
including the cable network (previous year: 33.5 billion euros). As
a result, landline revenue’s share of total revenue now stands at
56.4 per cent (previous year: 55.8 per cent), while the share of
revenue from mobile communications decreased to 43.6 per cent
(previous year: 44.2 per cent). The growth in the business year
ended was therefore generated by landlines.

The General Data Protection Regulation came into force

Unlike in previous years, Telekom Deutschland GmbH, Bonn
(TDG), and the cable network operators were able to increase
their landline revenue from around 19.4 billion euros to around
20.2 billion euros, while alternative providers generated around
0.2 billion euros less in revenue. If adjusted for the revenue of the
cable ­n etwork operators, this is the second year in a row in which
TDG increased its revenue at the expense of its competitors.
The ­situation in the field of mobile communications is different:
TDG lost approx. 0.2 billion euros in turnover whereas its
­competitors saw increases of around 0.1 billion euros.

The European General Data Protection Regulation came into
force in June 2016. The new regulations will become mandatory
throughout the EU in two years. The content most relevant to
our Group concerns the regulations on handling personal data and
the most stringent regulations on fines and compensation.
Brexit caused uncertainty
At the end of the first half of 2016 the political landscape was
overshadowed by the referendum on the UK’s membership of the
EU held on 23 June 2016. The UK’s withdrawal is expected to have
a profound impact on the political system of the EU and cause
massive delays in certain legislative processes. For our Group, a
clear, stable political environment is of great importance to future
investment plans. The Brexit talks are expected to start in late
March 2017.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

42

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

New Combined Heat and Power Act came into force

Smart meters for the energy transition

The amended Combined Heat and Power Act (KWKG) came into
effect on 1 January 2016. The amendments change subsidies for
new, modernised and retrofitted combined heat and power (CHP)
plants. CHP plants with a capacity of more than 2 MW should
benefit most from this. The new Act also sets out the economic
conditions for constructing heating networks and storage facilities. Due to funding concerns on the part of the European Commission (EU Commission), however, the section of the law concerning funding only came into effect in the second half of the
year. Approvals for plants that had become operational by this
time in 2016 could not be granted for the time being. The unclear
legal situation made our customers reluctant to make investments.

The Energy Transition Digitisation Act (Gesetz zur Digitalisierung
der Energiewende) came into force on 2 September 2016. It sets
out the roll-out plan for smart meters. From 2017 these smart
meters will become mandatory for major consumers with an
annual consumption in excess of 10,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) and
for feed-in stations with a capacity of over 7 kilowatts (kW). In
2020 the threshold will be lowered to an annual consumption of
6,000 kWh. Additionally, the Act determines the future interplay
between market participants with regard to metering and sets out
the technological basis of future energy systems, on which all
future market and grid-based services must be based.

In order to meet the requirements of the EU, the German
­government has started work on a new amendment to the act
that will introduce invitations to tender.

Due to the declining reserves of low-calorific gas in Germany and
the Netherlands, a transition to high-calorific gas is essential.
This will also ensure supply security in the market regions that up
until now have been supplied with low-calorific gas, of which the
EWE service area is one. In 2016 the Dutch parliament discussed
further reductions on the production of low-calorific Groningen
gas in order to prevent earthquakes in the Groningen region. In
this regard we are monitoring the effects of the political situation
on the market region transition and the security of supply in the
EWE service area, and are holding constructive dialogues with
political representatives.

German Electricity Market Reform Act passed
The German Electricity Market Reform Act (Strommarktgesetz)
came into force in late July 2016. It will serve as the basis for
future electricity market designs. The Act aims to ensure that the
supply of electricity remains efficient even if renewables continue
to grow in significance. Its regulations include the introduction of
a capacity reserve, more obligations on the part of those responsible for balancing groups and a free pricing guarantee. No capacity
market was introduced. We welcome the new Act in principle.
One positive highlight is the introduction of a 3 per cent peak cap
based on an approach developed by EWE.
German Act Extending Liability for Mining Damage to
­B orehole Mining and Underground Reservoirs came
into force
The German Act Extending Liability for Mining Damage to Borehole Mining and Underground Reservoirs (Gesetz zur Ausdehnung
der Bergschadenshaftung auf den Bohrlochbergbau und Kavernen)
came into force in August 2016. It extends liability for mining
damage and in turn the shifting of the burden of proof to include
underground gas reservoirs. The background is that lawmakers see
a heightened risk of mining damage here too. Mining companies
will have to prove that they did not cause the damage. This will
significantly increase the cost of providing evidence. In the event
of damage, EWE GASSPEICHER GmbH might be negatively
affected by these regulations.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Transition from low-calorific gas to high-calorific gas

In light of the uncertain political situation in the Netherlands in
connection with production cuts, the market region transition in
the EWE service area will not start in 2021 as originally planned,
but rather in 2018, and end in 2027, two years earlier than forecast in the 2016 network development plan. In the Bremen supply
area the transition will start in 2017.
Amended German Incentive Regulation Ordinance
The process of amending the German Incentive Regulation
­O rdinance (ARegV), which started with the evaluation of the
incentive regulations in the 2014 calendar year, was completed on
3 August 2016 with the amendment. Ultimately, the amended
ARegV does not provide a comprehensive solution to the investment challenges faced by grid operators. Nevertheless, the
­retention of “optimal billing” for determining efficiency values
and the categorisation of compensatory payments for feed-in
management measures as costs that cannot be influenced are
positive aspects in this context. Additionally, the abolition of the
heavily criticised time delay problem for new investments is
­welcome news. However, one negative aspect is that there was

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

43

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

no extension to the fourth regulatory period in connection with
the “delay effect” issue; rather, an investigation of the regulation
is planned to take place during the third regulatory period.
German Federal Network Agency (BNetzA) has set equity
interest rates for the third regulatory period
On 5 October 2016 the BNetzA published the equity interest rates
for electricity and gas network operators for the third regulatory
period, which starts in 2018 for gas network operators and in 2019
for power grid operators. Despite in-depth discussions between
the relevant business communities, politicians and the BNetzA
and despite the known negative consequences of a cut in interest
rates both for businesses and for the energy transition in general,
at the end of the consultation phase the BNetzA stuck to its
­decision to lower equity interest rates significantly. As a result, the
equity interest rates were lowered from 9.05 per cent to 6.91 per
cent for new plants and from 7.14 per cent to 5.12 per cent for
existing plants. EWE NETZ GmbH has joined other grid operators
and filed an appeal against this decision with the Higher Regional
Court (Oberlandesgericht) of Düsseldorf.
BNetzA plans to set the general industrial productivity
­factor (X Generell)
In connection with the definition of caps on the revenue of grid
operators, the ARegV provides for a general industrial productivity
factor referred to as “X Generell”. X Generell is determined based
on the difference between the productivity factor of the network
sector and the productivity factor of the economy as a whole
and the difference between the development of cost prices in the
economy as a whole and the development of cost prices in the
network sector. Therefore, besides an efficiency comparison
mechanism for grid operators X Generell is another component of
the ARegV that will heighten the pressure to be efficient. In line
with the regulations of the ARegV, X Generell was 1.25 per cent
for the first regulatory period and 1.50 per cent for the second
regulatory period. At the start of the third regulatory period
(2018 for gas and 2019 for electricity), the BNetzA will be obliged
to re-calculate X Generell before the start of every regulatory
period using state-of-the-art methods. To this end the BNetzA
has commissioned an appraisal, the results of which were due
to be published in December 2016. In this regard it is possible that
different general productivity requirements are set out for
­electricity and gas.

BNetzA requires standardised price sheets for ­
gas distribution grid charges
From 1 January 2018, EWE NETZ GmbH is obliged to use a standardised price sheet for gas distribution grid charges in order to
meet the criteria of the BNetzA. Currently, for part of the grid the
discharge fee is calculated as a demand charge, as is the case in
long-distance transmission grids. The BNetzA had approved two
pricing systems for a transitional period.
EWE NETZ GmbH has filed an appeal against the decision with
the Higher Regional Court (Oberlandesgericht) of Düsseldorf. This
process notwithstanding, the company is examining other options
in order to avoid massive increases in charges for the connected
businesses. The establishment of an internal grid company for the
relevant part of the grid is one possible option.
German Digital Network Act enters into force
The German Digital Network Act (DigiNetz-Gesetz) came into
effect in November 2016. Germany has therefore been late to
implement the European Directive on measures to reduce the cost
of broadband network expansion. The Act provides for the right to
share certain infrastructures for the expansion of high-speed
Internet. It also governs duties to provide information, the coordination of construction sites and the installation of telecommunications lines during other construction measures.
Expansion of VDSL vectoring in short-range networks
In mid 2016 the BNetzA granted TDG a com­p rehensive vectoring
expansion right for access points in direct service areas. The
EWE Group has a right to implement expansions in over 800 of
these access points. The EWE Group intends to exercise these
rights and provided the BNetzA with a notarised letter of intent
to carry out expansion work in December. With VDSL vectoring
­technology, the approx. 100,000 affected households in the EWE
­service area will be provided with broadband speeds of up to
100 Mbit/s by late 2018. Nevertheless, the EWE Group has also
filed a suit against the decision of the BNetzA with the Admini­
strative Court (Verwaltungsgericht) of Cologne because the
authority rejected a commitment to install VDSL vectoring
in all direct s­ ervice areas. The decision is due to be made in
February 2017.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

44

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
Overall, the Board of Management of EWE AG can look back on
2016 as a successful financial year. At 332.9 million euros, the
Group’s net income for the period recovered significantly following the slump in the previous year. The improvement was driven
primarily by the fact that EWE was able to sell its shares in
VNG-Verbundnetz Gas Aktiengesellschaft, Leipzig (VNG), in the
first half of 2016. Additionally, income from the reversal of pension provisions due to the reorganisation of swb’s company pension scheme in the reporting year had a positive effect on earnings. Likewise, the gains from the remeasurement of derivative
financial instruments had a positive effect on the income of the
Group. Higher impairments of fixed assets and higher interest
expenses due to the p
­ repayment penalty that we paid for prematurely paying our debts had a negative effect. The operating EBIT
is 534.6 million euros and increased by 106.5 million euros. This
increase is due primarily to the decrease in pension provisions in
connection with the r­ eorganisation of swb’s company pension
scheme.
FORECAST DEVIATIONS
| T 004

2015

2016
­t arget
in %

2016

Achievement
in %

314.4

+5% to
+15%

333.7

6.1

Sales, Services and
Trading segment

80.4

+5% to
+35%

61.2

-23.9

International segment

25.3

+5% to
+20%

25.6

1.2

90.3

-45% to
-30%

in millions of euros
Renewables, Grids and
Gas Storage segment

swb segment
Group Central
­D ivision segment

-82.3

EWE Group

428.1

165.2

82.9

534.6

24.9

At 534.6 million euros, the operating EBIT of the EWE Group
for the 2016 business year was far above expectations. The swb
­segment in particular experienced a highly positive deviation
from forecasts characterised by a special item of 90.6 million
euros resulting from the reorganisation of swb’s company
pension scheme.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

The developments in the Sales, Services and Trading segment
were due primarily to price reductions, lower quantities of electricity and gas sold to private customers, impending losses in
­connection with the operation of the natural gas fuel station
­n etwork, higher customer acquisition costs and the promise of
a subsidy to the EWE research centre NEXT ENERGY.
EARNINGS PERFORMANCE
The ability of the EWE Group’s normal business operations to
­generate earnings over the long term is of particular importance to
both internal governance as well as the external communication
of the current and future development of the Group’s earnings.
Operating EBIT is an adjusted earnings figure which is used to illustrate and manage operative earnings performance. To calculate
operating EBIT, EBIT is adjusted for special items such as derivative
financial instruments, impairment (such as goodwill impairment,
impairment of tangible fixed assets and impairment of investments) and special items resulting from changes to the basis of
consolidation, as well as those resulting from restructuring
­measures and donations.
The following chart illustrates the reconciliation to the Group’s
net income for the period:
| T 005

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Operating EBIT

534.6

428.1

Derivatives

-51.1
+0% to
+15%

Whereas the Renewables, Grids and Gas Storage segment
­p erformed in line with expectations, the International and Sales,
Services and Trading segments failed to meet the forecasts.

87.7

-11.9

Impairments

-174.9

-150.4

Investments

243.0

-0.1

Restructuring

-21.2

-53.7

Donations

-20.0

EBIT

649.2

212.0

Net interest income/expense

-206.5

-180.9

Income taxes

-109.8

-40.5

332.9

-9.4

Group’s net income for the period

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

45

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

 IGNIFICANT CHANGES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
S
INCOME STATEMENT
| T 006

in millions of euros
Revenue (excluding electricity and energy taxes)

2016

2015

Change
in %
-3.2

7,566.3

7,819.3

-5,761.7

-6,067.4

5.0

-722.5

-727.3

0.7

Other income and expenses

-81.6

-215.0

62.0

Income from investments

254.5

-17.5

> 100

-605.8

-580.1

-4.4
> 100

Material expenses
Personnel expenses

Write-downs
EBIT

649.2

212.0

Net interest income/expense

-206.5

-180.9

-14.2

Earnings before income taxes

442.7

31.1

> 100

-109.8

-40.5

< -100

332.9

-9.4

> 100

331.9

-7.1

> 100

1.0

-2.3

> 100

332.9

-9.4

> 100

Income taxes
Net income for the period
Thereof attributable to:
Shareholders of the parent company
Minority shares

In the 2016 business year our Group generated turnover
­(excluding electricity and energy taxes) of 7,566.3 million euros
(previous year: 7,819.3 million euros). This represents a decrease
of 253.0 million euros (3.2 per cent) compared to the same period
in the previous year. The decrease is due primarily to lower gas
prices. In contrast, material expenses decreased disproportionately by 5.0 per cent or 305.7 million euros. The material usage
rate improved from 77.6 per cent to 76.1 per cent due to factors
including lower procurement costs. In the reporting year, as in the
previous year, approx. 90 per cent of the turnover was g­ enerated
inland and approx. 10 per cent was generated abroad.
Personnel expenses remained at the same level as in the previous
year as the special items from the previous year in connection
with the restructuring measures were balanced out by the effects
in the current year. On the one hand the number of employees
increased following the acquisition of Millenicom, and on the
other personnel expenses increased due to the formation of a
­p rovision for the cash settlement of in-kind benefits.
The balance of other operating income and other operating
expenses (including inventory changes and internally produced
and capitalised assets) totalled -81.6 million euros (previous year:
-215.0 million euros). The change from the previous year resulted

primarily from positive valuation effects in connection with derivative financial instruments and recognised hedges in the energy
sector, as well as from the income from the reversal of pension
provisions due to the new company pension regulations adopted
by swb in the reporting year.
Overall, write-downs increased from 580.1 million euros to
605.8 million euros as higher impairments were taken into
account than in the previous year.
The increase in income from investments is almost entirely
­attributable to the proceeds from the sale of the shares in VNG
(240.3 million euros).
The interest result totalling -206.5 million euros resulted primarily
from interest on bearer bonds (public-sector bonds), bonds (private placement), interest on floating bank debts and discounting
non-current liabilities. The increase in interest expenses was the
result of around 50 million euros in prepayment penalties in connection with the premature buy-back of bonds.
The income taxes increased in line with the earnings before taxes.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

46

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

SEGMENT PERFORMANCE
The following chart illustrates the operating EBIT and external
sales:
| T 007

External sales

in millions of euros

Change
in %

2016

2015

1,951.8

3.1

333.7

314.4

6.1

4,053.4

-7.1

61.2

80.4

-23.9

727.9

759.4

-4.1

25.6

25.3

1.2

1,058.7

1,052.1

0.6

165.2

90.3

82.9

2.9

2.6

11.5

-51.1

-82.3

37.9

7,566.3

7,819.3

-3.2

534.6

428.1

24.9

2016

2015

Renewables, Grids and Gas Storage segment

2,012.9

Sales, Services and Trading segment

3,763.9

International segment
swb segment
Group Central Division segment
Total

RENEWABLES, GRIDS AND GAS STORAGE SEGMENT
| T 008

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Operating EBIT

333.7

314.4

Derivatives

0.2

Impairments

-149.2

Investments

-0.1

Restructuring

-14.0

Donations
EBIT

-4.2
-13.1

-7.0
163.6

297.1

In our Renewables, Grids and Gas Storage segment, external revenue in the reporting period grew by 3.1 per cent year-over-year to
2,012.9 million euros (previous year: 1,951.8 million euros). The
increase in revenue resulted primarily from higher electricity and
gas grid tariffs. This segment contributed approx. 26.6 per cent to
the Group’s total revenue in the reporting period (previous year:
25.0 per cent). The segment’s operating EBIT totalled 333.7 million
euros (previous year: 314.4 million euros). The measurement of the
gas reserves in the gas storage plants as at the reporting date had a
positive effect on the operating EBIT. The poor wind year in 2016
had a negative effect on the contributions of onshore and offshore
wind parks to earnings. However, this can be balanced out by positive effects on earnings by the Grids business area.
At 163.6 million euros, the EBIT was lower than in the previous
year (297.1 million euros), due primarily to impairments. Most of
these impairments concerned the offshore wind farm RIFFGAT
as well as tangible fixed assets used for gas storage. Additionally,
provisions for the cash settlement of in-kind benefits in connec-

Change
in %

tion with restructuring and a donation to the
EWE FOUNDATION had a negative influence on the EBIT.
SALES, SERVICES AND TRADING SEGMENT
| T 009

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Operating EBIT

61.2

80.4

Derivatives

64.3

-15.6

Impairments

-6.1

-9.9

-3.0

-9.4

Investments
Restructuring

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Operating EBIT

4.5

Donations

-13.0

EBIT

103.4

50.0

In our Sales, Services and Trading segment, we experienced a yearover-year decline in external revenue of 7.1 per cent, down to
approx. 3,763.9 million euros (previous year: 4,053.4 million
euros). This was due in particular to price cuts and lower quantities
of gas and electricity sold to private customers. This segment contributed approx. 49.7 per cent to the Group’s total revenue in the
reporting period (previous year: 51.8 per cent). The operating EBIT
decreased to 61.2 million euros (previous year: 80.4 million euros).
In energy sales, lower gross profits in the electricity, gas and heating segments, impending losses in connection with the operation
of the natural gas fuel station ­network, higher customer acquisition
costs and the promise of a subsidy to the EWE research centre
NEXT ENERGY had a negative effect on the operating EBIT. In the
previous year, the telecommunications business area contained
income from a settlement with TDG.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

47

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

Essentially, the EBIT was adjusted for the gains from derivative
financial instruments, for the expenses in connection with
­p rovisions for the cash settlement of in-kind benefits in
­connection with restructuring, and for the donation to the
EWE ­FOUNDATION.
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
| T 010

in millions of euros

2016

2015

25.6

25.3

Derivatives

8.1

-0.1

Impairments

0.0

-0.9

33.7

24.3

Operating EBIT

EBIT

The increase was due primarily to higher revenue from electricity
transmission. This is due to a price increase and excess quantities
in the high voltage field. This segment contributed approx.
14.0 per cent to the Group’s total revenue in the reporting period
(previous year: 13.5 per cent). The segment’s operating EBIT
totalled 165.2 million euros (previous year: 90.3 million euros).
The improvement over the previous year is due primarily to the
positive special item of 90.6 million euros resulting from the
­reorganisation of the company pension scheme.
The improved earnings from derivatives is due to valuation effects
in connection with derivative financial instruments. These reflect
the changes in the prices of commodities in the business year.
Having been at a low level, especially in the first quarter of 2016,
gas and electricity prices rose sharply over the course of the year.
GROUP CENTRAL DIVISION SEGMENT

In our International segment, we recorded a decline in external revenue of 4.1 per cent, down to 727.9 million euros (previous year:
759.4 million euros). This decrease is primarily associated with the
business in Turkey where earnings declined predominantly due to
currency conversion. This segment contributed approx. 9.6 per cent
to the Group’s total revenue in the reporting period (previous year:
9.7 per cent). The segment’s ­operating EBIT totalled 25.6 million
euros (previous year: 25.3 million euros). The improvement in operating EBIT was due primarily to the increase in gross profits from
gas in Poland.
The non-operative items are derivatives that had been measured
but not realised as at the reporting date. The positive market
­v alues are due to the gas safeguards for the business in Turkey.
SWB SEGMENT
| T 011

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Operating EBIT

165.2

90.3

Derivatives

15.1

-1.7

Impairments

-6.6

-135.3

Investments

3.3

0.4

Restructuring

0.7

-25.1

177.7

-71.4

EBIT

| T 012

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Operating EBIT

-51.1

-82.3

Derivatives

0.0

5.5

Impairments

-13.0

-0.1

Investments

239.8

-5.0

Restructuring
EBIT

-4.9

-6.1

170.8

-88.0

Our Group Central Division segment only generates a low level of
revenue. The segment’s operating EBIT totalled -51.1 million euros
(previous year: -82.3 million euros). These earnings resulted from
the holding function of EWE AG and the other investments attributed to it. Although the sale of the shares in VNG had a positive
effect in the current business year, VNG contributed to a loss from
investments (-24.7 million euros) in 2015.
Most of the impairments are attributable to buildings and software, whereas the investments are almost entirely characterised
by the proceeds from the disposal of the interest in VNG. With
regard to restructuring, provisions have been formed for the cash
settlement of in-kind benefits.

In our swb segment, at 1,058.7 million euros (previous year:
1,052.1 million euros) external revenue in the reporting period was
0.6 per cent higher than in the previous year.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

48

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

ASSET POSITION
| T 013

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

in %

31.12.2015

in %

Non-current assets

6,494.8

77.0

6,659.6

68.3

Current assets

1,940.4

23.0

3,084.7

31.7

Total assets

8,435.2

100.0

9,744.3

100.0

Equity

1,941.9

23.0

1,749.2

18.0

Non-current liabilities

4,745.5

56.3

5,312.9

54.5

Current liabilities

1,747.8

20.7

2,682.2

27.5

Total equity and liabilities

8,435.2

100.0

9,744.3

100.0

Assets

Equity and liabilities

As a result of its business activities, our Group has a high intensity
of investments with the associated capital commitment. As such,
fixed assets comprise approx. 77.0 per cent of the balance sheet
total; this figure has increased compared to 31 December 2015
due to the decrease in the balance sheet total. Current assets
decreased by 1.1 billion euros, due primarily to the disposal of the
interest in VNG. The non-current assets are financed with equity
and non-current debt.
The equity ratio stands at 23.0 per cent. The absolute increase in
equity is due primarily to changes in hedging relationships and the
increase in net income for the period.
The decrease in current debt is due primarily to the repayment
of loans (293.0 million euros), the settlement of the purchase
price liability for treasury shares (504.8 million euros) that was
recognised as at 31 December 2015 and the reduction in current
derivative liabilities (171.3 million euros).
Non-current liabilities primarily encompass bonds, pension
reserves and contributions to building costs. The decrease compared to 31 December 2015 is due to the premature buy-back
of bonds (298.4 million euros), the repayment of long-term loans
(67.4 million euros), the reclassification of around 217 million
euros as current liabilities due to changes in payment deadlines
and the decrease in non-current derivative financial instruments
classified as liabilities (81.9 million euros). This was mitigated by

EWE Integrated Report 2016

pension provisions which increased by 75.9 million euros and by
rehabilitation provisions which increased by 42.5 million euros.
The development of the pension provisions is essentially due to
lower interest rates; this effect will be partially balanced out by
the reversal of pension provisions due to swb’s decision in the
reporting year to reorganise its company pension scheme.
FINANCIAL POSITION
| T 014

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Change
in %

Cash flow from
­o perating activities

471.7

708.2

-33.4

Cash flow from
investment activities

570.8

-594.6

> 100

Cash flow from
financing activities

-1,033.2

-77.3

< -100

Changes to cash and
cash equivalents

9.3

36.3

-74.4

Currency conversion

-9.4

-11.5

18.3

Cash and cash
­e quivalents at
the b­ eginning of
the period

352.3

327.5

7.6

Cash and cash
­e quivalents at the
end of the period

352.2

352.3

0.0

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

49

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

The cash flow from operating activities represents a key element
of our financing. In the 2016 financial year, EWE generated a cash
flow from operating activities of 471.7 million euros.

EMPLOYEES OF THE EWE GROUP

The cash flow from investing activities of 570.8 million euros is
mainly due to the purchase price received from the sale of the
shares in VNG. This was countered by investments in the Group’s
infrastructure (especially grids, renewables and broadband network expansion).

During the 2016 business year, our Group had an average of
9,048 employees (previous year: 8,855). This increase was due
primarily to the acquisition of Millenicom and the recruitment of
personnel to implement the major project enera successfully. This
figure includes all full-time and part-time employees as well as
trainees and temporary staff.

The cash flow from financing activities primarily comprises the
buy-back of bonds (448.4 million euros), the repayment of loans
(366.8 million euros) and the dividend of 225.5 million euros for
the 2015 business year that was distributed to the shareholders of
EWE AG in the 2016 business year.
The financial flexibility of our Group is secured thanks to bilateral
credit lines as well as a syndicated, revolving credit facility of
750.0 million euros valid until November 2021. At the end of the
reporting period on 31 December 2016, EWE had drawn on a total
of 0.0 million euros of this credit line (previous year: 175.0 million
euros).

CHANGES TO THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES

| T 015

Number of employees by
segment

2016

2015

Renewables, Grids and Gas Storage

2,079

2,042

Sales, Services and Trading

3,213

3,188

International
swb
Group Central Division
Total

965

832

2,178

2,166

613

627

9,048

8,855

VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Issuing bonds represents another key component of EWE’s finan­
cing. As of 31 December 2016, unsecured bonds quoted in euros
with a total nominal value of 1,401.6 million euros (previous year:
1,850.0 million euros) have been issued. Some of these were
bought back prematurely in connection with the VNG sale. Issued
bonds with a value of 150.0 million euros will become mature and
payable in 2017. Further bonds with a total nominal value of
1,201.6 million euros have maturity dates between 2019 and 2021.
Just one bond with a value of 50.0 million euros will mature in
2032. These bonds have fixed interest rates between 4.0 per cent
and 5.25 per cent.
NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
INSTALLED OUTPUT OF RENEWABLE ENERGY
In the 2016 business year the installed output of renewables
increased by 322.3 MW year-over-year to 374.1 MW in total. This
increase is due primarily to the full opening of the Köhlen and
Hatten wind parks. Of the total power generation capacity of the
EWE Group, renewables account for 23.3 per cent (previous year:
22.1 per cent).

As a predominantly local corporate Group, EWE has a long-term
commitment to providing professional training to young people
from the region. Through internships and regional and national
vocational training fairs and events, secondary school and university students are given the opportunity to acquire an in-depth
look at EWE and its business and make their first professional connections. A vocational training programme or combined degree
and vocational training programme at EWE goes far beyond the
mandatory training content. The young people who participate in
a training programme at EWE are provided with a comprehensive
range of educational, mentoring and recreational activities, from
communication training and in-depth economic knowledge to
athletics and culture. In the 2016 business year the EWE Group
employed 441 vocational trainees (previous year: 433).
University students also have the option of completing their final
project at EWE. After earning their degree, graduates can choose
from a variety of models (including trainee programmes and
entry-level positions) to launch their career at one of the EWE
Group’s companies.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

50

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

ADVANCED TRAINING
EWE brings together three sectors – energy, telecommunications
and information technology – that are shaped by rapid technolo­
gical developments and stiff competition. In order to overcome
these challenges, the company offers its employees a wide range
of internal and external advanced training opportunities. We
improve and refine these programmes and factor in current
trends, such as digitisation or working with lean project methods.
In 2016 an intuitive online workshop portal was introduced for
employees to manage and administrate their advanced training
opportunities in collaboration with their managers.
The managers of the Group are the key drivers and designers of
the reorientation of EWE. This target group faces significant challenges as part of this role, both with regard to everyday management and to dealing with the specific challenges of our sector.
Consequently, managerial development in 2016 centred on the
professional capability of our managers to shape the corporate
change inclusively and with solutions in mind. A large number
of distinct change processes were carried out in the Group, catering to and moulding the corporate culture, and the teams were
involved continuously by means of suitable formats and instruments such as sounding boards.
Extensive expertise with regard to changes and training drove the
success of the ABACUS project. By late 2016 50 internal trainers
had been trained and 1,400 employees were capable of realising
the separation of market roles and working in the new systems.
An extensive offering in the fields of health management and
work-life balance rounds out EWE’s advanced training and staff
retention activities.
GENDER QUOTA
The EWE Group has a fundamental interest in further increasing
the percentage of women in managerial positions in the future.
EWE wants to offer women and men the same opportunities when
filling management positions. In this context, the company relies
on both tried-and-tested and new measures to further strengthen
the work-life balance and promote diversity in professional and
career development. The aim here is to ensure that key positions
are filled by the most suitable candidate, regardless of gender.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

In light of this, target quotas have been specified pursuant to
the German law for the equal participation of women and men in
managerial positions in both the private and public sectors. The
proportion of women in the Supervisory Board, Board of Management and executive positions, as well as the top two levels of
management in the companies to which the law applies, have
been defined as follows:
Target percentages for the Supervisory Board and
Board of Management of EWE AG

Percentage of
women (as of
31.12.2016)

Target
­p ercentage by
30.06.2017

Supervisory
Board

15.0%

5.0%

Board of
­Management

20.0%

20.0%

Board or level of
management

| T 016

Defined by:
Supervisory
Board
of EWE AG

Target percentages for the top two levels of management
of EWE AG

| T 017

Percentage of
women (as of
31.12.2016)

Target
­p ercentage by
30.06.2017

Department
heads

12.0%

12.5%

Team leaders

15.0%

24.4%

Level of management

Defined by:
Board of
­Management
of EWE AG

DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE
From 2020 onwards, demographic change will have a significantly
noticeable effect on EWE. The generations with high birth rates
will reach retirement age, particularly in technical fields. In order
to overcome the associated challenges, a variety of spheres of
activity within the field of demographic management have been
defined and implemented. These include improving health management, enhancing EWE’s employer brand and establishing
­s trategic HR planning to identify future capacity and productivity
risks.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

51

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

 EPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND
R
THEIR KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
FORECAST REPORT

FUTURE POLITICAL AND REGULATORY CONDITIONS

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FORECAST

As part of its implementation of a general strategy for a European
energy union and the decisions of the Council of Europe regarding
the 2030 climate and energy framework of the EU, in recent
months the EU Commission has published a number of ­legislative
proposals that will be debated into 2017 and beyond. The following dossiers potentially have the most significant direct impact on
our business activities.

The energy supply of the future will be based on renewable
energy. Over the past few years, electricity generation from
renewable sources has become dramatically most cost-effective.
The price of solar power in sunny regions is now lower than power
generated using oil, coal and even natural gas. The same goes for
onshore wind energy which even now can demonstrate exceptionally competitive generation costs in good locations. Technological
advancements will lead to further cost degression.
The energy landscape will become largely decentralised and
access to customers will be a crucial factor. We believe that various markets and products will merge in future, especially electricity, heating, telecommunications, IT and mobility. Even now many
customers possess their own power supply systems and infrastructure. This means that in the energy industry, it is a question
of recognising customers as partners who not only purchase
­electricity, but also generate it.
Furthermore, markets and politics will demand even greater
­efficiency in all business segments. The transition to tendering
for onshore wind, offshore wind and solar power has lead to significantly more transparency, competition and price reductions
throughout Europe. The production costs for offshore wind have
fallen below 100 euros per megawatt-hour (MWh) and solar
power and onshore wind are already far below this threshold.
Returns are being ­limited further in regulated markets, merit
orders and market mechanisms are resulting in low electricity
prices and the high level of stock exchange liquidity is bringing
about transparency and dynamism. New technologies are lowering transaction costs and new sales channels no longer target
small markets with a 100 per cent market share, rather are generating dynamic, adaptable structures and systems. All of these
­f actors are increasing the efficiency requirements faced by all
market participants.
Digitisation is both an unavoidable consequence of underlying
technological and societal developments and a necessary prere­
quisite for a sustainable, cost-effective energy supply. It will cause
fundamental changes in customer habits, the culture and organisation of companies, the rendering of services and in value-­
creating structures and business models. Half of all electricity
and gas provider switches already take place online – and many
customers only see offers when they are available online or can
be purchased using a smartphone. Digitisation will lower the
transaction costs of product creation and customer interfaces
and facilitate the development of new business models.

A reformed EU emissions trading scheme (ETS)
In order to realise a 40 per cent cut in greenhouse gas emissions
in the EU by 2030 (compared to 1990 levels), in 2015 the EU
­Commission proposed a structural reform of the EU ETS for the
period between 2021 and 2030. One element of the reform is an
increase in the reduction factor of certificates from 1.74 per cent
to 2.20 per cent per year. However, the protective measures
required to protect industrial competitiveness in Europe must also
be upheld. The talks will continue in 2017. The structure of the
ETS could have a considerable effect on the costs of conventional
­generation, energy-intensive industries and the conditions for
investing in low-CO2 technologies. The EWE Group is therefore
committed to an effective, stable system which protects industries competing on an international level at the same time.
A reformed Regulation (EU) No 994/2010
The proposal for a new resolution concerning measures to safeguard security of gas supply has been in the EU legislative pipeline
since February 2016 and, if adopted, could affect the transparency-related obligations of the Group and the supplying of certain
customer groups during crises. In light of the upcoming duties to
collaborate across regions, we believe that it is important for the
issue of low-calorific gas and high-calorific gas to be taken into
consideration in the EWE service area and for more efficient use
to be made of the existing storage infrastructure across regions
through greater interconnectivity. The political talks are expected
to end in 2017.
Regulation on the internal market for electricity
The proposal for a new regulation on the internal market for
­electricity published in November 2016 aims to redefine the regulations and key principles of the European internal market for
electricity. The new regulation is expected to set out regulations
for the feed-in of renewable energy and for cross-border participation in order to ensure the security of supply (including regulations on capacity mechanisms). It will also set out principles for a
market-based, cross-border electricity market. In doing so it aims

EWE Integrated Report 2016

52

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

to harmonise the trading and accounting intervals in day-ahead
and intraday trading throughout Europe. The proposed regulations
would therefore affect the trading activities of the Group, its
power distribution grids and its business with renewable energy
in particular. The talks on this and the following dossiers will end
in late 2017 at the earliest.
Internal electricity market directive
The proposal for a new directive seeks to introduce common rules
for the internal electricity market and set out the legal framework
for the roles and rights of consumers, for independent energy generation and aggregators and explains the duties and obligations
of transmission grid operators and distribution grid operators. For
one, in future energy consumers will be entitled to demand a
dynamic energy tariff from their energy provider, i.e. a variable
energy tariff which differentiates between the intervals of the
wholesale market, enter into agreements with aggregators without the consent of other market participants and change supplier
free of charge. Additionally, consumers will be entitled to produce,
consume, store or trade their own renewable energy in all segments of the market. This proposal is comprehensive and will
affect almost all of the electricity-related business areas of the
EWE Group.
Renewable Energy Directive
The proposed revision of the current Renewable Energy Directive
aims to set out the framework for ensuring that the binding target
of at least 27 per cent renewables in the final energy consumption
in the EU by 2030 is met. The proposal sets out requirements for
financial subsidies for renewables, for opening subsidy schemes
for other Member States, for the independent generation and
­consumption of green electricity, for authorisation processes, for
using renewable energy for refrigeration, heating and transpor­
tation, for partnerships between Member States and with third
countries and for guarantees of origin and sustainability criteria
for biofuels. This European framework will have a significant
impact on the investment conditions and our business activities
in the field of renewable energy.
Energy Efficiency Directive and Energy Performance of
Buildings Directive
The proposal for a new Energy Efficiency Directive sets out a
­common framework for measures designed to promote energy
efficiency within the EU in order to ensure that energy efficiency
increases by 20 per cent by 2020 and by 30 per cent by 2030. It
also contains rules on removing barriers in the energy market and
correcting market shortfalls that impair the efficiency of the

EWE Integrated Report 2016

supply and consumption of energy. It also paves the way for setting national energy efficiency targets for 2020 and 2030. The
proposal for a new Energy Performance of Buildings Directive aims
to introduce a partially mandatory roll-out of the infrastructure
necessary for e-mobility. The rules will largely determine the
­general conditions of our business activities in connection with
energy efficiency, for example e-mobility charging infrastructure,
smart home solutions, energy consultation, energy audits and
contracting.
A number of laws and ordinances of great significance to EWE
are due to come into force in Germany in 2017. It is also to be
expected that issues relating to energy and telecommunications
will be discussed in detail as part of the federal elections.
A new general framework for renewable energy
The reformed Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) came into
force on 1 January 2017. It stipulates that the scale of subsidies for
renewables will no longer be determined on a political level, but
by a competitive tendering process. The regulations ­concerning
onshore wind energy are particularly relevant to us as we aim to
expand this method of generation even further. EWE generally
supports the introduction of tendering. We are critical
of the reduced scale of installation for onshore wind energy compared to the 2014 version of the Renewable Energy Sources Act
(EEG), as well as the fact that the installation of onshore wind
parks in certain regions is to be reduced further depending on
transmission grid loads. The details of the Act will be set out in
a regulation that has to be passed by March 2017.
Additionally, in early 2017 the Act Amending the Combined Heat
and Power Act and the Renewable Energy Sources Act (KWKGEEG-Änderungsgesetz) will change the general framework for
renewables in such a way that own consumption will only remain
unaffected by the EEG reallocation charge under certain circumstances and for certain plants. This could render certain projects
unattractive to EWE customers.
Combination of EnEG, EnEV and EEWärmeG
Before the end of the legislative period, the German government
aims to present a bill to combine the German Energy Conservation Act (EnEG), the German Energy Saving Ordinance (EnEV)
and the German Renewable Energy Heat Act (EEWärmeG). This
move is designed to improve efficiency in the heating sector and
simplify regulations. Our representation of interests is intended
to optimise the general framework within which we market our
energy services.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

53

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

New framework for combined heat and power
The new KWKG, is due to come into effect at the start of the year.
On the order of the EU Commission it had to be revised again in
2016. The amendments to the current law focus on the introduction of tendering for plants with installed capacities of between
1 and 50 MW as well as particularly innovative CHP plants. For the
EWE Group, the introduction of tendering will make the field of
business for plants of this scale a more challenging environment.
Additionally, the amendments increase the subsidy criteria for
heating networks in which a higher proportion of CHP heat or
heat from renewable sources is required. Additionally, the regulations on privileges for energy-intensive end consumers as part of
reallocations under the KWKG are due to be adapted to the regulations in the 2017 version of the EEG.

EU Commission publishes draft of new regulatory
­f ramework for electronic communications
In September 2016 the EU Commission published a proposal for a
directive for a new regulatory framework for electronic communications. In this regard, the most significant development is the use
of connectivity with extremely high-performance broadband connections as a regulatory target. The EU Commission aims to provide all socio-economically relevant institutions such as authorities and schools with a 1 Gbit/s network connection by 2025. By
this point all private households in Europe are expected to have
Internet speeds of at least 100 Mbit/s. The EU Parliament will
address the proposals of the EU Commission in 2017. Once the
Directive is passed and comes into effect, it will have to be implemented into national law. The entire process is not expected to
come to a close before 2020.

The German Grid Tariff Modernisation Act (NEMoG)
EXPECTED PERFORMANCE OF THE EWE GROUP
The German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy
(BMWi) presented a draft of the Grid Tariff Modernisation Act
(NEMoG) in November 2016. We expect this process to continue
in 2017. The draft contains regulation proposals designed to cap,
abolish and gradually lower avoided grid tariffs. The amendments
to the avoided grid tariffs planned by the BMWi would come with
major economic disadvantages for EWE as avoided grid tariffs for
certain power generation plants in the Group represent a key
component of revenue. We will monitor all further legislation
closely.

We use the aforementioned expectations and assumptions as to
sector-specific developments and the general political and regulatory landscapes to make forecasts concerning the EWE Group and
its segments for the 2017 business year.
The forecast does not include the effects of legal developments.
Our forecasts concern our key performance indicator operating
EBIT, adjusted for unforeseeable special items.
| T 018

Climate Protection Act in Lower Saxony

in millions of euros

In 2016 the state of Lower Saxony presented a draft Climate Protection Act (Klimaschutzgesetz). The Act aims to cut greenhouse
gas emissions in the state by between 80 and 95 per cent by 2050
compared to 1990. Additionally, the regional government intends
to cut its own emissions by 70 per cent by 2030. An integrated
energy and climate protection programme that is still to be prepared will set out concepts as well as intermediate milestones
with regard to energy conservation and renewable energy. In this
connection, we will represent interests with a view to improving
the general conditions for the expansion of renewables and
­e nergy-related services.

Renewables, Grids and
Gas Storage segment
Sales, Services and Trading segment

2017

2016

+0% to
+10%

333.7

+10% to +35%

61.2

International segment

-30% to -15%

25.6

swb segment

-60% to -45%

165.2

Group Central Division segment
Operating EBIT, Group

–

-51.1

-20% to -10%

534.6

EWE Integrated Report 2016

54

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

Expected performance in the Renewables, Grids and
Gas Storage segment
In the Renewables, Grids and Gas Storage segment, EWE expects
to improve its operating EBIT in 2017 compared to 2016.
Based on the assumption of a “normal wind” year, we expect the
contributions of our existing onshore and offshore wind parks to
earnings to increase. Additionally, positive effects on revenue are
expected from the first full year of operation of both the Köhlen
and Hatten onshore wind parks. In contrast, costs that cannot be
capitalised in connection with the implementation of the offshore
wind park Trianel Windkraftwerk Borkum II GmbH & Co. KG
(TWB II) will likely have a negative effect on earnings.
The investments due to be made in the Renewables, Grids and Gas
Storage segment in 2017 total approx. 345 million euros. The
investments are mostly in the infrastructure of the electricity, gas
and telecommunications networks (approx. 206 million euros), in
the offshore wind park TWB II and in onshore wind parks (approx.
116 million euros).
Expected performance in the Sales, Services and
Trading segment
In the 2017 business year we expect the Sales, Services and Trading segment to generate a higher operating EBIT than in 2016.
Weather-related fluctuations in sales are not foreseeable and not
preventable, however.
In sales, EWE primarily expects to see positive results in the
energy business in the area of procurement costs, the assignment
of an adjusted “normal year” and the elimination of negative special items. In contrast, decreasing average electricity and gas
­consumption rates are expected amongst private customers
(due to factors including improving energy efficiency) and profit
margins from business customers are expected to become narrower (due to factors including the growing level of competition).
EWE plans to make investments totalling approx. 86 million euros
in the Sales, Services and Trading segment in 2017. Key investments include approx. 57 million euros for the broadband network
expansion and the BSA programme (provision of IT interfaces as
well as guaranteeing technical availability in conjunction with
­vectoring), as well as other investments in technology and equipment. With regard to energy, the majority of investments will be
made in heating plants.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Expected performance in the International segment
In the International segment, EWE expects a decrease in operating
EBIT in the 2017 business year compared to 2016.
With regard to the gas trading business in Turkey, lower gas trading quantities are forecast for 2017. Furthermore, the integration
and expansion of the business activities of the Turkish telecommunications company Millenicom will have a negative impact on
earnings. The development of earnings for the regions of Bursa
and Kayseri will be heavily influenced by regulatory plans. Overall,
this will lead to a higher operating EBIT on the parts of Bursagaz
and Kayserigaz. Further moderate grid expansions are expected in
Kayseri and Bursa in 2017; we therefore forecast an increase in
both the number of customers as well as gas revenue. Due to the
changes in the market landscape and competitive situation in
Poland, the earnings will be significantly lower than in the previous year.
The investments planned for 2017 in the International segment
total approx. 43 million euros and primarily apply to d
­ eveloping
business areas in Turkey (41 million euros). Essentially, investments in grids and expansion in the Bursa and Kayseri regions are
planned.
Expected performance in the swb segment
In the 2017 business year we expect the swb segment to generate
a significantly lower operating EBIT than in 2016. This is due
­p rimarily to the elimination of the positive special item in 2016
resulting from the reorganisation of swb’s company pension
scheme.
In the conventional power generation business, the company
expects lower earnings when adjusted for the special item resulting from the reorganisation of swb’s company pension scheme.
The expected decrease in earnings brought about by falling electricity prices can be mitigated by the expected increase in proceeds from avoided grid tariffs. The operation of the gas and
steam turbine plant is also having a negative effect on earnings.
The high expected waste prices are the main reason why the
­company expects its earnings in connection with waste disposal
to improve in 2017.
Assuming normal weather conditions, in the 2017 business year
the operating EBIT of the grid operators will match the level of the
previous year as adjusted for special items. These special items
from 2016 concern the reorganisation of swb’s company pension
scheme and the increase in rehabilitation provisions for gas
­s torage facilities.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

55

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

The Sales business area must face strong competition with only
limited pricing options when it comes to the sale of power and
natural gas. In this context, EWE expects the quantity of power
sold to increase slightly, natural gas and heat to decrease slightly
and drinking water to increase moderately. EWE will continue its
strategy of acquiring private customers and customers in contracts with special terms outside of Bremen and Bremerhaven
alongside its long-standing partnership with EWE TEL GmbH in
the field of telecommunications. Overall the operating EBIT will
decrease in 2017, due primarily to special items in 2016 resulting
from the reorganisation of swb’s company pension scheme and
falling margins for electricity and natural gas.
We expect to see further growth from new products and services
in the contracting business and in technical services. Our collaboration with Group companies in connection with the development
of energy supply services will generate additional contracts.
EWE plans to make investments totalling approx. 148 million euros
in the swb segment in 2017. The focus here is on investments of
approx. 93 million euros in grid infrastructure as well as investments of approx. 21 million euros in the Essel onshore wind park.
The risks and opportunities described below might cause the
actual performance of EWE and its segments to deviate positively
or negatively from our forecasts, or if our expectations and
assumptions prove inaccurate.
REPORT ON RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
PRINCIPLES OF RISK AND OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT
The fields of business of the EWE Group continue to be characterised by a high level of dynamism and ongoing change. Our business activities are therefore linked with substantial risks and
opportunities. The early identification and active management of
these risks and opportunities is an integral element in the planning and implementation of our business strategies. This way we
can support the sustainable growth and secure the long-term
competitiveness of the EWE Group.
The Board of Management and risk committee set out the underlying risk management system for the business operations of the
EWE Group. Additionally, regular reports to the decision-making
and supervisory committees ensure transparency in connection
with the current risk profile of the EWE Group and the continuous
monitoring of the parameters of the risk management system.

PROCESS OF RISK AND OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT
Within the EWE Group, the internal control system and the risk
management system are implemented through an integrated
risk management approach using standardised methods and processes. The risk management system is based on a standardised
planning and controlling process tailored specifically to the Group.
The Group auditing department regularly monitors the reliability
and effectiveness of the early risk warning system as well as the
fulfilment of legal requirements.
Risks are identified early on, evaluated and reported to the EWE
Group’s Group-wide risk management at the level of the indivi­
dual companies responsible for the risks in a structured, quarterly
process with consideration for the Group-wide guidelines. Risk
management involves measures designed to avoid, minimise and
overcome risks.
The EWE Group’s energy-trading activities are also subject to
­separate risk guidelines which define risk assessment and management instruments tailored specifically to the energy trade.
Risks are assessed by probability of occurrence and amount of
damage. They are assigned to one of three risk categories: low,
moderate and high, which represent the potential loss that the
EWE Group would suffer.
The following section describes risks and the most significant
­n egative effects they might have on our business, assets, financial
position, earnings and reputation. Opportunities often stand
directly opposite the corresponding risks and are assigned to the
same categories and reported in them.
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Strategic risks and opportunities
Changes to the international macroeconomic market environment
as well as adjustments to underlying legal and social conditions
increase the potential risk to the company’s long-term business
development as it pertains to key financial target figures in the
EWE Group’s individual segments.
This applies to the field of conventional power generation, which
is affected by the significant increase in the capacity from renew­
able energy sources available on the power market. In the field of
gas storage, the competitive situation and market conditions are
currently undergoing permanent changes that can lead to a reduction in existing earnings potential and make a more flexible
­marketing strategy necessary. With regard to revenue, the sales

EWE Integrated Report 2016

56

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

department is facing a continuous decline in consumption due to
changes to customers’ consumption patterns, improving energy
efficiency and increasingly decentralised energy solutions from
individual customers (prosumers).
The underlying conditions governing the energy sector continue to
be heavily influenced by the “German energy transition” enacted
by the German government.
Society’s increasing digitisation is creating opportunities for
energy service providers such as EWE. At the same time, it is leading to a reduction in barriers to market entry for competitors from
other industries.
In particular, the interaction between energy, telecommunications
and information technology makes new product offerings with
increased customer benefit as well as competitive differentiation
possible. In addition, the combination of energy, telecommunications and information technology creates the conditions necessary to continue the stable and efficient operation of grids and
networks, despite ever-increasing demands.
Besides the German energy market, in recent years the EWE
Group has established itself and its activities in the Polish and
Turkish energy markets. This has resulted in additional growth
opportunities that are, to a large extent, unaffected by the
develop­m ents in the German market, yet utilise the EWE Group’s
existing areas of expertise. The country-specific risks inherent
to the International segment are monitored systematically in
this regard.
The political risk faced by the Turkish companies of the EWE Group
has increased significantly ever since the unsuccessful coup by
elements of the Turkish military in July 2016 and the measures
them implemented by the Turkish government. There are currently
no specific indications of short-term adverse effects on the business activities of Turkish EWE companies (such as non-fulfilment
of contracts, termination of contracts without notice or official
sequestration of Turkish EWE companies). No potential medium
or long-term adverse effects are currently foreseeable. The emergence of political risks can negatively affect the stability of the
value of foreign investments in the EWE Group, both directly and
indirectly.
The significant risks that can be categorised as strategic risks and
opportunities are rated moderate and low in financial terms.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Market price risks and opportunities as well as quantity
risks and opportunities
Due to increasing competitive pressure in the national and international energy procurement and sales markets, the EWE Group is
faced with constantly high market price, quantity and margin
risks, primarily in the areas of generation and sales.
The competition in energy sales is being exacerbated by disruptive
business models based on technological innovations, online price
comparison platforms and the emergence of new market actors
that previously operated in other sectors.
Additionally, energy sales to end customers are exposed to the
risk that the actual sale deviates from expectations in terms of
quantity or structure. Gas consumption in particular is highly
dependent on weather conditions. This results in quantity risks to
both sales and network operations. On the other hand, the possibility of a weather-related increase in consumption also exists.
Unscheduled changes to cost elements outside of EWE’s control
could also have a negative effect on margins, both in sales as well
as in network operations. We use sophisticated planning and forecasting methods in order to counter the risks and manage the
opportunities. Additionally, the sales quantities in power and gas
sales are secured via long-term procurement strategies.
In the field of conventional power generation, the attainable
­margins (“spreads”) remain under pressure. Over the course of
the German energy transition, supply has increased as a result of
additional capacities from renewable energy sources that are
not or only slightly affected by the market prices due to subsidy
mechanisms. As such, the company faces the risk of temporarily
or permanently generating lower earnings than in the past in this
field.
In the Turkish market, which is going through the process of
deregulation, imbalances still exist in the formation of prices.
The aforementioned effects of weather conditions apply in similar
fashion to the Group’s gas business in Turkey, and result in the
same opportunities and risks.
The significant risks that can be categorised as market price risks
and opportunities as well as quantity risks and opportunities are
rated low in financial terms.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

57

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

Risks and opportunities from business operations

Financial risks

Operative risks to the EWE Group result both from the operation
of technologically complex systems at all stages of the value creation chain as well as due to unscheduled interruptions to scheduled process work flows. EWE utilises state-of-the-art information
and communications technology to efficiently support all of the
individual units’ business processes. Furthermore, extra quality
assurance and coordinated redundancy concepts have been
­implemented to guarantee the reliability of processes, which are
continuously enhanced in line with the requirements.

Financial risks result from the operative business activities of the
Group’s various business areas in the form of liquidity, credit and
valuation risks.

Given the increasing proliferation of digitisation in the business
processes of the EWE Group, they have become dependent on
secure, reliable and robust information processing. Therefore, the
risk of cyber attacks is becoming more significant both in the eyes
of the company and from a legal perspective. Consequently, in
late 2014 the Group started to implement measures designed to
ensure information security throughout the Group. The key objective is the appropriate handling of information and data in line
with their confidentiality levels in order to ensure the effective,
comprehensive control of information security risks and cyber
risks.
Our operative activities are subjected to regular external audits.
This is reflected by a range of ISO certifications in particular. Additionally, employees are involved in a system of continuous training
designed to maintain and improve the high level of quality, minimise potential risks and identify new opportunities. We are also
an active member of and have representatives on a number of
expert committees and boards. This guarantees a structured
approach to current and future challenges, measures relating to
safety and statutory regulations.
The significant risks that can be categorised as risks and oppor­
tunities from business operations are rated low in financial terms.

The EWE Group utilises a structured liquidity management process to confront general liquidity risks, which is used to manage
and plan the changes to liquidity over the short, medium and long
terms. In addition, the EWE Group maintains a sufficient level of
liquidity reserves in the form of liquid funds and credit lines to
ensure the Group can meet its financial obligations at any time.
EWE conducts an intensive analysis of the creditworthiness of
major customers, wholesale partners and banks with the goal of
preventing or limiting non-payment risks in Germany and abroad.
In general, the EWE Group is exposed to risks from changes in
value that can inherently result from increasing capital market
interest rates, fluctuating exchange rates as well as the business
prospects of individual companies becoming permanently worse.
Fundamentally, the external rating of EWE AG is at risk of being
downgraded. The development of and influences on its rating are
monitored continuously and appropriate measures are implemented where possible.
The significant risks that can be categorised as financial risks are
rated low in financial terms.
Legal and compliance risks
Within the scope of its business activities in Germany and other
countries in which it is active, the EWE Group is faced with
numerous legal risks and result from both general legal provisions
as well as special, industry-specific legal, regulatory and miscellaneous requirements.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

58

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

All relevant legislative and legal developments are being monitored continuously and their potential impacts on business
­o perations are assessed.
Likewise, the EWE Group can be exposed to risks resulting from
legal disputes or governmental or official procedures. We cannot
rule out the possibility that the outcomes of these legal disputes
and procedures might have a negative effect on our business,
assets, financial position and earnings.
To cover significant legal risks, we have taken out a liability
­insurance policy which the management considers adequate and
reasonable. However, our insurance does not protect us against
any damage to our reputation. Additionally, through legal disputes
we can suffer losses beyond the amount covered by our insurance,
not covered by our insurance or in excess of any provisions we
have formed for losses from legal disputes.
In addition to general legal risks, the EWE Group is exposed to
an increasing number of compliance risks. These risks result from
increased activity on the part of national and EU lawmakers.
The significant risks that can be categorised as legal and compliance risks are rated moderate and low. Regardless of how the risks
are categorised, the EWE Group is currently examining possible
indications of irregularities, especially in connection with grids.
These have been subjected to an independent examination by
a third party which is due to finish in late 2017. These external
examinations have the full, unconditional support of EWE.
Risks from the use of financial instruments
Within the scope of risk management activities carried out by the
EWE Group, financial risks are identified, evaluated and addressed.
Financial instruments are regularly used when implementing
hedging strategies.

The EWE Group mainly uses derivative financial instruments to
hedge against market price risks resulting from physical gas and
electricity trading. Additionally, the Board of Management of
EWE AG has granted the Group’s own trading company limited
authority to take speculative steps in order to optimise its port­
folio. The risk posed by market price risks to earnings is limited
by an in-depth risk monitoring and loss limitation concept.
­Additionally, the use of derivative financial instruments is always
linked with counterparty risks (see also financial risks).
To hedge against energy trading and finance-related price risks,
the EWE Group utilises power futures, gas futures, coal swaps,
oil swaps, EUA and CER futures contracts (European Union Allowances and Certified Emissions Reductions) as well as currency
and interest rate hedges. However, the occasional use of options
­c annot lead to the EWE Group acting as an option writer. The risk
resulting from the use of these instruments is therefore limited
to the net premium and is taken into account as part of market
price risk management.
More disclosures regarding financial instruments can be found
in the notes.
The significant risks that can be categorised as risks from the use
of financial instruments are rated low in financial terms.
SUMMARY OF THE RISK SITUATION
The Group risk management system did not identify any threats
to the continued existence of the company in the 2016 financial
year or beyond, either individually or in their entirety.
In the 2016 business year the effectiveness of the internal control
system was tested and confirmed by a self-assessment of all key
controls.


EWE Integrated Report 2016

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

59

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

KEY CHARACTERISTICS OF THE EWE GROUP’S
ACCOUNTING-RELATED INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
(PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 289 (5) AND ARTICLE 315 (2)
NO. 5 OF THE HGB)
The aim of EWE’s financial reporting activities is for our annual
and interim reports to provide complete and correct information
to all interested parties. Our accounting-related internal control
system (ICS) aims to identify potential sources of error and limit
the resulting risks. The accounting-related ICS encompasses
accounting and financial reporting across the entire EWE Group.
The Supervisory Board’s audit committee regularly reviews the
effectiveness of the accounting-related ICS. Once a year, the
Board of Management reports to the audit committee regarding
the risks from financial reporting, explains the implemented
supervisory measures and illustrates how the correct implemen­
tation of these measures was verified.
The structure of the accounting-related ICS results from the
organisation of EWE’s accounting and financial reporting process.
One of the main functions of this process is the management of
the EWE Group and its operative units. In this context, the targets
set by the Board of Management of EWE AG form the initial points
of reference. Based on these targets and EWE’s expectations with
regard to the company’s operative development, once a year the
company creates its medium-term plans. These encompass target
figures for the upcoming business year as well as the following
years. For current business years, EWE draws up forecasts which
are reviewed and adjusted at regular intervals. The Board of Management of EWE AG as well as the boards of management and
CEOs of the company’s main subsidiaries meet at regular intervals
to evaluate quarterly and annual financial statements and update
forecasts.

The accounting guidelines standardised across the Group, which
must be consistently applied by all units, form the conceptual
framework for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. EWE continuously analyses and takes into account new
laws, accounting standards and other official statements with
regard to their relevance and effects on the Group’s consolidated
financial statements and combined management report.
The annual financial statements submitted by EWE AG and its
subsidiaries, which are based on the accounting entries recorded
by each unit, form the data basis used to prepare the consolidated
financial statements. The Group’s financial statements are drawn
up using the consolidation process based on the annual reports
submitted. The steps required to prepare the consolidated financial statements undergo both manual and automated reviews.
Within the scope of external reporting, the members of EWE AG’s
Board of Management must take a “balance sheet oath” and sign a
responsibility statement. By signing this statement, they confirm
adherence to the mandatory accounting standards as well as the
EWE Group’s accounting guidelines as codified in the Group’s
accounting handbook, and that the figures presented give a true
and fair view of the Group’s assets, liabilities, financial position
and earnings.
Potential financial reporting risks are identified at the division
level based on quantitative, qualitative and process-related
­c riteria. The company’s generally binding guidelines represent a
fundamental component of EWE’s ICS. In addition, EWE defined
minimum requirements governing the key processes used to
secure an integrated system of data collection and management.
An annual review is used to verify whether the necessary moni­
toring measures were appropriate, actually took place and were
­c arried out correctly. Furthermore, the ICS is reviewed by the
Group auditing department during the year as part of its auditing
programme.

The individual companies are responsible for their own book­
keeping, which is subject to various local standards, whereby the
accounting-related ICS is tailored specifically to the needs of each
company on the basis of Group-wide guidelines. In its position as
a holding company, EWE AG carries out central accounting duties.
This includes consolidating figures and analysing the recoverability
of goodwill on the balance sheet.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

60

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG
The annual financial statements of EWE AG, with headquarters
in Oldenburg, Germany, were prepared in accordance with the
provisions of the German Commercial Code (HGB).
EWE AG manages the EWE Group as its holding company. Its
duties lie in the strategic and cross-market development of the
business areas as well as strategic planning and assuring the
Group’s financing. In addition, EWE AG performs centralised
­corporate services for the Group’s companies.
EARNINGS PERFORMANCE
| T 019

in millions of euros
Profit/loss from financial investments
Net interest income/expense
Revenue
Other operating income
Material expenses

2016

2015

378.1

384.2

-142.4

-118.2

199.8

0.0

6.0

202.7

-102.7

0.0

Personnel expenses

-68.6

-70.4

Amortisation, depreciation and
­impairment

-32.5

-20.0

Other operating expenses

-67.8

-167.5

Income taxes

-67.6

-83.0

Income after taxes

102.3

127.8

Other taxes
Annual net profit
Profit carried forward from
previous year

1.6

-1.0

103.9

126.8

3.3

2.0

Withdrawals from allocations
to revenue reserves
Appropriation to reserves
Net profit

100.0
-15.0
92.2

228.8

EWE AG’s earnings are primarily influenced by the results of financial investments, net interest and proceeds from the provision of
central services to the Group’s companies.
Earnings from financial investments declined year-over-year by
6.1 million euros. Earnings from profit and loss transfer agreements
decreased by 81.3 million euros and earnings from investments
decreased by 44.3 million euros. This was countered by income of
104.7 million euros from the sale of the shares in VNG. The decline
associated with profit and loss transfer agreements is due primarily
to lower earnings on the parts of Zweite EWE Offshore Beteiligungs­
GmbH, EWE VERTRIEB GmbH, EWE TEL GmbH and EWE GAS­
SPEICHER GmbH. EWE NETZ GmbH contributed improved earnings. The decrease in income from investments was due to the
­elimination of the VNG dividend in the reporting year following the
sale. The negative development of earnings from investments was
mitigated by 16.6 million euros less in write-downs on investments.
EWE Integrated Report 2016

The net interest was influenced primarily by interest payable on
bonds, loans from credit institutes and the bonded loan as well as
interest income from Group companies. In the reporting year, the
negative net interest of 142.4 million euros worsened by 24.2 million euros year-over-year. Interest income declined by 0.8 million
euros. This was due to the persistently low market interest rate
that EWE AG offers the subsidiaries as part of cash pooling and for
loans. The increase in interest expenses (increased by 23.5 million
euros) was due primarily to the premature buy-back of some of
the placed bonds (50.3 million euros). This stood in contrast to a
decrease in provisions (decrease of 8.2 million euros) resulting
from the changes to the regulations concerning provisions for oldage pensions. Additionally, interest expenses were eliminated due
to the retirement of bonds in the previous year (21.0 million euros).
The German Accounting Directive Implementation Act (BilRUG)
has caused the structure of the consolidated income statement to
change. It has made it necessary to recognise revenue and material expenses that correspond to the services to be r­ endered for
subsidiaries. Likewise, other operating income and expenses were
affected by the transition and can therefore only be compared
with the previous year on a limited basis. The notes to the financial statements of EWE AG contain a reconciliation of the line
items with the previous year, with consideration for the BilRUG.
Whereas personnel expenses in the previous year were influenced
heavily by special items resulting from the “Human Resources
2017” programme, they decreased by just 1.8 million euros in the
reporting year. The reduction in personnel due to the “Human
Resources 2017” programme was balanced out by the recruitment
of temporary staff for the enera project “Digital Agenda for the
Energy Transition” as well as transfers of roles and personnel
between EWE AG and its subsidiaries. Finally, the expenses
increased due to the termination of a bargaining agreement concerning payments in kind and the agreed 2.4 per cent wage
increase took effect on 1 January 2016.
Amortisation, depreciation and impairment increased by 12.5 million euros year-over-year, reaching 32.5 million euros. This was
due primarily to 4.3 million euros in write-downs of intangible
assets and 6.4 million euros in write-downs of buildings.
The tax expenses decreased by 15.4 million euros due to the
development of the financial result and the necessary formation
of tax provisions.
The effects described above caused earnings after taxes to fall by
25.5 million euros, which means that the annual net profit totalled
103.9 million euros and was 22.9 million euros lower than in the
previous year.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

61

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

ASSET POSITION
| T 020

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

in %

31.12.2015

in %

3,156.9

81.6

4,588.3

87.8

696.4

18.0

617.1

11.8

15.7

0.4

22.1

0.4

3,869.0

100.0

5,227.5

100.0

42.2

Assets
Fixed assets
Current assets
Accrued and deferred items
Total assets

Equity and liabilities
1,571.5

40.6

2,206.7

Provisions

159.6

4.1

150.4

2.9

Liabilities

2,137.7

55.3

2,870.2

54.9

Equity

Accrued and deferred items
Total equity and liabilities

EWE AG’s balance sheet total at the end of the reporting period
stood at 3.9 billion euros (previous year: 5.2 billion euros) and
exhibited a well-balanced asset and capital structure. The balance
sheet is structured around EWE AG’s functions as the parent company of the EWE Group, in which the key shareholdings are held.
Fixed assets represent the dominant item on the asset side, with
a value of 3.2 billion euros, equal to 81.6 per cent of total assets;
the most significant item is a financial asset worth 3.0 billion
euros. The decrease compared to the previous year was primarily
the result of the disposal of the shares in VNG.
The value of current assets including deferred expenses and
accrued income totalled 712.1 million euros. The item is dominated by accounts receivable from affiliated companies from cash
pooling and profit and loss transfer as well as liquid assets, and
reflects EWE AG’s financing function. The accounts receivable
from affiliated companies decreased by 94.3 million euros in total
in connection with cash pooling, loans and receivables from profit
and loss transfers. In contrast, the securities portfolio increased
to 99.7 million euros and liquid assets increased by 49.9 million
euros. The increase in current assets including deferred expenses
and accrued income of 72.9 million euros compared to the previous year is due primarily to the changes in securities (increase
of 99.8 million euros) which in turn was due to the disposal of the
shares in VNG and the resulting cash flow.

0.2

0.0

0.2

0.0

3,869.0

100.0

5,227.5

100.0

On the liabilities side, the reduction in equity through the acqui­
sition of 10.0 per cent of the treasury shares caused equity to
decrease by 1.6 billion euros. In light of the lower balance sheet
total, the equity ratio remained stable at 40.6 per cent. In addition to equity, non-current assets are accompanied by non-­
current debt with a value of 1.4 billion euros. As such, non-current
assets (3.2 billion euros) were almost completely covered by
non-current available capital (3.0 billion euros).
The decrease in non-current liabilities was primarily attributable
to bonded debt and liabilities to credit institutes, essentially due
to the premature partial retirement of bonds and the repayment
of loans. In contrast, provisions for taxes and miscellaneous provisions increased by 8.2 million euros. Together with non-current
euro bonds and other bonds with a total value of 1.3 billion euros,
pension reserves with a total value of 97.4 million euros formed
the dominant portion of non-current debt.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

62

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

FINANCIAL POSITION

INVESTMENTS
| T 021

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Cash flow from operating activities

-64.5

148.6

Cash flow from investment activities
Cash flow from financing activities
Changes to cash and cash equivalents

1,246.2

151.4

-1,132.2

-277.9

49.5

22.1

The value of investments made in the reporting year totalled
88.8 million euros:
| T 022

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

Intangible assets1)

6.8

4.8

Land and buildings

3.1

4.7

Power supply systems

The cash flow from operating activities was -64.5 million euros in
the business year. At 103.9 million euros, the annual net profit
on which the calculation was based was 22.9 million euros lower
than in the previous year. Non-cash depreciation, amortisation
and write-downs of 82.3 million euros, interest expenses and the
changes in provisions and liabilities increased the cash flow,
whereas gains from the disposal of assets (105.9 million euros),
income from investments and income tax payments decreased it.
The positive cash flow from investing activities was influenced decisively by the sale of the shares in VNG. Investments are of lesser
significance. Additionally, incoming payments from dividends or
profit transfers from financial investments (303.9 million euros) led
to a positive cash flow overall. However, this income was lower than
in the previous year.
The cash flow from financing activities mostly reflects the retirement of bonds, the repayment of loans and the payment of the
dividend of 225.5 million euros in the previous year. Cash and cash
equivalents represent liquid assets and increased by 49.5 million
euros.
The company was always capable of fulfilling its financial
­obligations.

31.12.2015

Other technical equipment and
machinery
Furniture and office equipment

0.2
0.1
2.6

1.6

Financial assets

76.2

402.1

Total

88.8

413.4

1)

 f this total, 2.7 million euros for assets under construction
O
(previous year: 0.5 million euros)

The investments in land and buildings were attributable to a number of smaller construction and renovation projects in locations
including Bremen, Leer and Rhauderfehn. The acquisitions cate­
gorised as furniture and office equipment were for office furniture
and vehicles, while the investments in intangible assets were
attributable to various software licences. Essentially, the investments totalling 76.2 million euros in financial assets were
­attributable to the acquisition of 10.0 per cent of the shares in
sovanta AG in Heidelberg and capital increases for GWAdriga
GmbH & Co. KG, Berlin, and Trianel Windkraftwerk Borkum II
GmbH & Co. KG, Oldenburg. Furthermore, loans have been
granted to EWE Windpark Köhlen GmbH & Co. KG, Oldenburg,
and EWE Windpark H
­ atten GmbH, Hatten, in order to build the
wind parks.
FORECAST DEVIATIONS
As expected, EWE AG generated annual net profit in the 2016
business year in the three-digit million range. Contrary to expectations, however, this total did not exceed the value of net profits
generated in the previous year. This was due to unplanned donations to the EWE FOUNDATION which had a negative effect due
to three affiliated companies which have a profit and loss transfer
agreement with EWE AG. Additionally, the new rules concerning
benefits in kind introduced in 2016, write-downs of intangible
assets and fixed assets and a write-down of an affiliated company
had a negative effect on the annual result. Ultimately, the profit
and loss transfers from subsidiaries remained below expectations.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

63

38 BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND GENERAL FRAMEWORK
44	CURRENT SITUATION OF THE EWE GROUP
51	REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS AND THEIR
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
60 CURRENT SITUATION OF EWE AG

EXPECTED DEVELOPMENT OF EWE AG

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Due to its position as the Group’s parent company, EWE AG’s
annual result is heavily influenced by income from investments.
Compared to the business year ended, EWE AG is forecasting an
improved result from its onshore and offshore investments,
whereas its earnings from energy sales, telecommunications and
grids remain under constant price pressure and are facing regulation and changes in charges. EWE AG expects its interest expenses
to be significantly lower following the premature buy-back of
bonds. Furthermore, the reorganisation of the pension provisions
through the introduction of an interest calculation period of ten
years will have a positive effect on the net interest. The measures
introduced in 2015 as part of the “Human Resources 2017” programme will lower the personnel expenses, although the enera
joint project “Digital Agenda for the Energy Transition” will lead
to a need for temporary staff and, less expected subsidies, lower
the annual result during the project phase. Non-recurring special
items notwithstanding, the net annual profit is expected to be
slightly higher than in the current year.

All statements made are based on current knowledge and assumptions. They represent estimates that we have formulated on the
basis of all information available to us at the present time. In the
event that the underlying assumptions do not occur or additional
risks develop, actual results could deviate from expected results.
As such, we cannot assume liability for these statements.
Oldenburg, Germany, 3 March 2017

The Board of Management

Michael Heidkamp

Wolfgang Mücher

The search for an investor willing to buy treasury shares will continue in 2017. An agreement is expected in 2018 at the earliest.
The investment portfolio will be optimised with additional acquisitions and disposals. No potential impacts on earnings can be
predicted at this point.
REPORT PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 312 OF THE
GERMAN STOCK CORPORATION ACT
Pursuant to Article 312 of the German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG), EWE AG has prepared a report on its relationship with
affiliated companies. This report closes with the following
­s tatement by the Board of Management:
“In the transactions specified in the report on EWE AG’s relationship with affiliated companies, our company – based on the
­circumstances we were aware of at the time the transactions were
carried out – received fair compensation in each transaction.”

EWE Integrated Report 2016

64

EWE Integrated Report 2016

65

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
2016

66
67
68
70
72
73
143
144

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT OF THE EWE GROUP
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME OF THE EWE GROUP
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE EWE GROUP
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY OF THE EWE GROUP
CASH FLOW STATEMENT OF THE EWE GROUP
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
AUDIT OPINION

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

66

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
OF THE EWE GROUP
FROM 1 JANUARY TO 31 DECEMBER 2016
| T 023

in millions of euros
Revenue

Notes

2016

2015

5

7,936.2

8,200.4

Electricity and energy taxes
Revenue (excluding electricity and energy taxes)
Inventory changes

-369.9

-381.1

7,566.3

7,819.3

-1.5

1.5

Other internally produced and capitalised assets

6

62.4

65.5

Other operating income

7

435.4

324.6

Material expenses

8

-5,761.7

-6,067.4

Personnel expenses

9

-722.5

-727.3

Amortisation, depreciation and impairment

10

-605.8

-580.1

Other operating expenses

11

-577.9

-606.6

Profit/loss from financial investments accounted for using the equity method

12

-0.7

-20.4

Other income from investments

13

255.2

2.9

649.2

212.0

EBIT 1)
Interest income

14

13.0

16.8

Interest expenses

14

-219.5

-197.7

442.7

31.1

-109.8

-40.5

332.9

-9.4

331.9

-7.1

1.0

-2.3

332.9

-9.4

Earnings before income taxes
Income taxes
Earnings in the period

15

Thereof attributable to:
Shareholders of the parent company
Minority shares
1)

Earnings Before Interest and Taxes

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

67
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME OF THE EWE GROUP
FROM 1 JANUARY TO 31 DECEMBER 2016
| T 024

in millions of euros

Notes

Earnings in the period
Actuarial gains and losses from performance-based
pension plans and similar obligations

29

Deferred taxes on pensions
Sum of other comprehensive income and expenses recognised outside
profit and loss without future reclassification to profit and loss
Balancing item for foreign currency translation from international subsidiaries
Cash flow hedges

39

Deferred taxes on accruals for cash flow hedges
Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets
Deferred taxes on accruals for available-for-sale financial assets
Share of other comprehensive income comprising financial assets
accounted for using the equity method

19

2016

2015

332.9

-9.4

-183.5

174.6

49.2

-50.8

-134.3

123.8

-22.9

-16.6

323.7

-145.5

-91.8

38.6

37.7

51.0

0.1

-0.4

-0.7

3.0

Sum of other comprehensive income and expenses recognised outside
profit and loss with future reclassification to profit and loss

246.1

-69.9

Other income after taxes

111.8

53.9

Comprehensive income after taxes

444.7

44.5

446.5

49.2

Thereof attributable to:
Shareholders of the parent company
Minority shares

-1.8

-4.7

444.7

44.5

EWE Integrated Report 2016

68

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
OF THE EWE GROUP
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016
ASSETS
| T 025

in millions of euros

Notes

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Non-current assets
Intangible assets

16

868.7

874.5

Property, plant and equipment

17

4,926.6

5,120.1

Investment property

18

5.4

5.7

Investments accounted for using the equity method

19

123.0

126.0

Other financial assets

20

526.7

429.4

Income tax refund claims

35

1.9

3.1

Other non-financial assets
Deferred taxes

35

10.1

2.4

32.4

98.4

6,494.8

6,659.6

Current assets
Inventories

21

204.3

218.2

Trade receivables

22

764.8

895.1

Other financial receivables and assets

23

470.3

234.9

Income tax refund claims

35

35.9

10.9

Other non-financial receivables and assets

24

113.8

122.0

Liquid assets

25

Non-current assets held for sale
Total assets


EWE Integrated Report 2016

351.3

352.0

1,940.4

1,833.1

26

1,251.6
1,940.4

3,084.7

8,435.2

9,744.3

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

69
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
| T 026

in millions of euros
Equity

Notes

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

243.0

243.0

27

Subscribed capital
less treasury shares
Capital reserves
less treasury shares
Accumulated earnings
Accumulated other comprehensive income
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent company
Minority shares

-24.3

-24.3

1,619.2

1,619.2

-489.3

-480.5

788.2

684.5

-219.8

-317.6

1,917.0

1,724.3

24.9

24.9

1,941.9

1,749.2

Non-current liabilities
Construction subsidies

28

675.9

694.9

Provisions

29

2,236.7

2,119.4

Bonds

30

1,237.4

1,677.2

Liabilities to financial institutions

31

130.7

267.3

Other financial liabilities

33

317.0

400.4

Income tax liabilities

35

30.4

1.4

Other non-financial liabilities

34

9.6

10.5

Deferred taxes

35

107.8

141.8

4,745.5

5,312.9

50.6

51.0

Current liabilities
Construction subsidies

28

Emission rights

14.0

18.0

Provisions

29

159.4

130.7

Bonds

30

168.2

171.4

Liabilities to financial institutions

31

76.4

296.1

Trade payables

32

598.1

667.8

Other financial liabilities

33

500.7

1,198.4

Income tax liabilities

35

63.6

67.6

Other non-financial liabilities

34

116.8

81.2

1,747.8

2,682.2

8,435.2

9,744.3

Total equity and liabilities

EWE Integrated Report 2016

70

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
OF THE EWE GROUP
FROM 1 JANUARY TO 31 DECEMBER 2016

Subscribed
capital

Capital reserves
of the EWE Group

Accumulated
earnings

in millions of euros
As at 01.01.2015

243.0

1,619.2

Earnings in the period

781.7

Accumulated other comprehensive income

IFRS 3
remeasurement
reserve

Reserve for
cash flow hedges

Reserve for
available-for-sale
financial
instruments

74.5

-13.5

112.3

-106.9

50.6

-120.4

162.9

231.9

37.8

111.5

200.7

-7.1

Other earnings
Total earnings
Capital increase
Treasury shares

-24.3

-480.5

Dividend payments

-88.0

Changes in basis
of consolidation
Other changes
As at 31.12.2015

-2.1
218.7

1,138.7

Earnings in the period

684.5

74.5

331.9

Other earnings
Total earnings
Treasury shares

-8.8

Dividend payments

-225.5

Changes in basis
of consolidation
Other changes
As at 31.12.2016

EWE Integrated Report 2016

-2.7
218.7

1,129.9

788.2

74.5

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

71
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| T 027

Accumulated other comprehensive income

Changes due
to currency
Measurement of
translation pension obligations
-72.5
-14.2

IFRS 5

-462.8

Minority shares

Equity

2,270.0

15.2

2,285.2

-7.1

-2.3

-9.4

56.3

-2.4

53.9

49.2

-4.7

44.5

Changes to
valuations using
the equity method
not recognised
in profit and loss
-11.9

123.8

Equity attributable
to the shareholders
of the parent
company

3.0

13.8
-504.8

-86.7

-339.0

-20.1

-134.3

-473.3

-88.0

-0.6

-88.6

0.1

0.1

16.8

-16.8

-2.1

1.1

-1.0

16.8

-25.7

1,724.3

24.9

1,749.2

331.9

1.0

332.9

-0.7

114.6

-2.8

111.8

446.5

-1.8

444.7

-16.8
-106.8

13.8
-504.8

-8.8

-8.8

-225.5

-225.5

-16.8
-26.4

-16.8

-2.7

1.8

-0.9

1,917.0

24.9

1,941.9

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

72

CASH FLOW STATEMENT
OF THE EWE GROUP
1 JANUARY TO 31 DECEMBER 2016
SOURCE OF FUNDS (+), APPLICATION OF FUNDS (-)
| T 028

in millions of euros

See notes,
section 43

2016

2015

EBIT 1)

649.2

212.0

Amortisation, depreciation and impairment

610.2

586.3

Reversals of write-downs
Release of construction subsidies
Interest paid
Interest received

-0.8
-59.9

-57.4

-150.9

-126.4

12.8

16.0

Income tax payments/refunds

-125.3

-74.7

Profit/loss from the divestiture of fixed assets

-219.6

5.4

Non-cash foreign currency gains/losses

-0.1

Non-cash changes to the value of accruals

33.7

Changes to valuations using the equity method recognised in profit and loss
Non-cash profit/loss from financial derivatives
Other non-cash expenses and income
Changes in inventories
Changes in receivables and other assets
Changes in liabilities
Cash flow from operating activities
Incoming payments from construction subsidies
Payments for investments in intangible fixed assets
Incoming payments from the divestiture of fixed assets
Payments for investments in fixed assets

137.2

1.9

75.3

-86.0

-10.5

0.9

38.2

10.7

79.3

-19.4

130.8

-185.7

-303.3

471.7

708.2

49.9

46.5

-43.5

-46.7

15.0

9.0

-373.3

-373.6

Incoming payments from the divestiture of other non-current assets

975.1

16.8

Payments for investments in other non-current assets

-38.2

-246.6

Payments for investments in shares in fully consolidated companies

-14.2

Cash flow from investing activities

570.8

-594.6

-225.5

-88.6

Incoming payments from allocations to equity
Cash payments to shareholders of the parent company and minority shareholders (dividends)
Incoming payments from the acquisition of financial liabilities
Payments from the repayment of financial liabilities

13.8
7.5

481.7

-815.2

-483.9

-1,033.2

-77.3

Other net payments from financing activities
Cash flow from financing activities
Change in cash and cash equivalents

-0.3

9.3

36.3

-9.4

-11.5

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period

352.3

327.5

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period

352.2

352.3

Change in cash and cash equivalents related to currency translation

1)

Earnings Before Interest and Taxes

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

73
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OF EWE AG
1. INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY
EWE Aktiengesellschaft (hereinafter referred to as “the company”
or “EWE AG”) and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the
“EWE Group”) are active in the fields of energy supply (particularly power and gas), energy generation, sales and trading, water
supply, information technology and telecommunications. From a
regional standpoint, the company carries out these activities in
the Ems-Weser-Elbe region, in the German state of Lower Saxony,
in the German city of Bremen and, with regard to gas supply
­o perations, also in the German state of Brandenburg, the island
of Rügen and in Poland and Turkey.

Slight deviations might result in the calculation of total values
and percentages in the consolidated financial statements as a
result of rounding.
The consolidated financial statements for the business year
­e nding on 31 December 2016 were approved by the Board of Management for review by the Supervisory Board on 3 March 2017.
The consolidated financial statements and the Group management
report of EWE AG for the 2016 business year will be published in
the German Federal Gazette.
CONSOLIDATION METHODS

EWE AG’s headquarters are located at Tirpitzstrasse 39 in
­O ldenburg, Germany (postcode 26122). The company is registered
in the commercial register of the Oldenburg district court under
HRB 33.
2. ACCOUNTING METHODS
PRINCIPLES GOVERNING THE PREPARATION OF THE
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EWE AG’s consolidated financial statements dated 31 December
2016 were prepared pursuant to article 315a, section 1 of the
­G erman Commercial Code (HGB) in accordance with the binding
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from the
­I nternational Accounting Standards Board (IASB), London, Great
Britain, as well as interpretations by the IFRS Interpretations
­Committee (IFRS IC), applicable as at 31 December 2016, in so
far as they were approved for use in the European Union (EU).
­Further a­ pplicable legal provisions set forth in the HGB have
also been adhered to.
In general, the consolidated financial statements were prepared
based on the historical cost principle. This does not apply to derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial assets,
which have been measured at fair value. The carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities recognised in the statement of financial
position which represent underling transactions within the scope
of fair value hedges and are otherwise recognised at amortised
cost, are matched to the fair value changes attributable to the
risks hedged within the scope of effective hedging relationships.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros.
All values are rounded up or down to the nearest million euros
unless otherwise indicated.
The recognition of individual items has been changed by marginal
amounts. Corresponding previous year’s values have been
adjusted accordingly.

The consolidated financial statements comprise the annual
­f inancial statements of EWE AG and its subsidiaries as at
31 December 2016.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition
onward; that is, from the period of time that the Group gains full
control over the company. Consolidation ends as soon as the parent company no longer has control of the company. Subsidiaries’
financial statements are prepared using uniform accounting
­m ethods for the same reporting periods as the parent company’s
financial statements. All intra-Group balances, transactions,
­unrealised profits and losses from intra-Group transactions and
dividends – taking deferred taxes into account – are eliminated
in full.
A subsidiary’s comprehensive income is also attributed to
­minority shares, even if this would lead to a negative balance.
Changes to the level of a stake in a subsidiary which do not
cause a loss of control are recognised as an equity transaction.
As a result of another shareholder’s controlling stake in Hansewasser­
Ver- und Entsorgungs-GmbH, Bremen (HVE), EWE AG does not have
control of this company. As a result, HVE is recognised as a joint
­venture in the consolidated financial statements. Gemeinschafts­
kraftwerk Bremen GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen (GKB), is recognised as
a joint venture despite a majority stake in the company, since a
­qualified majority is required to make major decisions. Trianel Windkraftwerk Borkum II GmbH & Co. KG, Oldenburg (TWB II), is recognised as an associated company despite a majority stake in the
­company, since the other partners hold a majority of voting rights
as set forth in the consortium agreement.
The schedule of the Group’s investments is published in the
­G erman Federal Gazette pursuant to article 313, section 2,
nos. 1–4, and section 3 of the HGB. The subsidiaries, investments
accounted for using the equity method and other investments
EWE Integrated Report 2016

74

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

included in the consolidated f­ inancial statements are listed in
­section 45 of these notes.

The preliminary fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities
as at the acquisition date are as follows:
| T 030

The following changes to the basis of consolidation took place
during the 2016 business year:
| T 029

Type of consolidation
and number

in thousands of euros
Non-current assets

Germany

International

Total

of which intangible assets
Current assets

Full consolidation
01.01.2016
Additions
Disposals
31.12.2016

of which trade receivables
48

7

55

1

2

3

3
46

3
9

55

Companies measured
at equity
01.01.2016
Additions
31.12.2016

10

10

1

1

11

11

of which cash and
cash equivalents
Total assets
Non-current liabilities

Recognised
upon acquisition
7,897.4
7,101.6
10,178.0
6,235.9
3,425.0
18,075.4
1,221.7

Current liabilities

16,621.2

Total liabilities

17,842.9

Net assets

232.5

Historical cost

15,309.2

Goodwill

15,076.7

Total
01.01.2016
Additions
Disposals
31.12.2016

58

7

65

2

2

4

9

66

3
57

3

The disposals in connection with fully consolidated companies
were the result of internal reorganisation measures.
The increase in the number of fully consolidated companies is
due primarily to the acquisition of Millenicom Telekomünikasyon
Hizmetleri A.Ş., Kağıthane/Istanbul, Turkey (Millenicom).
The shares in VNG – Verbundnetz Gas Aktiengesellschaft, Leipzig
(VNG), measured at equity were recognised as non-current assets
held for sale as at 31 December 2015 due to EWE’s intent to sell
them. The shares were sold in the first half of 2016. The number
of companies accounted for using the equity method increased
following the addition of the newly established GWAdriga
GmbH & Co. KG, Berlin.
Corporate acquisitions in 2016
As at 21 January 2016, EWE held 100 per cent of the shares in
­Millenicom. The company operates in the field of telecommuni­
cations. The purchase price of 15.3 million euros for the shares
was paid in cash. This amount corresponds to the fair value of
the entire consideration received.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

The goodwill is a premium for the entry into a new market in
­Turkey.
The fair value of the receivables totalled 6.2 million euros as at
the reporting date and corresponds to the carrying amount and
gross amount. It is likely that the receivables can be collected.
Since its acquisition, Millenicom has contributed 29.2 million
euros to revenue and -6.7 million euros to the consolidated result
for the period. Had the acquisition date been at the start of the
period, the contribution to revenue would have been 31.8 million
euros and the contribution to the consolidated result for the
period would have been -8.4 million euros.
The transaction costs totalling 0.1 million euros were recognised
in other operating expenses in the consolidated income statement
in 2015.
SUMMARY OF KEY ACCOUNTING METHODS
The key accounting methods applied in the preparation of these
consolidated financial statements for the EWE Group are presented below. The methods described herein were consistently
applied to the reporting periods presented, except where otherwise indicated.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

75
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Mergers and goodwill
Mergers are accounted for using the acquisition method. The
acquisition costs of an acquisition are calculated as the total of
the consideration transferred valued at fair value as at the date of
acquisition and the shares without a controlling influence in the
acquired company. In every merger, the acquiring company values
the shares without a controlling influence in the acquired company either at fair value (known as the full goodwill method) or
according to the corresponding share of identifiable net assets
(known as the purchased goodwill method) of the acquired
­company. Costs incurred as part of the merger are recognised as
expenses.
If the EWE Group acquires a company, it evaluates the suitable
classification and designation of financial assets and acquired
financial liabilities in accordance with the contractual terms,
­e conomic data and the prevailing conditions at the time of
­acquisition. This also includes separating embedded derivatives
from the host contract.
In the case of gradual mergers, the share of equity in the acquired
company previously held by the buyer is revalued at fair value on
the date of acquisition and the resulting profit or loss is recognised
in profit or loss.
The agreed upon contingent consideration is recognised at fair
value on the date of acquisition. Subsequent changes to the fair
value of contingent consideration which represent an asset or a
liability are recognised either in profit or loss or other comprehensive income in accordance with IAS 39. If the contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of IAS 39, it is valued in
accordance with the corresponding IFRS.
Upon initial recognition, goodwill is measured at historical cost,
i.e. the value of the transferred consideration which exceeds the
value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired by the
Group. If this consideration falls below the fair value of the net
assets of the acquired subsidiary, the difference is recognised
in the consolidated income statement.
After the initial recognition, goodwill is measured at historical
cost less accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of
impairment testing, the goodwill acquired within the scope of
a merger is allocated as of the date of acquisition to the cash-­
generating unit (CGU) of the Group that is expected to profit from
the merger.

If goodwill was allocated to a CGU and one of this unit’s business
areas is sold, the goodwill attributable to the sold business area is
taken into consideration as a component of the carrying amount
of the business area when calculating the profit or loss from the
sale. The value of the sold portion of goodwill is calculated on the
basis of the relative value of the sold business area and the
remaining portion of the CGU.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
Investments by the EWE Group in an associate or joint venture are
accounted for using the equity method. An associate is an entity
over which the EWE Group has significant influence. Joint ventures
are companies which stand under joint control with another party.
According to the equity method, the investment in another company is recognised at historical cost plus the changes to the share
of company’s net assets held by the EWE Group occurring after
the acquisition date. The goodwill associated with the company is
contained within the carrying amount of the investment and is
neither subject to scheduled depreciation nor a separate impairment test.
The EWE Group’s share of a company’s net profit/loss for a
period is recognised in the EWE Group’s consolidated income
statement. Changes recognised directly in the company’s other
comprehensive income are recorded by the Group according to
its share and disclosed cumulated in the Group’s statement of
changes in equity.
As a matter of principle, subsidiaries’ financial statements are
­p repared as at the same reporting date as the financial statements
of the EWE Group. Changes to accounting methods applied in a
consistent manner across the Group are carried out insofar as
­n ecessary.
At the end of each reporting period, the EWE Group assesses
whether objective information is available which indicates that an
investment in a company accounted for using the equity method
could be impaired. In the event of an impairment, the difference
between the recoverable amount of the investment in the company and the carrying amount of the investment in the company
is recognised in profit and loss as an impairment loss.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

76

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In the event of a loss of significant influence or joint control, the
Group values all retained investments in the former company
accounted for using the equity method at fair value. Differences
between the carrying amount of an investment in companies
accounted for using the equity method at the time of the loss of
significant influence or joint control and the fair value of the
retained investment as well as consideration received are recognised in profit and loss with consideration for any amounts
­transferred from other comprehensive income.
Classification as current and non-current
The EWE Group classifies its assets and liabilities on the in the
statement of financial position as current and non-current.
An asset is classified as current when:
»» R
 ealisation of the asset is expected within the normal business
cycle or the asset is held for sale or use within the time period;
»» T he asset is primarily held for trading purposes;
»» Realisation of the asset is expected within twelve months of
the end of the reporting period;
»» T he asset is cash or a cash equivalent, except in the case that
the exchange or use of the asset to fulfil an obligation is
restricted for a period of at least twelve months after the end
of the reporting period.
All other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is classified as current when:
»» T he fulfilment of the liability is expected within the normal
business cycle;
»» T he liability is primarily held for trading purposes;
»» Fulfilment of the liability is expected within twelve months
of the end of the reporting period;
»» T he company does not have the unrestricted ability to
­p ostpone fulfilment of the liability by at least twelve months
after the end of the reporting period.
All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current
assets or liabilities.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Fair value measurement
The EWE Group measures the fair value of financial instruments
for reporting and/or accounting purposes at the end of each
reporting period.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
­market participants at the measurement date. When measuring
fair value, the company assumes that the transaction in which
the sale of the asset or transfer of the liability takes place is
­c arried out in either:
»» T he principal market for the asset or liability, or
»» T he most advantageous market for the asset or liability
in the absence of a principal market.
In this context, the Group must have access to the principal
­market or the most advantageous market.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured based on the
assumptions that market participants would take into account
when pricing the asset or liability. In this context, it is further
assumed that the market participants would act in their best
financial interests.
Measuring the fair value of a non-financial asset is carried out
­taking into account the ability of the market participant to
­generate economic benefit from the highest and best use of the
asset or through its sale to another market participant who
will find the highest and best use for the asset.
The Group utilises measurement methods that are appropriate
given the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available
to measure fair value. The Group maximises the use of relevant
observable inputs and minimises the use of unobservable inputs.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

77
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All assets and liabilities for which fair value has either been
­m easured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised
into different levels of the fair value hierarchy described below,
based on the input parameters of the lowest level that is significant to the entire measurement of fair value:
»» Level 1:	Q uoted (non-adjusted) prices for identical assets or
liabilities in active markets;
»» Level 2:	M easurement methods in which the lowest-level input
parameter material to the overall fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable in the market;
»» Level 3:	M easurement methods in which the lowest-level input
parameter material to the overall fair value measurement is not observable in the market.
Foreign currency translation
The EWE Group’s consolidated financial statements are prepared
in euros, the functional currency of the parent company. Each
company within the EWE Group determines its own functional
currency. The items contained in the financial statements of each
company are measured using this functional currency.
Foreign currency transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are initially translated by the
Group’s companies into the functional currency at the applicable
exchange rate on the date of the transaction.

is reclassified to the consolidated income statement upon the
­disposal of this foreign operation.
All goodwill resulting in conjunction with the acquisition of a
­foreign operation and every adjustment of the carrying amount
of the assets and liabilities resulting from the acquisition of this
foreign operation to their fair value are treated as assets and
­liabilities of the foreign operation and translated using the
exchange rate applicable at the end of the reporting period.
The following exchange rates were used for the foreign currency
translation of individual financial statements prepared in a foreign
currency:
| T 031

Rate at the end
of the period

Average rate

31.12.
2016

31.12.
2015

2016

2015

Polish złoty (PLN)

4.41

4.26

4.36

4.18

Turkish lira (TRY)

3.71

3.18

3.34

3.03

1 Euro

Revenue recognition

All exchange differences are recognised in profit and loss.

Revenue is recognised independent of when payment is received
at the point in time when it is likely that the economic benefit will
flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured
with reliability. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable in due consideration of contractually stipulated payment terms, whereby taxes and other fees are
not taken into account. Furthermore, the following list of criteria
must be satisfied before revenue is recognised:

Non-monetary items that are measured at acquisition cost in a
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate applicable
at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary items that are
measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using
the exchange rate applicable when the fair value was determined.

Sale of goods
Revenue is recognised when the significant rewards and risks
­a ssociated with ownership of the sold goods have been transferred
to the buyer. This usually occurs when the goods have been
­delivered to the buyer.

Group companies
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated
within the scope of consolidation at the exchange rate applicable
at the end of the reporting period. The translation of revenue and
expenses is carried out using an average exchange rate. The
­resulting exchange differences within the scope of consolidation
are recognised in other comprehensive income. The amount
­recognised in other comprehensive income for a foreign operation

When it comes to supplying customers with power or gas, transfer
of the significant rewards and risks to the buyer occurs when the
power or gas flows through the meter. Since meter readings at the
end of the reporting period cannot be acquired in a timely fashion,
portions of revenue are calculated using statistical methods.

Monetary assets and liabilities in a foreign currency are translated
into the functional currency at the end of every reporting period
using the exchange rate applicable on that date.

The electricity and energy taxes paid by the Group companies are
openly deducted from revenue.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

78

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Revenue from feed-in tariffs passed on to companies generating
power from renewable energy sources is disclosed as a share of
total revenue. This revenue is offset by the payments to these
companies disclosed under material expenses.
Rendering of services
Revenue generated from telecommunications and IT services is
recognised upon rendering the service. In the case of multi-­
component contracts, revenue is recognised separately for each
identifiable valuation unit (component). In this context, revenue is
recognised on the basis of the fair value of the individual components. The price of the entire multi-component business deal is
divided on the basis of the proportional value of the different
components.
In the systems business, revenue is recognised when there are substantial indications of a purchase agreements, the products have
been delivered or the services rendered, the sale price or fees have
been or will be set, and recoverability is sufficiently guaranteed.
Revenue from contracts for services rendered by time or material
expenditure is recognised when the hours worked have been completed and the direct costs at the contractually stipulated hourly
rate have been incurred.
The proportional dissolution of customers’ construction subsidies
over the time period of the useful life of house connection lines is
reflected in revenue.
Interest
For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest
income and interest payable is recognised using the effective
interest rate. This is the discount rate used to exactly discount
future incoming and outgoing payments over the expected term
of the financial instrument (or a shorter period, if applicable) to
the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
Interest income is disclosed in the consolidated income statement.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment
is established.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Government grants
Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable
assurance that grants will be received and that the company will
comply with any conditions attached to the grant. Grants received
as compensation for costs which are recognised as income over
the period necessary to match them with the related costs, for
which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis.
Grants relating to an asset are recognised as deferred income in
the statement of financial position and are recognised in profit
and loss in equal instalments over the estimated useful life of the
asset.
Taxes
Actual income taxes
The current income tax refund claims and tax liabilities for the
current period are measured at the amount expected to be
­recovered from or paid to the tax authorities. Tax calculations
are based on the tax rates and tax laws applicable as at the end of
the reporting period in the countries in which the EWE Group is
active and generates taxable income.
Current taxes that relate to items recognised directly in equity
are not recognised in profit and loss, but instead in equity.
­M anagement regularly evaluates individual tax matters with
regard to whether room for interpretation exists in light of
­a pplicable tax provisions. Tax provisions are set aside as and
when required.
Deferred taxes
Deferred taxes are formed using the liability method on temporary differences existing at the end of the reporting period
between the carrying amount of an asset or liability disclosed
in the statement of financial position and their tax bases.
Deferred taxes are recognised for all taxable temporary differences with the exceptions of:
»» D
 eferred tax liabilities from the initial recognition of goodwill
or an asset or liability from a transaction other than a merger
which, at the time of the transaction, does not affect the net
income disclosed for the period or taxable profit,
»» D eferred tax liabilities arising from taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates
and interests in joint arrangements, but only to the extent
that the company is able to control the timing of the reversal
of the differences and it is probable that the reversal will not
occur in the foreseeable future.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

79
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary
­differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent
that it is probable that taxable profit will be available and against
which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised, unless
the deferred tax asset arises from:
»» D
 eferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences
arising from the initial recognition of an asset or liability from
a transaction other than a merger which, at the time of the
transaction, does not affect the net income disclosed for the
period or taxable profit,
»» D eferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences
arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint arrangements, but only to the extent that it is
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
foreseeable future or that insufficient taxable profit will be
available and against which the temporary difference can be
utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end
of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to
allow the benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be
­utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are examined on every
reporting date and recognised in so far as it is considered probable
that there will be future taxable earnings which will make it
­p ossible to realise the tax asset.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates
that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised
or the liability is settled. This is based on the tax rates and laws
that are in place as at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred taxes arising from items recognised outside of profit or
loss are also recognised outside of profit or loss. As such, these
deferred taxes are recognised consistent with the underlying
transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in
equity.

Deferred tax benefits acquired within the scope of a merger that
do not meet the criteria for being recognised separately at the
time of acquisition are recognised in following periods provided
that this results from new information about the facts and circumstances that existed at the time of acquisition. The adjustment is either treated as a reduction in goodwill, provided it arose
during the evaluation period (and as long as it does not exceed
the value of goodwill) or in profit or loss for the period.
Value-added tax
Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised after deducting
­v alue-added tax. The following cases are an exception:
»» I f the value-added tax incurred upon the purchase of assets or
the use of services cannot be claimed from the tax authorities
by way of refund, the value-added tax is recognised as part of
the asset’s historical cost or as a portion of the expenses.
»» Accounts receivable and payable are disclosed together with
the amount of value-added tax included.
The amount of value-added tax that either must be refunded by
or paid to the tax authorities is reported as an asset or liability.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued
fields of business
Non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held
for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair
value less costs to sell. They are not subject to depreciation.
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for
sale when the associated carrying amount is primarily realised
through a sales transaction and not continued use. This is only
the case when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal
group is available for immediate sale in its current condition.
­M anagement must be committed to the sale and expect it to
qualify as a completed sale within a period of one year from the
date of classification.
Property, plant and equipment

Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if the
EWE Group has the legal right to settle current tax amounts on a
net basis and the deferred tax amounts are levied by the same
taxing authority on the same tax subject.

Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at historical
cost including existing rehabilitation and removal obligations
measured at present value, less accumulated depreciation and/or
accumulated impairment losses. In addition to direct costs,
the historical costs include directly attributable indirect costs.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

80

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Subsequent historical costs – for example, as a result of expansion
or replacement investments – are only recorded as a portion of
an asset’s historical costs or as a separate asset (if applicable) if it
is probable that an economic benefit will flow to the EWE Group
in the future and the cost of the asset can be reliably determined.
Expenses for repairs and maintenance that do not represent a
major replacement investment are recognised as an expense in
profit and loss in the business year they were incurred. Assets
classified as property, plant and equipment are depreciated using
the straight-line method, with the exception of land. Scheduled
depreciation using the straight-line method is based on the
­following useful periods:
| T 032

Years
Buildings

up to 50

Technical equipment and machinery
Power supply systems
Gas supply systems
O ther technical equipment and machinery
Gas storage
Other equipment, operating and office equipment

8 – 45
10 – 55
3 – 50
33 – 40
5 – 14

If transfer of ownership to the EWE Group at the end of the lease
is not sufficiently certain, however, the leased asset is depreciated
over either the expected useful life of the asset or the term of the
lease, whichever is shorter.
For operating leases, lease payments are recognised as an expense
in profit and loss over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition,
construction or production of an asset are capitalised as part
of the historical cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are
recognised as an expense in the period in which they were
incurred.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are initially measured at their historical cost.
In the following periods, intangible assets are carried at their
­historical cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment
losses. With the exception of the portion eligible for capitalisation, developments costs are not capitalised and are recognised
in profit and loss in the period in which they were incurred.

Items of property, plant and equipment are removed from the
statement of financial position on disposal.

Intangible assets are classified either as intangible assets with
finite useful lives or indefinite useful lives.

The residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods of
assets are reviewed at the end of each business year and adjusted
prospectively, if necessary.

Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised over their
useful economic life and assessed for possible impairment if information exists which indicates that the intangible asset might be
impaired. The period and method of amortisation for intangible
assets with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of
every reporting period. The necessary changes to the method or
period of amortisation due to the changes to the anticipated useful life or to the anticipated use of the future economic benefit of
the asset are accounted for as changes in accounting estimates.

Leases
Determining whether an agreement contains a lease is based on
the economic impact of the agreement at the time the agreement
was concluded.
Finance leases in which essentially all opportunities and risks
associated with the ownership of the leased asset transfer to
the Group are capitalised at the start of the term of the lease.
The leased asset is measured at the lower of its fair value or the
present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease instalments
are divided into interest and principal repayment using a fixed
interest rate.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

81
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Scheduled depreciation using the straight-line method is based
on the following useful periods:
| T 033

Years
Permits, licences and rights
Computer software and licences
Customer list

15 – 60
3–5
5 – 17

In the case of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, an
impairment test is carried out once annually for the individual
asset or at the level of the CGU. These intangible assets will not
be amortised. The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is reviewed each reporting period to determine
whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life assessment for that asset. If they do not, the useful
life assessment is changed from indefinite to definite prospectively.
Trademarks and licences
Trademarks and licences have finite useful lives and are carried
at amortised cost less accumulated amortisation.
Research and development costs
Research costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which
they are incurred. Development costs of an individual project
are only capitalised as an intangible asset if the EWE Group can
demonstrate technical feasibility, the intention to complete or
sell the asset, the economic benefit of the asset, the availability
of resources and the ability to reliably determine expenses.
Amortisation begins upon completion of the development stage
and from the point of time when the asset can be used. It is
­c arried out over the period of time during which future benefit is
expected. During the development stage, an annual impairment
test is carried out.
The development costs incurred in the EWE Group do not
­currently meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 and
are therefore not recognised.

Emission rights
Emission rights (CO2 certificates) are recognised as intangible
assets under non-current other non-financial receivables and
assets. Initial measurement upon acquisition (in the case of purchase) is carried out at historical cost and then subsequent carried
at amortised average acquisition cost, whereby a comparison
with the net recoverable amount is carried out. Emission rights
held at the end of the reporting period which are intended to be
surrendered in the following year pursuant to effective use are
recognised as a liability. This liability is measured at the amortised
historical cost of the respective right. In the event that actual
emissions exceed emission certificates granted and held at the
end of the reporting period, provisions are created equal to the
market value of the emission rights the company must acquire.
Financial instruments – initial recognition and
subsequent measurement
I. Financial assets
Initial recognition and measurement
Pursuant to IAS 39, financial assets are either classified as finan­
cial assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss, as loans
and receivables, as held-to-maturity investments, as available-­
for-sale financial assets or as derivatives that were designated as
a hedging instrument and are effective as such. The EWE Group
determines the classification of its financial assets upon initial
recognition.
Financial assets are measured at fair value upon initial recognition.
In the case of financial assets not recognised at fair value through
profit or loss, this also includes transaction costs directly associated with the acquisition of the assets.
Purchases or sales of financial assets which specify the transfer
of the assets within a specific time period determined by the
­p rovisions or conventions of the market in question (market-based
purchases) are recognised on the trade date – that is, the date
on which the EWE Group accepted the obligation to purchase or
sell the asset.
The EWE Group’s financial assets encompass cash and current
deposits, trade receivables, receivables from loans granted and
other receivables, listed and unlisted financial instruments and
derivative financial instruments.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

82

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Subsequent measurement
The subsequent measurement of financial assets is dependent
on their classification as follows:
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
The group of financial assets measured at fair value through
profit or loss contains derivative financial instruments held by the
EWE Group that are not designated as hedging instruments as
defined by IAS 39. Derivatives, including embedded derivatives
separated from their host contract, are classified as held for
­trading.
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are
recognised at fair value in the statement of financial position, in
which regard changes to fair value are disclosed in profit and loss.
The EWE Group has not classified any financial assets upon initial
recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The EWE Group evaluates its financial assets held for trading (with
the exception of derivatives) with regard to whether the Group
still intends to sell the assets in the near future.
Derivatives embedded in host contracts are recognised separately
and measured at fair value when the economic risks and characteristics of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to
those of the host contract and the host contracts were not designated as held for trading or as assets at fair value through profit
or loss. Changes to fair value are recognised in profit and loss.
Reappraisal is only carried out upon a change to the contractual
terms which lead to a significant change in cash flows that would
have otherwise resulted from the contract.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed
or determinable payments that are not listed in an active market.
After their initial recognition, these financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised historical costs less impairment
losses using the effective interest method. Amortised historical
costs are calculated taking a premium or discount upon acquisition,
as well as fees and costs, into account that represent an integral
component of the effective interest rate. The proceeds from amortisation using the effective interest method are recognised in profit
and loss. The losses from impairment are recognised in profit and
loss. Accounts receivable, other financial receivables and cash and
cash equivalents have been assigned to this category.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale (AfS) financial assets include equity and debt
instruments. Equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are
all those instruments neither designated as held for trading nor on
initial recognition as one to be measured at fair value through
profit or loss. The debt instruments in this category include all
those that should be held for an indefinite period of time and that
can be sold as a reaction to liquidity needs or changes in market
conditions.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are
measured in the following periods at fair value. Unrealised profits
or losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and disclosed in the reserves for available-for-sale financial instruments.
If this type of asset is derecognised, the accumulated profit or loss
is reclassified in profit and loss. If an asset is impaired, the accumulated loss is reclassified in profit and loss and removed from
the reserves for available-for-sale financial instruments. If the
fair value of an unlisted equity instrument cannot be determined
with sufficient reliability, the portions are measured at cost
(less impairment losses, if applicable).
Derecognition
A financial asset (or a share of a financial asset or a share of
a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised when the
­contractual rights to receive the cash flows from a financial
asset are lost.
II. Impairment of financial assets
The EWE Group assesses at the end of each reporting period
whether objective evidence exists that a financial asset or group
of financial assets is impaired. Evidence of impairment may exist
if there are indications that a debtor or a group of debtors faces
considerable financial difficulties, in the event of non-payment or
delayed payment of interest or principal payments, if insolvency
or another reorganisation process is likely and if observable data
indicate a measurable reduction in expected future cash flows,
such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate
with payment defaults.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

83
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

If objective evidence exists that an asset has become impaired,
the impairment loss is calculated as the difference between
the carrying amount of the asset and the present value of the
future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset (with
the ­e xception of expected future loan defaults that have not yet
occurred). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced using a
­v aluation account and the impairment loss is recognised in profit
and loss. Receivables (including the associated impairment loss)
are d
­ erecognised when they are classified as unrecoverable and
all guarantees have been invoked and realised.
Available-for-sale financial assets
With regard to available-for-sale financial assets, the EWE Group
assesses at the end of each reporting period whether objective
evidence exists that an asset or group of assets is impaired.
For equity instruments classified as available for sale, a significant
or ongoing decline in the fair value of the instrument below its
historical cost would represent an objective indication. The criterion “significant” is evaluated based on the original historical cost
of the financial investment, and the criterion “ongoing” based on
the period of time in which the fair value of the asset stood below
its original historical cost. If evidence of impairment exists, the
accumulated losses – resulting from the difference between historical cost and current fair value less any eventual impairment
losses from this instrument recognised earlier in profit and loss –
are reclassified from other reserves and recognised in profit and
loss. Allowances for equity instruments are not reversed out of
profit and loss; any later increase in the fair value of the instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Impairment losses associated with available-for-sale unlisted
equity instruments carried at historical cost cannot be reversed.
When measuring impairment of debt instruments classified as
available for sale, the same criteria are used as for financial assets
carried at amortised historical cost. The amount recognised for
the purposes of impairment is, however, the accumulated loss that
results from the difference between amortised historical cost and
current fair value less any eventual impairment losses from this
instrument recognised earlier in profit and loss.

III. Financial liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are measured at fair value upon initial recognition. Derivatives are measured at fair value in profit and loss and
then carried at fair value. All other financial liabilities are classified as other liabilities and carried at amortised cost using the
effective interest method.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the liability’s underlying
obligation is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
IV. Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are only offset (with the net amount
reported) when the company has a legally enforceable right to
­offset the amounts at the present time and intends either to
­settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously.
V. Fair value of financial instruments
The fair value of financial instruments traded on active markets is
determined by the listed market price at the end of the reporting
period or the publicly listed price (buyer’s offered bid price in the
case of long positions and ask price in the case of short positions)
without deducting transaction costs.
The fair value of financial instruments not traded on any active
market is determined using suitable valuation methods. The
­v aluation methods include the use of recent arm’s-length market
transactions between knowledgeable, willing and independent
parties, reference to the current fair value of another instrument
that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and
other valuation methods.
An analysis of the fair value of financial instruments and further
details regarding how financial instruments are measured can
be found in section 39.

When the fair value of a debt instrument increases in a subsequent reporting period and the increase can objectively be attribu­
ted to an event that occurred after the recognition of impairment
in profit and loss, the increase in fair value is recognised in profit
and loss.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

84

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement
The EWE Group uses derivative financial instruments such as
­forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, commodities
futures and commodities swaps to hedge currency exchange,
interest rate and commodities price risks. These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value upon conclusion of the
contract and remeasured at fair value in the subsequent reporting
periods. Derivative financial instruments are carried as financial
assets when their fair value is positive and as financial liabilities
when their fair value is negative.
Changes to the fair value of commodities futures that fall within
the scope of IAS 39 are recognised in profit and loss, provided that
no hedge has been formed.
For the purpose of accounting for hedging relationships, hedges
are classified as follows:
»» A
 s a fair value hedge when used to hedge the exposure to
changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or recognised
liability or a previously unrecognised fixed commitment;
»» A s a cash flow hedge when used to hedge the exposure to
­v ariability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk
associated with a recognised asset, a recognised liability or a
highly probable forecast transaction or the currency risk of an
unrecognised fixed commitment.
At the beginning of a hedging relationship, the relationship itself
as well as the EWE Group’s risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking the hedge are formally defined and documented. This documentation includes identification of the hedging
instrument, the hedged item or hedged transaction as well as the
nature of the risk being hedged and a description of how the company will assess the effectiveness of achieving offsetting changes
in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk as designated and documented. These types of hedging relationships are
assessed as highly effective to offset the risks from changes in fair
value of cash flows. They are assessed on an ongoing basis with
regard to whether they were highly effective during the entire
reporting period for which the hedging relationship was defined.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Hedges that meet the stringent criteria of hedge accounting are
accounted for as follows:
Fair value hedges
The change in the fair value of the derivative interest rate hedging
instrument is recognised in profit and loss. The change in the fair
value of the hedged item that can be attributed to the risk being
hedged is carried as a portion of the carrying amount of the
hedged item and is also recognised in profit and loss.
When it comes to fair value hedges that are related to hedging
items carried at amortised cost, the change to the carrying
amount is reversed through profit and loss over the remaining
term until maturity.
If the hedged item is derecognised, the non-amortised fair value
is immediately recognised in profit and loss.
If an unrecognised fixed commitment is classified as a hedged
item, the subsequent accumulated change in the fair value of the
fixed commitment that can be attributed to the hedged risk is
­c arried as an asset or liability with a corresponding profit or loss
in profit or loss for the period.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of profit or loss from a hedging instrument
is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in
the reserves for cash flow hedges, while the ineffective portion is
immediately recognised in profit and loss.
The EWE Group uses forward exchange contracts as a hedging
instrument to hedge the exchange rate risks resulting from fixed
commitments and forecast transactions as well as commodities
futures to hedge risks stemming from the volatility in the price of
goods. Coal swaps are used to hedge currency and market price
risks in relation to coal. Further details can be found in section 39.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

85
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The accumulated amounts recognised in other comprehensive
income and the cash flow reserve are “recycled” into profit and
loss in the reporting period in which the hedged transaction
affects profit or loss – for example, when hedged financial gains
or losses are recognised or when a forecast sale is carried out. If a
hedge results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-­
financial liability, the gain or loss that was previously recognised
in other comprehensive income is included in the initial cost of
the acquired non-financial asset or liability.

»» E mbedded derivatives that are not closely related to their
host contracts are classified in accordance with the cash flows
from the host contract.
»» D erivative financial instruments that are designated as ­hedging
instruments and are effective as such are classified in accor­
dance with the classification of the underlying hedged item.
The derivative financial instrument is only divided into a current and non-current portion when it can be classified with
reliability as such.

If the forecast transaction or fixed commitment is no longer
expected to occur, the accumulated profits or losses previously
recognised in equity are “recycled” into profit and loss. If the
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised
without being replaced or rolled over into another hedging instrument, or if the hedge no longer meets the hedge accounting criteria, the profits or losses previously accumulated in other comprehensive income will remain in the reserve until the forecast
transaction or fixed commitment affects profit or loss.

Inventories

The EWE Group has entered into interest rate swaps to hedge risks
from interest rate changes from which the Group receives variable
cash flows and pays fixed cash flows. Provided these interest rate
swaps meet the criteria of hedge accounting, namely with regard
to hedge effectiveness, the resulting changes to the market value
of these financial instruments will be accounted for within the
scope of hedge accounting over the course of their term. Further
details can be found in section 39.

Trade discounts, rebates and deductions are subtracted as reductions in acquisition costs.

Classification as current and non-current
Derivative financial instruments that are not designated as
­h edging instruments and are not effective as such are classified
as either current or non-current or divided into a current and
non-current portion on the basis of an evaluation of the facts
and circumstances (i. e. the underlying contractual cash flows).
»» I f the EWE Group holds a derivative for a period of more than
twelve months after the reporting date for the purpose of
hedging against economic risks (and does not account for it as
a hedging relationship), the derivative is classified in accordance with the underlying item as non-current (or divided into
a current and non-current portion).

Inventories are initially measured at historical cost. Historical cost
includes all costs associated with purchase, conversion or processing as well as other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to
their present location and condition. It comprises incidental
acquisition costs as well as other costs that can be directly attri­
buted to the procurement of inventories. Directly attributable
costs can comprise both direct and indirect costs.

Inventories are measured at the lower of historical cost and net
realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price
in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated cost of
­completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Any reversals of write-downs must be recognised up to the
­o riginal historical cost in profit and loss.
Impairment of non-financial assets
At the end of each reporting period, the EWE Group assesses
whether there is any indication that a non-financial asset may be
impaired. If there is an indication that an asset may be impaired or
if an annual assessment of an asset’s recoverability is required
(goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives or assets in
development), the EWE Group estimates the asset’s recoverable
amount. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of the
fair value of an asset or a CGU less costs of disposal and its value
in use. The recoverable amount must be determined for each individual asset unless an asset no longer generates cash flows that
are predominantly independent of the cash flows of other assets

EWE Integrated Report 2016

86

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

or other groups of assets. If the carrying amount of an asset or
CGU exceeds its recover­able amount, the asset is impaired and is
written down to its recoverable amount. To calculate value in use,
the expected future cash flows are discounted to their present
value using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the
asset. To calculate fair value less disposal costs, recent market
transactions are used, if avail­able. If no such transaction can be
identified, a suitable valuation method is applied. This is based on
valuation multiples, stock exchange prices of listed shares of subsidiaries or other indicators of fair value available.
Impairment losses from ongoing operations including impairment
of inventories are recognised in profit and loss.
At the end of the reporting period, an assessment is carried out
for all assets, with the exception of goodwill, as to whether there
are any indications that a previously recognised impairment loss
no longer exists or has decreased. If such an indication exists,
the EWE Group estimates the asset’s or the CGU’s recoverable
amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is only reversed
if the assumptions used to determine the recover­able amount
have changed since the recognition of the last impair­m ent loss.
The reversal is limited in such a manner that the carrying amount
of an asset cannot exceed its recoverable amount or the carrying
amount that would have resulted (taking scheduled depreciation
into account) had no impairment loss been recognised for the
asset in previous years. A reversal is recognised in profit and loss.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, bank balances
and current deposits with a term of less than three months. To
calculate the value of cash and cash equivalents for the cash flow
statement, cash-pooling receivables are also included.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Provisions
Basic principles
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, the outflow of
resources with economic benefit to fulfil the obligation is probable
and the amount can be estimated reliably. If the Group expects
to be reimbursed for some or all of the expenditure required to
settle a provision (such as in the case of an insurance contract),
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received. The expenditure
required to settle a provision is recognised in profit and loss less
the reimbursement.
Provisions are measured at discounted present value using a pretax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Increases to the provision resulting purely from the addition of
accrued interest are recognised as interest expenses in profit
and loss.
Provisions are classified according to their maturity. Provisions
or portions of provisions whose obligations are expected to reach
maturity within twelve months after the end of the reporting
period are disclosed as current provisions. Provisions that will
reach maturity after twelve months are classified as non-current.
Provisions for contingent losses
Provisions for contingent losses are recognised – when the general
requirements for the recognition of provisions are fulfilled – for
onerous contracts in the amount that the unavoidable costs
­a ssociated with the contract exceed the expected economic
­b enefit from the contract.
Provisions for rehabilitation and deconstruction
Provisions are recognised for rehabilitation obligations for underground gas storage facilities and gas fields in the present value of
the obligation. These are capitalised and depreciated and/or the
provisions are discounted. The expenditure resulting from the
interest added to the provision for rehabilitation is recognised as
interest expenditure in profit and loss. Changes to estimates or
adjustments to the discount rate will change an existing carrying
amount. The reversal of provisions for rehabilitation beyond the
carrying amount of an asset is recognised in other comprehensive
income.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

87
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Provisions for emissions certificates
If it becomes apparent over the course of the year that an insufficient number of emission allowances are held – that is, emissions
have already occurred and the level of emissions exceeds the
number of emission allowances held – a provision is recognised for
the remaining emission allowances that need to be purchased. In
contrast, provisions for future emissions are prohibited, even if
planning indicates that there is a high probability that emissions
will exceed the number of emission allowances held.
Pensions and other employee benefits
Pensions and similar obligations
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations are recognised
for immediate pension obligations to employees (including former
employees) with an entitlement and claim to company pension
benefits. Collective labour agreements, labour-management
agreements and individual commitments form the legal basis of
these obligations within the EWE Group. They are accounted for
pursuant to IAS 19 using the projected unit credit method. In
this context, the future obligations are measured using actuarial
­v aluation methods, as well as estimates of the relevant influencing
variables (including but not limited to interest rate, probability of
death and salary and retirement trends). Based on this method,
the expenditure required for the additional unit of benefit entitlement is attributed to the period of service in which the additional
unit was earned. In this context, the additional unit of benefit
entitlement is viewed as the portion of the entire scheduled future
benefit that is attributed to the corresponding business year while
taking vesting provisions into account.
Within the scope of introducing a defined contributions unitbased plan, the association EWE-Treuhandverein e. V. was founded
in 2009 and swb-Treuhandverein e. V. in 2016. In so far as assets
are transferred to EWE-Treuhandverein e. V. or swb-Treuhand­
verein e. V. for the purpose of financing company pension plans,
these assets represent offsettable plan assets within the terms of
IAS 19.8. Several deferred compensation commitments entered
into by the company are financed by the Versorgungskasse Energie
(energy pension fund), meaning that the actuarial reserves formed
there are accounted for as plan assets.
In addition to direct benefits, groups of employees are compul­
sorily insured through VBL (Pension Institution of the Federal
Republic and the Länder). In order to finance these benefits, the
company must pay annual allocations and reorganisation fees to
VBL. These pension commitments must, in principle, be treated
as a multi-employer-defined benefit plan as set forth in IAS 19.

As a result of a lack of information as set forth in IAS 19.34 with
regard to the defined benefit plan, this pension plan is accounted
for as a defined contribution plan. In the event that the plan is
underfunded, the participating employers are required to com­
pensate for this underfunding. In this context, the amount of the
additional contribution obligation is calculated by VBL and allocated precisely according to cause across all members as a prorated contribution in the form of the currently open-ended
­reorganisation fee. Upon exiting the VBL system, the company
may be obliged to pay compensation in order to balance out a
potential future amount of underfunding allocated to its portion
of the plan. The portion of VBL’s total insurance plan allocated
to EWE AG is marginal compared to the obligations of other
­participating companies. The company does not plan to leave
the VBL system.
Other long-term employee benefits
Other long-term employee benefits primarily encompass obligations from employment anniversary bonuses. As such, employees
receive a one-time bonus payment on the 25th and 40th anniversaries of their hiring that is predominantly based on their salary.
Similar long-term obligations include partial retirement agreements with employees. At the EWE Group, these agreements
were generally entered into using the “block model”. The resulting
obligations are calculated using actuarial principles based on the
­p repaid expense method. In cases in which these obligations (the
amount to be paid) are balanced against plan assets, the obligations are offset by the fair value of the applicable plan assets.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits are paid when an employee is laid off before
reaching the usual age of retirement or leaves the employment
­relationship with the company voluntarily in return for a severance
payment. The EWE Group recognises severance payments if the
Group has a clearly verifiable obligation to terminate employment
contracts with current employees based on a detailed, f­ ormal plan
that cannot be rescinded, or if the Group has a clearly verifiable
obligation to provide a severance package upon v­ oluntary termi­
nation of employment by employees.
This particularly includes individual contracts entered into with
employees governing early retirement. These employees have
been released from their job duties yet continue to receive a
reduced salary until they reach the earliest retirement age set
forth by the provisions of statutory pension insurance for employees in an ongoing employment relationship. Benefits that are due
later than twelve months after the end of the reporting date are
discounted to their present value.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

88

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Construction subsidies
Construction subsidies include subsidies for investments and
­construction costs.
The EWE Group receives construction cost subsidies for power, gas
and water connections for customers in contracts with standard
terms and customers in contracts with special terms. Construction subsidies are recognised as a liability and released over the
useful life parallel to the fixed assets for which they were received.
This release is carried out in revenue since the receipt of construction cost grants is closely related to the company’s actual power
and gas business and therefore applies to the EWE Group’s normal
business activities.
Investment grants are recognised as a liability and released over
the useful life parallel to the fixed assets for which they were
received. The grants are released to profit and loss.
ACCOUNTING CHANGES
No changes to the accounting principles used in comparison to
the previous year occurred during the reporting period. The following standards, which were first applicable to this reporting
period, are an exception, although their application had no or no
significant effect on the consolidated financial statements:
»» I nvestment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and
IAS 28): Application of the Exemption from Consolidation
»» A mendments to IFRS 11 – Acquisition of an Interest in a Joint
Operation
»» Amendments to IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements
»» Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and
Amortisation (Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38)
»» Bearer Plants (Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41)
»» Amendments to IAS 19 – Employee Benefits
»» Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
­(Amendments to IAS 27)
»» Improvements to IFRS (2010 – 2012)
»» Improvements to IFRS (2012 – 2014)
3. KEY DISCRETIONARY JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES
AND ASSUMPTIONS
When preparing the EWE Group’s consolidated financial statements, management makes discretionary judgements, estimates
and assumptions that have an effect on the value of the earnings,
expenses, assets and liabilities disclosed at the end of the reporting period as well as the disclosure of contingent liabilities. As a
result of the uncertainty associated with these assumptions and

EWE Integrated Report 2016

estimates, however, events can occur that lead to significant
adjustments to the carrying amount of the affected assets or
­liabilities in future periods.
The most important future-related assumptions as well as other
main sources of uncertainty surrounding estimates at the end of
the reporting period, on the basis of which there is a significant
risk that a considerable adjustment will be necessary to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next business year,
are explained below. The assumptions and estimates by the Group
are based on parameters that applied at the time the consolidated
financial statements were prepared. These circumstances and
assumptions regarding future developments can change, however,
due to market fluctuations and market conditions that fall outside
of the Group’s sphere of influence. Such changes are first reflected
in the Group’s assumptions after they occur.
Goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least once annually or whenever appropriate indicators from internal or external sources of
information indicate that goodwill may be impaired. This impairment test is based on assumptions about the future which require
estimates related to future cash flows of CGUs that encompass
goodwill. These estimates can have an effect on the calculation of
these cash flows and lead to extraordinary depreciation of the
goodwill. The core assumptions used to determine the recoverable
amount for the CGUs are p
­ resented in section 16.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
The calculation of these assets’ expected useful lives and
­impairment is based on management assessments. Technological
progress, a deterioration of the market situation or damage can
lead to the extraordinary depreciation of these assets.
Deferred sales
As at the reporting date, utilisation thresholds had been set for
trade receivables that had been incurred but not invoiced. In this
context, the measurement of revenue from energy supply agreements is subject to a statistical estimation procedure that factors
in seasonal consumption fluctuations and the influences of
weather.
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
The measurement of pension obligations is carried out while
taking actuarial assumptions into account which relate to
­demographic (probability of death) and financial variables

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

89
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(­ interest rate, future salary increases, pension trends). For more
information, see section 29. In this context, the discount rate is
derived taking into account the specific structure of the payment
flows of the obligations earned. This calculation is based on the
pension obligations that exist at the end of the reporting period.
The calculations are carried out on the basis of the yield curves
of German federal bonds, the DJ EuroStoxx 50 and the iBoxx index
with regard to the market yield of high-quality corporate bonds
as at their current value on 31 December 2016. Pursuant to
IAS 19.83, the discount rate used is determined by reference to
market yields at the end of the reporting period on high-quality
corporate bonds (with an AA rating or better), with currencies
and terms of bond yields used consistent with the currency and
estimated term of the obligation being discounted. In the event
that a sufficient market is not available for the terms required,
yield is interpolated or extrapolated for these terms based on
the available yield structure as set forth in IAS 19.86.

Provisions for the 2017 staff reduction programme
The EWE Group has decided to reduce its staff by approx.
500 employees. Provisions for these job cuts being carried out
through early retirement and severance agreements and recognised as an expense in profit and loss were formed on the basis
of average values in 2015.
4. ISSUED STANDARDS WHOSE APPLICATION
IS NOT YET MANDATORY
With regard to the following issued standards whose application
is not yet mandatory, the EWE Group has determined at its reason­
able discretion that future application will have more than a negligible effect on the information disclosed as well as on the Group’s
assets, liabilities, financial position and earnings situation. The
EWE Group intends to apply these standards as soon as their application becomes mandatory.

Obligations from rehabilitation and deconstruction
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments:
The provisions for the rehabilitation and deconstruction of
­underground gas storage facilities are based on external reports
and/or information from the facility manager. With regard to
underground gas storage facilities and wind parks, the cost of
rehabilitation and deconstruction in the event of abandonment is
estimated. This amount is discounted to date at the end of the
reporting period. The value of provisions for rehabilitation must
be reassessed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted
to a different, new, best-possible estimate, if applicable. Changes
with regard to the expected dates and values of payments
required to fulfil the obligation as well as changes to the discount
rate lead to adjustments to the provisions for rehabilitation
­recognised outside of profit and loss. For more information, see
section 29.
Income taxes
The calculation of actual and deferred taxes is associated with
assumptions. The use of deferred tax assets is dependent on the
ability to achieve sufficient taxable income.
EEG recognition
Revenue from feed-in tariffs passed on to companies generating
power from renewable energy sources is disclosed as a share of
total revenue. This revenue is offset by the payments to these
companies disclosed under material expenses. For more information, see sections 5 and 8.

On 24 July 2014 the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9. IFRS 9
is first applicable to business years beginning on or after 1 January
2018. Early adoption of the final standard (IFRS 9 (2014)) is permitted at any time. The standard must be applied retroactively.
The standard contains new provisions governing classification,
measurement and impairment as well as hedge accounting.
The Group has carried out initial reviews of all three aspects of
IFRS 9. The preliminary evaluation is based on currently available
information and is subject to change due to further detailed
­a nalyses or additional reasonable, solid information to which the
Group gains access in future.
(a) Classification and measurement
The Group does not expect any significant effect on its statement
of financial position or equity from the application of the classification and measurement regulations of IFRS 9. The categorisation
of shares in partnerships as debt instruments measured at fair
value in profit and loss can have an effect on the earnings for the
period that cannot yet be determined reliably. The Group assumes
that it will continue to measure all financial assets carried at fair
value at their fair value. Loans and trade receivables are held in
order to collect contractual cash flows that generally represent
payments of interest and principal on the outstanding nominal
amount. Therefore, the Group expects that they will continue to
be measured at amortised cost pursuant to IFRS 9.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

90

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(b) Impairments
The simplified approach is applied to the financial receivables,
most of which have to be carried at amortised cost, and the loan
defaults expected across their terms must be disclosed. Due to the
higher risk provisions required, the Group expects its equity to be
affected. However, a more detailed analysis of all relevant, reliable
information, including elements relating to the future, is required
in order to determine the magnitude of the effects.

(b) Sale of goods
The transitioning of contracts with customers in which the sale
of goods is generally expected to represent the sole performance
obligation to accounting in line with IFRS 15 is not expected to
have any impact on profit or loss. The Group expects realisation
to occur when the authority to dispose of the asset transfers to
the customer. As in the past, this is generally the case when the
goods are delivered.

(c) Disclosure of hedges
The Group believes that all hedges currently designated as
­effective also meet the criteria set out in IFRS 9 for recognition
as hedging relationships. As IFRS 9 does not change the general
principles of how a company must account for effective hedging
relationships, the Group does not expect the application of IFRS 9
to have any significant impact on its financial statements.

Some contracts with customers provide for reductions and
­q uantity discounts. The Group currently recognises revenue from
the sale of goods at the fair value of the consideration received
or at the fair value of the accounts receivable less refunds, price
reductions and quantity discounts. If revenue cannot be measured
reliably, it is deferred until the uncertainty is cleared up. Under
IFRS 15, such contractual provisions mean that consideration is
variable and must be estimated upon the conclusion of the contract. IFRS 15 requires variable consideration to be limited in order
to avoid the realisation of excessively high revenue. Over the next
few months the Group will continue to evaluate individual contracts in order to determine the estimated variable consideration
and the related limitation. The Group currently expects the
­a pplication of the limitation set out in IFRS 15 to require more
revenue to be deferred than in the past.

IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers:
In the 2016 financial year, the Group carried out a preliminary
evaluation of IFRS 15 that is subject to change following a more
in-depth analysis. Furthermore, the Group intends to monitor the
clarifications published by the IASB in April 2016 as well as the
further developments with regard to the interpretation of IFRS 15.
(a) Sale of energy services
The transitioning of contracts with customers in which the sale
of energy is generally expected to represent the sole performance
obligation to accounting in line with IFRS 15 is not expected to
have any impact on profit or loss. The Group has come to the preliminary estimation that the energy deliveries will be made over
a period of time as the customer will receive the benefit of the
service of the Group and utilise it at the same time. On this basis,
the Group will continue to account for revenue from energy
­services on the basis of time periods and not dates.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

(c) Rendering of services
The Group renders services (such as telephony and maintenance).
These services are either sold individually through contracts with
customers or offered to customers as a package alongside the
sale of goods, in which regard the remuneration is currently split
between these two components on the basis of relative fair
­v alues. Revenue from services is recognised based on the degree
of completion. Under IFRS 15, the remuneration must be divided
on the basis of the relative standalone selling prices. As a result,
the division of the remuneration and in turn the chronological
­recognition of revenue might be affected by the transition to
IFRS 15. The Group has come to the preliminary estimation that
the services will be rendered over a period of time as the customer
will receive the benefit of the service of the Group and utilise it at
the same time. On this basis, the Group will continue to account
for revenue from these service contracts (or from service components of contracts comprising goods and services) on the basis of
time periods and not dates.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

91
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(d) Presentation and disclosure regulations
The presentation and disclosure regulations of IFRS 15 go far
beyond the provisions of the current standard. The new presentation regulations represent a significant change from current practice and will require significantly more disclosures in the consolidated financial statements in future. IFRS 15 requires quantitative
and qualitative disclosures regarding the sub-categorisation of
­revenue, performance obligations, contractual balances, significant
discretionary judgements and capitalised contractual costs; many
of these disclosure requirements are entirely new. In the 2016 business year the Group started to develop suitable systems, guidelines
and procedures.

NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT
5. REVENUE
Net revenue contains the payments received from distribution
grid operators as compensation for feeding power into the grid as
stipulated by the EEG totalling 1,372.7 million euros (previous
year: 1,416.4 million euros). Correspondingly, the original compensation payments for feeding power into the grid pursuant to the
EEG are disclosed in material expenditures.
Revenue is presented by product and service as part of segment
reporting (section 42).

IFRS 16 – Leases:
The new provisions of IFRS 16 were issued on 13 January 2016 and
are applicable to all annual reporting years that begin on or after
1 January 2019. The standard stipulates that, in the future, lessees
must recognise all lease agreements. Lessors are still required to
classify leases according to the existing requirements of IAS 17.
Prior application of the standard is permissible, but only if IFRS 15
is also applied. The effects on the EWE Group’s consolidated
financial statements are currently being reviewed. The standard
will lead to further disclosures in the EWE Group’s consolidated
financial statements, among other things.
With regard to the following issued standards whose application
is not yet mandatory, the EWE Group has determined at its
reason­a ble discretion that future application will have no or only
a negligible effect on the information disclosed as well as on the
Group’s assets, liabilities, financial position and earnings situation:
»» A
 mendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or Contribution of
Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
»» Clarifications to IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts
with ­Customers
»» Amendments to IAS 7 – Disclosure Initiative
»» A mendments to IAS 12 – Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets
for Unrealised Losses
»» Transfers of Investment Property (Amendments to IAS 40)
»» I FRS 2 – Clarifications of Classification and Measurement
of Share Based Payment Transactions
»» A mendments to IFRS 4 – Applying IFRS 9 Financial
­I nstruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts
»» I FRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance
­Consideration
»» Improvements to IFRS (2014 – 2016)

6. O
 THER INTERNALLY PRODUCED AND
CAPITALISED ASSETS
Internally produced and capitalised assets include construction
and expansion measures within supply networks and the
­e xpansion of wind power parks.
7. OTHER OPERATING INCOME
| T 034

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Derivative financial instruments

138.5

110.1

Reversal of provisions

122.6

11.4

Reimbursement claims

54.2

36.0

Operating leases

26.7

28.5

Reversal of impairments

6.8

6.6

Foreign currency profits

6.5

24.5

Divestiture of fixed assets

4.5

3.3

Income from combined heat and
power load equalisation/surcharges

3.8

18.9

Administration of water utilities

3.6

3.8

68.2

75.0

435.4

324.6

Biogas cost allocation
Miscellaneous
Total

6.5

Income from the reversal of provisions contains income from pension
provisions due to the new company pension regulations adopted by
swb in the reporting year.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

92

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

8. MATERIAL EXPENSES

10. AMORTISATION, DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT
| T 035

in millions of euros
Expenditures for raw materials,
­consumables and supplies
Expenditure on third-party services
Total

2016

2015

4,831.2

5,288.9

930.5

778.5

5,761.7

6,067.4

Material expenditures include expenses from EEG compensation
guaranteed by law paid to distributed power grid operators for
feeding power into the grid, which is offset by compensation received
from distribution grid operators (for more information, see section 5).
9. PERSONNEL EXPENSES
| T 036

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Wages and salaries

586.0

585.0

Social security costs and ­
expenses related to pension plans
and for support

136.5

142.3

Total

722.5

727.3

Impairments totalling 170.5 million euros were recognised in
the reporting year (previous year: 144.2 million euros).
Of these impairments, 144.9 million euros were attributable to
the Renewables, Grids and Gas Storage segment. Impairments
were due primarily to the offshore wind park RIFFGAT (71.6 million euros) in connection with the end of the high remuneration
phase and lower assumed market prices. Additionally, impairments of 73.3 million euros were necessary, attributable primarily
to property, plant and equipment in connection with gas storage
facilities and natural gas fuelling stations. Impairments were also
carried out on tangible and intangible assets in the swb segment
(6.6 million euros), in the Sales, Services and Trading segment
(6.1 million euros) and in the Group Central Division (12.9 million
euros) due to a lack of recoverability.
In the previous year, impairments were carried out on the goodwill
of the power generation CGU (31.4 million euros), on power plants
classified as property, plant and equipment (43.9 million euros)
and on district heating licences (53.5 million euros). These impairments totalling 128.8 million euros are all attributed to the swb
segment. Furthermore, other impairments of property, plant and
equipment totalling 5.4 million euros and of goodwill totalling
10.0 million euros were recognised in the previous year.

The average number of employees during the year was as follows:
| T 037

2016

2015

Full-time employees

7,829

7,726

Part-time employees

1,080

983

139

146

9,048

8,855

Trainees and temporary staff
Total

Personnel expenses remained at the same level as in the previous
year as the special items from the previous year in connection
with the restructuring measures were balanced out by the effects
in the current year. The number of employees increased and the
restructuring of the employee tariff as part of the Group’s new
strategy “EWE 2026” produced a negative effect.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

The classification by segment can be found in segment reporting
(see section 42).

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

93
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

11. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES
| T 038

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Licence fees (see section 44)

124.9

124.4

Derivative financial instruments

46.4

96.6

Promotional measures and sponsoring

40.1

36.2

Fees and consulting

37.3

26.8

Rent and leases

32.5

30.8

Allocation to other provisions

29.0

26.1

Other personnel-related expenses

24.9

26.2

Donations

21.6

2.6

The current profit/loss from financial assets measured at equity
breaks down as follows:
| T 040

in millions of euros

IT expenses

21.3

18.7

Commission

16.2

9.2

Write-downs of receivables

13.6

13.1

Printing, postal and shipping costs

11.5

10.3

Other taxes

10.8

14.7

Insurance contributions

9.3

10.5

Disposal of intangible assets and
­p roperty, plant and equipment

8.4

9.1

Charges and contributions

6.2

5.7

Allocations to write-downs

5.3

4.4

Fair value changes to hedged items

4.4

20.3

Foreign currency losses

3.6

13.2

German Combined Heat and
Power Act (KWKG)

15.7

Miscellaneous

110.6

92.0

Total

577.9

606.6

2016

2015

Hansewasser Ver- und
­Entsorgungs-GmbH

5.0

5.4

DOTI Deutsche Offshore-Testfeld- und
Infrastruktur-GmbH & Co. KG

1.0

0.6

-2.5

-2.4

Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Bremen
GmbH & Co. KG
VNG – Verbundnetz Gas
­A ktiengesellschaft

-24.7

Other associated companies
Total

0.7
3.5

The impairment of financial assets measured at equity is due
entirely to DOTI Deutsche Offshore-Testfeld- und Infrastruktur-­
GmbH & Co. KG.
13. OTHER INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS
| T 041

in millions of euros

2016

Gains from the sale of investments

240.3

0.5

15.3

10.9

Income from investments
Income from the transfer of profits
Impairment of financial investments
Expenses from the transfer of losses
Total

2015

0.2

Other expenses from investments

12. P
 ROFIT/LOSS FROM FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS
ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD

-20.4

-1.3
-0.1

-6.2

-0.5

-1.0

255.2

2.9

| T 039

in millions of euros

2016

Profit/loss from financial assets
accounted for using the equity method

3.5

Income from financial assets
accounted for using the equity method

-4.2

Total

-0.7

2015

-20.4

The increase in other income from investments is due primarily
to the sale of the shares in VNG which were still recognised as
non-current assets held for sale as at 31 December 2015.

-20.4

The improvement in the profit from financial assets measured at
equity is due primarily to the reclassification of the shares in VNG
in the second half of 2015 as non-current assets held for sale.
The shares were sold in the first half of 2016, resulting in a non-­
recurring increase in other income from investments.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

94

2015

The taxes on the EWE Group’s earnings before taxes deviate from
the theoretical tax expense which would result from application of
the weighted average group tax rate to the Group’s earnings
before taxes as follows:
| T 044

14. NET INTEREST
| T 042

in millions of euros
Interest and similar income
Interest and similar expenses

2016
13.0

16.4

-168.9

-153.7

Interest components of allocations to
Pension provisions

-39.9

-37.4

Rehabilitation provisions

-6.2

-6.3

Other provisions

-4.5

0.1

-206.5

-180.9

Total

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Earnings before income taxes

442.7

31.1

Fictitious tax expense

132.8

9.3

6.6

4.6

Permanent deviations

-67.9

10.9

Use of loss carryforwards

2.6

0.3

Non-deductible expenses

2.6

5.6

-1.6

-1.3

Associates accounted for
using the equity method

-1.1

6.1

Non-periodic taxes

38.2

7.8

Deviation as a result of the basis for
assessment of a local trade tax
Deviation from the expected tax rate
Deviation as a result of
differences to the group tax rate

15. INCOME TAXES
| T 043

in millions of euros
Tax expense for the current period

2016

2015

79.1

117.5

Tax expense/(income)
from previous periods

40.4

11.1

Actual income taxes

119.5

128.6

Temporary differences

-9.1

-87.0

Loss carryforwards

-0.6

-1.1

Deferred taxes

-9.7

-88.1

109.8

40.5

Total

The EWE Group’s weighted average tax rate for 2016 totalled
30.0 per cent (previous year: 30.0 per cent).

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Tax-free income

Other
Effective tax expense
Effective tax rate in per cent

-4.2

-2.4

1.4

109.8

40.5

24.8

130.2

The increase in permanent deviations encompasses the recon­
ciliation item from the sale of the shares in VNG.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

95
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL
POSITION
16. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
| T 045

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

442.4

417.6

Concessions, industrial property rights,
licences and similar rights
Prepayments
Goodwill
Intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives
Total

8.2

49.2

322.2

311.8

95.9

95.9

868.7

874.5

Intangible assets developed as follows:
| T 046

in millions of euros

Concessions,
industrial
property
rights, licences
and similar
rights

Prepayments

864.6

49.2

Goodwill

Intangible
assets with
indefinite
useful lives

Total

744.5

95.9

1,754.2

Historical cost
As at: 01.01.2016
Changes to the basis of consolidation/acquisitions

11.1

Additions

36.3

7.2

Reclassifications

53.4

-48.2

Currency adjustments

15.1

-31.7

Disposals

-13.3

As at: 31.12.2016

920.4

26.2
43.5
5.2

-31.7

-63.4
-13.3

8.2

727.9

95.9

1,752.4

Cumulative depreciation, amortisation and write-downs
As at: 01.01.2016

447.0

432.7

879.7

Changes to the basis of consolidation/acquisitions

3.8

3.8

Scheduled depreciation during the reporting year

48.5

48.5

Impairments in the reporting year
Reclassifications

9.5

9.5

-0.1

-0.1

Currency adjustments

-17.6

Disposals

-13.1

As at: 31.12.2016

478.0

-27.0

-44.6

405.7

883.7

-13.1

Carrying amounts
As at: 31.12.2016

442.4

8.2

322.2

95.9

868.7

EWE Integrated Report 2016

96

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| T 047

in millions of euros

Concessions,
industrial
property
rights, licences
and similar
rights

Prepayments

Goodwill

Intangible
assets with
indefinite
useful lives

869.7

16.1

773.3

95.9

15.4

31.3

6.9

1.8

Total

1,755.0

Historical cost
As at: 01.01.2015
Additions
Reclassifications
Currency adjustments

-25.6

Disposals
As at: 31.12.2015

46.7
8.7
-28.8

-54.4

-1.8
864.6

-1.8
49.2

744.5

95.9

1,754.2

Cumulative depreciation, amortisation and write-downs
As at: 01.01.2015

368.3

Scheduled depreciation during the reporting year

40.8

Impairments in the reporting year

53.5

Reclassifications
Currency adjustments

782.7

41.4

94.9

-23.1

-36.7

432.7

879.7

40.8

-0.3

-0.3

-13.6

Disposals
As at: 31.12.2015

414.4

-1.7

-1.7

447.0

Carrying amounts
As at: 31.12.2015

Development costs were not capitalised due to not meeting the
requirements for capitalisation. These costs were – similar to
research costs – recognised as an expense.
Impairment of intangible assets was recognised in profit and loss
as depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
No limitations to EWE’s property rights to intangible assets
exist; furthermore, no intangible assets were used as collateral
for liabilities.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

417.6

49.2

311.8

95.9

874.5

Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life
With regard to impairment testing, goodwill and trademarks
acquired within the scope of mergers are attributed to the
­following CGUs:
»»
»»
»»
»»
»»
»»
»»

Waste disposal
wesernetze
swb sales
EWE Enerji
Millenicom
Telecommunications
Miscellaneous

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

97
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Major goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite
­u seful life attributed to CGUs in 2016:
| T 048

in millions of euros

WACC
in %

Goodwill Trademark

Total

CGU
Waste disposal

3.51

57.8

57.8

wesernetze

1.96

159.9

159.9

swb sales

3.47

28.6

EWE Enerji

10.38

16.9

16.9

Millenicom

10.90

13.2

13.2

Telecommunications

3.65

42.8

42.8

Miscellaneous

2.63

Total

95.9

3.0
322.2

124.5

418.1

Fair value less disposal costs of the CGUs is calculated based on
current planning and assumptions. As a general principle, a planning horizon of three years which then continues into perpetuity
was used. For projects with a definite term, the length of this term
was used accordingly.

| T 049

Discount rates reflect current market evaluations of the specific
risks of each individual CGU as at 30 September of the year in
question and are based on the CGU’s weighted average cost of
capital (WACC).

3.0
95.9

Major goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite
­u seful life attributed to CGUs in 2015:­

in millions of euros

WACC
in %

Goodwill Trademark

Total

CGU
Waste disposal

4.38

57.8

57.8

wesernetze

3.59

159.9

159.9

swb sales

4.38

28.6

EWE Enerji

10.37

19.7

19.7

Telecommunications

4.55

42.8

42.8

Miscellaneous

3.56

3.0

Total

311.8

95.9

124.5

3.0
95.9

The fundamental assumptions which management used as the
basis for calculating fair value less disposal costs of CGUs with a
carrying amount attributed to them contain a discounted growth
rate into perpetuity of between 0.0 and 0.5 per cent, or 3.27 per
cent for the Turkish CGU. In 2016 it was not necessary to impair
any goodwill as a result of the impairment tests carried out for the
aforementioned CGUs. The impairment of goodwill recognised in
the previous year was primarily attributable to the conventional
power generation CGU (31.4 million euros) and the swb sales
CGU (5.1 million euros). These impairments were recognised under
amortisation, depreciation and impairment in profit and loss.

407.7

The EWE Group conducts its annual impairment testing on
30 September of each year. An impairment test is also carried out
when circumstances exist which indicate that the asset may be
impaired. The CGU’s recoverable amount is calculated on the basis
of fair value less disposal costs. In this context, information was
used that was not based on observable market data and, as such,
is classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

The discount rates were derived from capital market data for
industry-specific peer groups. They take expectations with regard
to the risk-free market interest rate and the specific risks of the
CGU in question into account. The individual WACC after taxes
calculated in this manner was used for each planning horizon. The
discount rates used are listed in the table above.
Underlying assumptions for the calculation of
fair value less disposal costs
Estimation uncertainty exists with regard to the following key
assumptions used in the calculation of fair value:
»»
»»
»»
»»

Discount rates (all CGUs)
Production quantities and waste prices (disposal)
Grid fee trends (wesernetze)
Changes in the size of the customer base
(swb sales, telecommunications)

EWE Integrated Report 2016

98

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Discount rates (all CGUs)
The discount rates represent current market estimates with regard
to the specific risks attributed to each CGU. Calculation of the
­discount rate takes the specific circumstances of the EWE Group
and its CGUs into account and is based on their WACC. The WACC
include both external financing and equity. Equity costs are
derived from investors’ expected rate of return. External financing
costs are derived from the market price of industry-specific bonds.
The risk specific to a CGU is included through the application of
individual beta factors. The beta factors are determined annually
on the basis of publicly accessible market data.
Production quantities and waste prices (disposal)
Management’s estimates are based on past experience, existing
contracts and an estimation of the otherwise unused capacity/
production quantity. A capacity-oriented production quantity and
a normal year were assumed as the basis for terminal value. With
regard to waste prices, a normal year is based on the last year with
detailed planning.

Changes in the size of the customer base
(swb sales, telecommunications)
Changes in the size of the customer base have a major effect on
profit and loss in the swb sales and telecommunications CGUs
and, as such, a direct effect on the absolute contribution to cover
existing fixed costs. In this context, based on historic fluctuation
rates, EWE assumes that the size of the customer base in the swb
sales and telecommunications CGUs will remain essentially stable.
Sensitivity analysis of the underlying assumptions
The effects of the major underlying assumptions on the recoverable amount are explained in the following:
Discount rates
For all of the aforementioned CGUs, an increase in the WACC used
as the basis of up to 0.38 per cent (previous year: 1.00 per cent)
would not lead to any additional impairment.
17. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Grid fee trends (wesernetze)
Profit and loss related to grids is heavily affected by regulatory
influences, particularly the regulation of grid fees (specification of
an upper limit), as well as the awarding of concession agreements.
On the basis of management’s experience, EWE will continue to
assume that existing concession agreements will be awarded in
the future and that an adequate earnings position is guaranteed
from regulated grid fees.

| T 050

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Land and buildings

412.3

438.2

Technical equipment and machinery
Power supply systems

1,665.3

1,712.6

Gas supply systems

1,666.9

1,733.8

Other

1,066.0

1,101.3

49.9

50.8

Other equipment,
operating and office equipment
Prepayments and
assets under construction
Total

EWE Integrated Report 2016

66.2

83.4

4,926.6

5,120.1

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

99
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Property, plant and equipment developed as follows:
| T 051

in millions of euros

Other
­e quipment,
operating and
office
­e quipment

Prepayments
and assets
under
­construction

Total

11,867.3

225.1

102.6

13,070.0

8.8

0.5

363.3

15.5

52.1

440.4
-10.7

Technical
Land and equipment and
buildings
machinery

Historical cost
As at: 01.01.2016

875.0

Changes in basis of consolidation
Additions
Reclassifications

9.5

9.3

4.0

49.2

1.4

-65.3

Currency adjustments

-1.1

-34.3

-1.1

-1.1

-37.6

Disposals

-9.2

-235.3

-18.3

-3.0

-265.8

878.2

12,019.0

223.1

85.3

13,205.6

436.8

7,319.6

174.3

19.2

7,949.9

4.2

0.4

4.6

As at: 31.12.2016
Cumulative depreciation, amortisation and write-downs
As at: 01.01.2016
Changes in basis of consolidation
Scheduled depreciation during the reporting year

20.5

350.2

15.9

386.6

Impairments in the reporting year

16.6

143.8

0.6

161.0

Reclassifications

-3.6

-0.5

Currency adjustments

-0.6

-183.9

-17.4

465.9

7,620.8

173.2

19.1

8,279.0

412.3

4,398.2

49.9

66.2

4,926.6

Disposals

-3.7

Reversals of write-downs

-0.7

As at: 31.12.2016

-4.1

-12.6

-0.1

-13.3
-205.0
-0.7

Carrying amounts
As at: 31.12.2016

EWE Integrated Report 2016

100

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| T 052

in millions of euros

Other
­e quipment,
operating and
office
­e quipment

Prepayments
and assets
under
­construction

Total

11,473.0

267.0

168.0

12,780.1

0.1

0.1

3.2

336.9

13.1

68.9

422.1

4.7

156.2

-42.1

-127.9

-9.1

-0.2

-17.5

-0.6

-1.4

-19.7

Technical
Land and equipment and
buildings
machinery

Historical cost
As at: 01.01.2015

872.1

Additions/disposals through from mergers and reorganisations
Additions
Reclassifications
Currency adjustments
Disposals
As at: 31.12.2015

0.2

-4.8

-81.4

-12.4

-5.0

-103.6

875.0

11,867.3

225.1

102.6

13,070.0

420.0

6,954.9

207.9

18.7

7,601.5

Cumulative depreciation, amortisation and write-downs
As at: 01.01.2015
Additions/disposals through from mergers and reorganisations
Scheduled depreciation during the reporting year

As at: 31.12.2015

394.9

358.6

-0.1

37.1

-36.9

0.1

-7.0

-0.4

-7.4

48.8

Currency adjustments
Disposals

0.1

15.6

20.7

Impairments in the reporting year
Reclassifications

0.1
0.5

49.3

-3.8

-72.8

-12.0

436.8

7,319.6

174.3

19.2

7,949.9

-88.6

438.2

4,547.7

50.8

83.4

5,120.1

Carrying amounts
As at: 31.12.2015

No limitations to EWE’s property rights to fixed assets (property,
plant and equipment) exist; furthermore, no fixed assets (property, plant and equipment) were used as collateral for liabilities.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

101
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

18. INVESTMENT PROPERTY

Property classified as investment property had a fair value of
7.9 million euros at the end of the reporting period (previous year:
10.1 million euros).

The changes to investment property were as follows:
| T 053

in millions of euros

2016

2015

19. I NVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING
THE EQUITY METHOD

22.6

Interests in companies accounted for using the equity method
developed as follows:

Historical cost
As at: 01.01
Reclassifications

13.4
5.0

Disposals

-3.3

-9.2

As at: 31.12.

15.1

13.4

Cumulative depreciation,
­a mortisation and write-downs
As at: 01.01

7.7
0.2

Reclassifications

3.5

Disposals

-1.6

Reversals of write-downs

-0.1

13.2
0.2
-5.7

9.7

7.7

5.4

2015

Opening balance as at 01.01.

126.0

1,240.0

3.5

-20.4

Dividends collected
Addition

| T 054

31.12.2016

-5.4

-54.9

9.8

214.8

Reclassification

-1,251.6

Disposal

-6.0

-4.9

Changes recognised outside of profit
and loss

-0.7

3.0

Impairments

-4.2
123.0

126.0

5.7

Composition of profit/loss in the period from financial investments:

in millions of euros

2016

Closing balance on 31.12.

Carrying amounts
As at: 31.12.

in millions of euros

Group share of profit/loss

Scheduled depreciation
during the reporting year

As at: 31.12.

| T 055

Of the additions in the current year, 5.1 million euros are
­attributable to Trianel Windkraftwerk Borkum II GmbH & Co. KG,
3.5 million euros are attributable to Gemeinschaftskraftwerk
­B remen GmbH & Co. KG and 1.2 million euros are attributable to
­GWAdriga GmbH & Co. KG.

31.12.2015

Rental income from
investment property

0.6

0.8

Operating expenses (including
repairs and maintenance) with
which rental income was generated

0.3

0.4

Profit/loss from financial instruments

0.3

0.4

The Group is not limited in any way with regard to its ability to
sell investment property, and the Group has not entered into any
contractual obligations to sell, construct or develop investment
property. Furthermore, the Group has no contractual obligations
with regard to the repair, maintenance or improvement of investment property.

As at 31 December 2016, the interests in associates held by the
Group had a goodwill totalling 18.1 million euros (previous year:
18.1 million euros). This goodwill is contained within the Sales,
Services and Trading segment.
Consolidated financial information about companies accounted
for using the equity method (all of which are not listed on the
stock exchange) is presented in the following table. In this context, the figures presented do not represent the share attributable
to EWE AG, but the full amount.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

102

Statement of financial position

21. INVENTORIES
| T 056

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Non-current assets

839.4

789.6

Current assets

102.2

89.3

48.6

29.2

Non-current liabilities

of which cash and cash equivalents

478.0

424.9

Current liabilities

176.4

166.0

Total assets

941.6

878.9

| T 059

in millions of euros
Gas inventories
Raw materials, consumables and
­supplies

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

133.7

123.8

45.2

54.7

Work in progress, unfinished goods

7.7

9.2

Finished goods and merchandise

5.4

4.6

12.1

25.9

Prepayments
Pollutant emission rights
Total

0.2
204.3

218.2

Comprehensive income statement
| T 057

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Revenue

178.6

108.4

Amortisation, depreciation and
impairment

-26.8

-24.6

Interest income

0.1

0.8

Interest expenses

-6.7

-7.7

Tax result

-9.1

-9.1

Profit/loss

0.2

2.7

20. OTHER NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS
| T 058

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Shares

306.1

259.4

Loans

108.8

97.8

Derivative financial instruments

104.3

64.5

Miscellaneous
Total

EWE Integrated Report 2016

7.5

7.7

526.7

429.4

Inventories contain impairment losses of 1.6 million euros
­( previous year: 9.0 million euros). A total of 7.5 million euros has
been recognised as reversals (previous year: 0.1 million euros).
No limitations on the right of disposal or other encumbrances
exist.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

103
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

22. TRADE RECEIVABLES
Trade receivables are payable within one year:
| T 060

of this total: overdue and not individually impaired
as at the end of the reporting period

in millions of euros

Carrying
amount

neither
overdue
nor
impaired

Total

Less than
30 days

Between
30 and
90 days

Between
91 and
180 days

Between
181 and
360 days

More than
360 days

452.3

312.5

228.1

13.9

23.8

32.5

14.2

638.3

256.8

172.0

62.8

10.6

4.1

7.3

as at
31.12.2016
Trade receivables

764.8
as at
31.12.2015

Trade receivables

895.1

Changes to impairments of trade receivables were as follows:

23. O
 THER FINANCIAL RECEIVABLES AND ASSETS

| T 061

| T 062

in millions of euros
in millions of euros

2016

Derivative financial instruments
Total valuation allowances
as at 01.01.

35.3

41.7

Exchange rate differences

-0.9

-0.5

Changes to the basis of
consolidation/merger
Allocations
Use
Reversals

3.6
5.1

Total valuation allowances
as at 31.12.

Receivables from companies
with which an investment
relationship exists

0.2

Receivables from contract
­m anufacturing

4.4

Securities

0.2

-1.9

Other financial assets

-6.8

-6.6

Total

Reclassifications

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

242.7

126.4

65.2

56.7

4.7

10.1

2015

103.4

4.8

54.3

36.9

470.3

234.9

-2.0
36.5

35.3

Changes in valuation allowances are recognised as other operating
expenses/income in profit and loss.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

104

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Other financial receivables and assets are payable within one year.
| T 063

of this total: overdue and not individually impaired
as at the end of the reporting period

in millions of euros

Carrying
amount

neither
overdue
nor
impaired

Total

Less than
30 days

Between
30 and
90 days

458.8

11.5

3.2

229.5

5.4

2.1

Between
91 and
180 days

Between
181 and
360 days

More than
360 days

0.4

6.5

1.4

0.3

0.1

2.9

as at
31.12.2016
Other financial receivables and assets

470.3
as at
31.12.2015

Other financial receivables and assets

234.9

The following table lists the valuation allowances for other
­f inancial receivables and assets.

25. LIQUID ASSETS
| T 064

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Total valuation allowances
as at 01.01.

1.9

1.9

Allocations

0.2

Use
Total valuation allowances
as at 31.12.

-1.9
0.2

1.9

24. O
 THER NON-FINANCIAL RECEIVABLES AND ASSETS
Other non-financial receivables and assets are payable within one
year.
| T 065

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Value-added tax

33.3

45.0

Prepayments

27.0

28.7

Emission rights

19.8

26.6

Other non-financial assets

33.7

21.7

113.8

122.0

Total

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Liquid assets totalled 351.3 million euros as at 31 December 2016.
This includes 200 million euros in the form of time deposits and
instant-access demand deposits, earmarked for settling the liabilities payable in the 2017 business year.
See section 43 for more information on the composition of cash
and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement.
26. NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
The shares in VNG measured at their carrying amount and
­classified as held for sale in the Group Central Division as at
31 December 2015 were transferred to EnBW Energie
Baden-Württemberg AG (EnBW), Karlsruhe, in April 2016.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

105
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

27. EQUITY
The subscribed capital of EWE AG totalling 242,988 thousand
euros (previous year: 242,988 thousand euros) is divided into
242,988 registered shares (previous year: 242,988), each with
a value of 1,000 euros. In the reporting year the company
acquired 10 per cent of its own shares. EWE AG therefore holds
24,298 treasury shares. The subscribed capital attributable to
treasury shares is 24.3 million euros.
The acquisition cost of 10 per cent of EWE AG’s treasury shares
was 513.6 million euros. The associated payment obligation, which
had to be recognised as a liability as at 31 December 2015 in line
with IAS 32.23, was satisfied in the first half of 2016. EnBW is
expected to hold 6 per cent of the share capital of EWE AG by
2019. Weser-Ems-Energiebeteiligungen GmbH (WEE), Oldenburg,
has held 64 per cent of the shares of EWE AG since 20 April 2016
and Energieverband Elbe-Weser Beteiligungsholding GmbH (EEW),
Oldenburg, holds 20 per cent. Ems-Weser-Elbe Versorgungs- und
Entsorgungsverband Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (EWE-Verband
GmbH), Oldenburg, is the owner of WEE. Ems-Weser-Elbe Versor­
gungs- und Entsorgungsverband (EWE-Verband), Oldenburg, is the
sole shareholder of EWE-Verband GmbH and EEW. The members
of the EWE-Verband include districts and cities in our supply area
between the Ems, Weser and Elbe rivers.
The capital reserve primarily results from the provisions of
­a rticle 272 (2) no. 4 of the HGB.

In 2015, EWE entered into an agreement with EnBW, subject to
­certain conditions, regarding the transfer of the interest in VNG
held by EWE to EnBW. Within the scope of this agreement, EWE
has agreed to buy back 10 per cent of its own shares currently held
by EnBW (treasury shares), among other conditions. Since EWE
could no longer withdraw from this obligation as at 31 December
2015, the company must recognise as a liability written put
options on its own shares at the present value of the obligation
and deduct this amount from equity as set forth in IAS 32.23. To
ensure continued disclosure in the following year, in 2015 EWE
decided to deduct the value from equity in such a way as if the
treasury shares were already purchased. As such, the nominal
value (24.3 million euros) will be openly deducted from subscribed
capital and the value exceeding this amount (480.5 million euros)
will be openly deducted from the capital reserve.
Net Income of EWE AG
The Board of Management suggests to the general meeting of
shareholders that from the net income of EWE AG, a dividend of
88,000,856.00 euros be paid out to the company’s shareholders.
This corresponds to a distribution of 402.40 euros per qualifying
share. The remaining 4,157,471.81 euros are to be carried forward.
The minority shares show the shares held by third parties in
Kayserigaz Kayseri Doğalgaz Dağıtım Pazarlama ve Ticaret A.Ş.,
Kayseri, Turkey, Bursagaz Bursa Şehiriçi Doğalgaz Dağıtım Ticaret
ve Taahhüt A.Ş., Bursa, Turkey, and EWE NETZ GmbH, Oldenburg.
The latter is related to the municipal EWE grid investment model.
28. CONSTRUCTION SUBSIDIES
| T 066

31.12.2016
in millions of euros
Construction subsidies

31.12.2015

Non-current

Current

Non-current

Current

675.9

50.6

694.9

51.0

Construction subsidies are released over the useful lives of the assets
for which they were received.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

106

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

29. PROVISIONS
| T 067

31.12.2016
in millions of euros
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
Personnel-related obligations
Rehabilitation obligations
Other provisions
Total

Non-current
1,812.0
86.7

40.5

296.4

Total

Non-current

1,812.0

1,736.1

127.2

95.1

296.4

253.9

Current

Total
1,736.1

17.1

112.2
253.9

41.6

118.9

160.5

34.3

113.6

147.9

2,236.7

159.4

2,396.1

2,119.4

130.7

2,250.1

PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS
EWE AG primarily grants pension benefits through age-based
schemes and deferred compensation plans. In addition to these
plans, in which the majority of EWE employees are enrolled,
­individual contractual benefit commitments exist. The retirement
benefits paid out by the EWE Group to its employees correspond
to the definition of defined benefit plans for post-employment
benefits as set forth in IAS 19.
The obligations encompass both pension benefits currently being
paid out as well as entitlements to future benefit payments.
The characteristic feature of obligations under defined benefit
plans is that the EWE Group has to fulfil them in the amount
granted and therefore bears both the funding risk and the bio­
metric risks (i.e. longevity risk).
Plans with previously granted pension entitlements were rolled
over to EWE-wide regulations in 2001. In these plans, the pension
commitments largely depend on the length of service and the
employee’s average compensation over the twelve months of
employment prior to termination or retirement. The EWE Group
is not obliged to form plan assets for plans with pension entitlements.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Current

31.12.2015

In the case of the unit-linked direct benefits model introduced in
2009, the Group companies participating in this model transfer an
annual benefit contribution to the EWE-Treuhandverein e. V. (trust
association) association for each entitled employee. The same
applies to swb-Treuhandverein e. V. which was introduced in 2016.
EWE-Treuhandverein e. V. and swb-Treuhandverein e. V. have trust
by-laws that govern, in particular, the purpose of the association,
membership and the bodies of the association and their respon­
sibilities, and are managed by the Board of Management that
has been appointed in accordance with the by-laws. The benefit
­contributions which accumulate over the vesting period plus the
returns earned on them are annuitised upon the occurrence of an
event which results in eligibility to receive benefits or, in the case
of swb, paid out as capital by default. In this context, the participating Group company guarantees the value of the nominal
­contributions. The defined benefit obligation (DBO) of the direct
commitment is recognised as the difference between the present
value of the guaranteed obligation and plan assets. Similarly,
­current service cost results from the maximum of the current
­service cost of guaranteed obligations and contributions to the
plan. Finally, if plan assets exceed the present value of guaranteed
obligations, the interest income from plan assets is considered
equal to the interest expense, yet opposite in sign. This results in
the appropriate recognition of the actual extent of the obligation
and the expenses. As long as plan assets exceed the present value
of the guaranteed minimum benefit, there is no disclosure in
profit and loss and expenses regularly correspond to the contri­
butions made, which in essence corresponds to the accounting
treatment of a defined contribution plan. At the same time, this
ensures that the minimum obligation under labour law is always
covered by plan assets, which is enough to satisfy the defined
benefit element of the plan’s structure.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

107
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

As a result, this model essentially transfers the funding risk for ­t he
retirement benefits to the entitled employees while still taking
­the guaranteed benefit in the amount of the contributions during
the vesting period into account. In return, the employees have the
opportunity to earn appropriate returns on the capital invested.
Current contribution payments in the form of annual service costs
are recognised as personnel expenses for the period in question
and disclosed in the EBIT. The net interest expense is disclosed in
net interest income/expense.
The line items for the defined benefit and defined contribution
pension obligations are as follows:
| T 068

in millions of euros
Present value of financial obligations
funded via EWE/swb-Treuhandverein
Fair value of plan assets
(EWE/swb-Treuhandverein)
Present value of financial
obligations not funded via
EWE/swb-Treuhandverein
Fair value of plan assets
Carrying amount

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

44.5

23.0

-43.1

-23.0

| T 070

in millions of euros
Present value at the beginning
of the period

2016

2015

1,761.4

1,925.5

Current service cost

34.9

42.6

Interest expense

40.4

37.8

184.3

-174.1

Actuarial (gains)/losses not
recognised in profit and loss
of which changes in
demographic assumptions
of which changes in
financial assumptions
Past service cost
Pension payments from
company assets
Present value at the end of the period

-5.5
190.5

-148.9

-92.1
-71.4

-70.4

1,857.5

1,761.4

The following table shows the performance of plan assets:
1,813.0

1,738.4

-2.4

-2.3

1,812.0

1,736.1

| T 069

Income from plan assets not
included in net interest
Employer contributions

2016

2015

Current service cost

34.9

42.6

39.9

37.4

-92.1

Total

-17.3

in millions of euros

Interest income

in millions of euros

Past service cost

| T 071

Present value at the beginning
of the period

The following values have been recognised in profit and loss:

Net interest expense

The following table shows the change in the present value of the
obligations:

80.0

The past service cost is almost entirely due to the new company
pension regulations adopted by swb in the reporting year which
provide for a transition to a contribution-based system with
­c apital cover.

Deferred compensation
Present value at the end of the period

2016

2015

25.2

20.1

0.6

0.4

0.9

0.2

17.4

3.3

1.3

1.2

45.4

25.2

Since 2010, the trust assets of EWE have been invested in Fidelity
target-date funds with target dates between 2015 and 2040,
with the capital invested on the basis of the expected retirement
dates of the entitled employees. There is a listed price in an active
­market as defined in IFRS 13 for all target funds in which the trust
assets are invested. The trust assets of EWE consist of the following: shares, 73 per cent (previous year: 74 per cent); fixed-income
securities, 17 per cent (previous year: 15 per cent); cash and cash
equivalents, 9 per cent (previous year: 10 per cent) and other
investments, 1 per cent (previous year: 1 per cent). Since December 2016, swb-Treuhandverein has existed with trust assets of
14.1 million euros that are currently located in one of its bank
accounts. In 2017 the assets will be invested in line with the
investment strategy of the trust.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

108

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following table shows the change in the present value of the
obligation:
| T 072

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Carrying amount at
beginning of period

1,736.1

1,905.4

(Income)/expense recognised
in profit and loss

-17.4

80.3

Pension payments from company
assets and contributions to
EWE/swb-Treuhandverein

-90.2

-75.0

Actuarial (gains)/losses

183.5

-174.6

1,812.0

1,736.1

Carrying amount
at the end of the period

All actuarial gains and losses of 183.5 million euros (previous year:
-174.6 million euros) were recognised in other comprehensive
income.
Pension obligations were calculated using the 2005 G Klaus
­H eubeck actuarial tables and based on the following main
­actuarial assumptions:

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Discount rate

1.75

2.50

Interest rate for plan assets

1.75

2.50

Future salary increases

2.50

2.50

Future pension increases

1.75

1.75

Labour turnover rate

0.00

0.00

In contrast to the aforementioned assumptions, the pension
­obligations calculated as at the end of the reporting period for the
swb segment are based on an annual rate of pension progression
of 0.75 per cent (previous year: 1.00 per cent), a salary trend of
2.00 per cent p.a. (previous year: 2.50 per cent p.a.) and an average
labour turnover rate of 1.25 per cent p.a. (previous year: 1.25 per
cent p.a.). In EWE segments, obligations with historically higher
adjustment rates have been measured using the adjustment rates
observed in the past and expected to continue over the long term,
including a rate of pension progression of 4.00 per cent p.a., similar
to the previous year.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Changes to the applicable actuarial assumptions would have the
following effects on the defined benefit pension obligation:
| T 074

Effect on the present value
of o
­ bligations not financed
via EWE-Treuhandverein
in millions of euros

2016

2015

Increase by 1.0%

-265.6

-245.9

Decrease by 1.0%

347.4

319.4

Change in the assumption
regarding the discount rate

regarding future salary increases
Increase by 0.5%

25.0

36.5

Decrease by 0.5%

-23.5

-34.3

regarding inflation
Increase by 0.5%

60.5

50.9

Decrease by 0.5%

-55.0

-46.5

67.9

61.5

regarding life expectancy
| T 073

Calculation assumptions/
parameters (in per cent)

Pension payments for 2017 are expected to total 69.8 million
euros. Contributions to plan assets are expected to total
13.3 million euros.

Reduction in mortality rate
by 10%

The sensitivity analyses shown each take only changes to one
assumption into account, with the remaining assumptions
­remaining unchanged with respect to the initial calculation.
The average duration of the defined benefit pension obligation
weighted on the basis of the present value of obligation
(Macaulay duration) is 17.6 years (previous year: 17.1 years).

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

109
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Defined contribution pension plans in the EWE Group relate to
statutory pension insurance. In 2016, the expense related to
employer contributions totalled 62.6 million euros (previous year:
57.4 million euros).
Statement of provisions

in millions of euros
Provisions for pensions and
similar obligations

| T 075

As at
01.01.2016 Allocations

1,736.1

30.0

Personnel-related obligations

112.2

40.3

Rehabilitation obligations

253.9

28.4

Other provisions

147.9

57.6

2,250.1

156.3

Changes
recognised
outside
of profit
and loss

Reversals

Other
changes

Interest
effect

183.5

-92.1

-14.2

39.9

-71.2

1,812.0

-8.4

1.0

3.2

-21.1

127.2

25.2

-18.0

0.7

6.2

-4.1

-2.7

1.3

-39.5

160.5

-122.6

-15.2

50.6

-131.8

2,396.1

As at
Used 31.12.2016

Miscellaneous provisions

Total

Personnel-related provisions encompass, among other items,
­obligations stemming from partial retirement plans and service
anniversaries as well as provisions for staff reduction within the
scope of the “Human Resources 2017” programme. In contrast,
an allocation to the restructuring provision was made for the
­reorganisation of the employee tariff.
Provisions for rehabilitation are primarily formed to cover the cost
of rehabilitation and deconstruction of underground gas storage
facilities and wind farms in the event of abandonment, as well as
the costs of power plant deconstruction and land rehabilitation,
including the disposal of existing waste due to ground contamination from the past operation of a natural gas plant. The provisions
for underground gas storage facilities are formed as a result of a
legal obligation. The amount of provisions to recognise for underground gas storage facilities is based on external expert reports.
The geological particularities of some of the underground gas

208.7

296.4

storage facilities required additional allocations. Provisions for
underground gas storage facilities and wind farms are disclosed
under non-current liabilities, as no rehabilitation or deconstruction work is expected in the near future. Provisions for rehabilitation are recognised at the amount needed to settle the obligation,
discounted to the end of the reporting period. A discount rate of
2.5 per cent p.a. was used in the reporting year (previous year:
2.5 per cent p.a.).
The remaining other provisions are primarily related to contingent
obligations arising from pending transactions, risks of litigation,
invoicing and storage obligations as well as obligations for environmental restoration measures.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

110

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

30. BONDS
An overview of all outstanding bonds is presented in the following
table:
| T 076

in millions of euros

Carrying amount
as at
Maturity date
31.12.2016

Interest rate

Nominal
volume

Carrying amount
as at
31.12.2015

Nominal
volume

50.0

50.0

Bearer bond

Three-month
­Euribor +0.20%

July 2016

Bearer bond

Three-month
­Euribor +0.25%

September 2016

50.0

50.0

Bearer bond

1.350%

November 2016

50.0

50.0

Bearer bond

Three-month
­Euribor +0.25%

January 2017

50.0

50.0

Bearer bond

Three-month
­Euribor +0.28%

March 2017

50.0

50.0

50.0

50.0

Bearer bond

0.625%

December 2017

49.9

50.0

49.9

50.0

Eurobond (15 years)

4.875%

October 2019

372.2

372.4

499.7

500.0

Eurobond (9 years)

4.125%

November 2020

354.3

365.3

481.5

500.0

Eurobond (12 years)

5.250%

July 2021

461.0

463.9

496.3

500.0

Bearer bond

4.000%

September 2032

49.9

50.0

49.9

50.0

Accrued interest
Total

50.0

50.0

18.3

21.3

1,405.6

1,401.6

1,848.6

1,850.0

31. L IABILITIES TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
| T 077

31.12.2016
in millions of euros
Liabilities to financial institutions

The fixed-interest current and non-current liabilities to financial
institutions totalling 207.1 million euros (previous year: 255.8 million euros) generally carry an average interest rate of 4.07 per
cent p.a. (previous year: 3.97 per cent p.a.). The average remaining
fixed-interest period is 1.59 to 2.83 years (previous year: 36 days
to 4.37 years).
The variable-interest current and non-current liabilities to financial institutions totalling 307.6 million euros in the previous year
generally carried an average interest rate of 0.80 per cent p.a.
The average remaining fixed-interest period was 299 days.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

31.12.2015

Non-current

Current

Non-current

Current

130.7

76.4

267.3

296.1

32. TRADE PAYABLES
Trade payables are due within one year and are primarily denominated in euros.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

111
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

33. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
| T 078

31.12.2016
in millions of euros
Liabilities from contributions by silent partners
Derivative financial instruments

Non-current

Current

225.0
54.5

Security deposits
Personnel-related liabilities

31.12.2015
Non-current
225.0
166.9

136.4

127.4
3.1

Current

58.3

338.2
130.1

3.2

56.8

Outstanding invoices and credit notes

49.8

61.0

Liabilities to companies with which an investment relationship exists

39.0

543.8

Liabilities from guaranteed dividends

26.6

2.8

Grant agreements with EWE Research Institute

2.0

2.0

Research and development

0.8

0.7

Remaining other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities

28.3

2.0

1.1

1.7

5.0

5.0

53.8

6.4

59.8

317.0

500.7

400.4

1,198.4

The security deposits primarily comprise payments that Bursagaz
Bursa Şehiriçi Doğalgaz Dağıtım Ticaret ve Taahhüt A.Ş., Bursa,
Turkey, and Kayserigaz Kayseri Doğalgaz Dağıtım Pazarlama ve
Ticaret A.Ş., Kayseri, Turkey, receive from all new customers upon
the conclusion of a contract and which are repayable upon termination of the contract. These liabilities are classified as current as
customers have the ability to terminate their contract at any time.
These security deposits cannot be realised otherwise.
The decrease in current liabilities to companies with which an
investment relationship exists resulted primarily from the share
buyback and is directly associated with the change in equity.
34. OTHER NON-FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
| T 079

31.12.2016
in millions of euros

Non-current

31.12.2015
Current

Tax liabilities

83.9

Advance payments for orders

22.1

Non-current

Current
47.6
22.8

Remaining other non-financial liabilities

9.6

10.8

10.5

10.8

Other non-financial liabilities

9.6

116.8

10.5

81.2

EWE Integrated Report 2016

112

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

35. DEFERRED TAXES
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are spread over the
­following line items:
| T 080

31.12.2016
in millions of euros

Asset

Liability

2.4
26.1

Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment

31.12.2015

Other assets

Asset

Liability

128.5

0.8

136.7

517.9

12.3

546.9

3.7

66.1

5.8

40.5

32.2

712.5

18.9

724.1

Inventories

1.4

4.5

0.3

10.3

Receivables

2.6

1.8

3.2

4.5

Other assets

9.5

145.7

30.8

135.5

13.5

152.0

34.3

150.3

Non-current assets

Current assets
Building subsidies

189.1

Emission permits

189.7
0.7

Pension provisions

262.5

Other provisions

102.7
51.9

1.0
241.9

0.4

2.0

92.1

1.4

4.0

58.9

6.8

606.2

6.7

582.6

9.6

Building subsidies

10.2

6.4

9.4

6.5

Emission permits

9.1

Liabilities
Non-current liabilities

Other provisions

9.8

14.1

7.9

17.4

Liabilities

129.2

5.0

182.8

6.2

Current liabilities

162.6

19.3

219.4

15.7

Deferred taxes for the balance sheet heading

814.5

890.5

855.2

899.7

Loss carryforwards

0.6

Deferred taxes before offsetting
Offsetting
Deferred taxes after offsetting

The amount of taxable loss carryforwards for which no deferred
tax assets have been recognised was 10.0 million euros as at the
end of the reporting year (previous year: 3.3 million euros). The
taxable loss carryforwards can be used without restriction.
No deferred tax assets were formed for the aforementioned
­taxable loss carryforwards as the company does not expect to
realise the tax assets in the foreseeable future.
As in the previous year, the amount of temporary differences for
which no deferred tax assets were recognised in the statement of
financial position was 0.0 million euros.
EWE Integrated Report 2016

3.0

1.1

815.1

890.5

856.3

899.7

-782.7

-782.7

-757.9

-757.9

32.4

107.8

98.4

141.8
| T 081

in millions of euros
Tax receivables

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

37.8

14.0

Tax liabilities

-94.0

-69.0

Actual income taxes

-56.2

-55.0

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities
Deferred taxes
Total

32.4

98.4

-107.8

-141.8

-75.4

-43.4

-131.6

-98.4

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

113
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The amount of temporary differences in connection with shares
in subsidiaries and associated companies for which no deferred
tax liabilities were recognised in the reporting year pursuant to
IAS 12.39 was 298.5 million euros (previous year: 353.4 million
euros).

It has no other contingent liabilities. In the previous year, other
contingent liabilities totalling 5.4 million euros were linked to an
asset swap.
The company also has standard long-term supply contracts for
gas and electricity.

36. C
 ONTINGENT RECEIVABLES/CONTINGENT
LIABILITIES AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS

37. LEASES

Contingent receivables

Obligations from operating leases

Contingent receivables from guarantees totalling 11.3 million
euros were recognised as at 31 December 2016 (previous year:
9.8 million euros).

Financial obligations from operating leases are primarily associated with real estate, vehicles, an underground gas storage facility
and other property, plant and equipment. The leases have different terms and conditions. The lease payments for office buildings
are adjusted regularly in line with price indices.

Guarantees
As at the reporting date, guarantees were recognised in the
amount of 460.7 million euros (previous year: 102.9 million
euros), of which 56.7 million euros (previous year: 58.2 million
euros) had been issued to creditors of an associated company
and 0.0 million euros (previous year: 0.3 million euros) were
related to financial liabilities.
Obligations to purchase intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment
Contractual obligations of 9.8 million euros have been recognised
in connection with the acquisition of intangible assets (previous
year: 10.7 million euros). Contractual obligations of 53.7 million
euros have been recognised in connection with the acquisition of
property, plant and equipment (previous year: 81.2 million euros).
These ­p rimarily concern purchase commitments in connection
with the construction of wind parks and the expansion of supply
­n etworks and technical plants.
Other contingent liabilities and obligations
As part of an interest in a power plant company, EWE is obliged
to contribute financing for the construction of a new power plant
proportionate to the size of the interest. The amount of the
­contribution is calculated on the basis of the agreed investment
plan and totals 2.5 million euros less payments rendered (previous
year: 4.7 million euros). EWE also has a contingent obligation to
provide additional contributions of no more than 5 per cent of its
share of equity amounting to 2.2 million euros (previous year:
2.2 million euros). EWE does not currently expect this obligation
to provide additional contributions to be called upon.

The following table shows future accumulated minimum lease
payments from non-terminable operating leases:
| T 082

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

up to one year

25.7

24.6

between one and five years

53.8

69.8

more than five years
Total

63.7

88.8

143.2

183.2

Minimum lease payments from leases recognised in profit and
loss in the 2016 reporting period totalled 26.7 million euros
­( previous year: 27.4 million euros).
38. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives with respect to capital management
include securing the company’s continued existence as a going
concern, optimising its capital structure and maintaining
financial flexibility.
Long-term capital management at the EWE Group is based on an
analysis of the optimal capital structure considering both equity
and borrowings. Activities to optimise the capital structure focus
on minimising the total cost of capital and imply a target rating in
the A range for the EWE Group.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

114

Equity consists of equity attributable to the parent company’s
shareholders and minority interests.
Equity and total assets stood at:
| T 083

in millions of euros
Total equity
Equity ratio in %
Total assets

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

1,941.9

1,749.2

23.0

18.0

8,435.2

9,744.3

39. D
 ERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND
HEDGE ACCOUNTING
a) Strategy and targets
The EWE AG Board of Management defines the risk management
policy for the EWE Group; the implementation of this policy is the
responsibility of the departments across the Group. Financial risks
are identified, evaluated and hedged against. The prior approval
of the risk committee is required for hedging strategies which
deviate from the guidelines. The risk committee is also informed
on a regular basis about the extent and value of risk exposure.

Derivative financial instruments are only entered into with contractual partners with a high degree of creditworthiness. To hedge
against price risks, the EWE Group utilises power futures, gas
futures, coal swaps, oil swaps, EUA and CER futures contracts and
forward exchange contracts.
In some cases, hedging relationships are not recognised in the
statement of financial position. Derivatives for which hedge
accounting is not possible (IAS 39.88) or sensible are included
within the scope of financial hedges. Opportunistic trading
­p ositions are limited in terms of their scope and impact on
­earnings.
An effectiveness test using either the critical term match method,
the cumulative dollar-offset method or by means of regression
analysis is carried out to assess the effectiveness of a hedging
relationship (cash flow hedges).
The nominal volume of the derivatives shown below is shown
without offsetting. The amount of the nominal volume allows
conclusions to be drawn as to the extent of the use of derivatives.
It does not reflect the Group’s risk, however, since the derivative
transactions at the end of the reporting period are offset or, in the
future, will be offset by hedged items with countervailing risks.
b) Derivatives without a hedging relationship
The following table shows the derivatives which do not qualify
for hedge accounting but are still used to hedge an existing risk
position.
| T 084

Nominal volume
in millions of euros
Currency derivatives

Fair value

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

236.0

332.6

0.8

0.7

1,730.6

1,226.3

17.8

-47.2

1,559.0

18.7

Commodity derivatives
Power futures
Other commodity derivatives
Other derivatives
Total

EWE Integrated Report 2016

0.1
0.1
1,966.7

-0.2
0.1
-46.7

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

115
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

c) Fair value hedges
With regard to commodities, in the past fair value hedges were
recognised at fixed prices in order to hedge gas price risks (the risk
of changes in fair value) resulting from distribution transactions.
Hedges based on the TTF (Title Transfer Facility) gas price index
were used as hedging instruments. The market value of the previously hedged item which exists upon dissolution of the hedging
relationship in 2014 remains accounted for until settlement. In the
reporting year, decreases totalling 4.4 million euros resulting from
settlements were recognised as other operating expenses. As at
the reporting date, the market values resulting from distribution
transactions were positive at 1.5 million euros.
d) Cash flow hedges
Cash flow hedges are primarily used in the Group’s business
­o perations to hedge price risks in the purchase of gas, the
­purchase of coal and CO2 certificate trading, as well as to
hedge foreign currency risks.
To hedge cash flow fluctuations stemming from future, highly
probable gas purchases, financial price hedges are used (such as
TTF swaps), while electricity forward contracts are used to hedge
against cash flow fluctuations from highly probable electricity
purchases. These contracts are realised in profit and loss within
the following five business years.
At the end of the reporting period, the recognised fair values of
derivatives used as commodity cash flow hedges were made up

of positive market values of 225.6 million euros (previous year:
75.0 million euros) and negative market values totalling 133.3 million euros (previous year: 326.5 million euros). In the reporting
period, the effective portion of commodity cash flow hedges with a
value of 112.1 million euros (previous year: -178.6 million euros) was
recognised in other comprehensive income. The ineffective portion
totalled 0.2 million euros (previous year: 4.5 million euros). The
basis adjustment totalled 8.3 million euros (previous year: 10.9 million euros). Commodity hedging transactions resulted in an effect
recognised as an expense in profit and loss totalling 110.7 million
euros (previous year: 54.7 million euros). The hedged cash flows will
be received in the following five years. The entire impact on profit
and loss is expected within the same period of time.
At the end of the reporting period, the recognised fair values
of derivatives used as currency cash flow hedges were made up
of positive market values of 14.9 million euros (previous year:
17.7 million euros) and negative market values totalling 0.3 million
euros (previous year: 3.2 million euros). In the reporting period,
the effective portion of currency cash flow hedges with a value of
6.5 million euros (previous year: 12.1 million euros) was recognised
in other comprehensive income. The basis adjustment totalled
-6.1 million euros (previous year: -9.8 million euros). Currency
hedging transactions resulted in an effect recognised as an
expense in profit and loss totalling 0.2 million euros (previous
year: -0.7 million euros). To hedge foreign currency risks, EWE
uses forward exchange contracts whose settlement and recognition in profit and loss can fall within the next three years.
Derivatives in connection with cash flow hedges:
| T 085

Nominal volume
in millions of euros
Currency derivatives

Fair value

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

174.2

231.4

14.6

14.5

1,159.5

1,055.1

19.4

-5.0

793.7

893.7

72.9

-246.5

2,127.4

2,180.2

106.9

-237.0

Commodity derivatives
Power futures
Other commodity derivatives
Total

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

116

40. A
 DDITIONAL DISCLOSURES CONCERNING
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
a) D
 isclosures related to financial instrument categories
under IAS 39, classes under IFRS 7 and fair value levels
The following is an overview of EWE AG’s disclosures related to
financial instrument categories under IAS 39, classes under IFRS 7
and fair value levels:
Carrying amounts, bases of recognition and fair values by measurement category
Measurement
category
pursuant to
IAS 39

Carrying
amount
as at
31.12.2016

Basis of recognition under IAS 39

Amortised
cost

in millions of euros

Fair value
as at
31.12.2016

Historical
cost

Fair value
recognised
outside of
profit and
loss

1.2

304.9

Fair value
recognised in
profit and
loss

Assets
Other non-current assets
Loans and receivables

LaR

116.2

Shares

AfS

306.1

FAHfT

28.1

116.2

116.4
306.1

Financial assets measured at fair value
Derivatives without a
hedging relationship
Derivatives with a
hedging relationship

28.1

N/A

76.2

LaR

764.8

Securities

AfS

99.8

Securities

FAHfT

3.7

LaR

124.2

124.2

124.2

LaR

351.3

351.3

351.3

FAHfT

78.4

N/A

164.3

Trade receivables

76.2

28.1
76.2

764.8

764.8

Other receivables and assets

Other financial assets
Liquid assets

99.8

99.8
3.7

3.7

Financial assets measured at fair value
Derivatives without a
hedging relationship
Derivatives with a
hedging relationship

EWE Integrated Report 2016

78.4
164.3

78.4
164.3

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

117
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| T 086

Carrying
amount
as at
31.12.2015

Basis of recognition under IAS 39

Amortised
cost

105.5

Historical
cost

Fair value
recognised
outside of
profit and
loss

1.3

258.1

Fair value
recognised in
profit and
loss

105.5

259.4

105.5

25.2

259.4

25.2

39.3
895.1

Fair value
as at
31.12.2015

39.3

25.2
39.3

895.1

895.1

4.8

4.8

4.8

103.6

103.6

103.6

352.0

352.0

352.0

72.9
53.5

72.9
53.5

72.9
53.5

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

118

Measurement
category
pursuant to
IAS 39

Carrying
amount
as at
31.12.2016

Basis of recognition under IAS 39

Amortised
cost

in millions of euros

Fair value
as at
31.12.2016

Historical
cost

Fair value
recognised
outside of
profit and
loss

Fair value
recognised in
profit and
loss

Equity and liabilities
Bonds

FLAC

1,405.6

1,405.6

1,643.4

Liabilities to credit institutes

FLAC

207.1

207.1

210.9

Trade payables

FLAC

598.1

598.1

598.1

Other liabilities

FLAC

596.3

596.3

599.7

FLHfT

87.8

N/A

133.6

Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Derivatives without a
hedging relationship
Derivatives with a
hedging relationship

87.8
133.6

87.8
133.6

Of which aggregated into
measurement categories (IAS 39):
Loans and receivables (LaR)

1,356.5

Available-for-sale
financial assets (AfS)

405.9

Financial assets held
for trading (FAHfT)

110.2

Financial liabilities measured at
amortised cost (FLAC)
Financial liabilities held
for trading (FLHfT)

EWE Integrated Report 2016

2,807.1
87.8

1,356.5

1,356.7
1.2

404.7

405.9
110.2

2,807.1

110.2
3,052.1

87.8

87.8

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

Carrying
amount
as at
31.12.2015

119
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Fair value
as at
31.12.2015

Basis of recognition under IAS 39

Amortised
cost

Historical
cost

Fair value
recognised
outside of
profit and
loss

Fair value
recognised in
profit and
loss

1,848.6

1,848.6

2,113.9

563.4

563.4

578.4

667.8

667.8

667.8

1,124.2

1,124.2

1,126.3

144.9

144.9

329.7

1,456.2

329.7

144.9

1,456.2
1.3

102.9
4,204.0

329.7

1,456.2

259.4

144.9

258.1

259.4
102.9

4,204.0

102.9
4,486.4

144.9

144.9

EWE Integrated Report 2016

120

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The fair value of financial instruments is measured solely on a
recurring basis.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset
or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date.
Available-for-sale financial assets encompass securities and
non-consolidated interests that are not traded on an active
­market. The fair value of unlisted equity instruments is generally
calculated using the discounted cash flow method. Unlisted equity
instruments whose fair value could not be reliably measured due
to a lack of sufficient recently planning data are measured at cost.
EWE had no intention to dispose of these instruments as at the
end of the reporting period.
Trade receivables, other receivables and assets as well as cash and
cash equivalents have short periods until maturity. For this reason,
their carrying amounts at the end of the reporting period generally correspond to their fair value. The maximum default risk is
reflected by the carrying amounts of the assets recognised in the
statement of financial position.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is dependent
on trends in the underlying market factors. Each fair value is
measured and reviewed at regular intervals.
Derivative financial instruments are governed by conventional
­offsetting agreements. Derivative transactions are generally
­conducted on the basis of standard agreements which enable the
netting of all outstanding transactions with business partners
under certain conditions.
Interest rate swaps, forward exchange contracts, coal swaps, gas
price hedging contracts (swaps) and CO2 forwards are measured
using the standard market valuation method with maximum
­consideration given to observable market data such as currency
spot and futures rates, yield curves and hourly price forward
curves.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Listings on active markets are used as a reference for the measurement of commodity derivatives. If there are no listings available
(due to insufficient liquidity in the market, for example), fair values are calculated on the basis of recognised valuation methods.
When available, trades that are identical to stock exchange transactions on the over-the-counter market are measured on the basis
of the published closing rates of each stock exchange. The fair
­v alues of unlisted products are measured on the basis of publicly
available broker quotes or, if not available, on the basis of recognised valuation methods using internal data. The risk of default is
measured. Energy deals conducted as part of commodity transactions are generally subject to EFET (European Federation of Energy
Traders) agreements. Risks of default are accounted for by taking
netting agreements into consideration.
With regard to derivatives, the credit and debit value adjustment
(CVA/DVA) resulted in an expense of minor significance, similar to
the previous year.
The fair value of exchange-traded bonds corresponds to the nominal value of the bonds multiplied by the quoted price at the end of
the reporting period. As at 31 December 2016, the fair value of the
bonds exceeded their carrying amount.
The fair value of other non-exchange traded, fixed-interest bonds
or fixed-interest liabilities to credit institutions is measured as
the present value of the payments stemming from these liabilities
based on the applicable yield curves. When it comes to floating-­
rate liabilities to credit institutions, it is assumed that the carrying
amount will generally correspond to fair value due to the regular
adjustments made to the interest rates on the basis of current
market parameters.
Trade payables and other liabilities primarily have short maturities; the carrying amounts are therefore generally equivalent to
fair value.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

121
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following table allocates financial instruments measured at
fair value to the three levels of the fair value hierarchy:
| T 087

31.12.2016
in millions of euros

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

304.9

304.9

328.4

18.6

347.0

328.4

323.5

755.3

Financial assets at fair value
Shares
Securities

103.4

Derivative financial instruments
Total

103.4

103.4

Financial liabilities at fair value
Derivative financial instruments
Total

221.4

221.4

221.4

221.4

| T 088

31.12.2015
in millions of euros

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

258.1

258.1

182.4

8.5

190.9

182.4

266.6

453.8

Financial assets at fair value
Shares
Securities

4.8

Derivative financial instruments
Total

4.8

4.8

Financial liabilities at fair value
Derivative financial instruments
Total

The levels of the fair value hierarchy and their application to
assets and liabilities are described below:
»» Level 1: L isted (non-adjusted) prices for identical assets or
­liabilities in active markets.
»» Level 2: I nputs other than listed market prices that are
­observable for the asset or liability, either directly
(i.e. prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
»» Level 3: I nputs for assets and liabilities that are not based
on observable market data.

0.1

465.0

9.5

474.6

0.1

465.0

9.5

474.6

At the end of each reporting period, a review is conducted to
determine if there is a reason to reclassify assets or liabilities into
or out of a valuation level. During the reporting period ending on
31 December 2016, EWE did not reclassify any assets or liabilities
between levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, nor did it reclassify any assets or liabilities into or out of level 3 of the hierarchy.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

122

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Changes to fair values in level 3
The following table provides an overview of financial instruments
allocated to level 3 of the fair value hierarchy:
| T 089

in millions of euros
As at 01.01.2016

Interests
(assets)

Derivative financial
instruments
(assets)

Derivative financial
instruments
(liabilities)

258.1

8.5

9.5

10.0

-9.5

Other operating income and other operating expenses
recognised in profit and loss
Gains and losses from other interests recognised in profit and loss
(fair value of available-for-sale financial instruments)

-0.1

Gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income
(market fluctuations of available-for-sale financial instruments)

41.3

Purchases

10.9

Sales

-5.3

As at 31.12.2016

304.9

0.1
18.6

| T 090

in millions of euros
As at 01.01.2015

Interests
(assets)

Derivative financial
instruments (assets)

Derivative financial
instruments
(liabilities)

191.0

25.4

43.7

-16.9

-34.2

8.5

9.5

Other operating income and other operating expenses
recognised in profit and loss
Gains and losses from other interests recognised in profit and loss
(market fluctuations of available-for-sale financial instruments)

-6.2

Gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income
(market fluctuations of available-for-sale financial instruments)

49.6

Purchases
As at 31.12.2015

The fair values of interests classified in level 3 are calculated using
the discounted cash flow method based on planning figures from
several periods for the cash flows to be discounted and assuming
sustainable terminal value. This category includes non-exchangetraded equity instruments with fair values that can be determined
with a sufficient degree of reliability. A hypothetical change to
the WACC by +/-1 per cent would result in a theoretical decrease
in fair values of 65.3 million euros (previous year: decrease of
58.0 million euros) or an increase of 136.6 million euros (previous
year: increase of 109.6 million euros). A hypothetical change to
EBIT by +/-10 per cent would result in a theoretical increase in fair
values of 24.2 million euros (previous year: increase of 24.9 million euros) or a decrease of 24.2 million euros (previous year:
decrease of 24.9 million euros).

EWE Integrated Report 2016

23.7
258.1

As at 31 December 2016, level 3 derivative financial instruments
include gas contracts which also apply to trading periods for
which there are still no active markets. In particular, this applies
to gas contracts linked to oil prices, the valuation of which is
dependent on future changes in the wholesale market prices of
gas and oil, amongst other factors. All else being equal, when
gas prices rise or oil prices fall, the market price of these supply
­contracts rises. To measure the value of contracts with volume
flexibility, EWE utilises a valuation model which includes Monte
Carlo simulations that makes it possible to determine a price of
the contract options.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

123
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

b) Offsetting financial instruments
The following overview shows the financial assets and financial
liabilities that have not yet been offset, yet are subject to global
netting agreements or similar agreements. The fair value of
pledged and received financial collateral is based on margin
­payments.
| T 091

Offsetting of financial assets and financial
­liabilities as at 31.12.2016 in millions of euros

Recognised
gross values

Offsetting

Disclosed
net values

Values that
cannot be
offset

Fair value
of financial
collateral
received

Net value

Derivatives (assets)

347.0

347.0

-155.8

-14.1

177.1

Derivatives (liabilities)

221.4

221.4

-155.8

-10.7

54.9

| T 092

Offsetting of financial assets and financial
­liabilities as at 31.12.2015 in millions of euros

Recognised
gross values

Offsetting

Disclosed
net values

Values that
cannot be
­offset

Derivatives (assets)

190.9

190.9

-117.4

Derivatives (liabilities)

474.6

474.6

-117.4

Fair value
of financial
collateral
received

Net value

-0.6

356.6

73.5

EWE Integrated Report 2016

124

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

c) Net profit/loss by measurement category
The following table provides an overview of net profit and loss
(excluding profit/loss sharing and dividends) by IAS 39 category:
| T 093

from interest

from subsequent measurement

Net profit/loss

Impairment
loss/reversal of
impairment

at fair value

Currency
translation

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2.9

11.3

-12.0

Available-for-sale financial assets (AfS)

37.8

51.5

-0.1

Financial instruments held for trading
(FAHfT and FLHfT)

92.1

13.5

129.9

65.0

in millions of euros

Loans and receivables (LaR)

2016

2015

13.0

16.4

Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
(FLAC)

-168.9

-153.7

Total

-155.9

-137.3

2.9

11.3

-12.1

2016

2015

-10.9

3.9

16.8

-6.2

37.7

45.3

92.1

13.5

-168.9

-153.7

-35.2

-78.1

-17.1

Interest income and expenses from financial instruments are
­recognised in the item net interest income/expense. Other
­components of net profit/loss are recognised in other operating
income and expenses as well as in profit/loss from investments.

Furthermore, Group companies are provided with funds for
­long-term financing purposes. Fund-raising on the banking and
capital markets is generally carried out by EWE AG at the level
of the parent company.

41. RISK MANAGEMENT

The EWE Group manages its liquidity by maintaining a sufficient
supply of cash, cash equivalents and lines of credit with banks,
and by means of the cash inflows from operations. Financial
­f lexibility is secured with bilateral credit lines as well as a syndicated, revolving credit facility of 750.0 million euros. The term of
the syndicated, revolving credit facility ends in November 2021.
This credit line is used for general equipment finance. As at
31 December 2016, EWE had drawn on a total of 0.0 million euros
of this credit line (previous year: 175.0 million euros). The bilateral
credit lines available as at the reporting date totalled 409.4 million euros (previous year: 433.9 million euros). Of this amount,
120.4 million euros (previous year: 55.2 million euros) has been
drawn on in some form, including as guarantees.

Liquidity risks
The liquidity risk of a company is the risk that it is unable to meet
its financial obligations. In order to ensure that it remains solvent,
the EWE Group obtains the majority of the funds needed to finance
working capital and investments from the proceeds of business
operations and external financing. The EWE Group ­monitors the risk
of a liquidity shortfall continuously by means of liquidity planning.
The maturity periods of financial investments and financial assets
are taken into consideration, as are expected cash flows from operating activities.
As part of operative liquidity management, the EWE Group pools
all of its liquid assets on a daily basis. In this context, Group
­companies with excess liquidity are obliged to pool it centrally
and provide companies with liquidity shortfalls with the funds
they require.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

The EWE Group has not made any financial covenants whatsoever
in relation to financing agreements.
The liquidity held with banks as well as the current and non-­
current lines of credit provide EWE AG with sufficient flexibility
to cover the Group’s liquidity needs.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

125
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following overview of the maturity of financial liabilities
shows future repayments on the primary financial liabilities.
| T 094

in millions of euros
31.12.2016

Cash flows
< 1 year

1 – 5 years

> 5 years

-209.9

-1,388.6

-72.0

-78.3

-123.1

-12.3

-2.8

-11.1

-22.1

Trade payables

-598.1

-3.0

-0.1

Other financial liabilities

-330.8

-47.9

-354.3

Original financial liabilities:
Bonds
Liabilities to financial institutions
Liabilities from guaranteed dividends

| T 095

in millions of euros
31.12.2015

Cash flows
< 1 year

1 – 5 years

> 5 years

Bonds

-224.5

-1,419.0

-600.3

Liabilities to financial institutions

-305.1

-264.7

-15.8

-2.0

-11.1

-25.0

Trade payables

-667.8

-5.5

-0.1

Other financial liabilities

-858.1

-45.3

-364.5

Original financial liabilities:

Liabilities from guaranteed dividends

Cash flows from power derivatives (not own use)

| T 096

31.12.2016
in millions of euros
Cash outflows

31.12.2015

< 1 year

1 – 5 years

< 1 year

1 – 5 years

-441.7

-167.9

-372.2

-184.4

Cash inflows

370.3

179.7

287.0

211.6

Net cash flows

-71.4

11.8

-85.2

27.2

The cash flows apply to electricity derivatives with negative fair
values of 106.7 million euros (previous year: 75.1 million euros)
as well as positive fair values of 126.1 million euros (previous year:
69.9 million euros). From a business perspective, it is only sensible
to consider all cash inflows and outflows from the trading of all
electricity derivatives (acquisitions and sales). The own-use line
items that are of importance in this context are not presented
in the table above as they are not financial instruments as defined
by IFRS.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

126

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Gas derivative cash flows (not own use)

| T 097

31.12.2016
in millions of euros
Cash outflows
Cash inflows
Net cash flows

The cash flows apply to gas derivatives with negative fair values
of 63.9 million euros (previous year: 294.1 million euros) as
well as positive fair values of 144.7 million euros (previous year:
46.3 million euros). From a business perspective, it is only sensible
to consider all cash inflows and outflows from the trading of all
gas derivatives (acquisitions and sales). The own-use line items
that are of importance in this context are not presented in the
table above as they are not financial instruments as defined by
IFRS. The gas derivatives are part of the other commodity
­derivatives (not own use).

31.12.2015

< 1 year

1 – 5 years

< 1 year

1 – 5 years

-668.0

-167.9

-534.1

-162.3

380.5

179.7

113.2

15.9

-287.5

11.8

-420.9

-146.4

Trading deals can give rise to risks stemming from financial
­difficulties or the ability to deliver on the part of the business and
trading partner. The risk can come to bear if the trading partner
defaults (such as in the case of insolvency), and can consist of:
»» L oss of receivables for physical goods and financial
­transactions;
»» Repurchase risk arising from purchase contracts and
price increases;
»» N on-acceptance risk arising from sales contracts,
if prices have since declined.

Credit risks
Credit risk describes the threat of a financial loss if a business or
trading partner is not able to meet its contractual obligations.
Within the scope of normal business operations, trade receivables
are continuously monitored. The risk of default is taken into
account through the recognition of specific valuation allowances
and lump-sum valuation allowances. The most significant credit
risks to which the EWE Group is exposed arise in the business with
customers in contracts with special terms, in energy and foreign
exchange trading and the investment of liquid assets. In order to
limit credit risks arising from financial difficulties or insolvency in
the business with customers in contracts with special terms, offers
are only presented to new customers with excellent credit ratings.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Potential default risks are limited by means of specific changes in
framework agreements with trading partners. These framework
agreements set forth the general terms for individual contracts in
order to allow them to be transacted efficiently. Together with
the joint arrangements for amending the framework agreement –
usually a framework agreement from the European Federation of
Energy Traders (EFET) or a German framework agreement for
financial futures (Deutscher Rahmenvertrag für Finanztermin­
geschäfte (DRV) – they help ensure that business is conducted in
an orderly and risk-focused manner. The framework agreements
include stipulations governing collateral to be provided, if necessary, as well as on measures to protect the parties from losses
due to insolvency, among other clauses.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

127
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

To minimise the credit risk from energy trading partners, business
is preferably only concluded with trading partners with very good
to excellent credit ratings. To determine their credit score, all
trading partners are subject to an internal ranking process carried
out on a regular basis. After they have been classified in a rating
category, a limit is set for the maximum market value of open
items this partner. The internal credit rating encompasses both
quantitative and qualitative factors. If available, scores from
external rating agencies and providers of business reports (Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s, Fitch, D&B) are used wherever possible.
Transactions are only permitted with trading partners for whom a
limit in euros has been specified, and with whom the specified
limit has not yet been reached. The risk controlling division continuously monitors compliance with limits.
In connection with the investment of cash and cash equivalents,
the EWE Group is exposed to losses if the counterparty does not
meet their contractual payment obligations. Cash and cash equivalents are therefore invested solely with financial institutions as
instant access and term deposits. Furthermore, risk is also managed by diversifying across counterparties by means of a limit
­s ystem.
Market price risks
Market price risks are the risks of fluctuations in the fair value or
future cash flows of a financial instrument due to market risks.
Within the EWE Group, this primarily applies to price risks related
to commodities, currency exchange and interest.

The sensitivities used in measuring power, natural gas, coal and
emissions rights derivatives as well as for currencies and interest
rates are shown below. In this context, only derivatives accounted
for as financial instruments whose market value fluctuations
affect equity and/or profit and loss were included.
In contrast, derivatives used for the physical fulfilment of non-­
financial items in accordance with the company’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements (“own use”) are not included.
These items are not accounted for within the scope of IAS 39. As
such, the following sensitivities do not reflect the actual economic
risks and merely serve to fulfil the disclosure requirements of
IFRS 7. The economic sensitivity is regarded as low.
With the exception of CO2 transactions, no cash flow effects
result from the specified market value fluctuations. In CO2 trading, market value fluctuations are compensated for financially
through a margin deposit specified within the terms of margin
agreements.
Sensitivity analyses assume a change in the underlying market
price or exchange rate of +/-10 per cent and/or interest of
+/-100 basis points (bp) across all recognised supply years or
­p eriods.
Power
To measure, manage and limit the market price risks which affect
the entire power portfolio, a number of different strategies are
applied in conjunction with dynamic price and volume limits. The
amount of these limits is determined for a supply year and the risk
controlling team monitors compliance on a regular basis.
Overview of market price risk – power:
| T 098

Change in
price trends
in millions of euros

Impact on
profit and loss
31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Impact on other
comprehensive income
31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Power futures requiring physical fulfilment
using hedge accounting

+10%

7.9

4.7

using hedge accounting

-10%

-7.9

-4.7

Total

+10%

7.9

4.7

Total

-10%

-7.9

-4.7

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

128

Gas
Gas supply contracts with end customers with a fixed gas price
are subject to market risks. There is a risk of price changes in gas
purchase contracts with a price formula that includes variable
­elements. To minimise this risk, the energy trading division uses
futures contracts in the form of oil swaps, TTF-based or NCGbased hedges (NetConnect Germany), taking into account the
individual terms of the supply contracts.
Overview of market price risk – gas:
| T 099

Change in
price trends
in millions of euros

Impact on
profit and loss
31.12.2016

Impact on other
comprehensive income

31.12.2015

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Gas futures requiring physical fulfilment
using hedge accounting

+10%

10.5

2.6

using hedge accounting

-10%

-10.5

-3.8

not using hedge accounting

+10%

-4.6

-1.3

not using hedge accounting

-10%

5.9

1.9

Gas futures requiring financial fulfilment
using hedge accounting

+10%

66.9

55.3

using hedge accounting

-10%

-66.9

-55.3

not using hedge accounting

+10%

27.8

15.8

not using hedge accounting

-10%

-27.8

-15.8

Total

+10%

23.2

14.5

77.4

57.9

Total

-10%

-21.9

-13.9

-77.4

-59.1

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

129
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Coal
The following table shows sensitivity based on the API 2 index,
which is listed in US dollars. In this context, the EWE Group
assumes a highly efficient hedging relationship for the coal swaps
used as hedging instruments. The items were translated from
US dollars into euros at the end of each reporting period.
Overview of market price risk – coal:
| T 100

Change in
price trends

Impact on
profit and loss
31.12.2016

in millions of euros

Impact on other
comprehensive income

31.12.2015

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Coal swaps
using hedge accounting

+10%

6.8

5.2

using hedge accounting

-10%

-6.8

-5.2

not using hedge accounting

+10%

2.4

1.3

not using hedge accounting

-10%

-2.4

-1.3

Total

+10%

2.4

1.3

6.8

5.2

Total

-10%

-2.4

-1.3

-6.8

-5.2

CO2 certificates
Overview of market price risk – CO2 certificates:
| T 101

Change in
price trends
in millions of euros

Impact on
profit and loss
31.12.2016

Impact on other
comprehensive income

31.12.2015

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

CO2 futures
using hedge accounting

+10%

1.0

0.9

using hedge accounting

-10%

-1.0

-0.9

not using hedge accounting

+10%

0.7

1.5

not using hedge accounting

-10%

-0.7

-1.5

Total

+10%

0.7

1.5

1.0

0.9

Total

-10%

-0.7

-1.5

-1.0

-0.9

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

130

Currencies
The Group is mainly exposed to foreign exchange risks which
result from trading commodities, primarily gas and coal, in foreign
currencies. This risk is due to the variability of future cash flows
resulting from volatile exchange rates, especially EUR/USD,
USD/TRY and EUR/PLN. The Group uses hedges in line with its
risk management policy to minimise this risk. In this context, the
EWE Group assumes the hedging relationship consisting of the
hedged items (e.g. planned coal purchases) and the foreign
­currency futures contracts is highly efficient.
Overview of foreign exchange risk:
| T 102

Change
in exchange
rate euro/
foreign currency

Impact on
profit and loss

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

Impact on other
comprehensive income

31.12.2015

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Coal swaps
using hedge accounting

+10%

0.8

-4.9

using hedge accounting

-10%

-0.6

4.0

not using hedge accounting

+10%

0.2

not using hedge accounting

-10%

-0.2

-0.1

Forward exchange contracts
using hedge accounting

+10%

-15.4

-21.4

using hedge accounting

-10%

18.8

26.1

not using hedge accounting

+10%

not using hedge accounting

-0.9

-1.3

-10%

1.1

1.6

Total

+10%

-0.7

-1.4

-14.6

-26.3

Total

-10%

0.9

1.6

18.2

30.1

Interest
The purpose of EWE’s interest rate risk management is to manage
and monitor the interest-bearing and interest-rate-sensitive
assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position. The
objective is to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations
and risks on the Group’s earnings and assets position.

The sensitivity analyses for interest rate risk are based on the
­following assumptions:
»» C
 hanges in the market interest rates for fixed-interest
primary financial instruments only have an effect on profit
and loss for the period if these are carried at fair value.
»» Fixed-interest financial instruments carried at amortised
cost are not subject to interest rate risks.
Floating-rate financial liabilities and interest derivatives based
on variable interest rates can lead to earnings volatility.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

131
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Overview of interest rate risks:
| T 103

Change in
interest rates

Impact on
profit and loss

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

Impact on other
comprehensive income

31.12.2015

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Floating-rate liabilities to credit institutions
not using hedge accounting

+100 bp

-1.9

not using hedge accounting

-100 bp

1.3

Miscellaneous
not using hedge accounting

+100 bp

not using hedge accounting

-100 bp

Total

+100 bp

Total

-100 bp

42. SEGMENT REPORTING
The segments in the EWE Group are determined in accordance
with internal reporting approaches (a management-based
approach).

-1.0

-1.3

-1.0

-3.2

0.3
1.6

Energy and telecommunications sales as well as energy trading
and the information technology business are consolidated in the
Sales, Services and Trading segment.
The International segment encompasses EWE’s business activities
in Turkey and Poland.

The resulting segments are as follows:
»»
»»
»»
»»
»»

 enewables, Grids and Gas Storage
R
Sales, Services and Trading
International
swb
Group Central Division

In addition to power generation from renewable energy sources as
well as the gas storage business, the Renewables, Grids and Gas
Storage segment encompasses power grids, natural gas pipelines,
telecommunications networks and water and waste water.

The swb segment consists of the swb sub-group. This segment
encompasses the provision of energy and water services, especially supplying energy and water to the municipalities of Bremen
and Bremerhaven and their surrounding areas.
In addition to EWE AG as a holding company for the Group’s
­p roperty portfolio, the Group Central Division encompasses
the investments managed directly by EWE AG as well as the c
ompanies consolidated at the Group-wide level. As at 31 December 2015 the shares in VNG AG were classified as held for sale.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

132

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

SEGMENT REPORTING AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 (I/II)
| T 104

in millions of euros

Renew­
ables, Grids
and Gas
Storage
31.12.2016

Renewables, Grids
Sales,
and Gas
­S ervices
Storage and Trading
31.12.2015 31.12.2016

Sales,
­S ervices
and Trading
31.12.2015

International
31.12.2016

International
31.12.2015

759.4

REVENUE
(excluding electricity and energy taxes)
External sales

2,012.9

1,951.8

3,763.9

4,053.4

727.9

862.7

832.0

532.8

473.3

0.2

2,875.6

2,783.8

4,296.7

4,526.7

728.1

759.4

333.7

314.4

61.2

80.4

25.6

25.3

3,615.0

3,727.6

1,550.2

1,407.3

505.5

596.4

65.9

70.1

37.0

36.6

2,405.0

2,334.7

1,219.5

1,369.8

319.5

399.9

240.3

257.4

75.6

80.6

51.0

30.5

78.1

61.1

202.0

198.8

22.2

31.2

-1,970.9

-1,882.4

-3,799.7

-4,036.4

-635.1

-697.3

Personnel expenses

-192.3

-188.5

-234.8

-231.7

-25.7

-19.7

Depreciation and amortisation

-226.0

-220.9

-62.7

-65.9

-17.1

-15.4

Impairments

-144.9

-4.2

-6.1

-3.8

Other operating expenses

-276.5

-282.4

-313.7

-353.8

-38.7

-33.0

3.0

Sales between the segments
Total revenue (excluding electricity and energy taxes)
PROFIT/LOSS
Segment profit/loss (operating EBIT)
OTHER INFORMATION
Segment assets
Financial investments and securities
Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method
Income tax refund claims and deferred tax assets
Consolidated assets
Segment liabilities
Financial liabilities (bonds, liabilities to credit institutions)
Deferred taxes, tax provisions and income tax liabilities
Consolidated liabilities
Payments for investments
Other operating income
Material expenses

Income from investments

-0.9

2.2

2.4

5.4

-4.6

0.6

1.6

0.9

Significant non-cash items

-13.9

-6.6

52.1

-22.5

1.9

2.1

Employees (average)

2,079

2,042

3,213

3,188

965

832

Income from interests in associates

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

133
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

SEGMENT REPORTING AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 (II/II)
| T 105

in millions of euros

Group
­ entral
C
Division
31.12.2016

Group
­ entral
C
Division
31.12.2015

Group
31.12.2016

Group
31.12.2015

7,566.3

7,819.3

swb
31.12.2016

swb
31.12.2015

1,058.7

1,052.1

2.9

2.6

272.1

224.2

-1,667.7

-1,529.5

1,330.8

1,276.3

-1,664.8

-1,526.9

7,566.3

7,819.3

165.2

90.3

-51.1

-82.3

534.6

428.1

2,465.8

2,437.1

-320.6

1,067.8

7,815.9

9,236.2

426.1

269.7

20.1

19.3

123.0

126.0

REVENUE
(excluding electricity and energy taxes)
External sales
Sales between the segments
Total revenue (excluding electricity and energy taxes)
PROFIT/LOSS
Segment profit/loss (operating EBIT)
OTHER INFORMATION
Segment assets
Financial investments and securities
Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method
Income tax refund claims and deferred tax assets
Consolidated assets
Segment liabilities

1,680.2

1,713.3

-945.4

-445.5

Financial liabilities (bonds, liabilities to credit institutions)
Deferred taxes, tax provisions and income tax liabilities
Consolidated liabilities
Payments for investments

70.2

112.4

8,435.2

9,744.3

4,678.8

5,372.2

1,612.7

2,412.0

201.8

210.9

6,493.3

7,995.1
666.9

77.9

77.6

24.4

220.8

469.2

189.8

75.8

-56.7

-42.3

435.4

324.6

Material expenses

-889.0

-841.5

1,533.0

1,390.2

-5,761.7

-6,067.4

Personnel expenses

-200.0

-215.7

-69.7

-71.7

-722.5

-727.3

Depreciation and amortisation

-108.3

-112.6

-21.2

-21.1

-435.3

-435.9

-6.6

-135.3

-12.9

-170.5

-144.2

Other operating expenses

-156.5

-132.1

207.5

194.7

-577.9

-606.6

Income from investments

7.1

3.3

240.5

-5.8

255.2

2.9

Income from interests in associates

2.3

2.8

-24.7

-0.7

-20.4

Other operating income

Impairments

Significant non-cash items
Employees (average)

64.7

-77.6

5.4

-78.2

110.2

-182.8

2,178

2,166

613

627

9,048

8,855

EWE Integrated Report 2016

134

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following table shows external sales by product and service:
| T 106

2016
in millions of euros
Power
Gas

Renewables,
Grids and
Gas Storage

Sales,
­S ervices
and Trading

External sales

swb

Group

1,723.0

1,923.7

45.8

587.4

4,279.9

216.4

1,254.6

652.6

232.0

2,355.6

ICT
Other

International

Group
­ entral
C
­D ivision

490.9

29.3

73.5

94.7

0.2

239.3

2.9

410.6

520.2

2,012.9

3,763.9

727.9

1,058.7

2.9

7,566.3

| T 107

2015
in millions of euros
Power
Gas

Renewables,
Grids and
Gas Storage

External sales

International

swb

Group
Central
Division

Group

1,705.3

2,046.0

16.0

569.9

4,337.2

187.8

1,431.0

743.1

234.7

2,596.6

ICT
Other

Sales,
Services
and Trading

479.7

479.7

58.7

96.7

0.3

247.5

2.6

405.8

1,951.8

4,053.4

759.4

1,052.1

2.6

7,819.3

The following table shows external sales, assets and capital
expenditure by region:
| T 108

Germany
2016

Germany
2015

International
2016

International
2015

Group
2016

Group
2015

External sales

6,838.4

7,059.9

727.9

759.4

7,566.3

7,819.3

Segment assets

7,310.4

8,639.8

505.5

596.4

7,815.9

9,236.2

418.2

636.4

51.0

30.5

469.2

666.9

in millions of euros

Payments for investments

Of the total sales generated outside of Germany, 679.2 million
euros (previous year: 718.1 million euros) were generated in
­Turkey. The segment assets for Turkey total 437.5 million euros
(previous year: 537.3 million euros).
Due to EWE’s large number of customers and wide range of business activities, EWE has no customers whose volume of business
represents a significant amount in relation to the entire volume
of business of the EWE Group.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

135
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Operating EBIT can be reconciled as follows to earnings before
taxes (EBT):
| T 109

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Operating EBIT

534.6

428.1

Derivatives

87.7

-11.9

Impairments

-174.9

-150.4

Investments

243.0

-0.1

Restructuring

-21.2

-53.7

Donations

-20.0

EBIT

649.2

Interest income
Interest expenses
EBT

212.0

13.0

16.8

-219.5

-197.7

442.7

31.1

The cash flow from financing activities includes profit distributions or dividends totalling 88.0 million euros (previous year:
88.0 million euros) to EWE AG’s shareholders. This corresponds to
402.40 euros (previous year: 362.16 euros) per qualifying share.
Additionally, a special dividend of 137.5 million euros (previous
year: 0.0 million euros) was distributed to EWE AG’s shareholders.
This corresponds to 673.65 euros (previous year: 0.00 euros) per
qualifying share. No dividends were distributed to minority shareholders in the reporting year (previous year: 0.6 million euros).
Non-cash investments of 67.1 million euros (previous year:
48.4 million euros) primarily relate to the capitalisation of
­rehabilitation provisions.
As at 31 December 2016, cash and cash equivalents were not
­subject to any restrictions on use.

43. CASH FLOW STATEMENT

44. INFORMATION ON EASEMENTS

Liquid assets comprise the item cash and cash equivalents on
the statement of financial position, which consist of 351.3 million
euros (previous year: 352.0 million euros) as well as cash pooling
receivables of 0.9 million euros (previous year: 0.3 million euros).
Liquid assets encompass cash in hand and bank balances.

A number of easements – that is, agreements governing the use
of public property for electricity and natural gas, and concession
agreements in the water sector – exist between companies in the
EWE Group and the local authorities in EWE’s network areas.

To calculate cash flow from operating activities, the additions
to and reversals of provisions are presented as non-cash changes
in provisions and the use of provisions is shown in changes in
­liabilities and other components of equity and liabilities. The cash
flow from operating activities includes dividends received totalling
17.5 million euros (previous year: 65.8 million euros).
Besides a non-cash portion of 10 per cent of treasury shares,
the consideration received for the sale of the shares in VNG
(74.2 per cent) includes a cash settlement recognised under
incoming payments from the divestiture of other non-current
assets.
Payments for investments in shares in fully consolidated com­
panies essentially comprise the acquisition of the shares in
­Millenicom less the 3.4 million euros in liquid funds acquired.

In its easement agreements, the companies in the EWE Group are
given the right to use public spaces within the contractual territory for the construction, operation and maintenance of power
lines and pipelines as well as the associated equipment which
serves to directly supply end customers with power and natural
gas. The water concession agreements oblige the local authorities
in the contract territory to agree to grant EWE the exclusive use
of public spaces for the installation and operation of pipelines to
directly supply the public with water. Within the scope of these
agreements, a licence fee must be paid to the municipality for the
use of public land.
These agreements are generally entered into for a period of
20 years. If the easements are not renewed, EWE is legally obliged
to transfer the local distribution facilities to the new energy
­supplier in return for reasonable consideration.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

136

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

45. S
 ELECTION OF SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS
PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 313, SECTION 2 OF THE
HGB AS AT 31.12.2016

Name of company and location of headquarters
in thousands of euros

Interest
in %

Equity

Annual
profit/loss

Affiliated companies
Consolidated:
Bioenergie Schwarme GmbH, Bremen

100.00 1)

1,032

215

BREKOM GmbH, Bremen

100.00 1)

11,316

1,066 4)

BTC Business Technology Consulting AG, Oldenburg

100.00

BTC IT Services GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

Bursagaz Bursa Şehiriçi Doğalgaz Dağıtım Ticaret ve Taahhüt A.Ş., Bursa, Turkey

12,902

2)

1)

1,463

2)

80.00 1)

64,145

-5,138 4)

Energieversorgung Weser-Ems GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

170,171

2)

100.00

1)

Enervis Enerji Servis Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., Istanbul, Turkey

10,328

4,463 4)

EWC Windpark Cuxhaven GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

1)

2,230

610 4)

EWE Biogas GmbH & Co. KG, Wittmund

100.00

EWE Bürgerwindpark Köhlen GmbH & Co. KG, Oldenburg

-107

-779 3)

100.00

1)

19

-58 4)

EWE energia Sp. z o. o., Międzyrzecz, Poland

100.00

1)

87,825

2,546 3)

EWE Enerji A.Ş., Istanbul, Turkey

100.00

1)

18,616

15,373 4)

EWE ERNEUERBARE ENERGIEN GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

5,206

2)

EWE GASSPEICHER GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

160,090

2)

EWE NETZ GmbH, Oldenburg

96.92 5)

222,799

2)

EWE Offshore Service & Solutions GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

25

2)

EWE Polska Sp. z o. o., Poznań, Poland

100.00

94,338

285 3)

EWE TEL GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

95,908

2)

EWE TELEKOMÜNIKASYON HIZMETLERI A.Ş., Istanbul, Turkey

100.00 1)

54

-1 2), 4)

EWE TRADING GmbH, Bremen

100.00

30,026

2)

EWE Turkey Holding A.Ş., Istanbul, Turkey

100.00

272,286

7,725 4)

152,156

2)

EWE VERTRIEB GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

EWE WASSER GmbH, Cuxhaven

100.00 1)

14,216

2)

EWE Windpark Hatten GmbH, Hatten

100.00 1)

732

548 4)

EWE Windpark Köhlen GmbH & Co. KG, Oldenburg

100.00 1)

192

-554 4)

EWE-WINDSERVICE GmbH, Krummhörn

100.00 1)

407

382 4)

Gastransport Nord GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

20,790

2)

80.00 1)

24,331

6,109 4)

Millenicom Telekomünikasyon Hizmetleri A.Ş., Istanbul, Turkey

100.00 1)

-3,017

-6,831 4)

nordcom Niedersachsen GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00 1)

525

2)

99.58 1)

311,530

10,727 4)

PRO CONSULT Management- und Systemberatung GmbH, Mainz

100.00 1)

270

174

swb Abrechnungsservice GmbH, Bremen

100.00 1)

517

3,977

Kayserigaz Kayseri Doğalgaz Dağıtım Pazarlama ve Ticaret A.Ş., Kayseri, Turkey

Offshore-Windpark RIFFGAT GmbH & Co. KG, Oldenburg

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

137
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| T 110

Name of company and location of headquarters
in thousands of euros

Interest
in %

Equity

Annual
profit/loss

100.00

294,799

40,952

Affiliated companies
Consolidated:
swb AG, Bremen
swb Beleuchtung GmbH, Bremen
swb Bremerhaven GmbH, Bremerhaven

99.00 1)

250

-328

100.00 1)

1,980

7,121

77

-1,276

swb CREA GmbH, Bremerhaven

100.00

swb Entsorgung GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen

100.00 1)

140,693

8,670

swb Erzeugung AG & Co. KG, Bremen

100.00 1)

-20,730

31,007

swb Erzeugung und Entsorgung AG & Co. KG, Bremen

100.00 1)

189,463

23,042

swb Services AG & Co. KG, Bremen

100.00 1)

10,351

7,274

swb Vertrieb Bremen GmbH, Bremen

100.00 1)

7,249

32,739

swb Vertrieb Bremerhaven GmbH & Co. KG, Bremerhaven

100.00 1)

-220

3,184

swb Windpark Am Zolltor GmbH & Co. KG, Bremerhaven

100.00 1)

2,364

364

swb Windpark Essel GmbH & Co. KG, Bremerhaven

100.00 1)

1,953

-29

swb Windpark Weserufer GmbH & Co. KG, Bremerhaven

100.00 1)

3,860

452

wesernetz Bremen GmbH, Bremen

99.00 1)

211,002

43,112

wesernetz Bremerhaven GmbH, Bremerhaven

99.00 1)

34,468

7,498

wesernetz Stuhr GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen

100.00 1)

6,773

954

wesernetz Weyhe GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen

100.00 1)

4,231

963

Windfarm Elsdorf II GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00 1)

-834

-25

Windfarm Märkisch-Linden GmbH & Co. KG, Kränzlin

85.20 1)

8,208

-370

Windpark Industriehäfen GmbH & Co. KG, Bremerhaven

74.90 1)

1,760

160

Zweite EWE Offshore Beteiligungs GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

327,210

2)

Other interests:
BIBER GmbH – Bildung Betreuung Erziehung, Oldenburg

100.00

73

2)

E3/DC GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

1,115

-674 3)

ENRO Ludwigsfelde Energie GmbH, Ludwigsfelde

100.00 1)

8,180

664 3)

EWE Direkt GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00 1)

23

2)

EWE Urbanisation Dienstleistungs GmbH (UDG), Bremen

100.00

2,374

2)

Grünspar GmbH, Münster

90.00

-637

-3,705 3)

PBB GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00 1)

496

2)

proNaturWatt GmbH, Oldenburg

100.00

SOCON Sonar Control Kavernenvermessung GmbH, Giesen
TEWE Energieversorgungsgesellschaft mbH Erkner, Erkner

25

2)

62.00 1)

7,115

2,522 3)

100.00 1)

4,552

86 3)

Indirect investment
Control (including partial control) and/or profit and loss transfer agreements exist with this company.
3)
Equity and annual profit/loss are from 2015
4)
Preliminary annual profit/loss are from 2016
5)
A 95.12% interest is held indirectly.
6)
This company is recognised using the equity method as part of Hansewasser Ver- und Entsorgungs-GmbH, Bremen.
7)
This company was founded in 2016.
8)
This company has entered into a profit/loss transfer agreement with another company.
1)

2)

EWE Integrated Report 2016

138

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

T 110

Name of company and location of headquarters
in thousands of euros

Interest
in %

Equity

Annual
profit/loss

167,890

2,770 3)

59,314

-4,558 4)

Affiliated companies
Consolidated:
DOTI Deutsche Offshore-Testfeld- und Infrastruktur-GmbH & Co. KG, Oldenburg

47.50 1)

Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Bremen GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen

51.76

GWAdriga GmbH & Co. KG, Berlin

48.00

hanseWasser Bremen GmbH, Bremen

1)

7)

38.20

6)

51,774

12,050 3)

Hansewasser Ver- und Entsorgungs-GmbH, Bremen

51.00

1)

56,816

10,496 4)

htp GmbH, Hanover

50.00

30,634

3,158 3)

swb Weserwind GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen

50.00

1,894

454 4)

Trianel Windkraftwerk Borkum II GmbH & Co. KG, Oldenburg

1)

100.00

3,571

-399 3)

Weserkraftwerk Bremen GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen

50.00

1)

6,577

-711 4)

Windpark Köhlen GmbH, Oldenburg

50.00

1)

254

446 4)

Windpark Spolsen GmbH & Co. KG, Zetel

40.00

1)

2,006

478 3)

Gasversorgung Angermünde GmbH, Angermünde

49.00 1)

Stadtwerke Ludwigsfelde GmbH, Ludwigsfelde

Other interests:
2,089

216 3)

20.00

1)

12,577

1,798 3)

Stadtwerke Strausberg GmbH, Strausberg

38.38

1)

11,747

1,793 3), 8)

Städtische Betriebswerke Luckenwalde GmbH, Luckenwalde

20.00

1)

13,721

2,417 3)

Verkehr und Wasser GmbH, Oldenburg

26.00

1)

8,000

-1,782 3)

Indirect investment
Control (including partial control) and/or profit and loss transfer agreements exist with this company.
Equity and annual profit/loss are from 2015
4)
Preliminary annual profit/loss are from 2016
5)
A 95.12% interest is held indirectly.
6)
This company is recognised using the equity method as part of Hansewasser Ver- und Entsorgungs-GmbH, Bremen.
7)
This company was founded in 2016.
8)
This company has entered into a profit/loss transfer agreement with another company.
1)

2)
3)

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

139
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

46. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES

The following table shows the transactions with related parties:

Transactions with companies included in the consolidated financial statements were eliminated in the course of consolidation.
The following are deemed related companies of the EWE Group:

SHAREHOLDERS/INVESTORS IN EWE AG
| T 111

in millions of euros

»» T he controlling shareholder (EWE-Verband GmbH) or
the shareholder with the largest controlling interest
(EWE-Verband) in EWE AG;
»» Companies that exert significant influence over EWE AG
(the investor EnBW until April 2016);
»» Parties under the influence of shareholders or the investor;
»» Non-consolidated affiliated companies;
»» A ssociates accounted for using the equity method; and
»» Interests measured pursuant to IFRS 5 (VNG until April 2016).
For the EWE Group, related persons in key positions include the
members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board
of EWE AG.
Relationships with the group of shareholders are primarily of
a financial nature as well as for the exchange of commercial
­services.
The majority of the relationships with the group of companies
accounted for using the equity method and the assets measured
pursuant to IFRS 5 are supply and service relationships for natural
gas as well as financial relationships. All transactions are concluded on standard market terms.
As at 31 December 2015 the shares in VNG measured at equity
were classified as non-current assets held for sale due to EWE’s
intent to sell them. The shares (74.2 per cent) were transferred to
EnBW in April 2016. In exchange, the shareholders of EWE AG
and EWE AG itself acquired 20 per cent of the shares in EWE in
total. EnBW will retain 6 per cent of the shares in EWE by 2019 at
the latest; these shares will then be acquired by EWE-Verband.
The company has held 10 per cent of its treasury shares since
May 2016.

2016

2015

Purchase of energy

43.8

58.0

Sale of energy

38.5

25.6

Services purchased

25.0

1.0

Services rendered

13.0

14.1

Receivables

1.8

1.2

Liabilities

9.3

0.6

Purchase of properties and buildings
on other assets

0.7

ASSOCIATES ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD
AND ASSETS MEASURED PURSUANT TO IFRS 5
| T 112

in millions of euros

2016

Purchase of goods

24.4

Sale of goods

2015

0.1

Purchase of energy
including grid usage fees 1)

26.5

49.4

Sale of energy
including grid usage fees 2)

21.0

21.9

Services purchased 3)

2.3

7.1

Services rendered

19.8

24.2

Financing (loans receivable)

15.7

15.6

Consideration paid for
financial agreements (loans)
Consideration received for
financial agreements (loans)

0.2
-0.1

Guarantees, securities and
warranties granted

58.2

Receivables

18.1

5.8

Liabilities 4)

8.1

2.9

 f which 11.0 million euros to companies accounted for pursuant to IFRS 5
O
(previous year: 40.0 million euros)
2)
O f which 6.2 million euros to companies accounted for pursuant to IFRS 5
(previous year: 6.3 million euros)
3)
O f which 0.1 million euros to companies accounted for pursuant to IFRS 5
(previous year: 0.8 million euros)
4)
O f which 0.0 million euros to companies accounted for pursuant to IFRS 5
(previous year: 0.7 million euros)
1)

EWE Integrated Report 2016

140

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NON-CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATED COMPANIES

INFORMATION ON THE BOARDS OF EWE AG
| T 113

in millions of euros

31.12.2016

31.12.2015

Loans

9.0

5.0

Receivables

9.0

13.5

Cash-pooling receivables

0.9

0.4

Other receivables

0.2

Trade payables
Cash-pooling liabilities
Other liabilities

1.3

2.9

15.9

15.8

0.5

1.1

The local authorities and municipalities in our supply area
between the Ems, Weser and Elbe rivers make up the Ems-WeserElbe Versorgungs- und Entsorgungsverband (supply and disposal
association). They are supplied with power, natural gas and
­telecommunications and information services at standard market
rates.
The EWE Group concluded no significant transactions with related
individuals. The supply of power, natural gas and telecommunications services to third parties takes place at rates and with terms
and conditions comparable with those agreed upon with third
­parties.

SUPERVISORY BOARD
Dr Stephan-Andreas Kaulvers
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
Former Chairman of the Board of Management of
Bremer L­ andesbank, Hatten, Germany
Carsten Hahn
First deputy chairman
Chairman of the joint works council of EWE AG,
Osterholz-Scharmbeck, Germany
Dr Frank Mastiaux
Second deputy chairman
CEO of EnBW AG, Karlsruhe, Germany
Heiner Schönecke
Third deputy chairman
Member of the state parliament of Lower Saxony,
Neu-Wulmstorf, Germany
Bernhard Bramlage
Fourth deputy chairman
Former district administrator of the district of Leer, Leer, Germany
Wolfgang Behnke
Chairman of the Group works council of EWE AG,
Osterholz-Scharmbeck, Germany
Peter Bohlmann (from 17 May 2016)
District administrator of the district of Verden, Langwedel,
­G ermany
Stefan Brok (until 21 April 2016)
CEO of Aral AG, Gronau, Germany
Claus Christ (from 1 January 2016)
District administrator of EWE NETZ GmbH, Remels, Germany
Eckhard Dibke
Member of the works council of wesernetz Bremen GmbH/­
wesernetz Bremerhaven GmbH/swb Beleuchtung GmbH,
­G eestland, Germany
Jürgen Humer (until 31 January 2016)
General manager of ver.di trade union for the Weser-Ems district,
Verden (Aller), Germany

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

141
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
Aloys Kiepe
ver.di trade secretary for the Weser-Ems district, Emden,
Germany
Heike Klattenhoff (from 28 April 2016)
Managing director of ver.di trade union for the
Weser-Ems district, Delmenhorst, Germany
Jürgen Krogmann
Mayor of the city of Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany
Beatrix Kuhl (from 17 May 2016)
Mayor of the town of Leer, Leer, Germany
Peter Marrek
Chairman of the Group works council of swb AG,
Wilhelmshaven, Germany
Peter Meiwald
Member of German Bundestag, Westerstede, Germany
Immo Schlepper
ver.di regional department director, Lower Saxony-Bremen,
­O ldenburg, Germany
Ulrike Schlieper
SPD party chairperson on the Friesland district council, Sande,
­G ermany
Richard Venning
Employee of Field Service EWE TEL GmbH, Spenge, Germany
Johann Wimberg
District administrator of the district of Cloppenburg,
Cloppenburg, Germany

Matthias Brückmann (until 22 February 2017)
CEO of EWE AG, Oldenburg, Germany
Nikolaus Behr (until 19 September 2016)
Member of the Board of Management of EWE AG, HR and IT,
­B remen, Germany
Ines Kolmsee (until 31 December 2016)
Member of the Board of Management of EWE AG, technology,
Tutzing, Germany
Michael Heidkamp
Member of the Board of Management of EWE AG, markets,
Bad Zwischenahn, Germany
Wolfgang Mücher (from 1 March 2016)
Member of the Board of Management of EWE AG, finance,
­O ldenburg, Germany
Total compensation paid to the members of the Board of Management for their work on the Board of Management and in committees of subsidiaries totalled 4.0 million euros in the business year
(previous year: 3.8 million euros). The members of the Supervisory
board received compensation totalling 1.1 million euros (previous
year: 1.1 million euros). This total includes 0.6 million euros (previous year: 0.5 million euros) for their duties as employees.
The provision for pension obligations to active members of the
Board of Management increased during the business year by
1.7 million euros (previous year: 1.3 million euros).
The provision for pension obligations to former members of the
Board of Management and their surviving dependants totalled
41.4 million euros (previous year: 33.3 million euros); payments
totalled 1.5 million euros (previous year: 1.1 million euros).

Thomas Windgassen
Head of the Cuxhaven-Delmenhorst region,
EWE VERTRIEB GmbH, Cuxhaven, Germany
Dr Hans-Josef Zimmer (until 21 April 2016)
Member of the Board of Management of EnBW AG, technology,
Steinfeld (Rhineland-Palatinate), Germany

EWE Integrated Report 2016

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

142

47. A
 UDITOR’S FEES AND SERVICES RENDERED

49. GROUP RELATIONSHIPS

The companies consolidated within the EWE Group made use
of the following services from the auditors of the consolidated
financial statements, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (EY), as well as from companies in the international
EY network.

EWE AG’s consolidated financial statements are incorporated into
the consolidated financial statements of EWE-Verband GmbH.

| T 114

in millions of euros

2016

2015

Auditing the annual financial
statements

1.8

1.7

Other auditing services

0.1

0.2

Other services

0.7

0.6

Total

2.6

2.5

50. EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE REPORTING PERIOD
With the exception of the proposed appropriation of net profit
(see section 27), no significant events after the end of the
­reporting period are known.
Oldenburg, Germany, 3 March 2017

The Board of Management

Of the fees paid for auditing services, a total of 0.2 million euros
is attributable to companies in the international EY network, as in
the previous year.
Michael Heidkamp
48. U
 SE OF ARTICLE 264 (3) OF THE HGB
The following subsidiaries made use of the exemption under
­a rticle 264 (3) of the HGB during the 2016 business year:
»»
»»
»»
»»

EWE TEL GmbH, Oldenburg, Germany
Energieversorgung Weser-Ems GmbH, Oldenburg, Germany
nordcom Niedersachsen GmbH, Oldenburg, Germany
Zweite EWE Offshore Beteiligungs GmbH, Oldenburg,
Germany

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Wolfgang Mücher

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

143
70 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
72 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
73	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

66 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
67	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
68	STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the appli­
cable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements
give a true and fair view of the EWE Group’s assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit and loss, and the EWE Group’s management report, which is consolidated with the management report of
EWE, includes a fair review of the trends and performance of the
business and the position of the EWE Group as well as a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the
EWE Group’s expected performance.
Oldenburg, Germany, 3 March 2017

The Board of Management

Michael Heidkamp

Wolfgang Mücher

EWE Integrated Report 2016

144

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AUDIT OPINION
We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared
by EWE Aktiengesellschaft, Oldenburg, Germany, comprising
the income statement, the statement of comprehensive income,
the statement of financial position, the statement of changes in
equity, the cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated
financial statements, together with the group management report
for the fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December 2016. The
preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the
group management report in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by
the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial
law pursuant to Sec. 315a (1) HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German
Commercial Code) are the responsibility of the parent company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
consolidated financial statements and on the group management
report based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements
in accordance with Sec. 317 HGB and German generally accepted
standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by
the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (“Institute of Public Auditors
in Germany”: IDW). Those standards require that we plan and
­p erform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting
the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of
operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group
management report are detected with reasonable assurance.
Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal
environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit
procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal
control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements and the group management
report are examined primarily on a test basis within the frame-

EWE Integrated Report 2016

work of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual
­f inancial statements of those entities included in consolidation,
the determination of entities to be included in consolidation,
the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant
­e stimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the
group management report. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.
In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated
financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the
additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to
Sec. 315a (1) HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets,
financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The group management report is
consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies
with legal requirements and as a whole provides a suitable view of
the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and
risks of future development.
Bremen, Germany, 3 March 2017
Ernst & Young GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Boelsems
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

Eickhoff
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

145

FACTS AND FIGURES
2016

146
147
152
156
156
158
160

ABOUT THIS REPORT
APPENDIX OF INDICATORS
GRI CONTENT INDEX
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
INDEX
LIST OF TABLES
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017, IMPRINT, DISCLAIMER

EWE Integrated Report 2016

146

FACTS AND FIGURES

ABOUT THIS REPORT
INTEGRATED REPORT

REPORTING LIMITS

This Integrated Report 2016 is our first integrated report. It
­m erges our financial and sustainability reports and shows how
both our financial and non-financial value drivers contribute to
the success of our company. In our Integrated Report 2016,
we detail the strategic reorientation of our company, our vision,
our business performance and our responsibility as a regional
energy company. In doing so we hope to better meet the infor­
mation requirements of our stakeholders.

Unless indicated otherwise, all disclosures and statistics in this
report apply to the 2016 business year (1 January to 31 December
2016). The financial report encompasses the entire EWE Group,
i.e. EWE AG including its subsidiaries and significant interests.
See PDF Integrated Report, page 74

UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES
The report is based on the recommendations of the International
Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We report how we create
value for our company, environment and society by the following
resources: environment, plants and networks, know-how, employees, social aspects and relationships and finance. In doing so we
tie in our previous sustainability reports. This report has been
­p repared in accordance with the international G4 Core Guidelines
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and includes sector-­
specific information for energy and telecommunications.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in line
with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The report has also been submitted for the GRI Materiality
Disclosures Service and the GRI has confirmed the correctness of
the position of the G4 Materiality Disclosures (G4-17 to G4-27).

PDF

The data in the non-financial report are based on the consolidated
data of the key companies1), as defined by their strategic relevance
and coverage of at least 95 per cent of the sales generated by the
EWE Group.
The subjects most significant to us are presented in the materiality matrix on page 32 of this report. All significant aspects are
­listed in the GRI Content Index. The relevance of each key issue
within or outside of EWE is specified in the GRI Content Index.
» G4-17, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21

FORMATS
Two versions of the Integrated Report 2016 have been published.
Both can be downloaded from EWE’s website:
»» PDF Integrated Report 2016
»» PDF Integrated Report 2016 (condensed version)
Hard copies of the condensed version are also available.
EXTERNAL AUDIT AND OPINION
The consolidated financial statements have been audited by
Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft pursuant
to section 317 of the HGB with ­consideration for the auditing
standards set out by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany
(IDW). No objections were raised during the audit. The non-­
financial statistics have not been ­subjected to an external review
by an auditor.

1)

EWE Integrated Report 2016

T hese are as follows: BTC Business Technology Consulting AG, BTC IT Services GmbH, Bursagaz
Bursa ­Ş ehiriçi Doğalgaz Dağıtım Ticaret ve Taahhüt A.Ş., EWE AG, EWE VERTRIEB GmbH,
EWE energia Sp. z o.o., EWE ERNEUERBARE ENERGIEN GmbH, EWE GASSPEICHER GmbH,
EWE NETZ GmbH, EWE Offshore Service & Solutions GmbH, EWE Polska Sp. z o.o., EWE TEL
GmbH, EWE TRADING GmbH, EWE WASSER GmbH, Gastransport Nord GmbH, Kayserigaz
­K ayseri Doğalgaz Dağıtım Pazarlama ve Ticaret A.Ş., swb Abrechnungsservice GmbH, swb AG,
swb Bremerhaven GmbH, swb CREA GmbH, swb Entsorgung GmbH & Co. KG, swb Erzeugung AG & Co. KG, swb Erzeugung und Entsorgung AG & Co. KG, swb Services AG & Co. KG,
swb Vertrieb Bremen GmbH, swb ­Vertrieb Bremerhaven GmbH & Co. KG, wesernetz Bremen
GmbH, wesernetz ­B remerhaven GmbH.

FACTS AND FIGURES
146
147
152
156

ABOUT THIS REPORT
APPENDIX OF INDICATORS
GRI CONTENT INDEX
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

147
156 INDEX
158 LIST OF TABLES
160 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017, IMPRINT, DISCLAIMER

APPENDIX OF INDICATORS
Number of power connections and electricity customers
Number
Households with electricity
Households with gas
Households with phone
and Internet

Installed output (in MW thermal energy)

2016

2015

Change
(in %)

1,001,600

994,300

+0.7

872,200

862,300

+1.1

42,200

37,700

+11.9

2016

2015

Installed thermal output 4)

746

746

Refined coal

178

178

Natural gas

445

445

Waste to energy

123

123

4)

T he indicator is recorded at all large-scale combustion and gas turbine power plants
(in accordance with the 13th Federal Emission Control Act), as well as in all plants
that incinerate or co-incinerate waste (in accordance with the 17th Federal Emission
Control Act).

Length of electricity grids
km

2016

2015

Change
(in %)

Energy output broken down by primary energy source
(in GWh)

Grid length Electricity
(Ems-Weser-Elbe
and Bremen regions)

93,300

92,800

+0.5

Grid length Gas
(Germany, Turkey, Poland)

72,000

70,700

+1.8

Network length Telecoms

39,000

38,000

+2.6

of which copper cable

15,200

15,200

–

of which fibre-optic cable

23,900

22,800

+4.8

2016

2015

Total 5)

3,673

4,193

Refined coal

2,382

2,482

Blast furnace gas 6)

0

0

Wind

660

862

Waste to energy

558

593

74

256

Other (biogas, natural biogas, natural gas,
refuse-derived fuels, heating oil, sewage
­biogas, solar, water)

I n contrast to Indicator G4-EU1, this also comprises electricity generated by cogeneration plants.
6)
Since 2015, swb has been the operations manager of the blast furnace gas-fired power station as
part of a leasing model, but no longer the plant operator. The energy generated there is shown on
the leaseholder’s balance sheet.
5)

Losses on the electricity grid

Losses on the German medium
and low-voltage grid (in %)

2016

2015

2.17

2.16

Heat generation broken down by primary fuel source
(in GWh)

Total 7)

Installed electrical output
as at 31.12. (in MW)

2016

2015

Total 1)

1,575

1,367

374

322

220

168

Renewables 2)
Wind, onshore
Wind, offshore
Other (biogas, photovoltaics,
hydroelectric power)

142

142

12

12

Conventional 3)

1,221

1,045

Refined coal

553

553

Blast furnace and converter gas

200

176

Natural gas

307

155

Light oil

86

86

Waste to energy

75

75

2016

2015

1,430.9

1,344.0

Refined coal

578.3

523.3

Natural gas

396.8

356.0

Waste to energy

290.8

279.0

Biomethane

132.7

145.2

32.3

40.5

Other (biogas, refuse-derived fuels,
heating oil, sewage biogas)
7)

This also comprises heat generated by cogeneration plants.

I n this figure, waste-to-energy is fully assigned to conventional generation, even if around half of
the energy generated from waste can be classed as renewable according to the EEC, because a
portion of the waste comes from vegetable sources and are thus CO2-neutral in combustion.
2)
Incl. pro rata capacity from at-equity holdings
3)
Major swb facilities for generation and waste disposal; includes units in cold standby
1)

EWE Integrated Report 2016

148

FACTS AND FIGURES

Generation efficiency of thermal power plants (in %)1)
2016

2015

Utilisation rate (total efficiency)
of thermal power plants
Refined coal

44

Blast furnace gas

–

44

Results of surveys on
customer satisfaction (index value) 6)

31

30

Light oil

13

16

37

Blast furnace gas

–

Light oil

11

36
– 2)
16

I ndicator is recorded in all plants that incinerate or co-incinerate waste (in accordance with
the 17th Federal Emission Control Act), as well as in all large-scale combustion and gas turbine
power plants (in accordance with the 13th Federal Emission Control Act). The conversion of
blast furnace gas into electricity was not evaluated.
2)
Since 2015, swb has been the operations manager of the blast furnace gas-fired power station
as part of a leasing model, but no longer the plant operator. The energy generated there is
shown on the leaseholder’s balance sheet.

Energy

71.9

70.3

Telecommunications

74.1

76.6

Energy

73.8

71.3

Telecommunications

74.0

77.0

Main business region

Power efficiency of thermal power plants
Refined coal

2015

Brand level

– 2)

Waste

2016

6)

T he index values comprise two metrics: customer satisfaction and willingness to recommend.
Customer surveys are based on the calculations. Due to a change in the way surveys are carried
out in 2016, the values can only be compared with those of the previous year to a limited
extent.

1)

Total number of members of the
­controlling body having received
­information

Direct CO2 emissions 3)
2016
Direct CO2 emissions
(in Mg)
3)

4)

2,354,271

2015

2,386,506

Change
in %

Percentage of members of the
­controlling body having received
­information

-1.4

 irect emissions from electricity and heat generation plants; not including
D
CO2 emissions from blast furnace gas.

Regional focus index

Information and training on
guidelines and procedures for fighting corruption

Total number of staff
having received information

2015

5

5

100

100

~4,000
1,105
(rounded and (rounded and
taking double-­ taking double-­
clicks into
clicks into
account)
account)

Percentage of staff
having received information

4)

2016

~46

13

2016

2015

Total number of business partners
having received information

Suppliers’ code
introduced
–
from 2015

78.1

76.0

Total number of training sessions
Staff in controlling body

5

5

100

100

69

67

11

68

T he regionality index shows the significance of EWE and swb to people in the region on a
scale of 0 (low significance) to 100 (high significance). It is based on annual customer surveys.
Due to a change in the way surveys were carried out in 2016, the values can only be compared
with the previous year on a limited basis.

Percentage of training sessions
Staff in controlling body
Total number of training sessions Staff
Training of new staff

Customer loyalty index 5)

Percentage of training sessions Staff
2016

2015

Training of new staff

Energy

77.0

75.0

Queries

Telecommunications

74.0

75.6

Queries for the Compliance Officer

184

168

Queries for the Compliance team

129

65

5)

T he customer retention index is based on customer surveys and reveals how customers rate
EWE as a service provider and partner. The indicators are customer satisfaction, willingness to
recommend, probability of retention and competitive comparison. Due to a change in the way
surveys were carried out in 2016, the values can only be compared with the previous year on
a limited basis.

Total value of political contributions
In line with its internal Group policy, EWE does not make
any political donations.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

FACTS AND FIGURES
146
147
152
156

ABOUT THIS REPORT
APPENDIX OF INDICATORS
GRI CONTENT INDEX
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

149
156 INDEX
158 LIST OF TABLES
160 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017, IMPRINT, DISCLAIMER

Absences due to illness, injury and work-related deaths 1)
2016

2015

0

0

Germany

0

0

International

0

0

6.93

5.57

Germany

7.16

5.88

International

3.44

1.13

Work-related deaths
(number of deaths)

Injury rate (number of injuries/
1,000,000 working hours)

Special groups of employees
(trainees, support staff, work experience
­p lacements, apprentices)

2)

Days lost 2) (number of days lost/
1,000,000 working hours)
Germany
International

136.22

95.78

139.50

102.02

88.36

5.66

 ot including subcontractors and staff bound by instruction (external temp staff); i­nformation
N
on workplace accidents not broken down by gender. In addition to the companies stated as the
boundary of the report, BIBER GmbH, EnergieCampus GmbH, GSN Gebäudesicherheit Nord
GmbH and EWE Biogas GmbH & Co. KG, with a total of around 160 staff, are also taken into
account for accident statistics (Indicator G4-LA6).
2)
T he number of working hours make up the total working time. The total working time is either
calculated as hours worked, or as planned hours minus public holidays, holidays and statistical
health-related absences.
1)

Accidents subject to compulsory reporting, including
­c ommute-related accidents (rate per 1,000 employees) 3)
2016
EWE total
Germany
International
Benchmark
“5-year average of EWE”
Benchmark
“5-year average of BG ETEM” 4)

8.41

10.58

8.78

6.41

2.02

8.64

9.45

19.02

19.75

I n addition to the companies stated as the boundary of the report, BIBER GmbH,
EnergieCampus GmbH, GSN Gebäudesicherheit Nord GmbH and EWE Biogas GmbH & Co. KG,
with a total of around 160 staff, are also taken into account for accident statistics.
4)
B erufsgenossenschaft Energie Textil Elektro Medienerzeugnisse (Professional Association for
Energy, Textiles, Electricity, Media)

2015

626

623

of which female

194

184

of which male

432

439

Inactive (passive part-time retirement,
early retirements, parental leave,
national service, alternative service)

339

378

of which female

185

184

of which male

154

194

Total number of employees by
type of employment and gender 5)

9,205

9,217

Full-time

7,175

7,234

of which female

1,419

1,457

of which male

5,756

5,777

1,065

982

of which female

876

819

of which male

189

163

Part-time

Total number of employees by
region and gender 5)

9,205

9,217

Germany

8,700

8,687

of which female

2,509

2,478

of which male

6,191

6,209

505

530

of which female

165

166

of which male

340

364

2015

10.36

2016

International

5)

T he total number of staff given here is based on the number of c­ ontractual relationships at the
cut-off date of 31.12.2016. This includes dormant contracts. As a result of this, as well as due
to the accounting boundaries of non-financial information, there is a discrepancy to the total
number of staff stated in other sections of the report.

3)

Staff under collective labour agreements

Staff under collective labour agreements

2016

2015

9,026

8,489

Staff structure
2016

2015

Total number of employees by
contract and gender 5)

9,205

9,217

Permanent

7,834

7,792

of which female

2,142

2,120

of which male

5,692

5,672

395

412

of which female

149

156

of which male

246

256

11

12

Temporary

Partial retirement, active
of which female

4

0

of which male

7

12

EWE Integrated Report 2016

150

FACTS AND FIGURES

 umber and rate of new employees, staff fluctuation
N
by age, gender and region
2016
Number

2015
% Number

2016
%

2015

(in years)

(in years)

Total number of employees
by age group and gender

702

7.6

712

7.7

Average length of service of
ex-employees by age group

9.9

11.6

≤30 years

447

4.9

455

4.9

≤30 years

1.7

1.5

of which female

155

1.7

169

1.8

of which female

1.7

0.6

of which male

292

3.2

286

3.1

of which male

2.0

2.0

219

2.4

240

2.6

8.4

7.3

54

0.6

71

0.8

of which female

165

1.8

169

1.8

of which male

35

0.4

17

0.2

7

0.1

6

0.1

of which female

21.1

24.6

28

0.3

11

0.1

of which male

19.1

23.9

31–50 years
of which female
of which male
>50 years
of which female
of which male
Total number of employees
by region and gender

702

7.6

712

7.7

Germany

639

6.9

646

7.0

of which female

201

2.2

223

2.4

of which male

437

4.7

423

4.6

63

0.7

66

0.7

of which female

15

0.2

23

0.2

of which male

48

0.5

43

0.4

International

Total number of ex-employees
by age group and gender

708

7.7

715

7.8

≤30 years

285

3.1

334

3.6

of which female
of which male
31–50 years
of which female
of which male
>50 years
of which female
of which male

85

0.9

129

1.8

200

2.2

205

2.2

240

2.6

230

2.5

83

0.9

66

0.7

157

1.7

164

1.8

183

2.0

151

1.6

42

0.5

29

0.3

141

1.5

122

1.3

Total number of ex-employees
by region and gender

708

7.7

715

7.8

Germany

641

7.0

657

7.1

of which female

187

2.0

201

2.6

of which male

454

4.9

456

4.9

67

7.0

58

0.1

of which female

23

0.2

23

0.2

of which male

44

0.5

35

0.4

International

EWE Integrated Report 2016

31–50 years

>50 years

6.4

6.8

11.4

7.8

17.1

23.3

Programmes for knowledge management and
lifelong learning
EWE offers its staff regular training sessions in the Group’s own
Training Centre. We train management staff and young executives
in the EWE Academy. The management programmes’ strong focus
on strategy and entrepreneurial behaviour helps the participants
to develop new approaches and integrate this new impetus into
their own company.

FACTS AND FIGURES
146
147
152
156

ABOUT THIS REPORT
APPENDIX OF INDICATORS
GRI CONTENT INDEX
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

151
156 INDEX
158 LIST OF TABLES
160 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017, IMPRINT, DISCLAIMER

Composition of the controlling body and employees by
employee category, gender and age group (in %)
2016

2015

Executives

1.9

2.1

of which male

1.7

1.9

≤30 years

0.0

0.0

31–50 years

0.9

1.1

>50 years

0.8

0.8

of which female

0.2

0.2

≤30 years

0.0

0.0

31–50 years

0.2

0.1

>50 years

0.0

0.1

Staff paid in excess of tariff agreements

7.6

7.4

of which male

6.3

6.1

≤30 years

0.1

0.1

31–50 years

4.0

3.5

>50 years

2.2

2.6

of which female

1.3

1.3

≤30 years

0.0

0.0

31–50 years

1.0

1.0

>50 years

0.3

0.3

Staff paid according to tariff agreements

56.7

57.5

of which male

40.0

40.9

≤30 years

7.6

7.9

31–50 years

18.3

19.3

>50 years

14.2

13.7

of which female

16.7

16.6

≤30 years

3.2

3.2

31–50 years

9.2

9.4

>50 years

4.3

4.0

Staff not subject to tariff agreements

33.7

32.9

of which male

22.9

22.2

≤30 years
31–50 years

4.0

2.9

14.9

15.6

>50 years

4.0

3.7

of which female

10.8

10.7

≤30 years

2.5

2.1

31–50 years

7.1

7.4

>50 years

1.2

1.2

Proportion of Supervisory Board members
by age groups and gender
of which ≤30 years old

0.0

0.0

female

0.0

0.0

male

0.0

0.0

10.0

15.0

of which 31–50 years old
female
male
of which >50 years old

0.0

0.0

10.0

15.0

91.0

85.0

female

14.0

5.0

male

76.0

80.0

EWE Integrated Report 2016

152

FACTS AND FIGURES

GRI CONTENT INDEX
The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service.
The GRI has confirmed the correctness of the position of the G4 Materiality
Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27. Page references refer to the PDF version of the
­I ntegrated Report 2016 which can be downloaded from report.ewe.com/ir2016/

GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

Reference/comment

G4-1

Foreword by the Group’s Board of Management

2–5

G4-3

Company name

EWE AG

G4-4

Major brands, products, services

Report Entry (front flap 2), U2

G4-5

Company headquarters

Oldenburg, Germany

G4-6

Number and names of countries in which
the company is active

Report Entry (front flap 2)

G4-7

Ownership structure and legal form

U2

G4-8

Markets served

Report Entry (front flap 2)

G4-9

Size of the company

Report Entry (front flap 1), U2, 69

G4-10

Staff structure

149

G4-11

Staff under collective labour agreements

149

G4-12

Description of the supply chain

28 – 29

G4-13

Significant changes to the ownership structure
of the company during the reporting period

74

G4-14

Precautionary approach

22 – 23, 35, 55

G4-15

Support of external initiatives

35

G4-16

Membership of associations and interest groups

35

G4-EU11)

Installed output

147

G4-EU2

Net energy production

147

G4-EU3

Number of power connections and
electricity customers 2)

147

G4-EU4

Length of electricity grids 3)

147

G4-EU5

Number of CO2 emissions allowances

147

G4-17

Reporting boundaries

146

G4-18

Processes for determining the content of the report

33

G4-19

Major aspects of the report

32, 146

Aspect boundaries within the company

146,
Aspects that have an significant economic, environmental or social impact within the organisation
and are listed in the GRI Content Index, are always deemed relevant to the c­ ompanies defined in
G4-17 (Reporting boundaries). Any discrepancies for individual ­companies are highlighted in the report.

Aspect boundaries outside of the company

146,
Relevant aspects within the organisation that are addressed and managed outside of EWE
with external stakeholders are highlighted in the GRI Content Index.

G4-20

G4-21

Indicators with the abbreviation EU (in accordance with GRI G4 Sector Disclosures Electric Utilities) apply for the energy sector.
2)
Now includes homes connected to gas supply and number of gas and telecommunications customers; the German Energy Management Act (Energiewirtschaftsgesetz)
regulates the separation of grid operations and sales for power and gas.
3)
Now includes network lengths for gas and telecoms.
1)

EWE Integrated Report 2016

FACTS AND FIGURES
146
147
152
156

ABOUT THIS REPORT
APPENDIX OF INDICATORS
GRI CONTENT INDEX
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

153
156 INDEX
158 LIST OF TABLES
160 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017, IMPRINT, DISCLAIMER

GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

Reference/comment

G4-22

Reformulation of information from previous reports

No reformulations were made.

G4-23

Changes to aspect boundaries in previous reports

There were no changes.

G4-24

Stakeholders engaged

32

G4-25

Selection of stakeholders

32

G4-26

Integration of stakeholders

33

G4-27

Stakeholder issues

33

G4-28

Reporting period

146

G4-29

Publication of the previous report

September 2016

G4-30

Reporting cycle

Anually

G4-31

Representative

Imprint, 160

G4-32

Chosen “In Accordance”-option

Core option

G4-33

External audit review

144

G4-34

Governance structure, including
responsibility for sustainability

6 – 7, 34 – 35

G4-56

Mission statement, corporate values
and codes of conduct

27, 29, 34

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

Reference

Omission/comment

Reason for omission

GRI term “local” replaced by “regional”

EWE Group wording

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
2 – 5, 9, 11,
13, 15

DMA
Economic performance (aspect boundary within EWE)
G4-EC1

Economic value generated
and ­d istributed

30

Procurement (aspect boundary within EWE)
G4-EC9

Proportion of regional procurement

29

System efficiency (aspect boundary within EWE)
G4-EU11

Generation efficiency
of thermal power plants

148

G4-EU12

Losses on the electricity grid

147

ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
2 – 5, 11, 13,
17

DMA
Energy (aspect boundary within EWE)

G4-EN3

Internal energy consumption

The energy consumption of the fleet (2,092
vehicles) was 123,857 terajoules. As metering
for buildings has been modified, only infor­
mation on the vehicle fleet can be provided for
the reporting year. Next year it will likely be
possible to report the level of consumption in
buildings again.

EWE Integrated Report 2016

154

FACTS AND FIGURES

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

Reference

Omission/comment

Reason for omission

148

Limited to power plants generating
electricity and heat

Other plants and emissions are of
secondary importance.

Limited to power plants generating
electricity and heat

Other power plants and emissions are of
secondary importance and/or reporting is still
being established (Scope 2), or the data is not
currently being collected (Scope 3).

Limited to power plants generating
electricity and heat

Other power plants and emissions are of
secondary importance and/or reporting is still
being established (Scope 2), or the data is not
currently being collected (Scope 3).

Emissions (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
G4-EN15

Direct CO2 emissions

G4-EN18

CO2 emissions in grams per
kilowatt-hour of electricity generated
(intensity of CO2 emissions)

G4-EN19

Reduction of CO2 emissions

21

20 – 23

Evaluation of suppliers with regard to environmental aspects (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
G4-EN32

Assessing new suppliers with
regard to environmental aspects

29

No details available for suppliers in 2016

The management and reporting process is
still being established.

LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT EMPLOYMENT
2 – 5, 6 – 7,
26 – 27

DMA

Employment (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
G4-LA1

Number and rate of new employees, staff
fluctuation by age, gender and region

150

Occupational health and safety (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)

G4-LA6

Absences due to illness, injury
and work-related deaths

149

Not including occupational illnesses; not
­i ncluding subcontractors and staff bound by
instruction; information on workplace
accidents not broken down by gender

The management and reporting process is
still being established. Not broken down by
gender in order to avoid cases being linked
with specific individuals.

Training (aspect boundary within EWE)
G4-LA10

Programmes for knowledge
management and lifelong learning

150

Diversity and equal opportunities (aspect boundary within EWE)

G4-LA12

Composition of the controlling body
and employees by employee category,
gender and age group

151

Evaluation of suppliers with regard to labour practices (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
G4-LA14

Assessing new suppliers with
regard to social aspects

29

No details available for suppliers in 2016

The management and reporting process
is still being established.

HUMAN RIGHTS
6–7

DMA

Evaluation of suppliers with regard to human rights (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
G4-HR10

Assessing new suppliers with
regard to human rights criteria

EWE Integrated Report 2016

29

see LA14

see LA14

FACTS AND FIGURES
146
147
152
156

ABOUT THIS REPORT
APPENDIX OF INDICATORS
GRI CONTENT INDEX
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

155
156 INDEX
158 LIST OF TABLES
160 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017, IMPRINT, DISCLAIMER

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Indicator

Indicator abbreviation

Reference

Omission/comment

Reason for omission

COMPANY
2 – 5,
28 – 29

DMA
Anti-corruption (aspect boundary within EWE)
G4-SO4

Anti-corruption information
and training measures

148

Politics (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
G4-SO6

Total value of political contributions

148

Compliance (company) (aspect boundary within EWE)

G4-SO8

Fees and fines resulting from
non-compliance with laws and
­r egulations

EWE was not obliged to pay any fines or
penalties in the reporting year.

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
2 – 5, 11, 13,
15, 17

DMA

Labelling of products and services (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE)
G4-PR5

Results of surveys on
customer ­s atisfaction

148

Protection of customer privacy (aspect boundary within EWE)
G4-PR8

Total number of justified complaints
related to data privacy infringements

No justified lawsuits were filed against
EWE in the reporting year.

Access (telecommunication sector) (aspect boundary within and outside of EWE )
TK-IO1

Investments in the telecoms network

22 – 23, 54

EWE Integrated Report 2016

156

FACTS AND FIGURES

LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfS
Available-for-Sale
AGEB	Working Group for Energy Balances
(Arbeitsgemeinschaft Energiebilanzen e. V.)
AktG
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz)
BDEW	German Association of Energy and Water Industries
(Bundesverband der Energie- und Wasserwirtschaft)
BMWi
Bundeswirtschaftsministerium
bp
Base points (Basispunkte)
BSA
Broadband Service Analyzer
CER future contracts Certified Emission Reduction
CO2
Carbon dioxide
CVA
Credit Value Adjustment
DBO
Defined Benefit Obligation
DRV	“German framework agreement for financial futures
(Deutscher Rahmenvertrag für Finanztermingeschäfte)”
DVA
Debit Value Adjustment
EBIT
Earnings before interest and taxes
EBT
Earnings before taxes
EEG
Renewable Energy Act (Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetz)
EEW
Energieverband Elbe-Weser Beteiligungsholding GmbH
EFET
European Federation of Energy Traders
EnBW AG
EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG
EU
European Union
EUA future contracts European Union Allowance
EWE TEL
Group-owned Telecommunications Company
EY
Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
FAHfT
Financial Assets Held for Trading
FLAC
Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost

FLHfT
Financial Liabilities Held for Trading
GKB
Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Bremen GmbH & Co. KG
HGB
German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch)
HVE
Hansewasser Ver- und Entsorgungs-GmbH
IAS
International Accounting Standards
IASB
International Accounting Standards Board
IDW	German Institute of Public Auditors
(Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer)
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards
IFRS IC
IFRS Interpretations Committee
IT
Information Technology
kWh
Kilowatt-hours (Kilowattstunden)
KWKG	Combined heat and power act
(Kraft-Wärme-Kopplungsgesetz)
LaR
Loans and Receivables
MW
Megawatts (Megawatt)
MWh
Megawatt-hour (Megawattstunde)
NCG
Net Connect Germany
PLN
Polish złoty
TDG
Telekom Deutschland GmbH
TRY
Turkish lira
TTF
Title Transfer Facility (TTF Cal 16)
USD
US dollar
VBL	State insurance agency
(Versicherungsanstalt des Bundes und der Länder)
VNG AG
Verbundnetz Gas Aktiengesellschaft
WACC
Weighted Average Cost of Capital
WEE
Weser-Ems-Energiebeteiligungen GmbH

INDEX
Accounting methods K1, 73, 74, 75, U3
Annual General Meeting 7, 34
Appropriation of net profit 7, 142
Assets position 130
Associated companies 93, 113
Balance sheet total K1, 48, 61, U3
Boards 22, 33, 35, 50, 57, 59, 140
Bonds 31, 35, 45, 48, 49, 60, 61, 62, 63, 69, 89, 98, 110, 118, 120, 125, 132, 133
Borrowing costs 80

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Cash flow K1, 30, 48, 49, 61, 62, 65, 67, 70, 72, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 88, 89,
104, 114, 115, 120, 122, 124, 125, 126, 127, 130, 135, 144, U3
Cash flow hedges 67, 70, 84, 114, 115
Cash and cash equivalents 30, 48, 62, 72, 74, 82, 86, 102, 104, 107, 120, 127, 135
Cash flow statement 72
Capital expenditure K1, 134, U3
Capital management 113
CO2 certificate 40, 81, 115, 129
Company management 160
Compliance 3, 29, 33, 34, 57, 58, 127, 148, 155
Credit facility 30, 31, 49, 124
Currency futures 130

FACTS AND FIGURES
146
147
152
156

ABOUT THIS REPORT
APPENDIX OF INDICATORS
GRI CONTENT INDEX
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

157
156 INDEX
158 LIST OF TABLES
160 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017, IMPRINT, DISCLAIMER

Default risks 126
Deferred taxes 67, 68, 69, 73, 78, 79, 89, 94, 112, 132, 133
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 96
Derivatives 44, 46, 47, 72, 75, 81, 82, 83, 85, 114, 115, 116, 118, 120, 123, 125, 126,
127, 130, 135
Derivative financial instruments 39, 44, 45, 47, 48, 58, 73, 81, 82, 84, 85, 91, 93,
102, 103, 111, 114, 120, 121, 122
Discount rates 97, 98
Dividend 4, 30, 49, 60, 62, 70, 72, 73, 78, 101, 105, 111, 124, 125, 135
Earnings position 6, 98
Easements 33, 135
EBT 135
EBIT, operating EBIT K1, 39, 44, 45, 46, 47, 53, 54, 55, 66, 72, 107, 122, 132, 133,
135, U3
EBITDA U3
Emissions rights 127
Employees K1, 3, 5, 7, 17, 18, 20, 24, 26, 27, 32, 34, 38, 45, 49, 50, 57, 87, 89, 92,
106, 107, 132, 133, 141, 146, 149, 150, 151, 154, U3
Equity K1, 38, 43, 48, 61, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 78, 79, 82, 83, 85,
88, 89, 90, 93, 94, 98, 101, 105, 111, 113, 114, 120, 122, 127, 132, 133, 135, 136, 137,
138, 144, 147, U3
Equity method 38, 66 – 68, 71 – 76, 88, 93, 94, 101, 132, 133, 137, 138, 139
Equity ratio K1, 48, 61, 114, U3
Fair value 67, 73 – 90, 93, 97, 101, 107, 114 – 127, 130
Fair value hedges 73, 84, 115
Financial instruments 39, 44, 45, 47, 48, 58, 70, 73, 76, 78, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 89,
91, 93, 101, 102, 103, 111, 114, 115, 120 – 127, 130
Financial investments 60, 62, 66, 93, 101, 124, 132, 133
Financial liabilities 30, 31, 69, 72, 75, 83, 84, 111, 113, 118, 121, 123, 124, 125, 130,
132, 133
Financial position K1, 3, 35, 48, 55, 58, 59, 62, 68, 73, 78, 80, 82, 89, 91, 95, 102,
112, 114, 120, 130, 135, 143, 144, 160, U3
Financial risks 57, 58, 114
Financing 6, 30, 31, 39, 48, 49, 60, 61, 62, 72, 87, 98, 113, 124, 135, 139
Forecast 42, 44, 51, 53, 54, 55, 56, 59, 62, 63, 84, 85
Foreign currency risk 115

Market price risks 56, 58, 84, 127
Non-financial liabilities 69, 111
Non-financial receivables 68, 81, 104
Operating leases 80, 91, 113
Other income 45, 67, 93
Pension provision 44, 45, 48, 63, 91, 94, 112
Personnel expenses 45, 60, 63, 66, 92, 107, 132, 133
Rating 30, 39, 57, 89, 113, 126, 127
Renewable energy K2, 3, 4, 9, 15, 20, 22, 23, 30, 38, 40, 49, 51, 52, 53, 55, 56, 78,
89, 131
Renewable energy sources act (EEG) 52
Research and development 24, 29, 39, 81, 111
Result for the period K1, 74, U3
Risks and opportunities (management) 35, 55, 56, 57
Sales K1, U2, 34, 38, 39, 44, 46, 49, 51, 53, 54, 55, 56, 63, 73, 79, 81, 88, 92, 96, 97,
98, 101, 122, 125, 126, 131, 132, 133, 134, 146, 152, U3
Segment reporting 39, 91, 92, 131, 132, 133
Sensitivity analysis 98
Strategy 4, 5, 9, 17, 25, 27, 28, 29, 30, 33, 51, 55, 92, 107, 114, 150
Subscribed capital 69, 70, 105
Subsidiaries 34, 38, 39, 59, 60, 62, 67, 73, 75, 78, 79, 86, 113, 141, 142, 146
Supervisory Board 3, 6, 7, 34, 35, 50, 59, 73, 139, 140, 141, 151
Transaction costs 51, 74, 81, 83
Transparency 27, 28, 32, 35, 38, 39, 51, 55
Value in use 85, 86
WACC 97, 98, 122
Write-downs 45, 60, 62, 72, 85, 93, 95, 96, 99, 100, 101

Goodwill 39, 44, 59, 74, 75, 77, 78, 79, 85, 86, 88, 92, 95, 96, 97, 101
Guarantees 52, 57, 83, 106, 113, 124, 139, 160
Hedge accounting 84, 85, 89, 114, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131
Hedges 45, 58, 67, 70, 73, 84, 90, 114, 115, 128, 130
Impairment losses 75, 79, 80, 82, 83, 86, 102
Intangible assets 60, 62, 68, 74, 80, 81, 85, 88, 92, 93, 95, 96, 97, 112, 113
Interest rate risk 130, 131
Interest rate swaps 84, 85, 120
Inventories 68, 72, 85, 86, 102, 112
Leases 80, 91, 93, 113
Legal and compliance risks 57, 58
Liquidity risk 57, 124

EWE Integrated Report 2016

158

FACTS AND FIGURES

LIST OF TABLES
PAGE

OVERVIEW
T001

Our Group figures

Current situation of EWE AG
K1

RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT
T002	Target percentages for the
Supervisory Board and
Board of Management of EWE AG
T003	Target percentages for the top two
levels of management of EWE AG

35
35

Current situation of the EWE Group
44
44

46
46
46
47
47
47
48
48
49
50
50

Expected performance of the EWE Group 53

EWE Integrated Report 2016

Earnings performance
Asset position
Finacial position
Investments

60
61
62
62

T023	Consolidated income statement
of the EWE Group
T024	Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income of the EWE Group
T025	Statement of financial position of
the EWE Group | Assets
T026	Statement of financial position of
the EWE Group | Equity and liabilities
T027	Statement of changes in equity
of the EWE Group
T028	Cash flow statement of the EWE Group

66
67
68
69
70
72

45

Report on expected developments and
their key opportunities and risks
T018

T019
T020
T021
T022

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT 2016

T004
Forecast deviations
T005
Group’s net income for the period
T006	Significant changes to the
consolidated income statement
T007	Segment performance |
Operating EBIT and external sales
T008	Renewables, Grids and
Gas Storage segment
T009
Sales, Services and Trading segment
T010
International segment
T011
swb segment
T012
Group Central Division segment
T013
Asset position
T014
Financial position
T015
Number of employees by segment
T016	Target percentages for the
Supervisory Board and
Board of Management of EWE AG
T017	Target percentages for the top two
levels of management of EWE AG

PAGE

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
T029	Changes to the basis of consolidation
during the 2016 business year
T030
Corporate acquisitions in 2016
T031	Exchange rates used for the foreign ­
currency translation of individual
financial statements
T032	Property, plant and equipment |
Scheduled depreciation using the
straight-line method
T033	Intangible assets | Scheduled depreciation
using the straight-line method
T034
Other operating income
T035
Material expenses
T036
Personnel expenses
T037
Number of employees
T038
Other operating expenses
T039	Profit/loss from financial investments
accounted for using the equity method
T040	Current profit/loss from
financial assets measured at equity
T041
Other income from investments
T042
Net interest

74
74
77
80
81
91
92
92
92
93
93
93
93
94

PAGE
T043
Income taxes
T044	Effective tax expense
T045
Intangible assets
T046
Development of intangible assets 2016
T047
Development of intangible assets 2015
T048	Major goodwill and intangible assets
with an indefinite useful life attributed
to CGUs in 2016
T049	Major goodwill and intangible assets
with an indefinite useful life attributed
to CGUs in 2015
T050	Property, plant and equipment
T051	Development of property,
plant and equipment 2016
T052	Development of property,
plant and equipment 2015
T053
Changes to investment property
T054	Composition of profit/loss in the
period from financial investments
T055	Investments accounted for using
the equity method
T056	Investments accounted for
using the equity method |
Statement of financial position
T057	Investments accounted for
using the equity method |
Comprehensive income statement
T058	Other non-current financial assets
T059
Inventories
T060
Trade receivables
T061	Changes to impairments of
trade receivables
T062	Other financial receivables and assets
T063	Maturities of other financial receivables
and assets
T064	Valuation allowances for other financial
receivables and assets
T065	Other non-financial receivables
and assets

94
94
95
95
96
97
97
98
99
100
101
101
101
102
102
102
102
103
103
103
104
104
104

FACTS AND FIGURES
146
147
152
156

ABOUT THIS REPORT
APPENDIX OF INDICATORS
GRI CONTENT INDEX
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

159
156 INDEX
158 LIST OF TABLES
160 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017, IMPRINT, DISCLAIMER

PAGE

PAGE

T066
Construction subsidies
105
T067
Provisions
106
T068	Line items for the defined benefit and
defined contribution pension obligations 107
T069	Values that have been recognised
in profit and loss
107
T070	Change in the present value of
the obligations
107
T071
Performance of plan assets
107
T072	Change in the present value of
the obligation
108
T073	Pension obligations calculation
using the 2005 G Klaus Heubeck
actuarial tables
108
T074	Effects of changes to the applicable
actuarial assumptions on the defined
benefit pension obligation
108
T075
Statement of provisions
109
T076
Outstanding bonds
110
T077	Liabilities to financial institutions
110
T078
Other financial liabilities
111
T079	Other non-financial liabilities
111
T080	Deferred taxes | Deferred tax assets
and liabilities
112
T081	Deferred taxes | Temporary differences
112
T082
Leases
113
T083
Equity ratio
114
T084	Derivatives without a hedging
relationship
114
T085	Derivatives in connection with
cash flow ­h edges
115
T086	Carrying amounts, bases of
recognition and fair values by
measurement category | Assets,
equity and liabilities
116 – 119
T087	Allocation of financial instruments
measured at fair value 2016
121
T088	Allocation of financial instruments
measured at fair value 2015
121
T089	Changes to fair values in level 3, 2016
122
T090	Changes to fair values in level 3, 2015
122

T091	Offsetting of financial assets and
financial liabilities 2016
123
T092	Offsetting of financial assets and
financial liabilities 2015
123
T093	Net profit/loss by measurement
category
124
T094	Future repayments on the primary
financial liabilities 2016
125
T095	Future repayments on the primary
financial liabilities 2015
125
T096	Cash flows from power derivatives
(not own use)
125
T097	Gas derivative cash flows (not own use) 126
T098	Overview of market price risk | Power
127
T099	Overview of market price risk | Gas
128
T100	Overview of market price risk | Coal
129
T101	Overview of market price risk |
CO2 certificates
129
T102
Overview of foreign exchange risk
130
T103	Overview of interest rate risks
131
T104	Segment reporting
31 December 2016 (I/II)
132
T105	Segment reporting
31 December 2016 (II/II)
133
T106	External sales by
product and service 2016
134
T107	External sales by
product and service 2015
134
T108	External sales, assets and capital
expenditure by region
134
T109
Operating EBIT
135
T110	Selection of significant shareholdings
pursuant to article 313, section 2
of the HGB
136 – 138
T111	Shareholders/investors in EWE AG
139
T112	Associates accounted for using
the equity method and assets measured
pursuant to IFRS 5
139
T113	Non-consolidated affiliated companies 140
T114	Auditor̕s fees and services rendered
142
T115	5-year financial summary EWE Group
U3

EWE Integrated Report 2016

160

FACTS AND FIGURES

FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017

27.04.2017

Annual Report 2016 – Press conference of financial statements

29.08.2017

Interim Report 2017

IMPRINT

DISCLAIMER

Published by
EWE Aktiengesellschaft
Tirpitzstrasse 39
26122 Oldenburg, Germany

This Integrated Report contains forward-looking statements based on assumptions
and estimates by the management of EWE AG. Although company management
believes that these assumptions and estimates are accurate, actual future developments and results may differ considerably from these assumptions and estimates due
to a wide variety of factors. These factors may include changes in the general economic situation, in the statutory and regulatory framework for Germany and the EU,
and in the sector. EWE AG is neither liable for, nor guarantees that future developments and the actual results achieved in future will coincide with the assumptions
and estimates made in this Integrated Report . EWE AG neither intends nor assumes
any obligation to update ­forward-looking statements to reflect events or developments after the date of this report.

Team editorial and text
EWE Aktiengesellschaft
Corporate Communication
Phone: +49 (04 41) 48 05-18 30
E-mail: geschaeftsbericht@ewe.de
Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany
Wolfgang Witte, Aurich, Germany
Concept and design
Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany
www.kirchhoff.com
Photography
Stephan Meyer-Bergfeld, Oldenburg, Germany
Printed by
Zertani Die Druck GmbH, Bremen, Germany
EWE on the Internet
www.ewe.com

EWE Integrated Report 2016

This document contains supplementary financial performance indicators not described exactly in IFRS that are or can be non-GAAP measures. Isolated, these should
not be used to assess the net assets, financial position and results of operations of
the EWE Group, or as an alternative to the financial indicators calculated in line with
IFRS and presented in the consolidated financial ­s tatements. Other companies that
present or report on financial performance indicators with a similar designation
might calculate them differently.
Due to rounding, it is possible that certain figures in this and other documents do not
add up to the exact reported total and that percentages do not exactly reflect the
absolute values to which they relate.
This Integrated Report also exists in German; in the event of any divergences, the
­G erman version of the Integrated Report takes p
­ recedence over the English version.
Both language versions are available to download from www.ewe.com

U3

5-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY EWE GROUP
| T 115
in millions of euros

Sales

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

7,566.3

7,819.3

8,134.2

8,862.6

8,587.7

Operating EBITDA

969.9

864.0

847.1

983.2

954.6

Operating EBIT

534.6

428.1

425.4

497.9

512.7

EBIT

649.2

212.0

357.7

410.9

404.3

Result for the period

332.9

-9.4

146.3

57.2

138.8

Cash outflows for capital expenditure (total)

469.2

666.9

721.3

573.5

615.2

Cash flow from operating activities

471.6

708.2

770.3

406.4

658.8

8,435.2

9,744.3

9,800.9

10,370.4

10,469.4

23.0

18.0

23.3

23.1

23.6

3,399.7

4,237.1

4,120.7

3,832.7

3,781.4

Employees (on average)

9,048

8,855

9,154

9,163

9,049

Full time employees (FTE)

8,607

8,465

8,538

8,813

8,703

Balance sheet total
Equity ratio in %
Net financial position

The accounting methods applied may result in rounding differences of +/- one unit (euro, per cent, etc.).

EWE Integrated Report 2016

EWE Aktiengesellschaft
Tirpitzstrasse 39
26122 Oldenburg, Germany
www.ewe.com

