2015

Sustainability Report

Henkel at a glance 2015
Contents

Highlights
Around

1 What we have achieved
2 Foreword
4 Sustainability strategy and
		management
12	Supply chain
22 Sustainability stewardship
26 Laundry & Home Care
32 Beauty Care
38 Adhesive Technologies
44 People
50 Social engagement
52 Stakeholder dialog
55 External ratings
56 Indicators
60	Our Sustainability Report
		 External assurance
		 Our communication platforms
61 Contacts, credits

139

49,450 €18.1 bn

years of brand and
technology success

employees

sales

Around

125

43 %

33 %

nations represented
by our people

of our sales
generated in
emerging markets

of our managers
are women

More than

61 %

3,400

38 %

of our sales
generated by our
top 10 brands

social projects supported

increase in our overall
efficiency from 2011 to 2015

Henkel around the world: regional centers
Düsseldorf, Germany
global headquarters
Shanghai, China
regional center
Vienna, Austria
regional center

Rocky Hill,
Connecticut, USA
regional center

Scottsdale,
Arizona, USA
regional center

Mexico City, Mexico
regional center

São Paulo, Brazil
regional center

Henkel operates worldwide with leading brands and technologies in three
business units: Laundry & Home Care, Beauty Care and Adhesive Technologies.
Founded in 1876, the company is headquartered in Düsseldorf, Germany. With
production sites in 55 countries, we promote economic development as a

Dubai, United
Arab Emirates
regional center

local employer, purchaser and investor. More information on our business
performance and key indicators per region: Annual Report, pages 65 to 75,
annualreport.henkel.com/economic-report
and

Our indicators
Environmental indicators

Economic indicators
2014
Sales in million euros
Adjusted 1 operating profit (EBIT) in million euros
Adjusted 1 return on sales (EBIT) in percent
Adjusted 1 earnings per preferred share (EPS) in euros

170

Production output in thousand metric tons

7,867

7,940

Energy consumption in thousand megawatt hours

2,219

2,288

4.88

Carbon dioxide emissions in thousand metric tons

649

667

7,438

7,190

138

142

2014

2015

2,923

2,588
15.8
4.38

2015

169

Production sites

18,089

16,428

2014

2015

16.2

Dividend per ordinary share in euros

1.29

1.45 2

Water consumption in thousand cubic meters

Dividend per preferred share in euros

1.31

1.47 2

Waste for recycling and disposal in thousand
metric tons

1Adjusted for one-time charges/gains and restructuring charges.
2 Proposal to shareholders for the Annual General Meeting on April 11, 2016.

Employee indicators

Social indicators
2014

Employees 1 (as of December 31)
Trainees in Germany
Proportion of female employees in percent

2015

49,750

49,450

484

508

33.2

33.6

1.5

2.1

Participation in employee share program in percent

30.1

29.7

Occupational accidents per million hours worked

0.9

0.8

Average number of training days per employee

Donations in million euros (financial and product
donations, not counting paid time off from work)
Number of projects supported

8.2
2,265

8.3
3,431

1 Permanent staff excluding trainees. Figures have been rounded.

Value added statement 2015
in million euros

Sales
Other income

18,089
11

99.9 %
0.1 %

Total sales /
other income

18,100

100.0 %

Cost of materials
Amortization / depreciation
Other expenses

7,839
460
4,027

43.3 %
2.5 %
22.3 %

Value added

5,774

31.9 %

47 (0.8 %)
Minority shareholders

74 (1.3 %)
Interest expense
639 (11.1 %)
Shareholders
of which:

The value added statement shows that most of the generated sales flow back
into the global economy. The largest share of the value added – 52.8 percent
– went to our employees in the form of salary and pension benefits. Central
and local ­government received 11.8 percent in the form of taxes; lenders

685 (11.8 %)
Central and local
government

1,282 (22.2 %)
Reinvested in
the company

2015

3,047 (52.8 %)
Employees

received ­1.3 percent as interest payments. We paid 11.1 percent of the value
added as dividends to shareholders. The value added remaining in the company
is available for investments in future growth.

Our sustainability strategy
What are our
­sustainability
­aspirations?

We are committed to leadership in sustainability – this is one of our core corporate values. As pioneers
in this field, we want to drive new solutions while developing our business responsibly and in an
­economically successful manner.

What strategy are
we pursuing?

Our ambition is to achieve more with less. This means we create more value for our customers and consumers, for the communities we operate in, and for our company – at a reduced environmental footprint.

What targets have
we set ourselves?

Our 20-year goal for 2030 is to triple the value we create for the footprint made by our operations,
products and services. We summarize this ambition to become three times more efficient as factor

.

In pursuing this goal, we concentrate our activities along the value chain on six focal areas that reflect
the challenges of sustainable development as they relate to our operations.

s
Deliver
more value

nd
ya
fet th
S a H ea l

Soci
al P
rog
re
s

Performance

d
an
rgy e
Ene imat
Cl

at a reduced
footprint

W
W ate
as r an
tew d
ate
r

faCtor

Materials and
Waste

For 2020 we have set ourselves new interim targets (base year 2010):

How are we
­imple­menting
our strategy?

+ 75 %

+ 22 %

+ 40 % – 30 % – 30 % – 30 %

Overall
efficiency

more net sales per
ton of product

safer per
­million hours
worked

less water per
ton of product

less waste per
ton of product

less energy /
CO2 emissions per
ton of product

To successfully implement our strategy and reach our targets, we rely on our products, cooperation with
our partners, and the dedication of our people.
Our products

Our partners

Our people

deliver more value at a
reduced environmental
footprint.

are key to driving
­sustainability along ­our
value chain.

make the difference –
with their commitment,
skills and knowledge.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

What we have achieved

What we have achieved
To reach our long-term goal of becoming three times more efficient
by 2030 (“Factor 3”), we had set ourselves concrete interim targets
for the five-year period from 2011 to 2015, which we achieved.
Here is the current status:

Our focal areas

+ 38 %

+ 11 %

+ 33 %

– 23 %

– 17 %

– 18 %

Overall efficiency

more net sales per
ton of product

safer per million
hours worked

less water per ton
of product

less waste per ton
of product

less energy / CO2 emissions per t0n of product

2015 target: + 30 %

2015 target: + 10 %

2015 target: + 20 %

2015 target: – 15 %

2015 target: – 15 %

2015 target: – 15 %

Our products

All products

More than

70,000

are systematically assessed according
to sustainability criteria throughout the
Henkel innovation process.

metric tons of CO2 were avoided by
using recycled PET in the packaging for
our ­laundry and home care products.

165,000
is the number of product formulas for
which Beauty Care has already calculated
the carbon footprint.

Our partners

18 companies

More than

2,000

are now members of the purchasing
­initiative “Together for Sustainability,”
­tripling membership since 2011.

audits and assessments have been
­performed by Henkel at its suppliers
since 2012.

More than

2,200

participants have been able to communicate
directly with Henkel experts during webinars
offered on the Food Safe Packaging portal
of Adhesive Technologies since 2013.

Our people

About

6,200

Henkel employees have been qualified as
sustainability ambassadors so far.

Around

63,000

schoolchildren have been reached by
­sustainability ambassadors through our
program.

More than

5 million

people around the world have been
­supported over the past five years by
our social engagement activities.

1

2

Foreword

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

2015 was an important milestone on the path toward Henkel’s long-term sustainability
goal, “Factor 3.” By 2030, we want to triple the value we create for our customers and
­consumers, for the communities we operate in and for our company – compared to the
environmental footprint of our operations, products and services.
We have made great progress in fully integrating sustainability into our business processes. We achieved our interim targets for the first five-year period: With an overall
efficiency improvement of 38 percent for the period up to 2015, we are well on track
toward our long-term goal. Now, we have defined our targets and ambitions for the next
five years: We aim for an overall efficiency improvement of 75 percent by 2020 compared to 2010.
We have another reason to be proud – we have now published our 25th Sustainability
Report. We published our first Environment Report ahead of the United Nations
­Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. That report
reviewed the progress we had made and showed future challenges. Convinced that
growth, economic success and environmental compatibility are not irreconcilable, we
wanted to demonstrate our commitment to sustainable development.
Our approach to sustainability continued to evolve in the following years, becoming
more systematic and addressing an increasing number of environmental and social
challenges along our value chain. For Henkel – as well as many other businesses
around the world – there is no question: Business has to be part of the solution and the
sustainability agenda.
2015 was also an important year charting the road ahead on major global challenges:
The United Nations agreed on the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and
its respective goals, and a global climate agreement was reached in Paris. This common understanding of the global priorities will facilitate cooperation and drive progress. With our proven track record in sustainability and our clear strategy, we will
be supporting the achievement of these goals. Our commitment to leadership in
­sustainability is anchored firmly in our company values.
We continuously work to improve all products across our entire portfolio. This enables
us to offer our customers and consumers more value and better performance at a
smaller environmental footprint.
Cooperating closely with our customers and business partners in retail and industry,
we are able to leverage our experience in order to optimize logistics, increase the
­efficiency of production processes, develop more sustainable products and foster
­sustainable consumption.
And it is our people who make the difference. Their understanding of sustainability
and its relevance for their respective businesses and areas of responsibility is the
­foundation for our progress.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Foreword

3

Kathrin Menges
Executive Vice President Human
Resources and Chair of Henkel’s
Sustainability Council

We are convinced that sustainability is becoming increasingly important for our business success, supporting our growth, improving our cost efficiency and reducing risks.
At the same time, it is only through sustainable business practices that we can maintain the basis for a livable society and a robust economy.
We would like to thank our employees, partners and customers for contributing
to another successful year on our sustainability journey. We will build upon these
achievements in 2016 and in the years to come.

Kathrin Menges
Executive Vice President Human Resources
and Chair of Henkel’s Sustainability Council

Kathrin Menges describes how
­Henkel continues to work toward
sustainable development (video):
 sustainabilityreport.henkel.com/
kathrin-menges-video

4

Sustainability strategy and management

We want to anchor our understanding of sustainability more broadly across
­society. As part of our Sustainability Ambassador program, Henkel employees also
­conducted a lesson on sustainability with schoolchildren in Shanghai in 2015.
We have now reached around 63,000 children in 43 countries through the program.

Sustainability strategy and
­management
We want to contribute so that, in 2050, nine billion people will be able
to live well and within the resource limits of the planet.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Contributing to quality of life and
­reducing resource consumption
Through our sustainability strategy, we contribute
both to sustainable development and to our company’s economic success. We aim to pioneer new
solutions while continuing to shape our business
responsibly and increase our economic success.
As the basis for our strategy, we have adopted the
Vision 2050 of the World Business Council for
­Sustainable Development (WBCSD), whose aspiration is that, in 2050, nine billion people live well
and within the resource limits of the planet. For
Henkel, this means contributing to quality of life

Sustainability strategy and management

by generating value while using less resources and
causing less emissions. We see sustainability as a
shared responsibility for all of society. Our intention is not only that we as a company create more
value with a reduced environmental footprint.
We also want to inspire others – for example, our
­suppliers, customers and consumers – to make
their own contributions to sustainability.
This is also the intention behind the schools project
included in our Sustainability Ambassador program. Our employees receive training so that they
are able to explain the importance of sustainable
behavior to others, including young children.

5

6

Sustainability strategy and management

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Our ambition

Kasper Rorsted
Chairman of the
Management Board

Henkel has now published its 25th Sustainability
Report. Are you satisfied with what Henkel has
achieved to date?
Yes, I am. And I am sure our employees share this
view, as sustainability is important to us, and it
is one of the five corporate values that guide our
actions. In 1992, Henkel was one of the first German
companies to publish an Environment Report, as
it was called back then. But Henkel was already
­committed to sustainability long before that.
Has the significance of sustainability changed over
the years?
Today, sustainability is more important than ever for
our business success. Over the past decades, we
have worked intensively on all the dimensions of
sustainability. As a result, we succeeded in reaching
our interim targets for the past five years. But there
are still many challenges ahead. We must continue
to set ourselves ambitious targets and work purposefully to achieve them. This includes anchoring
­sustainability even more firmly in our business
­operations. Each employee must be able to understand the relevance of sustainability to our business
success – and convey this to customers, colleagues
or business partners.
Is that the reason why you established the
­Sustain­ability Ambassador program in 2012?
Yes. Our ambassador program encourages our
­people to engage actively with the challenges of
sustainable development. They then pass on that
knowledge to others, including schoolchildren.
I had the pleasure of experiencing myself just
how excited and creative children can be in their
approach to this topic. We need this kind of personal engagement to drive sustainable development
on all levels in the future.

Commitment to leadership in sustainability is
one of our core corporate values. Through our sustainability strategy, we contribute both to sustainable development and to our company’s economic
success. As sustainability leaders, we aim to pioneer new solutions while developing our business
responsibly and increase our economic success.
This ambition encompasses all of our company’s
activities along the entire value chain.

Increasing business relevance
We are convinced that sustainability will become
increasingly important for our business success
in the future. By 2050, the world’s population is
expected to grow to nine billion. The accompanying
acceleration in global economic activity will lead to
rising consumption and resource depletion. The
effect of increasing pressure on available resources
is becoming more noticeable around the world.

Achieving more with less
Our strategy is based on the Vision 2050 of the
WBCSD. For us as a company, this means contributing to quality of life by generating value while
using less resources and causing less emissions.
We want to create more value – for our customers
and consumers, for the communities we operate in,
and for our company – while reducing our environmental footprint at the same time.

Focal areas and strategic principles
We concentrate our activities on six focal areas that
summarize the main challenges of sustainable
development as they relate to our operations. In
each of these focal areas, we drive progress along
the entire value chain through our products and
technologies. We have subdivided the focal areas
into two dimensions: “more value” and “reduced
footprint.” In order to successfully establish our
strategy and reach our goals, both of these dimensions must be ever-present in the minds and
­day-to-day actions of all our employees and
­mirrored in our business processes. We rely here
on the contributions made by our products and

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Sustainability strategy and management

The Sustainability Council (from the left): Dr. Nicolas Weber, Michael Olosky, Thomas Gerd Kühn, Dr. Andreas Bruns, Bertrand Conquéret, Dr. Thomas Förster, Prof. Dr. Thomas
Müller-Kirschbaum, Kathrin Menges (Chair), Carsten Tilger, Dr. Peter Florenz, Marie-Eve Schröder, Georg Baratta-Dragono and Nicolas Krauss. They represent the business
units and all corporate functions responsible for putting our sustainability strategy into operational action. The Council steers the development and implementation of
our global sustainability strategy.

technologies, collaboration with our partners, and
the commitment of our people.

Our ambitious goal for 2030
If we are to live in harmony with our limited
resources in 2050, we must become five times
more efficient. By 2030, therefore, we want to triple
the value we create through our business operations in relation to the environmental footprint
of our products and services by comparison with
the base year 2010. We can achieve this goal, our
­“Factor 3,” in different ways: We can triple the value
we create while leaving the footprint at the same
level. Or we can reduce the environmental footprint to one third of today’s level while delivering
the same value.

focal areas for the five years from 2011 to 2015. With
improvements of 18 percent in energy efficiency,
23 percent in water use, 17 percent in waste volume,
33 percent in occupational safety, and 11 percent in
sales, we reached these targets. By the end of 2015,
we had thus improved the relationship between
the value we create and our environmental footprint
by 38 percent overall.
On the road to our long-term goal of “Factor 3,” we
intend to improve our performance in these areas
still further over the coming years. To do this, we
have defined new interim targets: By 2020, we want
to further reduce the direct and indirect carbon
dioxide emissions from our production sites, our
water use and our waste volume, in each case by
30 percent per ton of product relative to the base
year 2010. We want to improve our occupational
safety performance by 40 percent and our sales by
22 percent per ton of product.

Interim targets on the road to “Factor 3”
To reach our goal by 2030, we will have to improve
our efficiency by an average of 5 to 6 percent each
year. We had therefore set interim targets for our

Sustainability at Henkel: a
clear strategy with ambitious
goals (video):
 www.henkel.com/
sustainability-video

7

8

Sustainability strategy and management

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

What we want to achieve by 2030
To reach our goal of becoming three times more efficient by 2030, we will have to improve our efficiency by an average of 5 to 6 percent
each year. For the five years from 2011 to 2015, we had set ourselves concrete interim targets aiming to increase efficiency by 30 percent.
We achieved these targets. With our 20-year goal in mind, we have set new interim targets for our focal areas for 2020.

Index*
175 %

Value

150 %
125 %
1%

100 %

8%

5%

– 7 % – 13 % – 15 %

75 %

3%

11 %

Overall efficiency
+ 200 % = faCtor

+ 75 %

– 20 % – 19 %

Footprint
50 %
2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

* Base year 2010

Our medium-term targets for 2020 (base year: 2010)
Through these new interim targets, we intend to improve the relationship between the value we create and our environmental footprint by
75 percent overall (relative to the base year 2010) by the end of 2020.

+ 75 %
Overall efficiency

+ 22 %

+ 40 %

– 30 %

– 30 %

– 30 %

more net sales per
ton of product

safer per million
hours worked

less water per ton
of product

less waste per ton
of product

less energy / CO2
emissions per ton
of product

How we implement our strategy
To successfully implement our strategy and drive sustainability along our value chain, we rely on our products, our partners, and our people.
In a comprehensive process, we assessed our footprint and impacts, identified the options for improvement, and defined the main areas for
action for the period up to 2020. Here are some examples:
Our products

Our partners

Our people

• E
 ach new product must continue to
make a contribution to sustainability.

• T
 ogether with our partners, we want to
improve workplace conditions for one
million employees in our supply chain.

 e want to mobilize all of our
• W
employ­ees to continue working to
advance sustainability.

• W
 e want to help our customers and
consumers to save 50 million metric
tons of CO2.

• T
 hrough our social engagement
­activities, we want to contribute to the
quality of life of 10 million people.

• W
 e want to educate 300 million
c­ on­sumers about recycling options
and i­nspire them to participate.

• W
 e want to reach 200,000 children with
our education initiatives.

• W
 e intend to enhance the transparency
on the substances used in our products
and their safety on a global scale.
• We want to reduce the volume of
packaging relative to net sales by
20 percent.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Sustainability strategy and management

Our reporting and steering systems
Our company first published an Environment
Report in 1992. It reviewed our achievements,
product improvements, and the progress made
in the area of environmental protection at our
­production sites. Henkel subsequently began
­pre­paring an annual report on the company’s
major sustainability activities.
In 2015, we collected data on 170 sites, representing
100 percent of our global production volume. To
assess our footprint along the entire value chain,
we use representative life cycle analyses that cover
around 70 percent of our sales across all product
categories. We also assess data on the raw ingredients and packaging materials we use and the transport operations. We are currently using the knowledge we have gained to further improve our
assessment and measurement systems to allow
us to make an integrated assessment of our progress toward our 20-year goal for 2030 across the
entire company and our value chain.
In 2015, our work was mainly concentrated on
improving the data basis for the raw ingredients
and packaging materials we use; updating the
emissions factors for the energy usage figures for
our sites worldwide; and further developing our
computing models for logistics emissions.

Measuring, assessing and managing
progress
Henkel works with various measurement methods
to optimize the “Value” and “Footprint” dimensions.
These allow the actions to be identified that have
the greatest effect on sustainability along the value
chain. Considering our portfolio as a whole, it is
evident that improvements in the raw materials
and the use phase have a significant impact on the
water and carbon footprint.
The various instruments are summarized in the
Henkel Sustainability#Master® (see page 23). Its
core element is a matrix that can be used to assess
changes in both the “Value” and the “Footprint”
dimensions. We use the results to develop inno­
vations with improved sustainability performance.
Only by considering the entire life cycle can we
ensure that the action taken will improve the overall
sustainability profile of our products.
In line with our ambition that each new product
must make a contribution to sustainability, we
assess our products systematically throughout our
innovation process (see page 22). To make it easier
to optimize our products while they are being
developed, we integrate the environmental profiles
of possible raw ingredients and packaging materials
into the information systems of our product and
packaging development departments. This allows
the footprint of a new formulation to be computed
as early as the development phase.

Process applied to define our targets for 2020
Supply Chain

Trends, developments and
­stake­holder expectations in
our focal areas

Analysis of our footprint and
impacts along the value chain

Key areas (hot spots) and
p­otential for improvement in
our Sustainability#Master®

Interim targets for 2020 and
additional action priorities on
the road to Factor 3
Index*
%

Value

%
%
%

+

%

Total efficiency
+
%=

%

Footprint
%
* Base year

Development of our targets and action priorities
Led by our Sustainability Council, we set up working groups to evaluate trends, developments and the expectations of our stakeholders and to analyze our footprint along the value chain. The next step was to identify the key
areas where we can create more value for our customers and consumers, for the communities we operate in,
and for our company – at a reduced ecological ­footprint. On this basis, we then defined our priorities for 2020
in order to contribute to our long-term goal of “Factor 3” and drive s­ ustainability along our value chain.

You will find an overview of our targets here:
 sustainabilityreport.henkel.com/targets

9

10

Sustainability strategy and management

Organization and management

Corporate governance
We provide comprehensive
information on corporate
­governance and compliance,
and the remuneration report
of the Management Board,
in our Annual Report, pages
31 to 51, and on the internet:
 annualreport.henkel.com/­
governance

The Henkel Management Board bears overall
responsibility for our sustainability strategy and
for our Compliance organization. The latter
ensures compliance with legal regulations and
internal guidelines.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Our internal reporting and complaints channels
are also augmented by a compliance hotline, which
was set up to enable employees to report infringements of our Code of Conduct, internal standards,
or applicable laws. It is run by an independent
external provider and is available in 76 countries.

Focus on communication and training
Globally uniform standards
From our Vision and Values, we have formulated
globally binding behavioral rules which are
­specified in a series of codes and corporate standards. These apply to all employees worldwide,
in all business areas and cultural spheres in which
we operate.
The Code of Conduct contains the most important
corporate principles and behavioral rules. It is supplemented by guidelines for dealing with potential
conflicts of interest. These guidelines are a key
­element of our preventive measures against corruption. Further corporate standards address specific
topics such as compliance with competition and
antitrust laws; safety, health, environment and social
standards; human rights; as well as public affairs.
The codes and corporate standards also provide the
basis for implementing the United Nations Global
Compact, which Henkel joined as early as 2003.

Our Compliance organization
Our Compliance organization has global responsibility for all preventive and reactive measures. It
is supported by integrated management systems
and an organizational structure with clearly defined
responsibilities. The Chief Compliance Officer
reports directly to the Chairman of the Management
Board. He is supported by the Corporate Compliance
Office, our interdisciplinary Compliance & Risk
Committee, and 50 locally appointed compliance
officers all over the world. Our Corporate Data
Protection Officer is also part of our Compliance
­organization. Together, this team coordinates the
flow of information and helps our employees to
implement our requirements locally – for example,
through specially adapted training courses. The
Chief Compliance Officer reports on any infringements, as well as the measures taken to deal with
them, to the Management Board and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on a regular basis.

Since we operate on a global scale, our employees
find themselves in a variety of legal and value
­systems. Many of our employees work in countries
where, according to surveys by organizations such
as Transparency International, there is a greater
risk of encountering corrupt practices. Even in
such surroundings, the same applies to all employees without exception: Henkel strictly opposes
infringement of laws and standards, and rejects all
dishonest business practices. To impart clear rules
of conduct to our employees, and especially to
avoid any conflicts of interest in everyday work
­situations, we focus on regular training courses
and communication measures. In 2015, we trained
more than 12,000 employees around the world in
face-to-face seminars on compliance topics.
Our managers play a key role in regard to compliance. Given their position within the company, they
bear a special responsibility to set an example for
their staff. For this reason, all of our 10,400 managers across the globe must participate twice a year
in our mandatory Compliance eLearning program,
which addresses many different compliance topics.
The main emphasis in 2015 was on antitrust law
and data security.

Zero tolerance for violations of regulations
Improper conduct is never in Henkel’s interest.
The Management Board and senior management
circles at Henkel all subscribe to this fundamental
principle. Improper conduct undermines fair
­competition and damages our trustworthiness and
­reputation. Our employees attach great importance
to a correct and ethically impeccable business
environment. We react forcefully to violations of
laws, codes and standards. Where necessary, we
initiate appropriate disciplinary measures. In 2015,
12 employees received written warnings, and
42 contracts were terminated as a result of conduct
violating compliance rules.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Sustainability strategy and management

Compliance Management System audited
externally
Henkel’s compliance culture involves continuous
monitoring and improvement of the compliance
process. As a result, our global Compliance Management System was audited by external auditors
in 2013 based on the IDW PS 980 auditing standard
with respect to the appropriateness, implementation and effectiveness of the compliance processes
in the areas of competition law and anticorruption. A complete description of the Compliance
Management Systems in place at Henkel can be
found on the internet:
sustainabilityreport.henkel.com/compliance

Results of our audit programs
The Head of the Corporate Audit department reports
directly to the Chairman of the Management Board.
We carry out regular audits based on our risk-based
audit planning at our production and administration
sites, and at our subcontractors and in logistics
­centers, to verify compliance with our codes and
standards. The audits are a key instrument for identifying risks and potential improvements.

In 2015, we conducted 78 audits around the world.
In the course of the audits, a total of 2,127 corrective
actions were agreed upon. The main emphasis in
2015 was on the following areas: sales and distribution (following the issue of a new corporate standard for this area); finance processes in the shared
services; local human resources management;
­compliance at toll manufacturers and subcontractors; and processes relating to safety, health and
environment (SHE).
Compliance with the SHE Standards was audited at
117 sites, resulting in the initiation of 478 optimization measures. Maintenance of our Social Standards
and our Diversity & Inclusion Policy was examined
in 21 audits.
All audit results are included in the Corporate Audit
department’s annual report to the Henkel Management Board and the Audit Committee of the Super­
visory Board. In addition to the regular audits, we
also conducted six reviews of internal monitoring
systems, mainly for newly acquired entities. These
begin with self-assessments by the reviewed Henkel
companies, which are then elaborated in more
detail with the help of local auditors.

Main focus of
audits in 2015
Percentage distribution of the
2015 Henkel audit program

38 %	Supply chain,
­production, SHE
21 %	Finance, accounting
21 %	Marketing, sales,
purchasing
20 %	Information
t­ ech­nology,
human resources

We also trained 1,289 employees on aspects of compliance, risk management, and internal monitoring
in seminars and during our audits in 2015.

Our organization for sustainability

Henkel Management Board

Sustainability Council

Business units

Regional and national companies

Corporate functions

Chaired by a Management
Board member and reflecting
all areas of the company, the
Sustainability Council steers
our sustainability activities
as a central decision-making
body. The business units are
responsible for putting our
sustainability strategy into
operational action. The
regional and national com­
panies steer implementation
in their respective regions.
The corporate functions are
responsible for ensuring
implementation of our
su­stainability strategy in
their areas.

11

12

Supply chain

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Every minute, the plant in Wassertrüdingen in Germany fills up to 350 bottles of shower
gel from the Fa body care brand. Diana Rathgeb, a deputy shift supervisor who is also
responsible for the line, checks the product and packaging quality. Thanks to the highly
efficient cleaning method applied between filling operations, this line saves more than
90 percent wastewater per cleaning cycle.

Supply chain
A look back at our targets for the five-year period from 2011 to 2015 shows that the continuous
improvements made and the simplification of our purchasing, production and logistics
­processes have put us in a good position to become three times more efficient by 2030.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Achieving more with less
We have merged the production, logistics and purchasing activities for all of our business units into a
single global supply chain organization. We are working to continuously improve efficiency in all areas
while maintaining the high quality of our products.
The production site in Wassertrüdingen, Germany,
produces around one-fifth of the products in the
Beauty Care portfolio and serves the entire European market – up to 3.3 million units are filled here
every day. Since cleaning of the filling lines is a
main generator of wastewater, we use steam instead
of hot water to clean and disinfect the equipment.
This has enabled us to reduce the wastewater vol-

Supply chain

ume per cleaning cycle by more than 90 percent,
thus avoiding around 850 cubic meters of waste­
water per line every year. Another sustainability
example is the bundling of single product bottles
with film wrapping. This is normally done by shrink
wrapping under the application of heat. A new
machine now achieves the same effect by mechanically stretching the film, which saves up to
70,000 kilowatt hours of electric power per year.
By implementing many such measures, this site
has been able to reduce its wastewater footprint
by more than 65 percent and its electricity consumption by more than 50 percent per production
unit from 2005 to 2015. All of this contributes to
achieving our “Factor 3” goal.

13

14

Purchasing and supplier management

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Purchasing and
supplier management
Worldwide purchasing markets
Carsten Knobel
Executive Vice President
Finance (CFO) / Purchasing /
Integrated Business Solutions

Henkel has launched its global supply chain organization under the name of ONE!GSC Horizon. How
can this change contribute to more sustainability?
Establishing a unified global supply chain is one
of our most important strategic projects. It involves
a fundamental realignment of our production, logistics and purchasing processes across all business
units and functions. The new organization will help
us to standardize and harmonize our processes
worldwide. It will increase our competitiveness –
through faster workflows, better flow of information, more transparency, and greater efficiency
­overall. This increase in efficiency also plays a key
role in reaching our sustainability goals.
Where do you see additional potential for improving
efficiency and sustainability in production?
In 2015, we again introduced many measures that
reduce the environmental footprint of our production operations and boost our efficiency. We strive
constantly at our production sites to use even less
energy and water and decrease our waste ­volume,
all while still maintaining high quality and contin­
uously improving occupational safety. And we are
succeeding: We reached all of the targets we had
set ourselves for 2015 in these areas.
Standardization of processes also plays a central
role in Henkel’s purchasing organization.
That’s correct. In our purchasing initiative “Together
for Sustainability,” or TfS, the main objective is to
harmonize and simplify increasingly complex, global
supplier management processes – not only for the
member companies, but also for our shared suppliers.
The membership of TfS has already tripled since the
initiative was launched in 2011. That shows that the
idea works.

Henkel currently has suppliers and other business
partners from around 130 countries. More than
70 percent of our purchasing volume comes from
countries that belong to the Organization for
­Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
However, we are increasingly opening up new purchasing markets in countries that are not OECD
members. We place the same exacting demands on
suppliers worldwide. Our suppliers are assessed in
a comprehensive process that covers sustainability
performance and risks as well as key commercial
and operating indicators.

What we expect from our business partners
We expect our suppliers and business partners to
conduct themselves in a manner consistent with
our sustainability requirements. In selecting and
developing our suppliers and other business partners, we also consider their performance in regard
to safety, health, environment, social standards
and fair business practices. This is based on our
globally applicable Safety, Health and Environment
(SHE) Standards that we formulated as early as 1997,
thereby demonstrating even then our commitment to assuming responsibility along the entire
value chain. Our corporate purchasing standards
apply worldwide as well, and we supplemented
these with a Sustainable Sourcing Policy in 2015.

Binding supplier code
Compliance with the cross-sector Code of Conduct
of the German Association of Materials Management, Purchasing, and Logistics (BME) is mandatory
for all of Henkel’s suppliers worldwide. Henkel
joined the BME in 2009, as its code is based on the
10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact
and can therefore be used internationally. The
BME code serves as the basis for contractual relationships with our strategic suppliers. This means
that they have either recognized the cross-sector
BME code – and hence the principles of the Global

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Compact – or produced their own comparable code
of conduct. The BME code has already been translated into 12 languages.

Initiatives for greater sustainability
In 2011, Henkel and five other companies in the
chemical industry established the initiative
“Together for Sustainability – The Chemical Initiative for Sustainable Supply Chains” (TfS). It is based
on the principles of the United Nations Global
Compact and the Responsible Care Initiative of the
International Council of Chemical Associations
(ICCA). The TfS initiative aims to harmonize the
increasingly complex supply chain management
processes with regard to sustainability and to
­optimize the dialog among worldwide business
partners. Above all, synergies are to be created
so that resources can be used more efficiently and
with a minimum of administrative effort, not
only among the member companies but also with
all of our shared suppliers.
At the heart of the initiative is the idea: “An audit
for one is an audit for all.” Suppliers only have to
undergo one assessment or one audit. These are
conducted by independent experts. An internet
platform is then used to make the results available
to all members of the initiative for information
and approval. Since 2014, TfS has a new legal identity:

Purchasing and supplier management

Through partnering with the Brussels-based
­ uropean Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC), the
E
­initiative now has the status of an independent,
non-profit organization. This collaboration will
generate even more synergies across the chemical
industry.
The TfS grew once again in 2015 and the number
of members has tripled from the original six to 18.
Last year, the first companies from the USA joined
the initiative. Global expansion of the assessment
and audit program, driven in part by supplier
­conferences in Shanghai and São Paulo, was again
a main focus of activities in 2015. In addition, the
initiative was singled out for mention by the Ethical
Corporation: TfS was “highly commended” in the
category “Best Supplier Engagement.”

In 2015, the geographical
scope of the TfS initiative was
widened once again, parti­c­
ularly in emerging markets.
The shared challenges of
­supply chains in Brazil were
discussed at a supplier meeting with more than 300 participants in São Paulo. From
the left: Lucilene De Morais
of Oxiteno with Fernanda
Escarim, Bertrand Conquéret
and Ricardo Filho of Henkel
Purchasing.

Henkel is also a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a
forum of companies in the consumer goods industry.
Like the TfS initiative, AIM-PROGRESS encourages
member companies to share experiences and ­utilize
synergies. A common CSR platform is to be set up
for this purpose.

“Together for S­ ustainability” –
a purchasing initiative of the
chemical industry (video):
www.henkel.com/tfs

15

16

Purchasing and supplier management

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Responsible Supply Chain Process
The results of our assessments and audits from
the TfS initiative are a core element of our
­five-step Responsible Supply Chain Process. This
focuses on two main challenges. First, ensuring
that all of our suppliers comply with our defined
sustainability standards. Second, we aim to purposefully work with our strategic suppliers to
­continuously improve sustainability standards in
our value chain – for example, through knowledge
transfer and continued education about process
optimization, resource efficiency, and environmental and social standards. This process is ­performed
both at the beginning of our relationship with
a supplier and as a regular check of our existing
suppliers.
Step 1: Risk assessment
Henkel uses an early warning system for sustainability risks in global purchasing markets. We
begin by estimating the potential risks in a market
or a region. In doing so, we concentrate on countries identified by international institutions as being
associated with heightened levels of risk. The
assessment includes the criteria of human rights,
corruption, and the legal environment. We also
appraise a second dimension, that of risk value
chains. These are industries and sectors that we
consider to potentially represent a risk for our
company. This helps us to identify countries and
purchasing markets that may require special
­precautions.

to a “traffic light” system. A “red” score always
leads to an audit. In the case of a “yellow” score,
the areas where improvement is needed are
­identified and the supplier is audited if necessary.
Step 4: Audit
Henkel works with independent audit companies
to audit compliance with the defined standards in
TfS audits. Our audits include on-site inspections,
e.g., at production sites, and discussions with local
employees. Follow-up measures after an audit
ensure that suppliers implement the corrective
actions that have been specified. Repeated serious
non-compliance leads to prompt termination
of the supplier relationship. In this area, we also
actively participate in cross-sectoral initiatives
with the aim of improving the transparency and
efficiency of supplier audits and helping to establish cross-company standards.
In 2015, we conducted a total of 687 assessments
and audits. In the case of repeat audits, 78 percent
of the suppliers audited had improved their
­sustainability performance. Overall, we did not
receive any notification throughout 2015 of an
infringement by any of our strategic suppliers
which would have given cause for terminating our
relationship with that supplier.
Step 5: Further development
As part of our supplier management activities,
we work intensively with our suppliers to improve
sustainability standards. We strive to initiate
­positive changes throughout the value chain,
through training programs and joint projects. Our
target for 2020 is to work with our partners to
improve the working conditions for one million
people employed in our supply chains.

Step 2: Assessment
We use supplier self-assessments based on
­questionnaires and have them examined as TfS
assessments by the independent experts EcoVadis.
These cover our expectations in the areas of
safety, health, environment, quality, human
rights, employee standards, and anticorruption.

Early warning system for risk markets

Step 3: Analysis
Based on the risk assessments and the suppliers’
self-assessments, we classify suppliers according

One example of a risk market is the purchasing of
raw materials for soldering pastes and similar
­products for the electronics industry. These contain

Responsible Supply Chain Process
Step 1:
Risk assessment

Step 2:
Assessment

Step 3:
Analysis

Step 4:
Audit

Step 5:
Further
development

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

metals – mainly silver, copper and tin – to make
them electrically conductive. In some countries,
the mining of cassiterite (the main source of tin)
is often associated with military conflicts and
human rights violations. In recent years, we have
repeatedly reviewed our direct suppliers of metals
and requested them to supply documentary evidence that they do not purchase or process metals
from critical regions. Henkel is also a member
of the C
­ onflict-Free Sourcing Initiative, which was
founded by members of the global electronics
industry. Its aim is to ensure conflict-free supply
chains for minerals.

Honoring our suppliers
As part of our supplier management activities,
we collaborate intensively with our strategic
­suppliers. We aim to initiate positive changes
throughout the value chain, through joint projects
on process optimization, resource efficiency, and
environmental and social standards. Furthermore,
Henkel has been honoring sustainable innovations
by its suppliers for four years.
The Laundry & Home Care business unit awarded
the biotechnology company Novozymes in 2015
for the development of new, powerful enzymes
as the basis for a new generation of innovative
­formulations. They are used, for example, in the

Purchasing and supplier management

laundry detergents of our Persil ProClean brand
in the USA and have been designed specifically to
meet the needs of the local market.
The Beauty Care business unit recognized Ball
Aerocan in 2015 for the joint development of the
ReAl can. The technology makes it possible to use
recycled aluminum and has been applied to make
cans for the deodorant sprays of our Fa, Souplesse
and Neutromed brands
The Adhesive Technologies business unit presented its 2015 sustainability award to Covestro
Deutschland AG (formerly Bayer MaterialScience),
a supplier of polyurethane technologies. Covestro
was rec­ognized for its development of raw materials for our wood adhesives that will allow us to
­further expand our business in sustainable wood
engineering.

Henkel presents annual
awards to its suppliers in various categories, including
­sustainability. The sustainability
award of Adhesive Technologies for 2015 went to Covestro.
Pictured at the awards ceremony (from the left): Thomas
Holenia of Henkel, Harald
Wolf, Michael Hellemann Soerensen and Dr. Karsten
­Danielmeier of Covestro and
Paul Kirsch, Henkel.

17

18

Production

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Production
New targets for our production operations
Henkel operates 170 production sites worldwide.
We work continuously at all of these sites to
reduce our environmental footprint while maintaining high quality and safety standards. We have
set concrete targets for our production sites to
help steer progress toward our long-term “Factor 3”
goal. By the end of 2015, we aimed to reduce our
energy and water use and waste volume by 15 percent per production unit and reduce our worldwide accident rate by 20 percent (base year: 2010).
We achieved each of these four targets: Relative
to 2010, we have cut our energy use by 18 percent,
water use by 23 percent, and waste volume by
17 percent. Our worldwide accident rate has dropped
by 33 percent versus 2010.
As the next step on the road to our long-term goal
of “Factor 3,” we have set new interim targets.
By 2020, we want to further reduce the direct and
indirect CO2 emissions from our production sites,
our water use and our waste volume, in each case
by 30 percent per production unit relative to the
base year 2010. We have also defined additional
priorities for our programs: increasing the amount
of renewable energies we use, lowering CO2 emissions during the transport of our products, cutting
the volume of waste for landfill, and a stronger
focus on saving water in regions where water is in
short supply.

Worldwide optimization programs

Examples of resource
­efficiency at production
sites around the world:
 sustainabilityreport.
henkel.com/­efficiency

Aiming to continuously improve our entire production network, we have begun to introduce the
Henkel Production System (HPS). Through this
Group-wide optimization program, we want to
­systematically identify and eliminate inefficiencies
of all kinds along our value chain, such as waiting
times, excess production or defects, in order to
generate more value for our customers and our
shareholders. To this end, we have set standards
for all three business units on the harmonization
of production workflows. HPS is based on lean
principles and on engaging all employees to ensure
that they can implement the new standards
effectively while saving on resources. During the

transition to HPS, our business units will continue
to initiate specific programs for their locations.
The Adhesive Technologies business unit continues
to rely on a combination of lean production principles, workshops and structured problem-solving
techniques. Through Value Stream Mapping workshops, we identify inefficiencies and their causes
in order to develop corresponding improvement
projects, which often have a positive impact on
the sustainability of our processes. In addition to
the sustainability workshops introduced in 2014,
sustainability scorecards were developed in 2015
to enable better project and investment steering
on a quarterly basis.
The Laundry & Home Care business unit is
expanding the use of digital technologies in the
supply chain. Systematic improvements have
been achieved in the areas of safety, environmental
­protection, and quality through a variety of installed
modules. Cameras check the quality of product
labels and the accuracy of label positioning as it
takes place during the filling process. Sensors
monitor work areas near moving machinery parts
to make sure that employees will not be put in
danger. Consumption data are recorded in real time
and continuously evaluated. All of this ensures that
our processes run smoothly and efficiently.
In order to continuously improve its workflows,
the Beauty Care business unit makes use of the
potential offered by digital solutions, among other
things. ­For its Total Productive Management Plus
optimization program that has been in place since
2007, a global web-based tool was introduced in
2015 to automate the monthly recording of standardized production and sustainability indicators.
This enables real-time performance monitoring
and more effective process steering. The expandable modular software system will be rolled out to
all sites during 2016.

Standards and management systems
Globally uniform standards for safety, health,
­environment (SHE) and integrated management
systems provide the basis for our worldwide

Production

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

­ ptimization programs. The SHE Standards and
o
our Social Standards apply to all sites. Our management systems ensure that these standards are
implemented consistently across our global production network. Since our employees’ behavior
plays a key role in this respect, we conduct regular
environmental and safety training sessions on a
variety of topics at all sites.
We carry out regular audits at our production sites
and, increasingly, at our subcontractors and logistics centers to verify compliance with our codes
and standards. All audit results, including the monitoring of our SHE and Social Standards, are included
in the Internal Audit department’s annual report to
the Henkel Management Board.
We have our management systems externally
­certified at the site level wherever this is expected
and recognized by our partners in the respective
markets. At the end of 2015, around 95 percent of
our production volume came from sites certified
to ISO 14001, the internationally recognized standard for environmental management systems.
96 percent of our production volume is covered by
the ISO 9001 quality management standard and
56 percent is covered by the ISO 50001 energy management standard. Furthermore, around 94 percent of our production volume came from sites
certified to the OHSAS 18001 standard for occu­
pational health and safety management systems.

Collaboration with subcontractors
Third-party manufacturing is an integral part of
our production strategy. For example, we sometimes use toll and contract manufacturers when
entering new markets or introducing new products
and technologies. In these cases, the corresponding production volume is often still small. The use
of external partners also helps to optimize our
­production and logistics network and to increase
resource efficiency. Currently, we source around
10 percent additional annual production volume
from toll and contract manufacturers.
Our requirements regarding quality, environmental, safety and social standards are an integral part
of all contractual relationships and order placements. We monitor them using audits carried out
by our own staff and, increasingly, by specialized
third-party service providers. We aim to establish
long-term collaborations with our toll and contract
manufacturers. This also includes adding them to
our environmental data recording systems.

The labeling machines for
liquid products in the Laundry
& Home Care facilities are
equipped with advanced
­technology for seamless quality
control: A label camera scans
the front and back labels of
each bottle produced to verify
the accuracy of labeling.
Guido Dames, line technician
in Düsseldorf, regularly
checks and optimizes the
­system settings.

19

20

Occupational safety

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Occupational safety
Our objective: zero accidents
Occupational safety is one of our highest priorities.
We remain focused on our long-term objective
of “zero accidents.” Our new interim target is to
reduce our worldwide occupational accident rate
by 40 percent by the end of 2020 (base year 2010).
With this objective in mind, we are working continuously to improve our occupational safety
­levels through awareness-raising training events;
­investments to enhance technical safety; and by
monitoring the strict compliance with our Safety,
Health and Environment (SHE) Standards.

Focus on safety training
Regular training sessions are held at all sites to
raise employees’ awareness and enable them to
develop safety-conscious behavior. We also conduct training sessions for the staff of contractors
working at our sites.
The Laundry & Home Care business unit trained
its employees using various methods, including
seminars by external experts, and by defining
global focal topics every two months, on which
the sites then conducted a series of events.
In addition to the regular safety training sessions,
the Beauty Care business unit introduced a new

Staying safe at work:
The Safety Day at Adhesive
Technologies in 2015 centered
on culture-based safety:
remaining alert and pointing
out potential hazards to
­colleagues. Here, Walter
Gondek (center) of Engineering Process Safety explains
how to secure electrical
drives using multiple hasps.

program in Tunisia that is based on recognizing
and honoring employees who exhibit outstanding safety-consciousness.
The Adhesive Technologies business unit is
focusing more strongly on positive dialog on
safety in day-to-day work situations. The focus
here is on mutual encouragement to develop
a safety culture and constructive feedback on
unsafe behaviors.

2015 status
In 2015, we recorded 0.8 occupational accidents
per million hours worked. That is an improvement
of 33 percent relative to the base year 2010 and
means that we exceeded our 2015 target of
20 percent.
Despite our continuous focus on health and safety,
an employee in Lianyungang, China, suffered a
fatal accident in a warehouse. An employee of an
external contractor was fatally injured during
­construction work in our factory in Perm, Russia.
These accidents show that we must intensify our
global safety training efforts still further.
In addition, we also mourn the passing of an
employee who died in the Germanwings plane
crash in France during a business trip.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Logistics and transport

Logistics and transport
IT solutions for logistics planning

Road safety

With the new Transport Management System
ONE!TMS, we have introduced a Group-wide IT
solution for more efficient handling of our transport planning across all business units and
­countries. Higher space utilization and optimized
routes decrease the transport mileage, reduce
fuel consumption and thus diminish CO2 output.
In 2015, ONE!TMS was implemented at sites in
the Benelux countries, Spain, Slovenia, China
and Taiwan.

The Adhesive Technologies business unit has initiated a global road safety campaign for its field
sales staff. A range of interactive eLearning modules was developed to raise awareness for safe
driving. Accessible worldwide, it was used by nearly
1,000 employees in 2015. In safety-related team
discussions, field sales managers personally convey
the importance of this topic to their teams as well.
The global training portfolio also includes practical
road safety training sessions where needed.

Product transports per
transport mode in 2015

58 % Road
38 % Sea
		
3 % Rail
		
1 % Air

To demonstrate our progress, it is especially important to systematically record the CO2 emissions of
our logistics operations. In 2015, we prepared our
­systems prior to introducing a new instrument,
EcoTransIT World, which determines the environmental impact of transports by all transport modes
on the basis of the DIN EN 16258 standard. This
­system will be implemented as of 2016.

Requirements on our logistics partners
We take efficiency as well as environmental and
safety performance into account when choosing
our transport partners. Relevant criteria are
included in our request for proposal processes and
tenders for the purchase of logistics services.
These include energy-saving targets and measures
for modernizing vehicle fleets.

Emissions reduction initiatives
In line with our global Supply Chain organization,
we have developed programs to reduce emissions
that use synergy potentials across business units.
Our Laundry & Home Care and Beauty Care units,
for example, have established a mega warehouse
concept in North America, where a few main distribution centers store products until the required
quantities are due for on-time delivery to regional
warehouses and retailers. This saves 320,000 kilometers in transports and around 380 metric tons of
CO2 each year. In another initiative, the two business units began hiring pallets instead of buying
them, which resulted in more efficient collection
and improved handling of damaged pallets. Laundry & Home Care has rolled out this concept across
Europe and is thus avoiding another 480 metric
tons of CO2 and 900 metric tons of waste wood
every year. Adhesive Technologies is reducing
emissions by optimizing express and airfreight
services. The resulting improvements along the
value chain will save around 1,500 metric tons of
CO2 annually as of 2016. Overall, we intend to
reduce our logistics emissions by around 5 percent
over the next five years.

Further measures aimed at
reducing our transport and
logistics emissions:
 sustainabilityreport.
henkel.com/emissions

Overall picture:
our operational carbon footprint in 2015
Direct emissions (Scope 1)
Energy use at our production sites

Indirect emissions (Scope 2)
Bought-in energy (electricity, steam,
district heating)

25 %
around 349,000
metric tons

23 %
around 318,000
metric tons

Indirect emissions (Scope 3)
Product transports to customers
(all transport modes):
around 651,000 metric tons
Business trips (train, airplane, rental car):
around 27,000 metric tons
Company cars:
around 44,000 metric tons

around 1,389,000 metric tons

52 %
around 722,000
metric tons

Henkel’s own CO2 emissions
are primarily caused by
energy generation and consumption. Other CO2 emission
sources are not relevant for
our business operations. The
same applies to emissions of
other greenhouse gases. They
account for less than one
­percent of the Scope 1 and
Scope 2 emissions. Scope 3
emissions, especially those
associated with raw materials
and product use, are calculated at the product level.

21

Sustainability stewardship

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Sustainability stewardship
We want each of our products to make a contribution to sustainability –
that means they must offer more value at a reduced environmental
footprint.
Sustainable innovations

help our customers and consumers to reduce their
energy use and thereby their own carbon footprint.

If we are to decouple increased quality of life from
resource use, product innovations will play an
essential role. Our products therefore provide key
leverage points for implementing our sustain­
ability strategy. They should offer customers and
consumers more value and better performance at
a smaller environmental footprint.
For us, this is not a question of developing individual “green” products where only the environmental
profile has been improved. Our aim is to continuously improve all products across our entire
­portfolio, taking every aspect into account. A high
degree of innovativeness is very important in
achieving this. In 2015, Henkel employed around
2,800 people in research and development and
invested 478 million euros in these activities. In
order to steer product development in line with
our sustainability strategy from the outset, criteria
for assessing sustainability have been systematically anchored in the Henkel innovation process
since 2008. The focus is on innovations that will

Product and consumer safety
Our customers and consumers can be certain that
our products are safe when used as intended. All
raw materials and finished products are subjected
to numerous assessments and tests to ensure a high
level of safety during ­production, use and disposal.
This is based on ensuring compliance with legal
regulations and farther reaching Henkel standards.
Our product developers and experts for product
safety assess ingredients according to the latest
scientific findings and safety data. They continuously track Henkel products on the market and
incorporate the insights gained into the assessments. In addition to considering the basic hazard
potential of a substance, our safety assessments
focus especially on the actual concentration in the
specific formulation and the conditions of use.
The use of substances with certain (dangerous)

Sustainability evaluation in the Henkel innovation process
Concept

Development

Gate Go 1

First evaluation of
contribution to the
focal areas

Gate Go 3
Extensive
evaluation of the
sustainability
contribution

Performance

s
Deliver
more value

nd
ya
fet th
S a H ea l

Identification of
relevant focal
areas

Gate Go 2

Verification
Market launch

Validation

Soci
al P
rog
re
s

faCtor

2008. This means that, at a given point, our researchers must demonstrate the specific
advantages of their project in regard to product performance, added value for customers and
consumers, and social criteria (“more value”). They also have to show how it contributes to
using less resources (“reduced footprint”). One of the tools they use to assess the different
contributions is the Henkel Sustainability#Master® (see page 23).

d
an
rgy e
Ene imat
Cl

The Henkel focal areas have been systematically anchored into our innovation process since

at a reduced
footprint

Materials and
Waste

W
W ate
as r an
tew d
ate
r

22

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Sustainability stewardship

properties is precluded for specific appli­cations
from the very start. In other cases, we work to
further improve health compatibility by developing alternative ingredients. Since many of our
products pass into wastewater after use, their
composition has been designed so that their
use has the least possible impact on the environment. Wastewater from chemical engineering
applications is treated using state-of-the-art
technology to remove harmful substances and is
then disposed of properly.
In selecting and using ingredients, we also follow
controversial discussions in the general public

about the safety of chemical ingredients in
c­ onsumer products. As a rule, we respond by
critically reviewing the scientific basis of our
assessments with particular care. If there are
serious reservations about the continued validity
of the scientific data and findings regarding
product safety, we either avoid using a substance
altogether or restrict its use so that it will still
meet our stringent safety criteria. At the same
time, it is becoming increasingly important to
enable consumers to learn about the ingredients
contained in our products. We will therefore
enhance the transparency on the substances
used and their safety on a global scale.

Henkel Sustainability#Master® – sustainability assessment of products and processes
Henkel focal areas

Value

Assessment along the entire value chain

Raw
materials

Production

Logistics

Retailing

Use

Disposal

e.g., improved
product
performance

Performance
Health and Safety

e.g., easier
to use

Social Progress
Materials and
Waste

e.g., less outer
packaging

e.g., less raw
materials

Energy and
Climate

e.g., reduced
emissions

Water and
Wastewater

e.g., less plastic
e.g., reduced
dosage

e.g., lower water
requirement

Footprint
Hot spot = Field with the greatest relevance
for sustainability. It is particularly important
to assess changes at these points.

The Henkel Sustainability#Master® combines various instruments

with the greatest relevance for sustainability – this applies to

for measuring sustainability. This evaluation system centers

both the “Value” and the “Footprint” dimension. The specified

around a matrix based on the individual steps of the value chain

hot spots can also be used to compare the sustainability profile

and on our six focal areas. The goal is to increase the value of the

of two products or processes. This allows sustainability profiles

product and simultaneously reduce its environmental footprint.

to be prepared for each product category. Henkel’s researchers

Hot spots can be identified for every product category on the

use these findings for innovation and continuous product

basis of scientific measurement methods. These are the fields

improvements.

The Henkel
Sustainability#Master® (video):
 sustainabilityreport.
henkel.com/master

23

24

Sustainability stewardship

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Innovations and alternative test methods

Information on Henkel’s
­activities in developing
­alternatives to animal testing:
 www.henkel.com/­
alternative-test-methods

Henkel has been carrying out successful research
since the early 1980s to develop new methods for
testing the safety and compatibility of raw materials and products. Advanced molecular biological
methods are used to thoroughly investigate
aspects such as the effect of raw materials on
human skin cells so that optimized formulations
can be developed. This is one of the basic prerequisites for successful product innovations. Our goal
is to be able to answer questions about the safety
of our products and the ingredients we use exclusively without animal testing. As a matter of
­principle, Henkel only uses animal testing if this
is stipulated by legal regulations and there are no
accepted alternative test methods available for
obtaining the necessary safety data. We naturally
comply with statutory requirements that prohibit
animal testing, such as the legal provisions on
safety testing of cosmetic ingredients in the European Union.
Wherever possible, questions regarding the skin
compatibility of ingredients are now also investigated with the help of in vitro tests. In vitro tests,
such as the skin model (technical name: epidermis
model), have been developed by Henkel over the
past decades in collaboration with external partners
and submitted for acceptance as alternatives to
animal testing to the European validation agency.

By mid-2016, Henkel plans to make the results of
this research freely accessible in an open source
model and to make the method available free of
charge to biologists and lab technicians, for
instance, in trade journals. In pursuing this policy,
Henkel is making a significant contribution to
establishing the use of alternative methods around
the globe. Our scientists are currently working to
make it possible for the skin models, which are as
large as a 1-cent coin, to be used to research other
issues regarding the safety of chemicals.

Responsible use of raw materials
Henkel is committed to responsible management
of raw materials, and especially the conservation
of natural resources and biodiversity. We use
ingredients based on renewable raw materials to
optimize the overall characteristics of our products, wherever this is compatible with environmental, economic and social considerations.
Renewable raw materials are already key ingredients in many of our products, such as soaps,
­shampoos, glue sticks and wallpapering adhesives.

Palm and palm kernel oil
We are aware of our responsibility regarding the
purchase and use of ingredients based on renew-

Examples of sustainability in our packaging development

100 percent recycled

25 percent less aluminum

New design for Loctite SF 7850

In 2015, Henkel introduced polyethylene
terephthalate (PET) bottles from the EcoBottle series, which are made from
100-percent recycled PET materials. These
bottles also fulfilled all of the required
optical and mechanical specifications. As
a result, up to 500 metric tons of new PET
goods can be saved each year.

As part of our continuous packaging optimization efforts, we have developed an
improved conditioner sachet for our hair
coloring products. By reducing the thickness of the foil material, we have been
able to reduce the amount of aluminum
contained in the packaging by 25 percent.
This made it possible to reduce the
weight per sachet by 5 percent and the
CO2 footprint by 25 percent.

Redesigning of the primary packaging
of the Loctite SF 7850 hand cleanser has
made it possible to save 24 percent CO2
and 18 percent weight per bottle. The
new design of the 3-liter bottle (on the
left; previous on the right) not only
­contributes to a more sustainable
­packaging solution, but also helps to
save costs.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

able raw materials. We are therefore promoting
­sustainable palm oil production with our partners
along the entire value chain. We have adopted the
goal of ensuring “zero net deforestation by 2020.”
This means that palm and palm kernel oil that we
use should not contribute to deforestation of primary or secondary forests with significant ecological value. That includes peat lands and other areas
with “high carbon stock.” We seek to drive physical
progress in the palm and palm kernel oil supply
chain, so as to prevent deforestation. At the same
time, we are working with our partners to establish
full traceability of palm and palm kernel oils used
in ingredients for our products, such as surfactants,
by 2020. We aim to ensure that all palm and palm
kernel oil that we purchase is being cultivated
­sustainably. An additional goal is to increase the
supply of sustainable oil available on the market by
a volume equal to Henkel’s demand in 2020. Henkel
will thus be making even more targeted efforts
to help smallholders and local initiatives in the
­producing countries.
We are working toward these goals by:
1. Converting to the Mass Balance system for palm
and palm kernel oil: The vast majority of the palm
and palm kernel oil in our products is used indirectly through ingredients based on these oils.
Working with our suppliers, we have succeeded in
ensuring that to date around 40 percent of the oil is
certified according to the mass-balance model (i.e.,
a controlled mix of sustainable and conventional
oil). This exceeds our 2015 target to ensure that at
least one-third of the oil was certified according to
this model. Furthermore, we intend to increase our
purchases of mass-balance-certified oils so that
they cover 100 percent of our demand by 2020. By
purchasing mass-­balance oil, we can contribute
more effectively to ensuring that physical sustainable oil enters our value chain. In 2015, Henkel
­successfully completed the first Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil audit of its purchasing operations.

Sustainability stewardship

establish traceability, we have achieved a traceability rate of between 67 and 94 percent.
3. Supporting plantations and smallholders: We
are providing targeted support to plantations and
smallholders in palm-growing countries to promote
sustainable farming practices, improve livelihoods
and ensure that sufficient volumes of sustainable
oil are available on the market. In 2013, Henkel
joined together with the development organization
Solidaridad and other partners to start a three-year
program in Honduras designed to improve the livelihood of 7,500 smallholders and 5,000 workers.
We aim to increase our targeted support for smallholders in the future and focus more strongly on
other regions, such as Indonesia.

Our contribution to the sustain­
able cultivation of palm oil:
www.henkel.com/­
­palm-oil

Smart packaging solutions
The packaging for our consumer products fulfills
many different functions: It ensures the hygiene
and intactness of the products, protects them
from external influences, provides space for necessary consumer information and often plays an
important role in the purchasing decision through
attractive packaging design and shelf appeal. In
order to minimize the volume of waste, our packaging developers work constantly to design smart
packaging that uses the least amount of material
possible, and incorporates materials that can be
recycled in public recycling systems.
In defining our targets for 2020, we also set targets
for packaging. These include a reduction in packaging weight of 20 percent per sales unit as well
as increasing the proportion of recycled PET (polyethylene terephthalate) in bottles and recycled
­aluminum in cans. Additionally, we want to reach
more than 300 million consumers through more
targeted information on recycling.

Targets to reduce packaging
footprint for consumer
­products:
sustainabilityreport.
henkel.com/packaging

Henkel packaging
­footprint 2015 1

47 % Paper
43 % Plastic
		
9 % Metal

2. Improving traceability: We are establishing pilot
projects to trace palm and palm kernel oil that we
use back to the plantations in order to ensure that
this oil is being cultivated sustainably. For the raw
materials that contain palm or palm kernel oil and
for which we worked with our partners in 2015 to

1 % Glass
1A
 round 594,000 metric
tons (estimate based on
expenditures for packaging
materials).

25

26

Laundry & Home Care

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Collaboration with our partners is an important element of our strategy.
At our Laundry & Home Care Global Experience Center, Dr. Nadine Bluhm,
Research and Development at Henkel, and Dr. Roland Ettl, Key Account
­Manager at BASF, present the advantages of the bleaching catalyst that the
two companies developed jointly.

Laundry & Home Care
Together with our partners, we are working to make products that will conserve
­resources even better, offer improved ease of use, and satisfy the criteria of quality,
­environmental compatibility and social responsibility in equal measure.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Working together to conserve resources
Our consumers’ expectations mirror our own
ambition: We want our products to satisfy the
­criteria of quality, environmental compatibility
and social responsibility. This is because we view
this trio as the driver for innovations and the basis
for our future competitiveness. Laundry & Home
Care’s research and development strategy unites
innovation and sustainability to provide resourceefficient technologies and products. Each new
product must make a contribution to sustainability in at least one of our six focal areas; partnering
with others plays an important role here.

Laundry & Home Care

Over the course of a long-standing research cooperation, researchers from BASF and Henkel have
jointly developed ingredients for a new generation
of premium laundry detergents. They help to
remove stubborn stains at significantly lower
washing temperatures than is possible with conventional laundry detergents. This new technology
is incorporated in the product ­Persil ColdZyme.
If, for example, all Persil ColdZyme wash loads of
­colored laundry and synthetic textiles were to
be washed at 30 instead of 40 degrees C
­ elsius,
this would have the potential to avoid around
500,000 metric tons of CO2 every year. This volume would be equivalent to the annual energy
demand of 325,000 European households.

27

28

Laundry & Home Care

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Focus on the use phase

Bruno Piacenza
Executive Vice President
Laundry & Home Care

How important are innovations for the success of
your business unit?
Our ambition – to create innovations that deliver
more value for consumers, retailers, our own
­company and society as a whole – is a key pillar
of our success. With an innovation rate of over
45 percent, we see ourselves as innovation leaders, opening up new markets and differentiating
ourselves from our competition. Our products not
only have to deliver first-class performance. They
must also always make a measurable contribution
to more sustainability.
How do you generate new ideas for sustainable
innovations?
This is rooted in close interaction between our
research and development and marketing teams.
They consider the entire value chain while developing more powerful products that conserve
resources even better. We promote this through
our innovation culture and have anchored this
approach in our innovation process. Another factor
is cooperation with our partners. With BASF, for
instance, we conducted a joint project to develop
new active ingredients for our premium laundry
detergents – for even better cleaning performance
at low temperatures.
What influence do consumers have on the
­sustainability performance of your products?
As a company, we can develop and produce these
more sustainable products, but 80 percent of their
environmental footprint arises during use. So consumers can make a significant contribution to sustainability, for example by selecting a low washing
temperature. This is why we try to influence consumers’ behavior through appropriate communication
activities. Our retail partners play an important role
here, as they are also in direct contact with consumers.

Another important objective is fostering sustainable, resource-conserving consumption. Our
­products are the key here. They are used daily in
millions of households and often require water
and energy. As much as 80 percent of the environmental footprint of our products is generated
­during their use. This is why we concentrate on
developing products that enable the efficient use
of resources such as energy and water.
By using targeted information for consumers,
we work to promote responsible-minded behavior
while using our products. Through specific communication appropriate for the target group,
including on the internet, we point out the advantages of our products while encouraging resourceefficient use. One example of this is our Persil
resource calcu­lator for laundry.
We also work hand in hand with our retail partners to advocate sustainable consumption. The
­Carrefour supermarket chain, for example, teamed
up with Henkel employees in November 2015
to inform consumers in the Middle East about
­sustainable lifestyles as well as laundry and home
care products.

Innovations for laundry and home care
products of the future
The innovation rate at the Laundry & Home Care
business unit lies at more than 45 percent. In other
words, the business unit generates more than
45 percent of its sales with products that have been
on the ­market for less than three years. Moreover,
Henkel has been using ingredients based on renewable raw materials for decades. In 2015, around
25 percent of the organic ingredients in our laundry
detergents and household cleaners were derived
from renewable raw materials. In addition, by
comparison with the previous year, we were able
to reduce the carbon footprint of our annual raw
material input by 6 percent relative to total sales.
In its innovation management, Laundry & Home
Care is focusing increasingly on collaborative
research and open innovation, harnessing the
capabilities of external innovation partners such
as universities, research institutes, suppliers and
customers. In order to understand precisely what

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Laundry & Home Care

customers and consumers need and develop
­first-class innovations, collaboration often begins
before the actual product development phase does.
As one example of this, Henkel is collaborating with
the Rhenish-Westphalian Technical University
(RWTH) in Aachen, Germany, to research and develop
the laundry and home care products of the future.
The new cooperation concept is called ­“Henkel Innovation Campus for Advanced ­Sustainable Technologies” – or HICAST, for short. Here, chemists and biotechnologists are working in interdisciplinary teams
on breakthrough ­innovations.
In cooperation with its strategic partner Novozymes, Henkel has succeeded in developing new,
powerful enzymes as the basis for a new generation of innovative formulations. These also laid
the foundation for the successful introduction of
our premium laundry detergents under the Persil
ProClean brand in the USA. Specifically tailored to
the needs of the market there, the patent-pending
high-performance formulas develop their full
cleaning action even at low temperatures. This

performance is also delivered by our Persil PowerMix Caps. These pre-dosed powder-gel capsules
unite for the first time the product benefits of
a concentrated gel with the whitening-power
­technology of a powder. This protects laundry
especially well against graying.
Many of our laundry detergent products can be used
even at low temperatures – with first-class performance – and thus help to reduce CO2 emissions. If,
for example, all machine washes with Henkel products for colored laundry and ­synthetic textiles were
to be washed at 30 instead of 40 degrees Celsius,
this would have the potential to avoid around two
­million metric tons of CO2 every year. This corresponds to the amount of CO2 taken up every year
by more than 40 million trees.

Redyeing instead of rebuying
Under the Dylon brand, we offer textile dyes for
dyeing fabrics or reviving their color when washing them either in the machine or by hand.

Henkel Sustainability#Master® – Colour Catcher in comparison with competitor products
In the laundry aids category, we intro-

used to have to be washed separately

Colour Catcher sheets are made of cellu-

duced color run prevention sheets under

can now be washed together in one

lose. They are FSC-certified and can be

the Colour Catcher brand in 2015 follow-

machine load. On average, each sheet

composted after use. The matrix shows

ing the acquisition of the Spotless Group.

eliminates one wash cycle. In terms of

all the hot spots in this product category.

These sheets offer anti-transfer protec-

environmental footprint, this means

These are the fields with the greatest

tion when washing mixed color wash

above all savings in the areas of energy,

relevance for ­sustainability.

loads. Fabrics with different colors that

water, and materials and waste. The

Raw materials

Value

Production

Logistics

Retailing

Use

Disposal

Performance
Health and Safety
Saves time due to
less wash loads

Social Progress
Materials and
Waste

Footprint

100 % natural fibers,
FSC-certified

Biodegradable and
recyclable

Energy and
Climate

Less energy due to
less wash loads

Water and
Wastewater

Less water due to
less wash loads

Significant improvement

Thanks to Dylon, fabrics
can be dyed or their colors
revived very easily at home.

29

30

Laundry & Home Care

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Persil – the revolution in the laundry detergent market
From its introduction as the first self-acting laundry detergent to its major advances
in ­dosing, packaging, and reducing energy consumption, our Persil brand has been a
­leader in sustainability since 1907.

Persil phosphate-free
is launched. We began
conducting regular environmental quality controls
for all of our laundry and
home care products as
early as 1959.

Use of Persil Megaperls
reduces the standard
­dosing amount by 65 percent per wash cycle.
1994 >

1986 >

1907 >
Persil is the world’s first
self-acting laundry detergent. It makes life easier,
mainly for women, by
doing away with scrubbing the laundry, a
­strenuous task that also
damages the fabric.

1992 >

2013 >

The eco-light packages are
introduced. Systematic
­further development of our
packaging has been part
of our responsible management of resources ever
since the 1950s.

The gels in the Persil
Duo-Caps are doubleconcentrated and
­separated from each
other by a water-soluble film. The product
achieves full washing
performance even at
low temperatures.

A ­powerful dye technology makes it possible to
give fabrics a completely new look quickly and
easily. Dylon thus helps to prolong the life cycle of
fabrics while reducing their footprint. The sustainability benefit lies primarily in reducing the use of
water. More than 85 percent of this is accounted
for by the water-intensive farming of cotton, above
all for irrigation of the cotton fields. Dyeing a pair
of jeans with Dylon uses at least 100 times less
water than is needed to produce a new pair. That
means annual savings of a total of 80 billion liters
of water, or the equivalent of the amount of drinking water consumed per person each year by up to
3.9 million people in typical cotton-growing regions.

Efficient insect repellent
Some insects, such as mosquitoes, are not simply
a nuisance; they can also transmit dangerous diseases. The acquisition of the research laboratory
for insect control in Barcelona, Spain, in 2014 further expanded the technological expertise of the
Laundry & Home Care business unit in the domain
of insect repellents. With ZenSect anti-mosquito
sticks, our researchers have achieved a first by
developing a highly effective mosquito repellent
for the European market that is based on a completely new principle. The active agent is derived
from natural ingredients and mimics the action of

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Laundry & Home Care

2020 >

2015 >
The new brightness formula
of Persil ColdZyme works in
cold water. Thanks to the
unique ingredients, first-class
cleaning results are achieved
at temperatures as low as
20 degrees Celsius.

crop plants. It acts on the sensory centers of the
insects and suppresses their urge to bite.

A.I.S.E. Charter
Since 2005, when Henkel became the first company to fulfill the criteria of the A.I.S.E. Charter for
Sustainable Cleaning, more than 200 other companies have committed to the Charter. All companies
that sign the Charter pledge to continuously
improve their processes and to report annually
on their economic, environmental and social
advances, using defined indicators.

As part of its further development, the A.I.S.E.
Charter was expanded in 2010 to include the key
dimension of products. Since then, it has become
possible to show not only that a product was manufactured by a company with sustainable business
practices, but also that the product itself has an
advanced sustainability profile. In the laundry
detergents category, for example, four criteria are
of particular importance: environmental safety of
the ingredients; resource efficiency with regard to
dosage and packaging materials; washing
­performance at low temperatures; and consumer
information. Products that satisfy all of the
defined requirements may communicate this to
consumers on their packaging by means of a new
A.I.S.E. Charter logo introduced in 2011. Our liquid
and powder laundry detergents, fabric softeners,
automatic dishwashing products, all-purpose
cleaners and special spray cleaning products are
now all qualified to bear the logo. Criteria for hand
dishwashing liquids and toilet cleaners were
­additionally finalized in 2015.
Since 2014, Henkel has been supporting the
Europe-wide A.I.S.E. online education initiative
“Keep Caps from Kids.” A video and a website tell
viewers why it is so important to keep liquid detergent capsules out of the reach of children. The
www.keepcapsfromkids.eu site also provides tips on
how to use liquid laundry detergent capsules
safely. This online education campaign supplements the voluntary initiative “A.I.S.E. Product
Stewardship Programme for Liquid Laundry Detergent Capsules.” To add to this, Henkel has offered
to make its own knowledge on how to manufacture caps with increased child safety available free
of charge to the entire industry worldwide. This
involves incorporating a bitter-tasting substance
in the soluble film packaging. In the USA, Henkel
supports the online education initiative launched
in 2014 by the industry association American
Cleaning Institute, “Take the pledge – be the key
to a safe laundry room and routine,” which can be
found at
www.cleaninginstitute.org/keypledge

With our Persil resource
­calculator for laundry, we
point out the advantages of
our products while encouraging resource-efficient use:
 washingcalculator.
henkeldigital.com

31

32

Beauty Care

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Sustainable packaging solutions are an important part of our strategy. From
the left: Andrei Beketov from Purchasing, Barbara Grossman from Packaging
Development, and Clémence Alberti from Body Care, discuss the advantages
of the new aluminum deodorant can. The ultralight spray cans, manufactured
from aluminum slugs (raw metal), contain 25 percent recycled aluminum.

Beauty Care
Collaboration along the entire value chain is crucial to the achievement of our
­sustainability goals – from the production of raw materials to the development
of ­sustainable innovations and effective communication with consumers.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Working together on sustainable
­packaging innovations
At Henkel, we are always looking for ways to
reduce the environmental footprint of our products. Our packaging development plays a key
role in the context of product life cycles. Aiming
to reduce waste, our developers are working on
smart and sustainable packaging solutions.
To reduce our aluminum consumption and thus
our energy use and carbon emissions, Beauty Care
launched a pilot project with Ball Aerocan in the
year 2013 to produce spray cans from 25-percent
recycled aluminum. To date, this has helped Henkel
lower CO2 output by more than 4,500 metric tons.

Beauty Care

The recycling process for aluminum requires
much less energy than the elaborate extraction of
primary aluminum from bauxite ore. In addition,
optimization of the alloying elements in the
­aluminum makes the material more rigid. This
makes it possible to reduce the amount of material
needed per can. These two effects considerably
reduce the carbon footprint per spray can. Since
the 2014 market launch of these cans for the
deodorant sprays of our Fa, Souplesse and
­Neutromed brands, more than 60 million units
have been produced. In 2016, we want to further
increase the annual number of cans made of
recycled ­aluminum.

33

34

Beauty Care

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

A leader in sustainable innovations

 ans Van Bylen
H
Executive Vice President
Beauty Care

What are challenges in relation to sustainability for
Beauty Care?
All products must combine consumer appeal and
high performance with sustainability. This is also
our ambition within Beauty Care. This approach is
integrated deeply in our innovation process – and
one we consider to be a competitive advantage.
Thanks to our passion for innovation combined with
the concept of sustainable development anchored
along the entire value chain, we have been able to
continuously increase the sustainability contribution
that our innovations offer. This enables us to
deliver more value to our customers and consumers.
Your products are not only for consumers but also
for professional hairdressers. What approach do you
take with these key customers when addressing the
topic of sustainability?
We support our hairdressing clients through our
international Schwarzkopf Academy, with its extensive
training opportunities that include a particular focus
on sustainability. We offer an advanced vocational
training program to support our hairdressers and
coach them on the proper and sustainable use of
our products.
Recycling is a key aspect of sustainability. What
­contribution can Beauty Care make here regarding
packaging development?
One important project that we conducted in 2015
focused on increasing the share of recycled aluminum in spray cans. As a result of joint development
efforts with a strategic supplier, we have succeeded
in producing aerosol cans that contain 25 percent
recycled aluminum. This initiative has allowed us to
reduce the carbon footprint per aluminum can by
more than 20 percent.

In order to reach our goal of sustainable development, we repeatedly scrutinize our conventional
technologies and work on innovative solutions
together with our suppliers and partners. These
efforts span the entire value chain – from the
extraction of raw materials to creative communication with consumers regarding product use. To
implement this comprehensive approach, we
­systematically integrate our sustainability goals in
every phase of the product life cycle. In line with
our sustainability strategy, we create solutions
that generate more value for our customers,
­consumers, and our company, while reducing our
­environmental footprint at the same time.

Holistic product stewardship
Sustainability is firmly anchored in our innovation
process. This is ensured by integrated systems that
provide information in a way that is user-friendly as
well as time- and cost-efficient. We have, for example, systematically determined the carbon footprint
for 165,000 product formulas already. Even in the
early phase of raw material selection, the intelligent
linking of databases permits our product developers
to measure and control the effects that ingredients
will have on the environmental product footprint.
In this way, we purposefully promote the development of formulations with a smaller carbon footprint or with a higher share of readily biodegradable
raw materials.
Environmental compatibility was also a guiding
factor in our early decision to stop using solid
microplastic particles (these are defined as particles from one micrometer to five millimeters) in
the formulations of our cosmetic products. The
plastic particles were used in certain rinse-off face
care products. Even though cosmetic products
account for only a very small percentage of any
possible environmental impact, the new products
we have launched in Europe since 2014 do not
contain any solid microplastic particles. This
means that we are ahead of the recommendation
adopted in October 2015 by Cosmetics Europe
(the European Personal Care Association) that
solid microplastic particles should no longer be
used in rinse-off cosmetic products from 2020
onwards. As of the beginning of 2016, all new Henkel

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Beauty Care

cosmetic products of this type will be formulated
worldwide without solid microplastic particles.

Encouraging sustainable lifestyles
One of our goals is to achieve a better quality of life
for as many people as possible within the limits of
available resources. In addition to providing care
for the hair, skin and teeth, our cosmetic products
contribute primarily to the social and emotional
aspects of quality of life. They help people to look
well-groomed, emphasize their personal style and
strengthen their self-esteem. Life-cycle analyses
also show us that our consumers can influence the
carbon footprint of our products to a very large
extent as a result of their consumption behavior.
More than 90 percent of the energy and water used
with our rinse-off products is accounted for in the
use phase. To raise our consumers’ awareness of
this, we make use of the potential of digital media.

For instance, our resource calculator allows consumers to find out online just how much their behavior
can influence not only water use and the environmental footprint, but also the cost of ­bathing,
showering, drying their hair, brushing their teeth and
washing their hands. By providing this transparency,
we aim to make sustainable l­ ifestyles more attractive.
For communication with consumers to be as
­effective as possible, it is also important for consumers to be personally involved. As part of an
international online competition, we called on
creative talents all over the world to submit short
videos with original and entertaining ideas for
motivating people to conserve resources when
­taking a shower. The five winning videos have
already been used in the communication channels
of a large spectrum of retail partners in several
countries. This not only illustrates the relevance
of consumer involvement but also the close
­collaboration with our retail partners, who provide
an important communication platform for
addressing consumers directly.

Henkel Sustainability#Master® – Syoss Renew 7 in comparison with the predecessor product
The Henkel Sustainability#Master®

with improved product performance.

reduced by 18 percent overall. Product

reveals the sustainability profile of the

It contains 16 percent less surfactants

performance has also been improved, by

new Syoss Renew 7 shampoo. The new

and 60 percent less cationic polymers.

75 percent in regard to combability and

platform formula developed for this

At the same time, the formulation has

by 80 percent with respect to repairing

product permits considerable ingredient

10 percent more renewable ingredients,

of split ends – highly relevant aspects for

savings versus its predecessor, along

enabling the carbon footprint to be

consumers.

Raw materials

Value

Production

Logistics

Performance

Retailing

Use

Strengthening
the product
category*

Improved
split-end repair
and combability

Disposal

Health and Safety
Social Progress
Materials and
Waste

Renewable
ingredients

Energy and
Climate

Formulation
with less CO2

Water and
Wastewater
Footprint
* Professional product performance for consumers is a characteristic feature of the Syoss brand.

Less raw
materials used

Biodegradable
ingredients

Significant improvement

Creative videos produced by
consumers encourage people
to use water responsibly
when taking a shower:
 www.henkel.com/­­
and-action

35

36

Beauty Care

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Schauma – a pioneer in modern hair care
From the development of the first water-soluble powder shampoo to innovations in
­ingredients, formulas and packaging, Schauma – as the embodiment of m
­ odern hair care –
has stood for consumer convenience and the responsible use of r­ esources since 1903.

Schauma develops
shampoos with natural
ingredients, such as the
“7 Herbs Shampoo.”

Onalkali, the world’s
first alkali-free shampoo, is now regarded
as the prototype of all
modern shampoos.

1962 >

1933 >

2010 >
1903 >

1949 >

The first powder shampoo that can be dissolved in water – “Shampoo with the black
silhouette” – offers an
alternative that is easier
to use and cheaper than
the expensive oils and
coarse soaps that had
been used up to then.

Powder shampoo is
replaced by the first cream
shampoo in ­tube form –
a revolutionary product
innovation that establishes
the mass market for
­shampoo in Germany.

With the help of the
interactive Resource
­Calculator, consumers
learn online how they
can reduce their energy
consumption.

Taft Ultimate Hairspray

Dial in the USA

As part of our commitment to sustainable development, we continuously improve our existing
­product portfolio. The new Taft Ultimate Hairspray
has been formulated with a highly concentrated
­styling polymer. This means that the amount of
product needed for hair styling can be applied with
a much shorter spraying time. Less propellant gas
and less alcohol are used each time. The result is
that the amount of raw material input per application is reduced by 55 percent. In 2015, we achieved
a savings potential of 1,500 metric tons of CO2.

Studies show that washing one’s hands regularly
with soap provides an important basis for a
healthy life. This is why our Dial brand in the USA
supported the Global Handwashing Day for the
second time. The idea is to increase awareness of
the importance of hand washing as effective and
low-cost protection from illness. In addition to
this important social aspect, the Dial brand also
considers the environment: The Dial Recycling
Center shows consumers online which packaging
materials are used for Dial products and where
they can be recycled.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Beauty Care

The share of readily
­biodegradable ingredients is increased to
90 percent.

2020 >

2012 >

We also support our customers in the Hair Salon
business in the proper use of our products through
in-person training courses and web-based seminars. In September 2015, sustainability topics for
the hairdressing salon were added to the advanced
vocational training program of the International
Schwarzkopf Academy. 25,000 hairdressers have
already been reached this way.

Brand engagement

2015 >
Our researchers develop
a new platform of
­formulations with a
20 percent lower carbon
footprint.

Changing lives through the hairdressing trade –
this is the idea of the “Shaping Futures” initiative
that Schwarzkopf Professional launched in
November 2010. In collaboration with the charitable organization SOS Children’s Villages, hairdressers and members of the Schwarzkopf Professional
staff make it possible for young people all over
the world to obtain training in basic hairdressing
­techniques. Since the initiative was launched,
1,200 young people in 25 countries have been
trained through the volunteer engagement of
almost 250 hairdressers and employees. In its
fifth year, Schwarzkopf Professional also brought
“Shaping Futures” to Germany. In collabo­ration
with vocational schools in Hamburg and Nuremberg, young refugees are to be given an opportunity to find out whether hairdressing could be a
career for them.
For the 10th year running, Schwarzkopf is an official partner to the “Tribute to Bambi” foundation,
which helps children in need. In 2015, the focus of
the children’s aid projects was also on the wellbeing of refugee children.

Advice for consumers and hairdressers
Our comprehensive advice for consumers ensures
safe product use. Advice hotlines provide competent, quick and reliable information about product
properties or ingredients. They have been set up
in most countries where our products are sold.
Consumers can also use our social media channels.
All told, there were some eight million consumer
contacts worldwide in 2015. Product-related
­feedback is documented in our quality assurance
system and channeled into our ongoing product
development process.

In collaboration with the non-profit organization
The Rapunzel Project, Henkel supports cancer
patients during chemotherapy through its US-American brand Kenra Professional. The unique Cold
Cap technology has been designed to significantly
diminish hair loss during chemotherapy. This
­initiative supplements the “look good feel better”
international assistance program for cancer
patients, which Beauty Care has been supporting
since 2006.

The Rapunzel Project pro­
motes the Cold Cap technology, in which a plastic gel cap
cooled to minus 30 degrees
Celsius freezes the hair roots.
This means that patients lose
less hair while undergoing
chemotherapy.

37

38

Adhesive Technologies

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

More performance with a reduced footprint: Morey employees Chris Murphy
(right) and Demetria Wright along with Brian Betti of Henkel examine a
­circuit board before the application of Loctite GC 10. The use of Loctite GC 10
has improved Morey’s production yields by more than 15 percent.

Adhesive Technologies
Our powerful innovations and leading technologies create more value for our
customers. Sustainability is an integral part of both our innovation and product
development processes.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

A strong partner
Henkel is the leading solution provider for
­adhesives, sealants and functional coatings worldwide. Our comprehensive technology portfolio
allows experts from our Adhesive Technologies
business unit to develop customized solutions
together with our customers around the world.
One example of this is our long-standing partnership with the Morey Corporation, an electronics
manufacturer based in the USA. Our experts work
closely with Morey to develop solutions to the
challenges of the ongoing demand for smaller
electronic devices with increased ­functionality.

Adhesive Technologies

Our teams are involved as early as the design stage,
sharing deep industry knowledge and providing
insights into material requirements. Morey uses
more than 15 Henkel technologies that enable it to
simplify its supply chain, optimize performance
and drive sustainability.
One of these technologies is our innovative temperature-stable solder paste, Loctite GC 10. It is the
first-ever solder paste that can be stored at up to
26.5 degrees Celsius for as long as one year, and at
up to 40 degrees Celsius for one month. This cuts
energy consumption and reduces waste by eliminating the need to transport or store solder pastes
in refrigerated conditions.

39

40

Adhesive Technologies

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Customized technologies

Jan-Dirk Auris
Executive Vice President
Adhesive Technologies

Henkel is the global market leader in adhesives.
However, it is often not easy to recognize where
these products are applied.
With our comprehensive technology portfolio, our
Adhesives business is the leading solution provider
worldwide. We act as a partner and source of expertise for our customers, and we are active in a large
variety of markets. These include the packaging,
metals, automotive and electronics industries, as
well as aerospace applications. Our products are
included in many things where one might not automatically expect to find them – from packaging,
books, cell phones and furniture through to shoes,
cars and airplanes.
And how do adhesives help make these more
­sustainable?
Our aim is to develop innovative solutions that
deliver in terms of both performance and resource
efficiency. Our adhesives help to save energy by making cars and aircraft lighter, as well as by insulating
buildings better. We also play a part in making production processes more efficient. Our Loctite GC 10
solder paste is an example of this: It not only creates
substantial value for ourselves and our customers –
it also generates significant benefits in terms of energy
use, thereby contributing to resource efficiency.
What potential do you see in the development
of sustainable products and technologies in your
business unit?
We see sustainability as a megatrend that will
ac­celerate the development and use of new adhesive technologies, for example in areas such as the
­automotive industry. Our Bonderite brand already
enables our automotive customers to achieve
major cuts in waste volume and energy use in their
­manufacturing operations. It is only by introducing
innovations like these that we can continue to meet
our customers’ requirements in the future.

We drive powerful innovations and develop leading technologies to create more value for customers and consumers everywhere in the world, with
sustainability as an integral part of our innovation and product development processes. Our
innovations help reduce energy and water consumption, drive down carbon dioxide emissions
and improve health and safety in the manufacture
and use of objects that touch our lives every day:
from automobiles and aircraft through to packaging and cell phones.
Our broad technology portfolio places us in a
strong position to adapt our solutions to meet the
needs of customers across diverse markets and
industries. Our experts worked together with
Ford to customize our Bonderite M-NT two-step
process: a metal pre-treatment system that acts as
a base for applying paint and protects against corrosion. Our customized technology replaces traditional zinc phosphating processes, which
require laborious treatment of contaminated
wastewater and disposal of sewage sludge containing phosphorus. It makes it possible for Ford to
cut waste and reduce energy consumption in its
processes and is suitable for use on vehicle chassis containing up to 100-percent aluminum. This
opens up new possibilities for increasing the
amount of lightweight metals used, reducing overall vehicle weight and cutting vehicle emissions.
We actively support customers by adapting our
technologies for new applications across industries. This same Bonderite process has also been
adapted to provide designer garden furniture
with long-lasting protection. Fermob, a Francebased manufacturer, has recently switched to
using our innovative coating technology. Close
collaboration with Fermob allows us to understand its specific processes and requirements,
and our experts are able to leverage our uniquely
broad range of technologies to develop solutions
that deliver outstanding performance and
improved sustainability.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Adhesive Technologies

New possibilities through innovation
Technologies from Henkel make it possible for
customers to explore innovative new designs and
sustainable applications. Our Loctite Purbond
adhesives for bonding wood support the use of
renewable materials in construction projects
worldwide. Our products are used in the new Arctic
observatory in Spitsbergen, Norway, which is part
of a global network for researching climate change.
The building uses cross-laminated timber (CLT),
a wood construction product made by our partner
Stora Enso, a global provider to the wood and
­construction industries. It is made of three or
more layers of wood glued together using Henkel
adhesives, and offers a positive CO2 balance and
excellent durability.
Our technologies also enable Bilfinger, a leading
engineering and services group, to extend the lifetime of its clients’ steel pipelines in the oil and gas
industry by up to 20 years. Experts from Henkel

worked with the customer to conduct collaborative
innovation activities. This led to the refinement of
Henkel’s advanced technologies for repairing pipes
that transport gas, water, crude oil and wastewater,
which reduces the need to manufacture and install
replacement pipes. Our Loctite Composite Repair
System has the potential for application in over
11,000 petrochemical plants and 9,000 offshore
platforms worldwide.

Strong focus on safety
Health and safety is a key concern for our customers: As a global leader, we actively drive standards
worldwide by removing critical ingredients from
our products. Tangit Rapid, our new solvent-free
adhesive for bonding pressure pipes made of polyvinyl chloride (PVC-U/C), such as those for drinking water, is a key example of this approach. It is
the first ever solvent-free adhesive for use on
drinking water pipes and offers improved reliabil-

Henkel Sustainability#Master® – Loctite GC 10 temperature-stable solder paste in comparison
with industry standard process
The Henkel Sustainability#Master® below

the semiconductor components.

­storage. In addition, its wider process

assesses Loctite GC 10 based on our value

Its game-changing formula allows it to

window and easier handling leads to

chain and six sustainability focal areas.

be stored at room temperature: This

fewer end-of-line defects. The matrix

Our innovative temperature-stable solder

removes the need for air freight and

­covers all product category hot spots.

paste creates the electrical connection

eliminates the requirement to refrigerate

between the printed circuit board and

the solder paste during logistics and

Logistics

Industrial
processing

Longer shelf life,
no need for
air freight

Fewer
end-of-line
defects

Materials and
Waste

Less packaging

Less
solder paste
waste

Energy and
Climate

Eliminates
refrigerated
transport

Eliminates
refrigerated
storage

Raw materials

Value
Performance

Production

Service / Use

Disposal

Extends product
life of devices

Lead reduced to
trace amounts

Health and Safety
Social Progress

Water and
Wastewater
Footprint

Significant improvement

Tangit Rapid is the first-ever
solvent-free pipe adhesive for
bonding pressure pipes made
of PVC-U/C material that fulfill
the European Standards EN
14814 and EN ISO 15493. Its
unique formulation not only
meets increas­ingly demanding
chemical regulations, but has
also received approval for use
in drinking water pipes in
several countries.

41

42

Adhesive Technologies

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Pritt – improved gluing power with a smaller carbon footprint
Ever since it was launched in 1969, our Pritt brand has been distinguished by its o
­ utstanding
ease of use and its environmental compatibility. We have continuously i­mplemented
­improvements in ingredients, housing and packaging and have thus been able to keep
­reducing the carbon footprint.
The first generation
of a starch-based Pritt
glue stick enters
­production. Starch
becomes a substitute
for mineral-oil based
polyvinylpyrrolidone
(PVP).

Evolution of the Pritt
glue stick: It provides
enhanced product efficiency and, by switching from imported tapioca to regional potato
starch, an improved
carbon footprint.

1993 >

2012 >

90 % NATURAL
INGREDIENTS*

2000 >

2013 >

Modification of all Pritt
glue sticks to a formulation based on at least
90 percent natural ingredients* – making Henkel
a unique provider of
starch-based glue sticks.

Henkel develops a
housing with at least 30
percent post-consumer
recycled plastic for its
range of correction and
glue rollers.

1969 >
Henkel invents the
world’s first glue stick
and makes use of the
“twist-up ease” and
convenience of lipstick
applicators for its
packaging.

ity for professional craftsmen while also delivering best-in-class curing time and bond strength.
Our completely biostable Bonderite lubricant technologies also support our customers in ensuring
the safety of their employees and processes by
eliminating the need for storing and applying biocides. Rexam – a leading global beverage can
maker – uses these technologies as well as a range
of other solutions from Henkel to increase
resource efficiency in its processes and improve
safety in its plants, helping the business to meet
its ambitious sustainability targets. Rexam presented Henkel with its Excellence in Supply

* including water

Award in 2015. Throughout our long partnership
with Rexam, we have received several awards
that ­recognize reliability, quality and cost-effectiveness throughout value chain.

Collaboration along the entire value chain
Our experts are also a strong partner in joint-engineering projects for customers like FCA US LLC,
a subsidiary of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V.
A combined team of experts from both companies
developed a new technology for sealing welded
seams on its vehicle chassis. This eliminates

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Adhesive Technologies

our supplier award for sustainability to Covestro
Deutschland AG, formerly known as Bayer Material­
Science, a supplier of polyurethane technologies.
Covestro develops materials that enable us to
extend our business in adhesives for sustainable
wood engineering. It is also working together with
our innovation teams to develop ­bio-based technologies to support a range of innovative adhesives.

In addition to the popular Pritt glue stick, Pritt
introduces a full range
of decorative color glue
sticks that are solvent
free and also based on
its unique starch formulation.

Advice, training and dialog

2014 >

2020 >
2015 >
90 % NATURAL
INGREDIENTS*

An innovative online
campaign from Pritt
themed around sustainability invites children,
parents and teachers to
dive into the exciting
world of natural-based
gluing.

Alongside our high-performance products, we
­provide customers all over the world with advice,
training and service. We maintain a continuous
dialog and train them in using our technologies
safely and efficiently. We use our close customer
contact to strengthen customers’ awareness of
­sustainability and demonstrate how our innovative solutions can help them reduce their footprint
and increase resource efficiency.
Our experts provide stakeholders from the food
and packaging industry with insights into the current legislation and developments relating to food
safety. Our Food Safe Packaging knowledge platform
offers white papers, webinars, and videos in a range
of languages. Henkel’s experts help ensure producers are able to offer the highest possible level of
safety in their food packaging. Our commitment
to ­sharing knowledge by interacting and collaborating with partners along the entire value chain is central to this approach.

* including water

excess emissions that traditional sealants produce
during the paint-shop oven phase. This solution,
marketed under our Teroson brand, also avoids
chemicals currently under discussion and helps
reduce vehicle weight. In recognition of this partnership, Henkel was presented with FCA US’s
award for product-related environmental protection in 2015.
Working together with key suppliers is also an
important element of our strategy. We recognize
outstanding supplier performance with three
annual awards in the categories of innovation, performance and sustainability. In 2015, we presented

A creative new online campaign themed around
sustainability invites children, parents and teachers to learn more about the famous Pritt glue stick
in a fun and interactive way. Our Pritt glue sticks
contain 90 percent natural ingredients – water,
potato starch and sugar – and are manufactured
without solvents and PVCs. This is not only environmentally compatible; it also means these products are harmless in the hands of children.

43

44

People

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Living diversity in Reghaïa, Algeria: As part of the “Diversity Weeks,” many
employees spent a day demonstrating their jobs to one another – here Farah
El Mezouar, sales representative at Adhesive Technologies, and Meziane
Mohamed, production employee at Laundry & Home Care. This made it
­possible for them to get to know other business units and better understand
other areas of responsibility.

People
The commitment, abilities and experience of our employees build the basis for our
­international business success. Essential prerequisites for this are appreciation and
­further development of our employees.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Our diversity is our strength
As a globally operating company, Henkel employs
people from 125 nations in more than 75 countries.
More than 80 percent of them work outside of
­Germany. Our goal is to create an inspiring, challenging and attractive workplace, where a shared
vision and actively lived corporate values serve as
a unifying element and a foundation for orientation worldwide. The diversity of our employees
and their individual differences, whether regarding their cultural origins, gender, generation,
­religious orientation or differing values, abilities
and experiences, is essential to our strength and
innovative capabilities. We promote individual

People

development worldwide through numerous
­ easures, such as training courses, workshops,
m
and a new, comprehensive eLearning platform.
Our 2015 Diversity & Inclusion campaign was
designed to further strengthen the understanding
of diversity and respectful behavior at Henkel.
Selected employees from all regions demonstrated
how they initiate change processes and interact
respectfully with one another. In 2015, our Diversity Weeks took place for the third time in a row,
with numerous activities and events all over the
world, making it possible to personally experience
the company’s diversity and to emotionally
involve employees through their engagement.

45

46

People

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Our human resources management

Kathrin Menges
Executive Vice President
Human Resources and
Infrastructure Services

What value do you think sustainability can bring to
human resources management?
At Henkel, we consider sustainability to be an
opportunity, especially in a world that is constantly
changing. Our actively lived corporate values help
us to meet the challenges we face. Our managers in
particular are asked to internalize the significance
of sustainability and set an example through their
behavior. This topic is indeed becoming more and
more important in connection with employee retention and satisfaction – as well as for attractiveness
as an employer.
How do you manage to establish this common
understanding not only among your managers,
but also among all of Henkel’s employees?
I am convinced that we need to integrate sustainability in the professional and personal development
of our employees – also in the context of their dayto-day work. A good example is our Sustainability
Ambassador program. Here we enable our employees to convey the importance of this topic to others,
such as schoolchildren. This program includes
­various initiatives. For instance, we encourage our
employees to develop an environmentally conscious
approach to their day-to-day professional work, by
doing things as simple as saving energy or printing
documents only when necessary.
Diversity is a hot topic all over the world today.
What is Henkel’s approach to this?
Diversity in day-to-day work situations and an appreciative corporate culture are of vital importance to us.
Our company thrives on the individual differences of
its employees. In 2015, we conducted a worldwide
Diversity & Inclusion campaign to strengthen mutual
respect and further foster collaboration.

Our success as an internationally operating
­company in an extremely dynamic competitive
environment is based on the achievements of a
strong global team. The Code of Conduct provides
a framework for how employees behave and act.
It helps them to answer ethical and legal questions
correctly and appropriately in their day-to-day
work and in the course of strategic decision-­
making processes.
We value our employees and their contribution
to the company’s success. Our objective is an
inclusive management culture that respects others
and appreciates their individual differences. We
strive to provide continuing further education for
all of our employees as appropriate to their tasks.
We want to create an environment in which all
employees can develop and excel. High priority is
given to focused further development of our
­managerial staff and to attracting new talents for
Henkel.
Our job vacancies are filled based on competence,
performance and potential. We aim to increase
the share of women in the company at all levels
all over the world, and we also systematically
support the career development of women at all
management levels. The share of women in the
company was around 34 percent at the end of 2015.
Through the measures we have conducted, we
have also been able to increase the share of women
in management positions from around 24 percent
in 2005 to around 33 percent by the end of 2015.

Digitalization in human resources
As digitalization advances, the expectations of
both existing and future employees are changing.
Our response to this is a digitalization strategy that
embraces new possibilities in human resources
marketing as well as employee recruitment and
development. Social media channels such as Facebook and LinkedIn are platforms that are especially
well suited for engaging in a continuous dialog
with potential candidates in a way that is appropriate for this ­target group. In addition, LinkedIn
makes it ­possible to directly address candidates
for filling specialized job vacancies.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Digital learning
Learning during day-to-day work and through job
rotations plays a central role at Henkel. To implement these measures even more successfully, we
have integrated formal learning to a greater extent
in day-to-day work and made it available in digital
form as needed. For this purpose, the contents of
the Henkel Global Academy were combined in a
central learning platform in 2015. The system now
bundles all available training programs in a uniform format. General in-person training is complemented by more than 500 eLearning modules and
around 500 videos and webinars. Business unitspecific seminars are also available there. The
greater transparency and better presentation of
these options facilitate individual selection and
flexible use. The system also enables users to
repeat partial sequences. The link with the Talent
Management System reinforces our understanding
of learning as an integral part of the job. The digital
learning opportunities also reduce the need for
travel and make printed materials unnecessary.

Educating for greater sustainability
One of our most important educational initiatives
is the Henkel program for Sustainability Ambassadors, which was initiated in 2012 to inspire

People

employees to engage even more intensively with
the topic of sustainability. Since then, Henkel has
trained around 6,200 ambassadors in 74 countries.
As part of their a­ ctivities, the ambassadors work
with elementary school children, to teach them
about the responsible use of resources. We have
now reached around 63,000 schoolchildren in
43 countries.
Added to the program in 2014 was the initiative
“(Y)our move toward sustainability,” which
encourages employees to put sustainability into
practice in their day-to-day work, such as in regard
to saving energy and eating healthily.
In 2015, another initiative was added to the
­ rogram: In “Say yes! to the future,” Henkel sales
p
representatives all over the world are being trained
on all sustainability topics that apply to sales,
going beyond the contents of the Sustainability
Ambassador program. They then apply this know­
ledge in joint projects with our retail customers –
in logistics, for example, or in promoting sustainable purchasing decisions. In addition to
sales-­relevant sustainability matters, the exchange
of international best practice examples for retail
collaborations is an important component of the
training courses, in order to initiate new forms
of cooperation.

A further initiative was added
to the Sustainability Ambassador program in 2015: The
new program, “Say yes! to the
future,” specifically trains
sales representatives in all
business units to purposefully
promote sustainability topics
in dialog with retail clients.
Here (from the left) Steffi
Götzel, Eva Braem, Matthias
Palm, Anja Jansen, Uta
­Steffen-Holderbaum and
Andreas Scholten prepare for
an appointment with clients.

47

48

People

Childcare options are important for achieving a balance
between professional and
private life. From the left:
Jasmínka, Alisa and Ema let
their imaginations run free
while drawing at the new
Henkel company daycare
­center in Bratislava, Slovakia.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Work-life flexibility

Focus on talents

Henkel has supported flexible working models for
years. Through numerous measures, appropriate
basic conditions have been created that enable
employees to individually meet the challenges of
their professional and private lives. Here we attach
great importance to performance rather than physical presence. This has a dual purpose: strengthening
our employees’ sense of responsibility for working
independently and for the results of their work, and
encouraging leadership based on trust throughout
the company.

Qualified skilled personnel expect a simple and
rapid job application procedure. This is why
­Henkel introduced an improved global application
process in April 2015. This improvement is the
result of one of the largest human resources management projects of the past two years, in which
staff from all regions were involved. Based on the
Lean Six Sigma methodology, responsibilities of
the involved departments were redefined, and the
user-friendliness of the IT systems was improved.

We have further developed this results-based culture continuously since the signing of our global
“Work-Life Flexibility” charter in 2012. Uniting
­family and career often presents great challenges,
especially to young parents, due to the necessary
childcare. In Düsseldorf, Henkel offers 240 places in
three company daycare centers to employees who
return to their professions after their parental leave.
In 2015, the first Henkel company daycare center
outside of Germany was opened in Bratislava,
­Slovakia. Childcare places for 100 children from
two years of age were created here. Henkel also
offers various forms of childcare support to its
employees in other countries.

Developing a culture of leadership
The continuous expansion of our leadership culture
is a key element of our corporate philosophy. In
2014 and 2015, top managers took part in a Harvard
Business School program that Henkel had developed with that institution. The Henkel leadership
principles are the basis of our development programs for top executives: Lead Myself, Lead Team,
Lead Stakeholders, Lead Change and Lead Performance. The Lead Myself principle creates a starting
point, because only people who can lead themselves can also lead others well. Leading oneself
means internalizing the Henkel values as a guide
to one’s own actions, considering one’s behavior
and reflecting on one’s leadership role, as well as
­motivating oneself and setting goals. One of our

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

objectives is to increase the share of managers from
emerging markets, in order to illustrate the contribution these regions make to our success. In 2015,
about 80 young employees from these regions with
high potential for development participated in a
special program.

Improved performance assessment
We attach great importance to the development of
employees, which at Henkel is mainly the responsibility of their supervisors. In 2015, more than
1,300 employees were promoted within and into
the management level. The individual development of our employees is decisive not only for
their personal success, but also for that of the company. Based on this conviction, Henkel expanded
its Talent Management System for all employees
within the management levels and for non-managerial employees with high potential. Even more
support is being given to lifelong learning and
an active feedback culture. Employees are more
closely involved in the development planning:
The opportunity to proactively state one’s career
expectations gives an added dimension to discussions with supervisors. Furthermore, direct access
to one’s personal learning history and appropriate
training options is made available through close
linking to the optimized digital learning platform.

Performance-based compensation
Recognition of individual performance on the part
of our employees through fair compensation in line
with market practices is a fundamental component
of our corporate culture. There is no systematic
­difference between the compensation received by
male and female employees.
To reward personal performance, the salaries of
around 10,400 employees in managerial positions
worldwide include success-related components.
The annual individual performance assessment,
which is always done in the context of our vision
and our corporate values, has a significant influence
on these bonus payments. This includes contributions to the Henkel sustainability strategy and
­targets, if they fall within the sphere of influence of
the employee concerned and have a clear bearing on
business performance. The incentive systems for

People

non-managerial employees take local requirements
and existing collective agreements into account.

Training categories
in 2015

Global health management
We care about the health and performance capability of our employees. We offer ­targeted health and
preventive programs to guard against workplacerelated risks that might lead to illnesses. The
recently introduced Health Procedure describes the
minimum global standards for health protection
and health promotion. With our ­standardized
programs for promoting a healthy lifestyle, we
want to reach more than 90 percent of our employees worldwide in the future. In designing these
programs, our sites determine different priorities
based on local requirements. All Henkel sites
worldwide report on four key figures each quarter:
availability of first aiders and emergency medical
care, the conducting of occupational health exams,
and the occurrence of occupational illness.

Human rights and social standards
We are aware of and assume our responsibility
to respect and support the protection of human
rights within our sphere of influence. As long ago
as 1994, we declared in our corporate mission that
we respect the social values of the countries and
cultural spheres in which we operate. We underscored this when we introduced our Code of
­Conduct in 2000 and when we joined the United
Nations Global Compact in 2003.
Our Social Standards, which we introduced in
2006, serve as a framework for decision-making
within our sphere of influence, also in relation to
human rights and fundamental labor rights. They
are derived from the guidelines of the International
Labor Organization (ILO), the Global Compact, the
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises,
and the Social Accountability Standard (SA 8000).
Through in-person and eLearning training courses
and “local ambassadors,” we ensure that our social
standards are firmly anchored. Compliance is
­verified on a regular basis as part of our Group-wide
audit program.

47 %	Professional
knowledge
24 %	Soft skills and
communication
11 %	Processes,
technologies and
tools
11 % Management and
leadership
competence
7 %	Corporate and
business unit-­
specific initiatives

49

50

Social engagement

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Social engagement
Employees, retirees, clients and partners work together with Henkel
and the “Fritz Henkel Stiftung” foundation to support social projects
around the world.

Our approach
Corporate citizenship has been an integral part of
our corporate culture ever since our establishment
by Fritz Henkel in 1876. The company’s lasting and
long-term commitment to social involvement that
goes beyond direct business interests was especially evident in the creation of the “Fritz Henkel
Stiftung” foundation in 2011. This engagement is
supported by the four pillars of our corporate citizenship program: corporate volunteering, social
partnerships, brand engagement and emergency
aid. In 2015, in view of recent developments, we
have also focused strongly on refugee aid. By 2020,
we want to improve the quality of life of 10 million
people through our social engagement.

Corporate volunteering

For an in-depth look at our
social engagement projects,
please see our annual
­magazine “Together”:
 www.henkel.com/
together2015

In October 2015, 20 employees volunteered for the
“building trip” to Romania
and put up a multi-family
house for people in need.
Here the colleagues are
­preparing the wall construction for the second floor.

Since the initiative Make an Impact on Tomorrow
(MIT) was launched in 1998, we have supported the
volunteer work of Henkel employees and retirees
in over 12,100 projects in more than 50 countries
around the world. At the same time, more and more
employees and retirees are coming together to
carry out social projects of a larger scale. One
example, which went into its second round in
2015, is the house-building project conducted

jointly with the charity organization Habitat for
Humanity. Henkel employees demonstrated great
social engagement in the course of this “building
trip.” Within a week, they helped to build a new
house for families in need in the Romanian city of
Ploiești.
The situation of the thousands of refugees who
are currently seeking safety and a better life also
moves Henkel. The “Fritz Henkel Stiftung” foundation is supporting various projects throughout
Europe in which employees are volunteering to
help refugees: These range from engagement in
refugee shelters to long-term and lasting support
of integration projects, such as through learning
partnerships or music lessons for children and
youths. This volunteer work on the part of employees is supported by in-kind donations and financial funding, as well as time off from work of up to
eight days per year.
With a fundraising campaign in the fall of 2015,
Henkel employees in Germany made sure that
children from needy families – including many
refugees – have what they need for school.

Social partnerships
Supporting equal opportunity in education is a
top priority. In 2015, we continued our partnership
with the educational initiative Teach First Deutschland. In this program, university graduates in all
fields work as fellows in schools with socially
­disadvantaged students. With the Light Up project
in China, we are promoting the reading skills of
Chinese children by donating books and writing
materials.
Together with the non-profit organization United
Way in Mumbai, Henkel has initiated the Lighting
Lives project in India, which is developing solar

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

power in rural regions. In the pilot phase, solar
cells have already been installed in three villages
in the Palghar district near Mumbai, bringing
­electricity to the homes of 150 people and to the
schools attended by about 1,600 children. The
project will be expanded to include other villages
and public facilities.

Brand engagement
Henkel also provides support for many social
­projects through its brands. In the fasting month
Ramadan in 2015, Henkel initiated the New Beginnings campaign in Saudi Arabia. For every bottle
of Persil Abaya, a special laundry detergent for the
traditional Muslim outer garment that is usually
black, that was sold, a donation was made to the
Saudi Arabian organization Al Bir. The campaign
supports the P
­ roductive Families program, which
helps women from low-income families to establish their own microenterprises.
In its fifth year, Schwarzkopf Professional brought
the Shaping Futures initiative to Germany. In collaboration with vocational schools in Hamburg
and Nuremberg, young refugees are given an
opportunity to find out whether hairdressing
could be a career for them. The goal is to establish
a long-term and permanent educational program.
The initiative began in 2010, in collaboration with

Social engagement

the charitable organization SOS Children’s Villages. Up to now, 1,200 young people in 25 countries have been trained thanks to the volunteer
work of almost 250 hairdressers and employees.
Together with Plan International, Henkel and the
Pritt brand began a construction and educational
project in 2015 in two schools in Brazil. The goal of
the two-year project is to break through the cycle
of poverty through improvements in the educational situation at two schools in the northeastern
part of Brazil. In addition to renovation work and
school equipment, the program includes additional
measures to improve the quality of schooling –
such as workshops for students and their parents.

Emergency aid
When emergency aid is needed after a natural
disaster, Henkel provides quick and pragmatic
assistance through the “Fritz Henkel Stiftung”
foundation. In 2015, Henkel supported the
­reconstruction work ­following the humanitarian
disaster caused by the earthquakes in Nepal. As a
first step, the foundation provided the urgently
needed emergency f­ inancial aid. Now it continues
to support volunteer projects of Henkel employees
who are assisting with the reconstruction work in
the country.

Prospects of training: The
key to successful integration
for refugees in their new
homeland is access to the
local labor market. Through
Schwarzkopf’s Shaping
Futures initiative, refugees
like Robel from Eritrea (middle) get a glimpse into the
hairdressing profession.

51

52

Stakeholder dialog

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Stakeholder dialog
An open exchange of views with our stakeholders provides us
with valuable knowledge on trends and risks. It helps us to align
and i­mplement our sustainability strategy responsibly.

Aims of dialog
Understanding the social demands that stake­
holders of all kinds place on the company is a key
­component of our sustainability management.
That is why we are open to dialog with all stakeholders, including our customers, consumers,
suppliers, employees, shareholders, local communities, government authorities, associations and
non-governmental organizations, as well as politicians and academia. We discuss concrete questions
in a direct dialog with relevant stakeholders, in
many multi-stakeholder initiatives, and on ­dialog
platforms on sustainability topics. Numerous
internal platforms provide feedback on the insights
gained and on opinion formation.

environmental and social challenges helps us to
set priorities and to adapt our plans and actions in
a responsive manner. For instance, we recognized
stakeholder concerns regarding the slow progress
toward sustainable palm oil early on and considered
these while revising our strategy.
Stakeholder dialog thus makes an important
­contribution to our innovation and risk management and helps us to continuously develop our
sustainability strategy and reporting. At the same
time, this exchange provides a basis for mutual
understanding and an opportunity to achieve
social acceptance of our entrepreneurial decisions.

Integrated dialog
In a comprehensive survey in 2014, we asked our
stakeholders what topics have priority for them.
Through this we learned how important the integration of sustainability in all of our activities and
product life cycles is to our target groups. A second
topic our stakeholder groups identified as vital is
the targeted influence on consumers to lead more
sustainable lifestyles and to use our products
responsibly. The results of the survey were taken
into account in 2015 in the further development
of our strategy and our targets.

With our new carbon footprint calculator, we approach
our consumers directly and
make it possible for each individual to estimate the personal footprint of their own
lifestyle quickly and easily:
 footprintcalculator.
henkel.com/en

This regular dialog helps us not only to understand
what our stakeholders think of our actions and
expect of us in the future. It also enables us to
­recognize decisive trends and challenges in good
time and to responsibly shape and implement
future-oriented sustainability concepts. This is
why we participate regularly in scientific and
political discussions on future frameworks.
Open dialog helps us to understand which aspects
of sustainable development are of interest to individual stakeholder groups. Timely consideration
of the views of our stakeholders regarding future

All of our around 50,000 Henkel employees worldwide are called upon to assume responsibility in
their working environment and to base their decisions on the principles of sustainable development. For many of our employees, this includes
regular dialog with stakeholders. Experts at our
various company sites and in our different business areas engage in discussion with the relevant
stakeholder groups on specific local and regional
challenges. This enables us to develop strategies
and solutions where they are assessed and put into
practice.
In 2015, as in each year, Henkel employees met
with politicians, scientists and scholars, businesspeople and members of the public.
At the fourth Global Footwear Sustainability Summit
2015 held in August in Shanghai, Robert Field-­
Marsham, Asia Marketing Director Industrial
­Adhesives, explained the sustainability challenges
in the shoe industry and presented Henkel’s sustainable adhesive solutions for shoe manufacturing.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

The winners of the 2015 Green Talents competition, a program of the German Federal Ministry of
Education and Research that has recognized young
scientists internationally in the field of sustainable development every year since 2009, visited
Henkel in Düsseldorf. They discussed the development of resource-efficient products with Henkel
experts.
Henkel’s Forscherwelt (Researcher’s World) project, in which elementary school children learn in
­age-appropriate lessons how a scientist answers
research questions with the help of experiments,
was also further broadened internationally in 2015.
At the beginning of the year, the project in Russia
was expanded to include three new schools, in
which more than 100 children took part in the
­lessons. In April, the first Forscherwelt outside of
Moscow took place at the Henkel site in Engels. In
Turkey, too, through the collaboration of Henkel
colleagues with the local Society for Creative Children and the Turkish Chemical Society, we made it
possible for children to participate in Forscherwelt
programs.
At the Solutions COP21 exhibition, which offered
concrete solutions for climate protection on the
periphery of the UN Climate Change Conference in
Paris, Henkel France presented the “Lavons Mieux”
(better washing) program with its Le Chat Eco-­
Efficacité laundry detergent brand. The objective

Stakeholder dialog

of the program is to encourage consumers to act
more sustainably when washing clothes. Prior
to the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris,
experts from WWF Germany, the utility company
Stadtwerke Düsseldorf and Henkel also discussed
climate change at the ­Düsseldorf site.
Henkel Thailand and the Institute for the Promotion of Teaching Science and Technology (IPST)
in Bangkok, which initiated a joint educational
project to promote sustainability in schools in
2015, held a national Facebook competition entitled “Thailand’s Most Sustainable Family.” The aim
of the competition was to motivate families to
have a more sustainable lifestyle. The winning
family had reduced their use of energy and water
by more than 22 percent within two months.

Dialog with politicians and government
authorities
Policymakers and government authorities often
seek out the expertise of companies in their political decision-making processes. Within this context, it is possible for us to describe how political
considerations impact Henkel, our employees and
business partners and for us to provide pertinent
experience-based knowledge. Our worldwide “Representation of Interests in Public Affairs” standard
provides clear guidance on conduct for this. We

Henkel Thailand and the
­Institute for the Promotion
of Teaching Science and Technology (IPST) ran a contest
on Facebook looking for
“Thailand’s Most Sustainable
­Family.” Here the winning
­Chandarikanond family, with
Dr. Pornpun Waitayangkul
(second from left), President
of the IPST, and Dr. Tim
Petzinna, President of Henkel
Thailand.

53

54

Stakeholder dialog

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

also openly provide information about our fields
of interest and the scope of our work involving
governmental or political affairs through our
entry in the Transparency Register of the European
Union. At the end of October 2015, the German
Federal Government extended an invitation to a
nationwide dialog on the further development
of the national sustainability strategy. Around
500 representatives from the political world and
from companies and associations, discussed
how the global sustainability goals of the UN
could be implemented at the national level.
­Kathrin Menges, Executive Vice President Human
Resources and Chair of Henkel’s Sustainability
Council, opened the ­discussion session on the
topic of sustainable ­corporate management.

Associations and international initiatives
Henkel participates in a large number of initiatives
on the local, national and international level, so
that it can play an active part in shaping sustain-

able development in collaboration and through a
mutual exchange with other stakeholders.
This includes engagement in workgroups and
in industrial associations, such as the World
­Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD), the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), and
the International Association for Soaps, Detergents
and Maintenance Products (A.I.S.E.). Here we make
use of our experience and our role as a sustain­
ability leader, for example when helping to shape
the discussion regarding solution concepts for
­sustainable consumption along the value chain.
Under the leadership of our retail partner Walmart
Central America, Henkel has come together with
18 other leading companies to create the Central
American Sustainability Business Alliance. The
goal of this alliance is to collaborate with suppliers, employees, customers and local communities
to promote sustainability along the value chain,
such as through inexpensive products that reduce
water usage and CO2 emissions.

Identification of key topics for our sustainability management and reporting
External ­
challenges

Processes /
I­ nstruments

Population
growth

Trend and
market analyses

Rising
consumption

Dialog
with experts

Scarcity of
resources

Strategy
development

Climate change

Reporting
and ratings

Biodiversity
Scarcity of water

Risk and
compliance
management

Increasing
regulatory
controls

...

Results /
Relevant topics (selection)
• Business performance
• Quality
• Reliability
• Convenience
• Eco-efficiency

•O
 ccupational safety and health
•P
 lant safety
•P
 roduct safety and information
•A
 lternative test methods
•H
 ygiene

• Fair business practices
• Human rights
• Fair working conditions
• Employee development
• Diversity
• Supplier relationships
• Corporate volunteering

• Resource consumption
• Renewable raw materials
• Sustainable palm (kernel) oil
• Packaging and waste
• Recycling

•O
 perational energy efficiency
•R
 enewable energies
• E nergy-efficient products
• T ransport and logistics
•C
 O2 mitigation
•C
 O2 footprint

 ater consumption in
•W
production
•W
 astewater and wastewater
disposal
•B
 iodegradability
•W
 ater footprint

...
In order to establish which topics are relevant to our business activities and reporting, we analyze sustainability challenges using a variety of instruments and processes and
assess their significance for the company and our stakeholders. In so doing, we engage in dialog with sustainability-focused institutions, international rating agencies and
analysts, and academia. We also consider the assessment criteria of various financial and sustainability-oriented ratings and the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI). The results of this continuous process are structured on the basis of our six focal areas (see overview above), in which we aim to drive sustainable development
worldwide along the value chain through our business activities.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

External ratings

External ratings
Our assessment and recognition by sustainability experts increases
market transparency and provides important feedback on how well
we are implementing our sustainability strategy.

Ratings and indices 2015
Henkel’s performance in sustainability impressed
external experts again in 2015.

For more information on external ratings:
sustainabilityreport.henkel.com/external-assessments

*

Included for 15 years running

Listed for the fifth time

Listed in global ESG indices

London: Henkel has been named
in the FTSE4Good ethical index for
15 consecutive years.

Zurich: In October 2015, STOXX Limited
again included Henkel in the STOXX
Global ESG Leaders Indices.

New York: Henkel is again represented in
the sustainability indices MSCI World ESG
and MSCI Europe ESG. Companies listed in
these indices exhibit strong opportunity and
risk management based on environmental,
social and governance topics.

Henkel included again

Listed since 2002

Listed since 2007

Paris: Based on a corporate rating by
Vigeo, Henkel was again included in 2015 in
the Euronext Vigeo World 120, Europe 120
and Eurozone 120 sustainability indices.

Paris: In 2015, Henkel was once again
listed in the Ethibel Excellence Europe and
Excellence Global sustainability indices.

Hamburg: In 2015, Henkel was again
one of only 50 companies worldwide to
be listed in the Global Challenges Index.
This index was developed by the Börse
Hanover and the sustainability strategy
agency Oekom Research AG.

World’s Most Ethical
­Companies® Honoree 2015
Best in sector

Prime Status

Listed for the eighth time

Frankfurt am Main: In the Sustainalytics
2015 sustainability ratings in terms of the
environmental, social and governance
issues (ESG), Henkel is the world leader
in Household & Personal Products compared with other companies in the sector.

Munich: Henkel was again recognized by
Oekom Research with Prime Status. With
the rating B+, Henkel was among the
best companies in the consumer goods
sector.

New York: Henkel has been included in
the list of the Ethisphere Institute’s
World’s Most Ethical Companies for the
eighth year in a row.

* The inclusion of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA in any MSCI index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute
a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI indices are the exclusive property of MSCI.
MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates.

55

56

Indicators

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Indicators
The indicators we record throughout the company help us to identify
potential improvements, steer programs and monitor target achievement.

Creating transparency

We report on the progress of other
environmental indi­cators, such as
emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen
oxides and dust, and the use of
­chlorinated hydro­carbons, on the
internet (in German only):
 sustainabilityreport.henkel.com/
additional-indicators

The indicators we record throughout the company
offer transparency. We show the progress of each
of our indicators over a five-year period. In this
­Sustainability Report, we focus on the publication
of our globally relevant core indicators. We provide
information on other environmental parameters
on the internet.

dated centrally for year-end reporting and verified locally within the framework of our internal
audit program. Any ­differences discovered or
reported at a later date are corrected retroactively
in our reporting system. Since our production
structures are constantly changing – due to the
start-up of new sites or c­ losure of existing sites, for
example – the number of sites contributing data
changes accordingly. To ensure the ­comparability
of the annual data, we also show their progress as
an index relative to the volume of production.

Environmental indicators for
our production operations
Employee indicators
The production-related data for 2015 were determined at all 170 Henkel sites in 55 countries. Thus,
the data represent 100 percent of our production
volume. In 2011, the share was 95 percent; it was 99
percent from 2012 through 2014. They are vali-

Occupational accidents are registered using a globally uniform reporting system. 99 percent of Henkel
employees are covered. The published employee
indicators also cover 99 percent of our employees.

Long-term trend: Sustainability performance from 2005 to 2015
Environmental indicators per metric ton of output, occupational accidents per million hours worked; base year 2005
120

Base year for the 2012
targets (achieved ahead
of schedule in 2010)

100

Base year for the
2015 targets

80

– 37 %
– 42 %

60

– 58 %

40

– 73 %

20
0
2005

Water

2006

2007

Energy

2008

Waste

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Accidents

We have been working to increase the efficiency and safety of our production processes for decades. Our sustainability performance
over the past 11 years illustrates this very clearly. In all three business units, our optimization efforts focus on improving value c­ reation
and occupational health and safety in our production operations while reducing our environmental footprint. Building on the progress
achieved, we aim to reduce our energy and water use, our waste footprint, and the accident rate still further (see page 8).

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Indicators

Environmental
indicators

COD emissions to wastewater

Production volumes
In thousand
metric tons

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Production volumes

7,498

7,574

7,690

7,867

7,940

Index: Change from 2011 to 2015

+6%

In metric tons

2011

2012

2013 2014*

2015

COD emissions
to wastewater

7,148

6,031

5,746

6,500

7,530

Index: Change from 2011 to 2015

– 14 %

Due to the improved economic situation and increasing
global demand, our production volumes have been rising
again since 2011.

Chemical oxygen demand (COD): Measure of the pollution of
wastewater with organic substances.

Energy consumption

Emissions of heavy metals to wastewater
2011

2012

520

375

359

402

351

127

Lead, chromium,
copper, nickel

356

287

260

183

246

119

Total

876

662

619

585

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Bought-in energy

670

664

648

650

667

Coal

119

112

114

96

Fuel oil

167

141

123

113

Gas 1*

1,426

1,428

1,406

1,360

1,375

Total

2,382

2,345

2,291

2,219

2,288

In kilograms

Index: Change from 2011 to 2015

–9%

2013 2014*

The base for the index is the
year 2011 (= 100 percent).

Zinc

In thousand
megawatt hours

Index: Change from 2011 to 2015

2015

597
– 36 %

Particularly hazardous heavy metals, such as mercury and
­cadmium, are not relevant in our production.

1W
 e have introduced regional factors for the calorific value of
gas and have corrected the figures retroactively.
Bought-in energy is electricity, steam, and district heating that is
generated outside our sites.

Waste for recycling and disposal

Carbon dioxide emissions
In thousand
metric tons
Henkel’s own
carbon dioxide
emissions 1

2011

371

2012

362

2013

2014

353

335

2015

349

In thousand
metric tons

2011

2012

Waste for recycling

93

82

88

70

86

Hazardous waste
for disposal

15

16

18

17

14

Waste for disposal

45

42

51

51

41

153

140

157

138

142

Carbon dioxide
emissions from
bought-in energy 1

336

321

309

314

318

Total

Total

706

682

662

649

667

Index: Change from 2011 to 2015

Index: Change from 2011 to 2015

– 11 %

1 We have introduced regional factors for the calorific value of
gas and are now using the most current factors for the respective reporting period to calculate the emissions from bought-in
energy. The figures have been corrected retroactively.

Share of
construction
waste*

14

14

2013 2014*

2015

– 13 %

30

21

33

Energy generation accounts for almost all of the carbon dioxide
released as a result of Henkel activities.

Water consumption and volume of wastewater

Emissions of volatile organic compounds

In thousand
cubic meters

In metric tons

2011

2012

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Water
consumption 1

7,954

7,502

7,642

7,438

7,190

Emissions of
volatile organic
compounds

336

336

Volume of
wastewater 1
Index: Change
from 2011 to 2015

Index: Change from 2011 to 2015
3,560

3,177

3,084

3,004

2,990

Water consumption

– 15 %

Volume of wastewater

– 21 %

1 We have revised the definitions and have ­corrected the figures
retroactively.
Because water is lost by evaporation and water is contained in
many of our products, the volume of wastewater is smaller than
the volume of water consumed.

* We have corrected errors indentified during our data verification.

2013 2014*

312

317

Index
The index in the tables shows
the progress of the specific
indicators relative to the
­volume of production (per
metric ton of output).

2015

328
–8%

57

58

Indicators

Occupational safety

Index
The index in the table shows
the progress for occupational
accidents in relation to hours
worked (per million hours
worked):

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Occupational accidents per million hours worked

Serious occupational accidents

At least one day lost
(excluding commuting accidents)

More than
50 days lost

Henkel employees
Employees of
­external companies
who work at Henkel
sites and are
directly contracted

2011

2012

1.1

1.0

1.1

0.8

99 percent of Henkel employees were covered. The base
for the index is the year 2011
(= 100 percent).

Index: Change
from 2011 to 2015

Employee indicators

Employees (as of December 31)
2011
Henkel worldwide 1

2013 2014
0.7

0.9

0.5

0.8

2015
0.8

0.9

Henkel employees

– 27 %

Employees of
external companies

– 18 %

2012

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Accidents during
typical production
activities

11

7

8

12

13

Accidents while
walking or moving
around (e.g.,
stumbling)

7

6

5

5

4

Age and seniority (as of December 31)
2013

2014

2015

47,250 46,600 46,850 49,750 49,450

Structure of
workforce

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Average seniority
in years

10.2

10.4

10.3

10.2

10.3

Average age of
employees

39.4

39.6

39.6

39.7

39.9

– Non-managerial
employees

79.9 %

79.4 %

78.7 %

79.0 %

77.5 %

Age structure

– Managers

18.6 %  

19.0 %  

19.8 %

19.5 %

21.0 %

16 – 29

18.3 %

17.6 %

17.8 %

18.4 %

18.0 %

1.5 %

1.6 %

1.5 %

1.5 %

1.5 %

30 – 39

34.6 %

34.5 %

34.4 %

33.8 %

33.4 %

40 – 49

29.4 %

29.6 %

29.1 %

28.2 %

28.1 %

50 – 65

17.7 %

18.3 %

18.7 %

19.5 %

20.5 %

– T op managers 2
Employee fluctuation worldwide 3

5.6 %

5.8 %

4.4 %

4.3 %

4.5 %

1P
 ermanent staff excluding trainees, figures have been rounded.
2 Corporate Senior Vice Presidents, Management Circles I and IIa.
3 Based on employee resignations.
At 49,450, the 2015 headcount was below the ­prior-year level.
This was due mainly to synergies from acquisitions and adjustments in our business units.

Percentage of women (as of December 31)

Nationalities (as of December 31)

Henkel
Managers
At headquarters
in Düsseldorf

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

125

123

123

124

125

91

85

88

93

89

53

55

The average age of our employees has remained constant over
the years. This ensures, in accordance with our diversity strategy, that Henkel’s workforce is a good mix of experienced
older employees and younger employees whose development
we can foster.

56

62

64

The internationality of our workforce reflects our business
­policy of filling local positions with local employees, and
ensuring that we have international teams at our ­corporate
headquarters in Germany.

2011

2012

Henkel

32.5 %

32.6 %

32.9 % 33.2 %

2013

2014

33.6 %

2015

Managers

29.5 %

30.5 %

31.6 % 32.5 % 1

33.1 %

Top managers 2

18.6 %

18.6 %

19.8 % 20.6 %

21.1 %

1 Without acquisitions in 2014.
2 Corporate Senior Vice Presidents, Management Circles I and IIa.
Compared with international levels, the total percentage of
female employees is good. This applies to managerial staff as
well. It is a result of our consistently applied diversity strategy.

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Indicators

Part-time employees (as of December 31)

Personnel development

2012

2013

2014

2015

Part-time contracts, global

3%

3%

3%

3%

Western Europe
(including Germany)

Internal promotion
(managers)

8%

8%

8%

9%

10 %

10 %

11 %

11 %

International
job rotations
Trainees ­(Germany)

Germany

Part-time work models are of relevance mainly in Western
Europe and especially in Germany. In emerging markets, such
as Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Latin America,
there is significantly less demand for part-time work models.

Employees covered by collective agreements

Average number of
training days 1

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

1,387

1,101

1,199

1,154

1,309

475

503

581

666

658

483

489

487

484

508

2

2

2

1.5

2.1

1 Training comprises in-person seminars and eLearning modules.
Since 2014, Henkel has been focusing more on on-the-job
training and job rotations.

Employee share program

(as of December 31)
2011
Percentage
worldwide
Percentage in
the European
Union (EU)

44 %

79 %

2012
44 %

79 %

2013
44 %

79 %

2014
44 %

79 %

2015
52 %

78 %

An intensive formal and informal dialog with employee representatives has a long tradition at Henkel, even in countries
where employee representation has not been established.

Percentage of
employees owning
Henkel shares

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

31.3 %

28.4 %

31.9 %

30.1 %

29.7 %

Around 11,300 employees in 56 countries purchased Henkel
­preferred shares under this program in 2015. At year-end, some
14,500 employees held a total of close to 2.7 million shares,
­representing approximately 1.5 percent of total ­preferred shares.
The lock-up period for newly acquired ESP shares is three years.

Social indicators

Social engagement

Total number of projects supported
Number of people supported
Time off from work for employee-­initiated pro­j­ects (days)
Donations in thousand euros (financial and product donations,
not counting time off)

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2,343

2,339

2,422

2,265

3,431

753,629 1,046,321 1,147,483 1,358,108 1,506,525
135

131

51

284

121

6,002

7,302

7,937

8,238

8,316

The number of projects supported was significantly higher than the prior-­year level. This is due to intensive project work for refugee
aid. This focus resulted in an increase in the number of people supported. Employee projects required significantly less days off from
work in 2015 than the prior year. This is due to a smaller number of team-volunteering projects. Generally speaking, employees
may request up to five days off from work per year for volunteer activities. Total donations were slightly up versus the prior year.

Percentage of projects supported per Millennium Development Goal
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

1. E radicate extreme poverty and hunger

30 %

11 %

13 %

12 %

10 %

2. A
 chieve universal primary education for girls and boys alike

23 %

39 %

39 %

42 %

43 %

2%

5%

4%

5%

3%

14 %

8%

8%

7%

5%

1%

3%

3%

3%

3%

20 %

3%

3%

3%

3%

7. E nsure environmental sustainability

9%

15 %

15 %

15 %

15 %

8. D
 evelop a global partnership for development

1%

16 %

15 %

13 %

18 %

3. P
 romote gender equality and empower women
4. R
 educe child mortality
5. Improve maternal health
6. C
 ombat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases

By joining the Global Compact of the United Nations in 2003, H
­ enkel made a commitment to help achieve the Millennium Development
Goals. Through its social engagement, Henkel c­ ontributes directly to the attainment of these goals. Henkel does not influence the type of
projects proposed under the employee engagement program. N
­ evertheless, the majority of these projects do indeed contribute to achieving these goals. www.un.org/millenniumgoals

59

60

Our Sustainability Report / External assurance / Our communication platforms

Henkel Sustainability Report 2015

Our Sustainability Report
Our Sustainability Report summarizes the key
­economic, environmental and social developments in fiscal 2015 and shows how we drive
­sustainability along the entire value chain. Since
we joined the United Nations Global Compact in
2003, our Sustainability Report has also served as
the basis for the required annual progress report.
The process of identifying, validating and prioritizing the issues of relevance for our Report takes
account of the material effects these have on
­activities, products and relations both inside and
outside the company. It is based on the principles
of completeness and inclusion of stakeholders.
The results of this process are shown on page 54.
The report covers the activities of all Henkel

c­ ompanies around the world over which we have
management control.
Together with the web-based Sustainability Report
and the Annual Report, the print version makes up
an integrated corporate reporting concept. In many
places in this 2015 report, you will find references
to further information in the Sustainability Report
itself, the Annual Report, as well as the web-based
Sustainability Report.
In the Online Sustainability Report, you will also
find a detailed index with links to the guidelines
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI):
sustainabilityreport.henkel.com/gri-index

External assurance
For the materiality analysis and the stakeholder
dialog, the management approach, the core
aspects of our focal areas, and for the indicators
shown on pages 56 to 59 for the reporting year 2015,
the auditing firm KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungs­
gesellschaft has conducted, for the first time,
a limited assurance engagement based on the
ISAE 3000 standard for such assurances.

As a member of the “Together for Sustainability”
initiative, Henkel again had its sustainability management assessed in 2015 according to the criteria
of the international rating platform EcoVadis. With
the CSR rating in Gold issued in December 2015,
we have attained the highest recognition level.
sustainabilityreport.henkel.com/assurance

Our communication platforms
The online versions of the Henkel Sustainability
Report and the Annual Report can be accessed on
the internet using a tablet or smartphone. They are
also included in the Henkel app. On the internet,
Henkel’s corporate website
www.henkel.com ­
Henkel
www.henkel.com/sustainability

contains a dedicated section on sustainability,
providing current news as well as general background information. Regarding social networks,
we use channels such as Facebook and Twitter
and have a sustainability playlist on YouTube.

Henkel
www.henkel.com/annualreport

The Henkel app is available
for both iOS and Android:

Henkel in social media:

Online Corporate Report
corporatereport.
henkel.com

www.henkel.com/sustainability

www.henkel.com/annualreport

www.facebook.com/henkel
www.twitter.com/henkel
www.youtube.com/henkel

Contacts and further publications
Contacts
We welcome any questions, suggestions or
comments you may have regarding our
Sustainability Report, our online reporting,
or our sustainability orientation.

Corporate Communications
Phone: +49 (0) 211-797-3533
Fax: +49 (0) 211-798-4040
E-mail: corporate.communications@henkel.com

Further publications available as downloads
on the internet
Our website offers access to all of the Environment Reports
and Sustainability Reports we have published since 1992, which
are also available as downloads. There you will also find our
Annual Reports, Quarterly Financial Reports, Vision and Values,
Code of Conduct, Code of Corporate Sustainability, Leadership P
­ rinciples, SHE Standards, Public Affairs Standard,
Social ­Standards and our Corporate Citizenship Magazine
“Together.”
www.henkel.com/publications

Sustainability Management
Phone: +49 (0) 211-797-3680
Fax: +49 (0) 211-798-9393
E-mail: sustainability@henkel.com
Investor Relations
Phone: +49 (0) 211-797-1631
Fax: +49 (0) 211-798-2863
E-mail: investor.relations@henkel.com

Credits
Published by
Henkel AG & Co. KG a A
40191 Düsseldorf, Germany
© 2016 Henkel AG & Co. KG a A

Photos
Charles Cherney, Olaf Döring, Tobias Ebert, Owen Gao, Chafaa Galloul,
Tomáš Halász, Steffen Hauser, Philipp Hympendahl, Claudia Kempf,
Tommy Lösch, Douglas Eiji Matsunaga, Nils Hendrik Müller; Henkel

Editorial work and coordination
Corporate Communications:
Uwe Bergmann, Claudia Bierth, Thomas Eckerl, Stefanie Fella,
Mareike Klein, Brandi Schuster, Matt Shoesmith, Ann-Christin
Wohlfarth, Wolfgang Zengerling

Pre-print proofing
Thomas Krause, Krefeld

Design and typesetting
mpm Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz

Publication date of this report:
February 25, 2016

Translation
ExperTeam®, Neuss: Alice Milne, Susan Salms-Moss

PR no.: 02 16 4,500   ISBN: 978-3-941517-65-3

The Sustainability Report is printed on LuxoArt Silk FSC. The paper is made from pulp
bleached without chlorine. It has been certified and verified in accordance with the
rules of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). The printing inks contain no heavy metals. This publication was cover-finished and bound with these Henkel products: Cellophaning with Aquence GA 6085 HGL laminating adhesive, bound using Technomelt
PUR 3400 ME COOL and Technomelt GA 3960 Ultra for the highest occupational health
and safety standards.

This document contains forward-looking statements which are based on the current
estimates and assumptions made by the executive management of Henkel AG & Co.
KGaA. Forward-looking statements are characterized by the use of words such as
expect, intend, plan, predict, assume, believe, estimate, anticipate and similar formulations. Such statements are not to be understood as in any way guaranteeing that those
expectations will turn out to be accurate. Future performance and the results actually
achieved by Henkel AG & Co. KGaA and its affiliated companies depend on a number of
risks and uncertainties, and may therefore differ materially from the forward-looking
statements. Many of these factors are outside Henkel’s control and cannot be accurately estimated in advance, such as the future economic environment and the actions
of competitors and others involved in the marketplace. Henkel neither plans nor
undertakes to update any forward-looking statements.

Except as otherwise noted, all marks used in this publication are trademarks and/or
registered trademarks of the Henkel Group in Germany and elsewhere.

Printing
Druckpartner, Essen

25 years Sustainability Reports

Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
40191 Düsseldorf, Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 211-797-0
www.henkel.com

