annual report 2014

LANXESS Group Key Data
€ million
Sales

Q4 2013

Q4 2014

2,014

1,904

176

154

8.7%

8.1%

123

62

55

49

(262)

(62)

76.3

(13.0)%

(3.3)%

EBITDA pre exceptionals
EBITDA margin pre exceptionals
EBITDA
Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals
Operating result (EBIT)
EBIT margin

2013

2014

Change %

(5.5)

8,300

8,006

(3.5)

(12.5)

735

808

9.9

8.9%

10.1%

(49.6)

624

644

3.2

(10.9)

288

402

39.6

(93)

218

> 100

(1.1)%

2.7%

Change %

Net income (loss)

(204)

(68)

66.7

(159)

47

> 100

Earnings per share (€)

(2.45)

(0.74)

69.8

(1.91)

0.53

> 100

Dividend per share (€)

0.50

ROCE

5.8%

0.50

7.9%

1)

0.0

Cash flow from operating activities

330

374

13.3

641

797

24.3

Depreciation and amortization

385

124

(67.8)

717

426

(40.6)

Cash outflows for capital expenditures

226

240

6.2

624

614

(1.6)

6,811

7,250

6.4
13.7

Total assets
Equity (including non-controlling interests)

1,900

2,161

Equity ratio

27.9%

29.8%

Net financial liabilities

1,731

1,336

(22.8)

17,343

16,584

(4.4)

1,339

1,457

8.8

3.2

2.3

Employees (as of December 31)
Personnel expenses (€ million)
Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 day’s absence
(per million hours worked)
Energy consumption (petajoules)
Total water consumption (in million cubic meters)
Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalents in thousand tons)
Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand tons)
Total waste (in thousand tons)
Production wastewater (in million cubic meters)

53

53

0.0

296

289.5

(2.2)

1,775

1,751

(1.4)

6.6

5.7

(13.6)

273

292

7.0

32

31.5

(1.6)

1) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders' Meeting on May 13, 2015

Sales by Region

Employees by Region (as of December 31)

%

%

25.9
Asia-Pacific

28.7
EMEA (excluding Germany)

16.5
Asia-Pacific

19.7
EMEA (excluding Germany)

8.8
Latin America
10.7
Latin America
16.7
North America

8.3
North America
18.0
Germany

46.7
Germany

This annual report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG management. Various known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material differences between the actual future results, financial situation, development or
performance of the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes no liability whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements or to
conform them to future events or developments.

CO
NT
EN
T
   2
  3
  4
12
44
52
62

Letter to Stockholders
Management
Strategy
Corporate Responsibility
Investor Information
Corporate Governance
Report of the Supervisory Board

66 Financial Information
67 Combined Management Report
126 Consolidated Financial Statements
186 Responsibility Statement
187 Auditor’s Report
188 About this Report
189 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report
191 GRI Content Index
198 Glossary
200 Index
201 Graphics and Tables
202 Financial Calendar/Contact

2

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Letter to Stockholders

2014 was a year of realignment for LANXESS. Thorough analysis of our situation showed that overcapacities for rubber products, limited cost structure competitiveness and high investment commitments require
us to make courageous changes if we want to restore our business to its former strength.
Although LANXESS finished fiscal 2014 with higher earnings than in the prior year, this increase did
nothing to alter the fundamental challenges we face. To be successful in the future, LANXESS must become
more competitive and profitable again. In the third quarter of 2014, therefore, we initiated a three-phase
realignment program named “Let’s LANXESS again.” This followed the capital increase undertaken in May
to give ourselves the necessary financial headroom and, at the same time, reduce our debt.
In the first phase of the program, we improved the efficiency of our corporate structure and reduced
the number of our business units from 14 to 10. Additionally, we are currently reducing our workforce by
some 1,000 positions worldwide – particularly in our administrative functions. Having to say farewell to the
employees affected is painful for us all, which is why I am especially pleased we have been able to achieve
the workforce reductions in Germany by the end of fiscal 2014 without the need for business-related
dismissals.
We have also already started the second phase of the realignment program aimed at achieving improvements along our entire value chain. We expect the first results of these activities to take effect in the current
fiscal year. And we have initiated the first steps of the program’s third phase as well. Here, the focus is on
improving access to raw materials and customer markets.
As you can see, we are rapidly driving forward our realignment. We have already made good progress
but have gone only part of the way toward restoring LANXESS to its former strength and returning the
company to a path of sustainable growth. Continuing on this course, we – as a global specialty chemicals
company – will not lose sight of our responsibility for people and the environment. We demonstrated our
awareness of this by reaffirming our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact in 2014.
The past fiscal year was one of the most difficult in our company’s history to date. However, it reminded
us of LANXESS’s early years and how substantial commitment, an effective strategy and broad solidarity­
enabled us to steer our company to success once before. On behalf of my colleagues on the Board of
Management,­I would therefore like to express my particular gratitude to our employees for their outstanding
performance under difficult circumstances during 2014. I would also like to thank our customers, business
partners and not least you, our stockholders, for the confidence you have shown in us. We will continue to
do everything we can to ensure the future success of our company.

Matthias Zachert
(Chairman of the Board of Management)

Letter to Stockholders | Management

Management

Matthias Zachert
Chairman of the Board of Management

Matthias Zachert was born in Bonn in 1967. After completing a commercial apprenticeship, he studied business administration, majoring in finance and international management.
Matthias Zachert served as Chief Financial Officer of LANXESS AG from 2004 to 2011, where
he had a key role in realigning the company. From June 2011, he was a member of the Executive
Board and Chief Financial Officer at Merck KGaA. Matthias Zachert was appointed Chairman
of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG effective April 1, 2014.

Dr. Bernhard Düttmann
Chief Financial Officer

Bernhard Düttmann was born in Düsseldorf in 1959. He studied business administration at the
University of Cologne, where he also obtained his doctorate. In 1989 he joined Beiersdorf AG,
where he was latterly the Executive Board Member responsible for Finance/Human Resources
and held regional responsibility for the Middle East, Africa and Turkey. Bernhard Düttmann
was appointed by the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG on April 1, 2011, to become the
company’s Chief Financial Officer.

Dr. Rainier van Roessel
Member of the Board of Management (Industrial Relations Director)

Rainier van Roessel was born in 1957 in Oisterwijk in the Netherlands. He studied business
administration at the University of Cologne, where he also obtained his doctorate, and joined
Bayer AG in 1988. When the LANXESS organization was set up in 2004, he became Head of
the Rubber Chemicals business unit, and in June 2006 he was additionally appointed Managing
Director of LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium. Rainier van Roessel was ­appointed to the
LANXESS AG Board of Management on January 1, 2007.

3

4

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Strategy

Strategy

Let’s LANXESS
again
A changed market environment for the
­rubber business, limited cost structure
competitiveness and high cash outflows for
major investments hampered LANXESS’s
economic development last year. Through
our Group-wide realignment program
“Let’s LANXESS again,” we are therefore
working to make our company significantly
more competitive and profitable again.

As expected, fiscal 2014 was a challenging year for LANXESS.
Although we increased our key financial indicator – EBITDA pre exceptionals – compared with 2013, our earning power is still a long
way from the level we achieved in previous years. Since April 2014,
under the leadership of our new CEO Matthias Zachert, we have been
carefully and self-critically analyzing the situation of our company.

Key trends offering further growth
Although the consolidation measures taken in response to the sovereign debt crisis remain a significant brake on economic momentum
in our European markets, the alignment of our product portfolio to
the four most important global megatrends is proving to be correct in
principle because continuous and above-average growth is forecasted
for these four areas in the coming years as well.

Mobility With economic growth and rising prosperity, particularly in
emerging nations and developing countries, our world is becoming
increasingly mobile. Market research company LMC Automotive forecasts that the number of cars in use worldwide will increase by some
3% each year through 2020. However, this growth goes hand in
hand with increasing emissions and higher consumption of resources.
Making mobility more environmentally friendly is therefore one of
the greatest technical challenges of our time. The business units in
our Performance Polymers segment can use their technologies and
products to significantly contribute toward mastering this challenge.
Since around one quarter of a car’s fuel consumption is accounted
for by its tires’ rolling resistance, improving the energy efficiency of
tires is the primary strategy. As the market leader in high-performance
rubbers, we make it possible to combine low rolling resistance, good
wet grip and durability in modern tires. Regulations mandating the
labeling of new tires to show their fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise
emissions – like those introduced in the European Union at the end
of 2012 – are a sustainable growth driver for our business. In both
the medium and long term, they will translate into an increase in
demand for green tires, which can only be produced using high-tech
synthetic rubber. However, the European Union is not alone in its
efforts. Japanese tire manufacturers voluntarily introduced a comparable labeling system at the start of 2010. In December 2012, South
Korea introduced mandatory tire labeling based on the E.U. model; the
China Rubber Industry Association did likewise at the start of 2014
with its Green Tire Technology Specification. From November 2016,
all tires imported to Brazil or manufactured there for the local market
will have to be labeled in this way, too. Similar legislation is also being
discussed in the United States.
The second approach for achieving environmentally friendly mobility is
the substitution of traditional materials, such as steel or aluminum, with
innovative plastics and intelligent composites. In 2014, new vehicles
contained an average of around 18 kilograms of high-tech plastics.
By 2019, this is likely to have increased to around 25 kilograms.
These materials are easier to process than metal components. They
have outstanding mechanical properties and weigh up to 50% less
than their metal counterparts. By using our high-tech plastics, the
automotive industry can therefore lower production costs, increase
design freedom and improve vehicle safety in one single step. Other
advantages include significant environmental benefits, because lighter
cars consume less fuel, which also results in lower emissions.

5

6

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Agriculture The steadily growing global population is probably the key
driver of this megatrend. According to current United Nations forecasts,
it will rise to around 9.6 billion in 2050. The Consultative Group on
International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) estimates that global food
production must expand by 60% by 2050 to meet the needs of this
rapid population growth. The situation is compounded by changing
eating habits worldwide and the growing use of crops as alternative
energy sources. The product portfolios of the business units in our
Advanced Intermediates segment include many key intermediates for
synthesizing agrochemicals that can help farmers protect their crops
and increase their yields.
Urbanization The United Nations forecasts that the proportion of citydwellers in the world population will increase from slightly more than
50% at present to just under 70% by 2050. The urbanization trend
is most evident in emerging and developing countries. It is believed
that 11 new cities with more than ten million inhabitants will develop
in China and India before the end of this decade. Our products are
used in a large number of customer industries that are benefiting from
increasing urbanization.
Water Usable water is one of the most valuable of all raw materials.
Even in areas where it is available in sufficient quantities, water often
cannot be used due to high levels of contamination. State-of-the-art
industrial processes cannot be implemented safely and economically
without ultra pure water. Studies suggest that the demand for clean
water in 2030 will exceed current supply levels by around 40%. We
aim to contribute to closing that gap. Products and processes marketed
by our business units, especially Liquid Purification Technologies,
have an increasingly important role in the treatment of drinking water,
wastewater and process water.

Structural challenges on the supply side
Three significant changes have come together on the supply side.
1. The European chemical industry – and thus also LANXESS –
is increasingly experiencing cost disadvantages in the global
competitive arena. While labor costs in the European Union
have always been higher than in the emerging economies
or the United States, now the costs of raw materials and
energy supply are also increasing disproportionately. German
companies are being particularly hard hit by the development
of domestic energy prices.
2. New technologies and competitors are having a sustained
impact on market conditions. Our established markets are
being penetrated by companies from the emerging countries
that are state-owned or at least supported by state subsidies.
Their objectives are not always just business-related. The
growing availability of shale gas in the United States and the
resulting investments in energy-intensive production facilities
are expected to further intensify import pressure on the European markets.
3. In particular, our competitors in the emerging economies
of Asia – here especially China – have steadily reduced their
dependence on imports by building their own production capacities. As a result, export opportunities to the world’s growth
regions are successively declining. In addition, suppliers from
the Middle East and China are increasingly producing highquality products.
Although raw material and energy prices declined during the second
half of 2014, the structural developments are impacting our business with synthetic rubbers especially. Production overcapacities
of some 20% already exist for the main rubber grades. Additional
capacity start-ups, especially for EPDM and butyl rubbers, could make
it even more difficult to correct this imbalance in the coming years. Our
realignment aims to address this challenge as well.

­LANXESS Acts Sustainably

Good for Business

Good for Society

• Strengthening the reputation and positive image
of the company
• Transparency, trust and good partnership
with stakeholder groups
• Satisfied employees and stakeholders
• Increasing awareness among customers and public

• Protection of climate/environment
• Social responsibility
• Training and education
• Culture
• Safety and security
• Neighborhood

Corporate
Responsibility

Strategy

Four main success factors identified
This change process, which is being additionally accelerated by
globalization, is characterized above all by the following four success
factors, which will be crucial to the future competitiveness of European
chemical companies.
• Innovation Ongoing process optimization and high innovative
strength in respect of both technologies and products will remain
key differentiation factors for the European chemical industry in
the future as well.
• Standards Quality and service are the main characteristics which
set established suppliers apart from new competitors from the
emerging economies. In addition, the growing awareness of environmental and sustainability issues is increasing the significance
of resource-friendly production and the need for chemical products which enhance the sustainability in use of the end products
they are used to manufacture.

•S
 trategy & Employees Although the chemical industry’s
traditional strategy models (e. g. commodities versus specialties,
global versus local presence) are still fundamentally intact, the
ability to quickly adapt to even temporary changes in market
conditions is gaining relevance. In this connection, the demands
made on the company’s employees in terms of their leadership
ability, adaptability and flexibility are also continually increasing.
As far as innovation is concerned, we believe our company is well
positioned because we not only reliably deliver premium-quality products to our customers, we actively support their innovation processes
and thus add measurable value. In this way, we are able to strengthen
customer loyalty and achieve clear differentiation from our competitors.
Our research and development activities are closely allied to the needs
of the market and our customers. Each business unit therefore has
its own development capacities which are primarily used in product
development and optimization. These are supplemented by a central
organizational unit dedicated to process innovation. Further information about our research and development activities can be found in
the combined management report on page 77 of this Annual Report.

•P
 roductivity Especially in the synthetic rubbers business, a
critical mass – i. e. an adequately large market share – is essential
to achieving economies of scale in production. At the same time,
cost structures must be kept lean.

Around 60% of LANXESS’s Businesses Are Well Positioned While Some 40% Face a Challenging Situation
Sales breakdown 2014, %

~40
Tire & Specialty Rubbers (TSR)
High Performance Elastomers (HPE)

~60
High Performance Materials (HPM)
Advanced Industrial Intermediates (AII)
Saltigo (SGO)
Material Protection Products (MPP)
Inorganic Pigments (IPG)
Rhein Chemie Additives (ADD)
Leather (LEA)
Liquid Purification Technologies (LPT)

Challenging situation

Good portfolio
structure

Size & market position
Asset base &
end-market diversification
Cost structure & processes
Supply/demand
Backward integration
Well positioned

Solid, but operational improvements targeted

not needed
Strategic focus to address weaknesses

7

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

LANXESS also holds leadership positions in its markets in respect of
standards. Some years ago already, we began aligning our organization
and product portfolio to reflect the continually growing importance
of sustainability and we have made steady progress in this regard. In
2014, we reaffirmed our commitment to the Responsible Care® Global
Charter. The energy management system to ISO 50001 introduced
at our international sites in recent years is to be certification-ready in
the first quarter of 2015. Many of our production processes, like those
used by our Inorganic Pigments business unit, set global standards
in ecology. It is not only in the area of mobility, as described above, in
which we are responding to the growing significance of sustainability
by steadily expanding our sustainable product offering. Our Leather
business unit, for example, successfully markets an entire portfolio
of products for sustainable leather manufacture. All these activities
and measures demonstrate our commitment to making safety, environmental protection, social responsibility, quality and cost-efficiency
integral aspects of our business operations. “Good for business, good
for ­society.” ­This short sentence perfectly sums up our principle and
­reflects our conviction that our products and activities make a significant contribution to strengthening our customers’ businesses and improving the quality of life of people everywhere. The greatest benefits of
our corporate responsibility activities are achieved if they are balanced
with entrepreneurial and, especially, economic objectives. They must
therefore be linked to our core business or to our available expertise.
Further information about our commitment to sustainability can be
found in the “Corporate Responsibility” section starting on page 12.

However, our analysis has also shown a need for action relating to
the Productivity and Strategy & Employees success factors. We must
tangibly improve the efficiency of our business and administration
processes and reposition all LANXESS’s business units at all stages
of the value-added chain so we can clearly substantiate a claim to
excellence.

Extensive realignment program progressing rapidly
In the third quarter of 2014, against the background described here,
we initiated the three-phase “Let’s LANXESS again” program aimed
at the global realignment of the company. We have been working
since then to consistently implement this program. In order to fund
the realignment and directly strengthen our financial position, we successfully increased our capital at the beginning of May, thus expanding
our equity base by around €430 million.

Phase I: Competitiveness of the business and
administrative structure
In the first phase of the program, we consolidated the number of our
business units from 14 to 10 with effect from January 1, 2015. The
Butyl Rubber and Performance Butadiene Rubbers business units
were merged to form the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit. This
decision was based on overlapping customer structures, regional
commonalities in the established markets and changed conditions in
the emerging economies. Furthermore, LANXESS consolidated the
High Performance Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers business units in

“Let’s LANXESS Again” – A Three-Phase Realignment Program Is Being Implemented

Competitiveness

8

III. C
 ompetitiveness of the
business portfolio
II. Operational competitiveness
I. C
 ompetitiveness of the business
and administrative structure
• C
 onsolidate business units and group
functions with similar business models
• Improve customer and market
focus and leverage synergies

• Manufacturing

excellence:
– Analyze and adjust asset base
– Evaluate temporary and permanent
site closures
– Implement operational best practices
• Commercial and supply chain excellence

• D
 evelop leaner administrative structures by
restructuring and adjusting business models
Leadership excellence and performance culture

• E
 valuate portfolio options to
better balance the company’s structure
• C
 onsider partnerships to improve
access to raw materials, e.g. for the rubber
businesses
• Improve market access, e.g. through
marketing alliances

Strategy

Leaner and More Effective – The New Alignment of Our Business Units
Butyl Rubber
Performance Butadiene Rubbers
Keltan Elastomers
High Performance Elastomers
High Performance Materials

Performance Polymers

•
•
•
•
•

Advanced Intermediates

• Advanced Industrial Intermediates
• Saltigo

Performance Chemicals

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Sales: > €500 million

Material Protection Products
Inorganic Pigments
Functional Chemicals
Leather
Rhein Chemie
Rubber Chemicals
Liquid Purification Technologies

Sales: €200 million – €500 million

Performance Polymers

• Tire & Specialty Rubbers
• High Performance Elastomers
• High Performance Materials

Advanced Intermediates

• Advanced Industrial Intermediates
• Saltigo

Performance Chemicals

•
•
•
•
•

Material Protection Products
Inorganic Pigments
Rhein Chemie Additives
Leather
Liquid Purification Technologies

Sales: < €200 million

the High Performance Elastomers business unit. Here, too, there were
substantial overlaps in customer structures. The specialty chemicals
product line of the Rubber Chemicals business unit, the Functional
Chemicals business unit and the Rhein Chemie business unit now
comprise the new Rhein Chemie Additives business unit. Consolidating our additives business operations will enable us to access new
markets and customers. The antioxidants and accelerators product
lines of the Rubber Chemicals business unit are being integrated into
the portfolio of the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit.
We have also streamlined the administration of our company through
cross-functional workforce reductions worldwide and the consolidation
of group functions. The Aliseca, Industrial & Environmental Affairs and
Innovation & Technology group functions have been merged to form
the new Production, Technology, Safety & Environment Group Function. Legal & Compliance integrates the former Internal Auditing and
Law and Intellectual Property group functions with Corporate Security.
A more efficient organizational structure is intended not only to foster
market and customer proximity but also to sustainably improve our cost
position. From the end of 2016, we aim to achieve annual savings of
around €150 million through the key measures described here and
a large number of additional optimizations in our business units and
group functions. By that time, the first phase of the realignment should
result in a reduction of about 1,000 positions worldwide – roughly
half of them in Germany. The responsible employee representatives
have been involved in the process. In connection with these job
reductions, we anticipate exceptional charges totaling around
€150 million through 2016 – some €110 million of which were
already posted in fiscal 2014.

Phase II: Operational competitiveness
As part of the second phase of the “Let’s LANXESS again” program,
we started two excellence initiatives focusing on our operational competitiveness. A manufacturing excellence initiative is examining the
possibility of temporary or permanent plant closures and analyzing all
production processes and facilities with respect to market requirements
and potential synergies. The primary objective through 2016 is to
establish a distinct improvement culture in our production operations
and implement best practices as far as possible across the board. In
the second instance, we aim to identify production facilities which are
not sufficiently competitive as things stand at present. On conclusion
of our analysis, we cannot rule out the possibility that entire sites may
be shut down either temporarily or permanently. At the same time, a
further initiative is focusing on commercial and supply chain excellence. Important objectives in this respect are the critical analysis of
our current marketing strategies, the greatest possible harmonization
and automation of processes, leaner legal structures and the identification of potential synergies between our business units and within
individual regions. We are seeking to develop an implementation-ready
concept by mid-2015.

Phase III: Competitiveness of the business portfolio
We have already initiated the first steps of the program’s third phase as
well, which must be considered in close conjunction with the second
phase. Here, the focus is on examining portfolio options with a view
to improving access to raw materials and customer markets – also
through strategic partnerships. One possible option could be vertical

9

10

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

“Let’s LANXESS Again” – Phase I Focused on Reducing Administrative Costs
~ €15 million

~ €150 million

BU/GF 1)

Region

~ €60 million
Asia-Pacific

Latin America
BU

North America
EMEA

~ €25 million

~ €50 million
GF

TSR, HPE, ADD &
AII business units

PTSE
Group Function

Other
group functions

Other
business units

Germany

Total savings

1) BU business unit
GF group function

cooperation with a petrochemical company to secure our supply of key
raw materials in the long term and thus strengthen our cost position.
Especially in the rubber business, horizontal cooperation could also
be envisaged. For example, we could work with a strategic partner
to optimize the joint asset base for a certain type of rubber. During
fiscal 2015, we aim to develop and announce concrete steps for the
third phase.

tive approach to investments in the future. As a result, cash outflows
for investment activity in 2016 are to be as much as €200 million
below the current level. In this way, we aim to create the financial
headroom we need in order to redirect our strategic focus beyond
2016 toward growth.

Beyond 2016: moderate growth, a balanced portfolio,
reduced cyclicality
Sustainable improvement of our financial position
Clear Capital Allocation Priorities
Until 2016

Beyond 2016

1.
2.
3.
4.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Debt repayment
Restructuring
Growth
Dividends

Portfolio management
Dividends
Organic growth
Debt repayment
Share buybacks

With our “Let’s LANXESS again” program, we are not only seeking
to strengthen our operational competitiveness but also to sustainably improve our financial position. In doing so, the aim is always to
safeguard our investment-grade rating. Alongside the cost savings
already described, this is to be achieved above all by a far more selec-

One important pillar of our future growth strategy will be the expansion
of our position in less cyclical businesses. We are therefore strengthening our focus more than before on the Advanced Intermediates and
Performance Chemicals segments.
As far as Advanced Intermediates is concerned, we are aiming to continually expand in line with global GDP growth. This is to be achieved
by, in particular, debottlenecking production, efficiency enhancements
and investments in existing facilities. We will examine any options for
acquisitions that arise. Moderate growth is also the objective for Performance Chemicals. We aim to achieve this by expanding our global
presence through both organic growth and acquisitions. We plan to
continue expanding our asset base in Asia especially. We also intend
to improve our profitability by consolidating businesses with similar
customer industries in our portfolio.

Strategy

Against the backdrop of intact demand development and our strong
market positions, we are confident that the Performance Polymers
segment will successively benefit in the future from our investment
activities to date. We will concentrate here on selective organic growth
accompanied by ongoing efficiency enhancements and an investment
policy aligned to maintenance.

Outlook
We anticipate that our earnings in fiscal 2015 will be influenced by
the persistently challenging competitive environment, especially for
our synthetic rubber businesses. Additional effects will likely come
from the ramp-up costs for our new rubber plants and the associated
idle capacity costs. We do not expect any significant momentum for
our business development from the slight growth forecast for the
global economy.
2015 for us will be very largely shaped by the implementation of our
“Let’s LANXESS again” realignment program, with the focus especially
on the ongoing measures comprising its second and third phases.
We predict EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year 2015 to be just
about on a comparable level to 2014. This takes account of the anticipated cost savings from the realignment initiated in the reporting year.
With around €2 billion in cash and undrawn credit lines, we have
a very good liquidity and financing position which will enable us to
safeguard our entrepreneurial flexibility and implement our ongoing
realignment program.
LANXESS remains well positioned with its product portfolio in the
­relevant customer industries and key global markets. We are convinced
that we can restore our business to its former strength in the medium
term by making our organizational structure more efficient, improving
competitiveness at all stages of the value-added chain and adjusting
our portfolio to reflect structural market changes.

11

12

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Corporate Responsibility

Corporate Responsibility

Corporate
Responsibility
As an international specialty chemicals
group, we bear a major responsibility
toward people and the environment. Our
entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense
of responsibility, which is also a key component of our strategy. Safety, environmental
protection, social responsibility, quality and
commercial efficiency are all key corporate
goals at LANXESS.

Good for business, good for society
In the firm conviction that economic success and social values and
benefits may be mutually profitable, LANXESS’s approach can be
summed up by the sentence: “Good for business, good for society.” Our
Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities focus on climate protection,
water, education and cultural involvement. All measures are linked to
our core business and should benefit it in the long term.

Clearly defined responsibilities
We have established various committees to ensure compliance with
and the ongoing development of our CR strategy and the rules and
standards defined in our management system.
The CR Committee, which is made up of representatives from selected
group functions, is responsible for developing our CR strategy and
ensures that all LANXESS’s CR activities are in line with this strategy.
In its capacity as an interdisciplinary competence center, it advises
both the Board of Management and the business units on all matters relating to sustainability. It is also responsible for collecting and
maintaining reliable data that comply with current market standards
for use in our external CR communications.

The HSEQ Committee, comprising LANXESS’s senior executives
under the direction of Board of Management member Dr. Rainier van
Roessel, is tasked with ensuring worldwide compliance with uniformly
high quality management, safety, environmental and climate protection
standards. The committee has responsibility for initiating and monitoring the global implementation of all necessary HSEQ guidelines,
strategies and programs, as well as for defining our HSEQ objectives
and monitoring their achievement. It also defines the global strategy
for our integrated quality and environmental management system in
accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001.
The Compliance Committee, which is made up of representatives from
a range of specialist backgrounds, handles all referrals concerning
compliance violations, with the goal of countering illegal or unethical
conduct by LANXESS employees at an early stage and introducing
suitable measures to prevent improprieties.

Integrated management system drives success
At LANXESS, a central management system provides the necessary
global structures to ensure responsible commercial practices. With
this toolbox, we have created a transparent framework of values and
rules that unites management and employees across national borders. Worldwide, we are guided by internal directives and operating
procedures and by the international quality and environmental standards ISO 9001 and ISO 14001.
External, independent experts regularly audit the progress of system
integration at new sites and the performance of our management
system worldwide. Confirmation of our compliance with ISO 9001
and ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. We successfully completed a follow-up audit in 2014.
As of December 31, 2014, our matrix certificate covered 46 companies with 76 sites in 23 countries. In 2014, the new butyl rubber
production facility in Singapore was included in the certificate for the
first time as planned. Our sites in the United States have also received
confirmation of certification to RC 14001 (RC = Responsible Care®).
In 2015, we plan to integrate the sites at Epierre, France, and Lipetsk,
Russia, into the matrix certificate.
HSEQ (health, safety, environmental protection and quality) management is an important part of our integrated management system.
We have aligned our HSEQ management system toward ensuring
uniform standards and reference bases for all our sites worldwide.
The key performance indicators (KPIs) required for this purpose are
recorded electronically, thus enabling us to systematically determine
and analyze performance in each business unit and at each site and
to develop this sustainably in the future.

13

14

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Comprehensive values system established
All management systems are based on values and guidelines that
provide a clear framework for a company’s management and employees. Our system is based on established global standards and on our
company’s own basic rules, which are subject to ongoing amendment.
Compliance LANXESS considers compliance with laws and ethical
principles to be the basis of sustainable corporate governance. Our
employees’ integrity and awareness of their responsibilities are key
factors in the success of our company. The Code for Legal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS, which is applicable
throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards and gives our
employees advice and guidance on complying with these standards.
As a global enterprise, we are committed in all our markets to promoting respect for human rights at all times and preventing child and
forced labor. Our code also covers issues such as anti-competitive
behavior, anti-corruption, data protection, occupational, product and
plant safety and environmental protection. To take sufficient account of
the individual circumstances – particularly with regard to legislation – in
certain countries or business areas, there are also many specific guidelines on the aforementioned issues. All globally applicable LANXESS
directives and guidelines are contained in a system that is accessible
to every employee. Our Compliance Code can also be found on our
website at http://www.lanxess.com under Corporate Responsibility/
Corporate Governance/Compliance at LANXESS.
“The company respects applicable law and requires its employees
and business partners to do likewise.” This is the key statement of our
Compliance Code and expresses our basic guiding principle – that
each of our decisions and activities must satisfy this premise, irrespective of the aims we are pursuing or the conditions we face. In the first

instance, we define applicable law as any applicable international or
national legislation in the jurisdictions in which LANXESS operates.
Moreover, human rights and ethical principles are considered to take
precedence in all cases, even if they are not stipulated in the applicable legislation. In this context, we have also signed the U.N. Global
Compact, and recognize the principles it sets forth as inalienable rights.
In the Annual Report 2013, we reaffirmed our commitment to these
principles for the year under review. You can find more information
about the Global Compact at www.unglobalcompact.org. We consider
the stated principle of legality and ethical behavior to be more than
just compliance issues. Instead, we see them as inextricable aspects
of our corporate responsibility and sustainability culture.
We have established a Compliance Management System to implement
our clear commitment to compliance in our daily business activities.
This system supports and guides decision-makers and other company
employees in their actions. In this way, we eliminate any potential
uncertainties relating to our compliance principles. These range from
basic questions such as the extent to which all laws must be obeyed
in countries where the rule of law is limited, to specific questions such
as whether issuing invitations to business partners can be considered
to be corruption.
Compliance Management System The LANXESS Compliance
Management System (CMS) is described in our CMS statutes and is
externally audited at regular intervals. These global audits cover the
largest possible scope (design, suitability and effectiveness). They
are not limited to defined risks but focus on the ten main compliance
risks identified in the course of our analysis. The last audit by Deloitte
& Touche GmbH in 2012 was completed without observation – i.e.
no significant weakness was identified – and with an unqualified audit
opinion.

The Ten Principles of the Global Compact
Area

Principle

Human rights

1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.
2) Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.

Labor

3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.
4) Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.
5) Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor.
6) Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.

Environment

7) Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.
8) Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.
9) Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.

Anti-corruption

10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.

Corporate Responsibility

The CMS principles we apply are based on a comprehensive framework for company-wide risk management (COSO II). The basic
elements of our CMS include:
• Compliance culture
• Compliance objectives
• Compliance risks (identification, evaluation and measures)
• Compliance program
• Compliance organization
• Compliance communication
• Compliance monitoring and improvement
At the top, our compliance culture is shaped by the commitment of our
Board of Management and Supervisory Board. If it is to permeate the
entire company, the process of living and communicating our compliance culture must also be an essential aspect of the leadership role at
every subsequent decision-making level. At LANXESS, responsibility
for compliance and business activities goes hand in hand.
Our compliance objective is to avoid any violations. It is based on the
principle outlined above that compliance represents the fundamental
condition for every decision and action taken by our company.
Compliance risks are regularly analyzed by the Compliance Committee and presented to the Board of Management for discussion.
They are evaluated according to the likelihood of occurrence and
damage potential. Risk exposure is analyzed both for business areas
and countries, and Risk Officers are appointed accordingly. Wherever
possible, early-warning indicators and monitoring instruments are
defined and countermeasures initiated to reduce the risks identified.
The principal risk exposures we have identified relate to antitrust law
(horizontal), competition law (vertical), anti-corruption, export control,
environmental and safety regulations, data protection, product liability,
insider trading, discrimination, accounting law and – being closely
related to compliance – fraud (against the company).
Our compliance program includes all of the “classical” CMS elements,
such as issuing a compliance code and specific guidelines and work
instructions, and establishing guidance systems, information and training. We ensure compliance in the broader sense by clearly assigning
responsibilities within our structural and process organizations, and
by implementing a functioning internal control system and suitable
auditing and monitoring activities.

The compliance organization includes a global Compliance Committee, a global Compliance Officer drawn from this body and
local compliance officers and/or committees in every country where
a LANXESS company operates. Various group functions also assume
support and/or monitoring roles in the compliance system, for example
Legal, HSE and Internal Auditing in particular. The responsibility for
ensuring legally compliant behavior, however, always rests with the
respective decision-maker. We therefore view compliance primarily
as a key leadership task within the company.
Our compliance communication involves both top-down and bottom-up
processes in equal measure. Information events and training courses
enable our employees to fulfill their tasks correctly and in compliance
with the law. Our communication activities include the “Compliance”
section on the LANXESS intranet, coupled with e-learning programs.
Compliance issues and problems are reported from the bottom up to
local compliance officers and on to the central Compliance Committee. The global Compliance Officer reports significant developments,
findings and measures to the Board of Management and the Audit
Committee of the Supervisory Board on a regular basis. There is an
obligation to report ad hoc to the Board of Management and the
­Supervisory Board in the event of wide-reaching compliance violations.
However, there has been no need to do so as yet.
Compliance monitoring is performed by means of general audits
and dedicated audit programs conducted by Internal Auditing and a
central HSE department. Since Internal Auditing is itself part of the
CMS framework, we have this organizational unit regularly audited
by independent third parties. The status of compliance at LANXESS
is also subject to regular review by the auditor of the annual financial
statements.
Responsible Care® Transparency and improved public dialogue are
among the stated objectives of the Responsible Care® Global Charter
launched by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA).
This is the only way to build confidence and trust in an industry that
has a crucial role in improving people’s living standards and quality
of life. We have supported this initiative since 2006, when we also
became one of the signatories to the ICCA charter. By signing the
revised Responsible Care® Global Charter in 2014, we reaffirmed our
commitment to the visions and ethical principles of the initiative. For
us, applying the Responsible Care® Global Charter to our business
means consistently working to improve our processes and services
in terms of environmental and climate protection, health, safety and
quality. Our corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter
are integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy.

15

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

We also expect our suppliers to commit to our values and rules, especially the Global Compact, and establish adequate systems to ensure
legally compliant behavior and carry ethical behavior throughout their
organizations. The LANXESS Supplier Code of Conduct is part of
our communication with suppliers. Reviewing compliance with these
requirements is a key aspect of our collaboration in the Together for
Sustainability initiative we operate jointly with 11 other international
chemical companies (see page 75). Additionally, in the course of
acquisitions, we make it a principle of our due diligence processes to
ensure that human rights are also respected by the target company.

Active stakeholder dialogue
The stakeholders of relevance to LANXESS are the groups, institutions
and people with whom we are linked directly or indirectly through
our business units and who therefore have a justified interest in our
activities. Our most important stakeholder groups are customers,
employees, suppliers, capital market participants, the media, neighbors of our sites and representatives of politics, public authorities and
NGOs. We conduct an intensive dialogue with all these groups with the
aim of identifying topics that they consider to be significant in terms
of corporate responsibility. At the same time, we seek to encourage
mutual understanding and build trust through an open and constructive exchange of views.

very high

LANXESS Materiality Matrix (as of June 18, 2014)

Product safety information
Human rights

Transparency
Responsible handling
of chemicals

Plant & process safety
Quality

Compliance

Level of interest to stakeholders

Water management

Occupational safety
Fair remuneration
Risk management
Environmental standards
Environmental management

Climate
protection

Research & development

Stakeholder relations

Toxicity
Emissions reduction
Work-life balance

Energy efficiency
Education & training

Demographic change
Anti-corruption
Occupational health
Globalization
Responsible resource use
Ressource efficiency
Business ethics
Sustainable procurement
Transportation

Talent management

high

16

high

very high
Importance for LANXESS

Corporate Responsibility

First materiality analysis performed
In order to optimize our sustainability strategy and utilize resources
in the most effective way possible, it is essential to systematically
prioritize the various areas of activity. In this regard, we consider the
materiality analysis as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative to be
an important tool.
We performed an analysis of this kind for the first time in May 2014,
questioning sustainability experts in our group functions and business
units. The issues identified were evaluated from our internal viewpoint
and an estimate was made of their importance to external stakeholders.
This was additionally compared with external analyses, including those
involving the supply chain. The resulting materiality matrix shows the
central sustainability issues for LANXESS.
As a chemical company, we are focusing particularly on high-priority
issues such as plant and process safety and occupational health and
safety. With “Xact,” the Board of Management’s global initiative (see
page 28), we are striving to achieve continuous improvements in
occupational, plant and process safety and thus systematically and
sustainably improve environmental and health protection worldwide.
Compliance (see page 14) and other related aspects are particularly
important.
We meet the request for a transparent portrayal of sustainability in our
supply chain through the Together for Sustainability initiative mentioned
above. This is described in detail in the combined management report
on page 75 of this Annual Report. Our Diversity & Inclusion initiative
(see page 24) also incorporates suggestions received in our stakeholder surveys. In our combined annual and sustainability report, we
regularly provide comprehensive information about progress in the
aforementioned areas as well as in other areas our stakeholders view
as important.
In the future, we will utilize the materiality matrix as an important
framework in prioritizing our sustainability activities. To this end, we
are planning further surveys as a means of externally validating the
results of our internal analyses.

Customer satisfaction as a success factor
Customer satisfaction and customer loyalty are among the most important success factors to us. Our central inquiry management system provides customers with information about our products, their
applications and potential risks and with product certificates. Critical
feedback from customers gives us valuable pointers for improving
our products and processes. We have established a global customer
complaint management system backed by a Group-wide guideline.
The aim is to quickly and competently address customer issues so as
to establish a sustained bond between the customer and us.

The customer surveys we conduct every two years use recognized
opinion research methods and also provide us with vital information
about the loyalty of our customers, their expectations and how they
perceive our services compared to those of our competitors. In line
with our aim, we increased the number of customers contacted in
2013 by 40% compared with the previous survey. The next customer
survey is planned for 2015.
Our daily commitment to high product quality and customer satisfaction is regularly recognized and honored with awards and prizes. For
example, LANXESS’s Leather business unit was named one of the
best nine Launch Nordic Innovators 2014 for the Green Leather Crust
concept. Launch Nordic is a platform that helps promising innovations
gain access to investors, customers and multiplicators. Among the
partners in the global Launch initiative are government bodies and
well-known companies such as Nike and Ikea. For the third time after
2009 and 2011, our Inorganic Pigments business unit received the
Certified Supplier of the Year Award for outstanding service, inventory
management and quality from Sherwin-Williams, a well-known U.S.
producer of coatings and building materials.

Maintaining efficient networks
We are very aware that no single organization alone – company, government, research institute or NGO – will be able to master the major
societal challenges of our time. Alongside our own CR activities, we
are therefore participating in establishing powerful global networks
where we combine our competence in sustainable development with
the expertise of other partners. As well as state institutions, NGOs in
particular – with their extensive expert knowledge of specific issues –
have a crucial role here.
Since 2013, for example, we have been supporting “Chemie³,” the
joint sustainability initiative of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union
(IG BCE) and the German Chemical Industry Employers’ Association
(BAVC). The initiative focuses on the Guidelines for Sustainability in the
Chemical Industry in Germany, which encompass a total of 12 areas
of activity and were formulated with input from internal and external
stakeholders. They are a mission statement for the industry, supporting companies and their employees in expanding their contributions
to sustainability.
In addition to trade shows, high-level congresses provide us with an
important forum for discussion with potential and existing business
partners, competitors, scientists and opinion leaders on current developments and future challenges in our business areas. In 2014,
for example, a member of our Board of Management participated in
the main discussion panel at the “auto motor und sport” Congress,

17

18

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

which addressed issues such as how modern materials can help the
German automotive industry to satisfy increasingly stringent emission
guidelines and thus make mobility more environmentally compatible.
We also conduct an open dialogue with government representatives
and with authorities on local, European and international level. The
focus is on an active exchange of ideas on strategic corporate issues
such as environmentally friendly product and process innovations,
developments on raw material and energy markets, and issues relating
to the labor market and education policy. Our own offices in Berlin
and Brussels place us close to the center of political decision-making.

Employees
Our entrepreneurial success is fundamentally based on our employees’
professionalism, implementation skills and sense of r­esponsibility.
Only through their ongoing training and development – especially­­
aimed at strengthening their willingness to learn and change –
can we safeguard our company's ability to continuously adapt to
complex market challenges and sustainably improve LANXESS’s
competitiveness.

Amended HR strategy in support of realignment
Another important element of our stakeholder communication is
structured dialogue with residents in the immediate vicinity of our
sites. Since fall 2013, for example, our affiliate Currenta has been
operating­Chempunkt neighborship offices in Leverkusen, Dormagen
and Krefeld-Uerdingen to serve as a point of contact for local residents
interested in discussing issues concerning the Chempark sites, where
LANXESS has many production facilities. The response has been
consistently positive and many people have already taken the opportunity to ask questions, attend events or acquire information material.

Our HR strategy remains focused on four central areas of activity, within
which we provide a range of innovative tools that are constantly being
adapted to meet new requirements.
The strategic development of the HR function initiated in 2013 was
integrated into the “Let’s LANXESS again” program in 2014. Within
the context of our realignment, leadership, dialogue, organizational
consulting and change management were special areas of focus for
the HR organization. Alongside the operational implementation of
global job reduction measures, HR also developed a change leadership concept in support of the personnel adjustment process at all
levels of the company. In addition, the HR Business Partners especially
are cooperating with the HR country functions to advise all business
units and central functions on the design and implementation of the
new organizational structure worldwide.

Innovative and Stringently Applied HR Strategies Support our Sustainable Growth
Leadership & Qualification

• Global leadership concept emphasizes behavioral change
• Extensive investment in qualification, special focus on global sales force

Demographic Management

• Comprehensive demography programs to enhance productivity
• Workforce planning aligned with demographic data and succession plan

Employee & Labor Relations

• Employee turnover in volatile BRICS countries below sector average
• Reliable and stable labor relations in countries with strong union traditions

Compensation

• Performance-based and flexible compensation schemes
• Employee stock plan in Germany with over 70% participation over years

Corporate Responsibility

New Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region
EMEA
(excluding Germany)
Age group

Germany

North America

Female

Male

Female

2

2

6

20 – 29

5

19

5

30 – 39

2

14

1

40 – 49

4

50 – 59

3

< 20

Male

Female

Asia-Pacific

Female

Male

1

5

37

3

12

9

13

4

13

5

8

8

1

1

3

2

≥ 60
Total

Latin America

Male

Female

Male

26

31

191

22

20

95

9

7

6

27

6

1

3

3

61

60

317

2
14

44

8

67

The realignment of the LANXESS Group is reflected in our global headcount. A total of 638 new employees joined the company worldwide
in fiscal 2014. 75 new employees were hired in Germany, where our
focus was on the recruitment of specialists from various disciplines.
At the same time, some 1,000 positions in administration and service
units, marketing, and research and development worldwide were identified for elimination by 2016 as part of the first phase of our realignment (competitiveness of the business and administrative structure).
Against the backdrop of this headcount adjustment program, we
recorded an increase in turnover during the reporting period. In
Germany, the turnover resulting from voluntary resignations was 0.69%
in the reporting period. Globally, it was around 3.29%.

10

42

1
15

Recruiting talents worldwide
As part of our sustainable corporate policy and against the backdrop
of demographic change, LANXESS is continuing to invest in wellqualified young talents – both apprentices and university graduates –
and experienced specialists.
By means of various activities, we aim to attract, integrate and retain
those talents who are the best fit for our company. Through our dialogue-based programs, we have succeeded in conveying an authentic
image of LANXESS as an employer. In 2014, we consistently optimized
our market presence aimed at attracting apprentices and specialists
and aligned this for the long term to our future needs.

Turnover % Resulting from Voluntary Resignations (Excluding Reduction Programs)
EMEA
(excluding Germany)
Age group

Germany

North America

Female

Male

Female

Male

< 20

0.0

0.0

0.0

20 – 29

4.4

5.0

4.9

30 – 39

4.4

2.2

40 – 49

1.4

50 – 59

1.1

≥ 60
Total

Latin America

Female

Male

0.0

0.0

3.1

11.7

0.4

1.4

1.7

1.4

1.5

0.0

0.0

8.0

2.9

2.2

Asia-Pacific

Female

Male

Female

Male

0.0

0.0

88.9

0.0

0.0

5.9

11.1

5.1

20.8

18.0

4.9

9.1

7.4

5.2

9.6

7.5

0.4

9.9

5.0

0.0

1.3

9.8

5.0

0.1

2.3

4.2

0.0

0.7

10.4

2.7

0.0

0.0

17.3

20.7

0.0

0.0

36.4

12.9

1.0

0.6

7.1

7.0

6.2

3.3

12.6

9.0

Turnover % by Region
EMEA
(excluding Germany)

Germany

North America

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

Turnover resulting from
voluntary resignations

2.3

0.7

7.0

3.8

9.7

Turnover including
restructuring programs

8.8

5.3

14.0

11.3

12.4

19

20

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Our corporate culture is characterized by trust and the opportunity to
work independently in an international environment. In order to achieve
our corporate goals, it is essential that we remain flexible and open
to change in the areas of recruiting and talent management as well
and that we adjust our concepts and structures accordingly. When
faced with challenging markets and operating conditions, we expect
our employees to display a high degree of professionalism, flexibility
and willingness to change. In return, we offer a wide range of development opportunities, including foreign assignments, collaboration
in interdisciplinary projects and transfer between business units and
central functions.
In fiscal 2014, we continued to seek direct contact with talented university and school students through dialogue with universities and our
presence at scientific conferences and by organizing our own events.
At the forefront of all these activities was personal dialogue with each
target group. During the reporting period, we motivated more than
200 students to venture out of the classroom and gain work experience with LANXESS in Germany. As a result, around 30 bachelor’s
and master’s theses were produced in collaboration with our company.
Interns who display above-average qualities have the opportunity to
receive further support through our “eXclusive” talent program. This
includes personal coaching and preferential access to further training
opportunities. The long-term goal is to give preference to candidates
who have completed the “eXclusive” program when filling vacant
positions within the company.
We are especially committed to fostering young talents during their
undergraduate or PhD study programs and facilitating their successful
career start. To enable the smartest minds to realize their full potential,
we specifically sponsor outstanding master’s and PhD students in
scientific and engineering subjects through the LANXESS support
program. Here we value personal contact as much as the provision
of financial support. Other features of the program include an active
exchange of information on specialist and career-related issues, the
opportunity to gain practical insights into the working day of a specialist
and interesting get-together events.
In 2014, LANXESS continued to support more than 50 students
at eight renowned universities as part of the German government’s
“Germany Scholarship” program. The scholarship holders receive a
monthly payment of €300. The company pays €150 of this amount
and the remaining half is shared equally by the German government
and the state of North-Rhine Westphalia. In addition, we offer our scholarship holders individual guidance. We expanded our collaboration
with many universities, for example supporting the Cologne University
of Applied Sciences in introducing and developing a master's degree
program in technical chemistry.

At our French production site in Port-Jérôme, we are developing a
number of activities aimed at recruiting young people. These range
from regular site visits by teachers and students to internships in maintenance shops, laboratories and HSE units.
In Brazil, we are continuing to offer an internship program with a
special part-time contract to students in the concluding stages of their
degree programs. They are given responsibility for a project of their
own, the results of which will later be presented to top management.
This attractive offering targets the best of a year group, enabling us to
attract local young talents who bring new expertise to the company. In
addition, we maintain close ties with the Universidade Federal do Rio
de Janeiro (UFRJ), providing scholarships to master’s students that
enable their participation in special studies to develop new processes
in rubber technology. We also offer more than 50 positions at our sites,
both in vocational training and, for students, in operations.
In China, we have further expanded our collaboration with the Changzhou Institute of Engineering (CZIE) and entered a new partnership
with Ningbo Polytechnic (NBP). We share practical and scientific
expertise with the students by means of a “LANXESS class,” give
them the opportunity to visit our production facilities and provide early
insights into the working world through internships – thus arousing their
interest in working for LANXESS. We also continued our collaboration
with Qingdao University of Science and Technology and our careers
program with high schools partnered by the Goethe Institute.
In view of our major investment projects in Singapore, we also
expanded our contacts with renowned universities there. We are now
cooperating with the Singapore University of Technology and Design
(SUTD), the National University of Singapore (NUS) and Temasek
Polytechnic. In this context, we offer selected students customized
internships in the fields of HSE, engineering and quality.
In Pittsburgh, United States, we continue to support the Carnegie
Science Center in a variety of ways – for example, as a founding sponsor of the Center for STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and
Mathematics) Education and Career Development. We initiated a new
partnership with the Community College of Beaver County (CCBC)
close to Pittsburgh. This college started a two-year program for process technicians in January 2015 and LANXESS is one of several
industry partners.
In fall 2014, we also entered into a new partnership with the Schey
Sales Centre at Ohio University, one of the first and highest ranked
academic programs for sales training in the United States. We offer
students on this program internships in sales at LANXESS or entrylevel positions in sales and marketing on completion of their degree.
This partnership with Ohio University is a cornerstone of our efforts
to build a regional sales and marketing talent pool.

Corporate Responsibility

In Canada, we maintain close contacts with Western University, offering post-doctoral internships at our research center in London,
Ontario. We provide the Polymer Research Institute at the University
of Waterloo with financial and intellectual support in the form of, for
example, the transfer of know-how.
Establishing early contact with schools close to our sites in Germany
and around the world, for example as part of specialist project weeks,
and promoting science education at local high schools are two of
the other focal points of LANXESS’s extensive education initiative
As a company, we consider this initiative to be part of our social and
corporate responsibility.
International partnership with Teach First Our special commitment
to education is also reflected in our partnership with Teach First in
Germany and Teach for India in India. We have been one of the main
sponsors of these not-for-profit organizations since 2010. Teach First,
which is already established in a number of countries, has set itself the
goal of helping school students who have had a difficult start in life,
fostering their individual talents and supporting them in developing
career prospects. Particularly highly qualified university graduates from
all disciplines, who also have the requisite soft skills, act as fellows for
a period of two years, helping schools in socially disadvantaged areas
with education and schooling tasks. In Germany, we focus particularly
on supporting fellows specializing in mathematics and science. The
most recent intake of fellows started a two-year deployment in schools
in North Rhine-Westphalia in February 2013. In addition to providing
financial support, we are also making a practical contribution through
activities such as career guidance for school students and personal
dialogue with fellows.
We started working with Teach First in India in December 2010 and
extended this commitment in 2014 for a further five years. The first
fellows assigned to the Indian partner schools in Mumbai and Delhi
were given the opportunity to complete internships at our sites in
India as part of the program. The school students they support are
also given career guidance and an insight into working life through
visits to our facilities. In addition, LANXESS employees provide direct
support for projects in the schools in their free time.

Structured development of young managers
In recent years, our international trainee programs have proved very
successful. Particularly highly qualified university graduates are prepared for challenging specialist and management roles within the
company, already gaining international experience during the program.
Latterly, the focus was on controlling, finance and engineering. Since
the initiative started, we have offered a wide range of trainee positions
to more than 70 university graduates with an interest in embarking
on an international career. On account of LANXESS’s realignment
activities, no new international trainee programs were started in 2014.
However, we continued those programs that were already ongoing.
We also continue to offer local trainee and student programs in a
number of regions. In the United States, we cooperate with establishments such as the University of Pittsburgh to provide trainee and intern
programs in the fields of finance and engineering. We also organize
a special Summer Internship Program.
As well as offering internships, partnering universities and attending
career fairs, we are piloting a rotation program for engineers aimed at
arousing their interest in LANXESS and binding them to our company
in the long term. Two young female engineers have already completed
their half-year rotation in Industrial and Environmental Affairs and will
soon end their respective one-year placements in two business units.
The next stage of the program is scheduled to be an international
assignment.
LANXESS in India has established three “XTrainee” programs structured individually for students, graduates and prospective managers.
Participants in these programs are given a specific project to work on
and are supported by a mentor. In 2014, 36 students, graduates and
prospective managers received training and guidance in one of these
programs. LANXESS in India continued its cooperation with the IndoGerman Training Centre (IGTC) in Mumbai and Chennai, acting as a
training partner for a postgraduate business administration program.
The company is also running a further one-year structured training
program for 14 young people in collaboration with the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) which allows them to continue their training after
completing an apprenticeship as a production specialist or technician.

21

22

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Vocational training – an integral part of our
recruiting strategy
Vocational training is an integral part of our recruiting strategy aimed
at developing our own skilled workers for our German sites. In 2014,
147 young people (118 men and 29 women) joined our core companies in Germany to start a vocational training or combined vocational
training and study program at LANXESS.
With a total of 496 trainees in 19 different career paths and seven
combined vocational training and study programs (as of December 31,
2014), LANXESS continues to train more young people than it needs
to meet its own requirements. In 2014, despite our restructuring program, we hired around 75% of those who completed their vocational
training with us in Germany.
LANXESS has always given priority to training young people as a
means of safeguarding the company’s future and as an element of our
social responsibility. As in previous years, the focus of marketing activities for our vocational training programs in 2014 was on a personal
presence achieved by means of visits to schools and our own events
such as “NeXt Azubi” (NeXt Apprentice) through which we specifically
address young people with an interest in our company and give them
valuable guidance for their career choices. In the reporting year, we
offered almost 200 two-week placements to high-school students
to give them an insight into working life. We also attended all major
regional career fairs and took part in Germany’s Girls’ Day, providing
girls with a deeper insight into technical areas of activity in our company. For the first time, we took part in Germany’s Boys’ Day, giving
boys an impression of management assistant roles at LANXESS’s
headquarters in Cologne. In addition, our one-year orientation program
“XOnce” provides young people with useful guidance on their way to
subsequent vocational training if they are not ready to take this route
at the current time.

Encouraging and supporting individual development
In a multitiered process of global HR development conferences, we
annually review the performance, potential, development needs and
future career planning of all our managerial employees around the
world. During 2014, we piloted the Executive Database as a new tool
to facilitate the matching of candidate profiles with the results of the
conferences. In this connection, we are also revising our talent management and succession planning processes. The results of these reviews
form the basis for detailed feedback discussions between managerial
staff and their supervisors. We have also established individual assessment centers aimed at identifying the potential of mid- and high-level
managers and diagnosing the suitability of external applicants for key
positions. The results of this multidimensional approach are an integral
part of our HR development and recruiting strategy.

We do not impose a uniform leadership style on our managers.
Instead, we expect them to find a personal balance between strategic
vision (Head), empathy (Heart) and the courage to make decisions
(Guts). Our management philosophy thus focuses on a holistic approach. The associated skills serve as guidance, with our managers’
individual leadership strategies taking the forefront. Within the context
of our realignment activities, we continued to offer the Performance
Management Workshop developed in 2013, which consolidates the
principal elements of the leadership seminars for our managers at
various levels and focuses on practical leadership skills and motivation
for teams undergoing change processes. Feedback remained positive
and confirmed that the concept successfully fosters dialogue between
managers and employees during periods of transition.
We also support our managerial staff through a wide range of individual development opportunities that include personal coaching.
We regularly revise our internal coaching processes to maximize the
sustainability of development measures.
Training and development are significant aspects of personnel development at all levels. Alongside formal training sessions and seminars,
which amount to 13,838 hours a year in France, for example, there are
many informal measures such as mentoring and peer-to-peer coaching
which foster continuous knowledge sharing between employees across
the company. Peer-to-peer coaching is the approach also taken in our
change leadership program, which uses multipliers and supports the
realignment process in all areas of the company.
In 2014, the existing Summer Academy in Germany was expanded
with a new concept. Throughout the summer months, some 130
employees (62% men and 38% women) from various business units
took part in the LANXESS Summer Campus. In a total of 11 training
sessions, they were able to improve their hard and soft skills and participated in an intensive interdisciplinary exchange of experiences. The
program was available for the first time to all specialist and managerial
employees at LANXESS’s sites in Germany. During the rest of the year,
it was complemented with in-house training events that specifically
addressed the employees’ needs at the time.
Under the umbrella of the LANXESS Academy, we continued offering functional training for our global sales employees in 2014. The
International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) is a one-year modular
program designed to develop both the specialist knowledge and soft
skills of our sales employees. We consistently implemented the program following its reworking in 2013. Each module now addresses
one overarching topic and the modules are highly integrated. Module 1­­
covers negotiation preparation while Module 2 focuses on negotiation
management. In Module 3, participants are confronted with challenging negotiation scenarios. ILSA now gives participants numerous
opportunities for self-reflection so they can identify and manage their
individual strengths and weaknesses. Continuous feedback sessions
with the participants’ direct supervisors and personal reviews with the
ILSA trainers are aimed at ensuring that the program contributes to
optimizing sales activities and thus adds value for LANXESS.

Corporate Responsibility

ILSA perfectly complements the programs already in place in the
business units and countries by facilitating communication and the
sharing of best practices across business units and national borders.
We consider the targeted qualification of our global sales employees
to be a significant success factor in the further improvement of our
customer relationships. It also gives us a competitive edge in today’s
global markets. To date, around 250 sales employees from all levels
worldwide have taken part in the program.
We are presently working to develop a regional version of the ILSA
program which, from 2015, will give more of our sales employees
worldwide access to this training content while reducing the amount
of travel and time involved. The program is being streamlined and
focused to reflect regional specifics.

In 2014, we implemented regional programs in other areas of personnel development as well. With 14 participants each, two special
development programs in North America – the LANXESS Business
Academy (LBA) and the Personalized Development Process (PDP) –
entered their final phases in the first two quarters of the year. Both
programs were designed to accelerate the development of young
managers and high performers.
On completion of the envisaged organizational and personnel measures that comprise the first phase of the “Let’s LANXESS again”
program, we will also be realigning our HR development strategy to
the newly created structures within the context of our overall corporate
strategy.

LANXESS Employee Structure by Segment, Gender and Region
EMEA
(excluding Germany)
Segment
Performance Polymers

Germany

North America

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

155

1,673

168

1,023

100

656

61

511

127

707

Advanced Intermediates

12

9

186

2,171

16

33

5

2

28

349

Performance Chemicals

276

997

435

1,848

87

286

134

613

192

766

70

74

532

1,384

121

72

96

78

218

345

513

2,754

1,321

6,426

324

1,047

296

1,204

565

2,167

Reconciliation1)
Total

1) Includes group functions and LANXESS Distribution

LANXESS Employee Structure by Functional Area, Gender and Region
EMEA
(excluding Germany)
Functional area

Female

Germany

Male

Female

North America

Male

Latin America

Female

Male

Female

Asia-Pacific

Male

Female

Male

Marketing

100

148

319

487

86

109

71

91

178

355

Production

264

2,448

469

5,039

142

867

108

1,027

166

1,571

Research and
development

6

61

113

415

7

14

5

10

21

56

Administration

143

96

421

484

89

57

80

76

200

185

Total

513

2,754

1,321

6,426

324

1,047

263

1,204

565

2,167

LANXESS Employee Structure by Employment Type, Gender and Region
EMEA
(excluding Germany)

Germany

North America

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

Employment type

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Permanent contract,
full-time

425

2,571

924

6,259

308

1,046

263

1,204

556

2,165

Permanent contract,
part-time

88

183

398

167

16

1

9

2

Temporary contract,
full-time

30

81

151

494

23

50

Temporary contract,
part-time
Total

6

3

3

4

549

2,838

1,475

6,924

1

324

16

53

2

12

25

3

1,050

291

1,282

591

2,217

23

24

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Development opportunities and diversity for
international markets
Our global alignment is a key strategic advantage. LANXESS currently
employs people from 77 countries across the world. Our successful
focus on the BRICS countries is a deliberate strategy to increase proximity to local customers and markets. However, training, the transfer
of know-how and international experience are not one-way streets,
which is why LANXESS is increasingly offering employees from the
BRICS countries development opportunities at its sites in Western
Europe and North America.
International assignments are a key component of our systematic HR
development process. All expatriate positions at LANXESS have been
advertised globally since mid-2012. This gives all our employees the
same opportunity to pursue an international career. We also feel it is
important to give the best-possible consideration to an employee’s
family circumstances in the event of international assignment. That
is why we support the accompanying partner’s professional development, for example.
Short-term assignments, which are often necessary for project work,
are becoming increasingly important at LANXESS. They also enable
employees with limited international mobility to work abroad. We have
therefore enhanced the framework conditions for these short-term assignments. To this end, our International Assignment Policy includes
an attractive mix of fringe benefits and special training for both longterm and short-term assignments. In this way, we are making it easier
for new and experienced managers as well as skilled non-managerial
employees to acquire international work experience.
In the course of implementing our “Let’s LANXESS again” program, we
have tangibly reduced the number of employees on long-term assignments. At year end, 136 employees – around 4% of our managers –
were working as expatriates outside their home countries, mainly
Singapore, China and the United States.
In addition to achieving a global transfer of knowledge by sending
experts and managers abroad, our goal is still to develop local management with the necessary expertise and international competencies
in each country and to transfer challenging tasks to suitable local
employees. Outside Germany, 80.9% of our management functions
are currently filled by local employees.

The global Diversity & Inclusion initiative With the goal of achieving structured development of diversity at LANXESS and utilizing its
positive effects for our company and its employees, we established
the Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) initiative in 2011 under the patronage
of Board of Management member and Industrial Relations Director
Dr. Rainier van Roessel. This initiative reflects the great importance
of a diverse workforce for our competitiveness on global markets, for
increasing our innovative strength and performance capabilities and
for attracting and retaining promising talents – especially in light of
the demographic challenges in various countries.
Given the many different dimensions of diversity (e.g. age, gender,
nationality, ethnicity, disability, social origin and experience), we decided
at an early stage to establish a clear focus by concentrating on the
dimensions of age, gender and nationality. The criteria for this decision
included the expected leverage effect for a diverse corporate culture at
LANXESS and the importance of different dimensions in key country
organizations and target markets. The D&I Dashboard completed in
2013 facilitates the detailed analysis of data pertaining to the three
dimensions in our focus. Each business unit and group function can
view its D&I indicators on national, regional and global level, enabling
the development of appropriate strategic measures.
At the same time, the path to greater diversity at LANXESS requires
a cultural change process above all else. We must also create the
structural framework (e.g. organization, processes, guidelines) so that
diversity generates added value for our employees and the company.
During the reporting year, we continued to develop and implement a
range of measures as part of our Diversity & Inclusion initiative.
The D&I focus in the NAFTA region in 2014 was on knowledge transfer and succession planning and was tailored especially to one of
our core dimensions: the aging of our employees in this region. The
central question was how to fill our talent pool and further develop
potential managers.
In China, where the proportion of women in management positions is
already above the average for the LANXESS Group at around 26%,
promoting qualified women to management functions is of particular
interest in terms of corporate strategy – also because it fosters our
perception by specialists as an attractive employer. In September 2014,
we therefore held an in-house “Female Forum” in Shanghai where we
debated career paths for women within the LANXESS Group. The HR
organization in India implemented an experiential learning program
specifically for women with the aim of strengthening their confidence
to pursue their own career paths.

Corporate Responsibility

Our global mentoring program developed as part of the D&I initiative
was successfully implemented at the start of the year and is now being
continued outside this initiative. 2014 saw the entry into force of a
number of new recommendations such as a recruiting guideline that
anchors diversity aspects and a guideline for managers about parental
leave. We also added detail to workplace flexibilization concepts with
an innovative job-sharing model for shift workers.

On account of the challenging economic situation LANXESS faced in
the reporting year, the elements of the various areas of activity in the
“XCare” program were critically reviewed in terms of their effectiveness
and cost. We concentrated on and systematically evolved a selection of particularly relevant activities so as not to weaken LANXESS's
competitiveness when confronting demographic challenges in the
coming years.

The Senior Trainee Program – the Diversity & Inclusion lighthouse
project launched in 2012 – was successfully concluded in 2014.
The 18-month program offered a qualified full-time position to 14
employees with an academic background who wanted to return to
working life after a period of time spent raising a family. Alongside
their actual work, the participants received personal support from a
mentor, individual coaching and tailor-made training. On conclusion of
the program in April 2014, 12 senior trainees took over responsible
positions within the LANXESS Group.

Demographic management Balancing career and family life remains
an important focus of the “XCare” program. It is evident that this is
an important issue for a growing number of LANXESS employees.
6.7% of our employees in Germany aged between 20 and 40 made
use of the option to take parental leave. Of this figure, almost 42%
were fathers. Of the employees who ended a parental leave period in
2014, 82% rejoined the LANXESS workforce. In 2011, in support
of parents looking for care for their children, we started offering our
employees reserved places at childcare facilities in Cologne ahead
of the relocation of our company headquarters to that city that took
place in 2013. Our “Xkids” company daycare center in Leverkusen is
now in its second year of operation and all places are full. The facility
offers around 50 places for children aged between six months and six
years in two preschool groups and one crèche group. “Xkids” is open
to all parents but LANXESS Group employees have preferential rights.

Through all these measures, our D&I initiative is making a key contribution to reaching the goal we have set ourselves of raising the proportion
of women in middle and upper management to 20% by 2020. The
figure currently stands at around 15.3%.

Taking action on demographic change
In view of the challenges posed by demographic change, LANXESS
cooperated closely with the employee representatives in 2009 to develop “XCare,” a comprehensive demographic program for our German
companies based on the collective agreement on lifelong worktime
and demography in the chemical industry. This program aims to find
answers to the challenges posed by a steady rise in the average age
of our workforce coupled with a shortage of skilled young people.
The “XCare” program was initially based on an extensive demographic
analysis of the entire LANXESS organization, which resulted in five
areas of activity – people and health; work and training; time and organization; career and family life; and savings and retirement provision.

Providing care is an important aspect of career and family life. We aim
to support employees in the care of dependents, either financially or in
terms of time. In line with the German government’s draft legislation
on family caregiver leave, which came into force in 2012, we were
one of the first companies to conclude a comprehensive agreement
with employee representatives on a multistage caregiving program
that includes advice from an external service provider, paid short-term
release from duties, and individually agreed part-time working for
caregivers. We added two further modules to this program in 2012 –
a care loan at favorable terms and the support of an external service
provider in arranging care placements throughout Germany.

LANXESS Employee Structure by Age Group, Gender and Region
EMEA
(excluding Germany)
Age group

Female

Male

20 – 29

59

30 – 39
40 – 49

Germany

North America

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female
1

2

221

116

442

23

112

64

209

726

271

1,040

60

170

139

876

491

2,180

75

275

50 – 59

93

840

411

2,450

123

390

≥ 60

13

90

33

316

43

100

513

2,754

1,321

6,426

324

1,047

< 20

Total

1

Female

Male

217

132

506

120

385

267

928

46

308

132

535

32

270

31

190

22

3

7

1,204

565

2,167

263

Male

1

25

26

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Caregiver leave remains at the heart of the program. This allows employees to reduce their working time to a greater extent than their salary
during the care phase and to make up the shortfall when they return
to work. 22 employees have already taken advantage of caregiver
leave and other job release options.
Health and preventive action Health policy issues and measures
remain an important area of activity for LANXESS, especially in challenging economic times. During the reporting year, communication
in this area focused on awareness.
Our primary goal is to raise awareness of health issues among employees and managers at all our sites worldwide and encourage them
to adopt healthy behaviors at work and in their free time. We take
seriously our responsibility of involving the employees and managers
concerned in making workplaces as healthy as possible, but at the
same time rely on the individual responsibility of our workforce. In
Germany, our reintegration and occupational health management
programs are based on corresponding agreements with our employee
representatives.
As part of our reintegration management program, we give individual,
case-by-case support to employees who are suffering illness or have
had long periods of absence from work due to ill health in the past
twelve months. To this end, workplace integration teams comprising
integration officers and employee representatives have been in place
at all our German sites since 2011. In 2014, as in the previous years,
many employees accepted the offer of an individual consultation with
the workplace reintegration team.
One focus of occupational health management during the reporting
year was to position this issue as a significant factor in the success of
the company, despite the difficult framework conditions. As a rule, the
projects are steered by working groups made up equally of employee
and employer representatives who analyze the existing health situation
and develop a participatory action model. They again encompassed
management workshops and prevention concepts. In addition, we
established a cooperative medical specialist service in Germany alongside the annual influenza vaccination program.
Experience from the pilot projects in Germany shows that our employees are particularly keen to obtain personal advice about their
health and the possible need for preventive action. Building on this
awareness and knowledge about their own health, employees are
also responding well to follow-up offers. In addition, special medical
check-ups are offered specifically for top management. Around 500
eligible managers were invited to regular appointments in 2014.

A growing number of employee health promotion initiatives are also
being offered at our sites outside Germany. For example, there is a
fitness center at our site in Pittsburgh in the United States. Throughout
the year, it organizes a range of competitions and incentive programs
to attract new members and freshen the motivation of those employees who have been in training for some time. In addition, a Wellness
Committee organizes events promoting a healthier diet and regular
exercise. In Canada, our employees can take advantage of financial
support to pay for membership at a gym or other health-promoting
establishment. Support is also available for smoking cessation courses
offered by local health care services and all employees are offered
influenza vaccinations during the winter season.
In the area of savings and retirement provision, we made no changes
to the long-term account for non-managerial employees as regulated
by the agreement with the employee representatives and the collective
bargaining agreement. In 2014, a new campaign to promote the longterm account further increased the already very good participation rate.
All benefits with respect to work and family, health and retirement
provision apply to the core workforce. Individual benefits may vary
regionally and be adjusted locally to our employees’ needs. Variable
remuneration systems have been implemented for 88% (2013: 78%)
of our employees worldwide, while 65% benefit from unfunded company pension plans.

Rewarding performance
LANXESS has established a fair remuneration policy that is linked to
the long-term success of the company and offers employees worldwide a transparent, market-rate compensation system. Collective
bargaining agreements provide the main basis for the compensation
of non-managerial staff in Germany and numerous other countries.
In the participating countries, the fixed salaries of managerial staff – and
of some non-managerial staff – are supplemented by a performancebased short-term variable compensation component known as the
Annual Performance Payment (APP). This is linked to the attainment
of the Group’s defined EBITDA targets and, in the case of top management, to additional individual performance targets. In 2014, our
employees around the world shared in the company’s success in
2013 with a payout totaling €21.9 million.

Corporate Responsibility

During the course of the year, supervisors are also able to reward outstanding employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically with
an Individual Performance Payment (IPP). All employees worldwide are
entitled to such rewards on the basis of a prompt assessment of their
performance. In fiscal 2014, this resulted in payments of €9.6 million
worldwide for outstanding individual performance.
For some time now, we have also offered a long-term incentive program
for managers in Germany and similar programs in the United States,
Canada, India, China and the Netherlands. The Stock Performance
Plan 2008–2010 and the Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP)
2010–2013 compared the performance of LANXESS stock against
the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM over a period of three and
four years, respectively.
For the period 2014 to 2017, the Board of Management introduced
a comparable long-term program to replace the LTSP 2010–2013:
the Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 2014–2017. Like its predecessor, this plan comprises four tranches, one commencing each
year. However, in order to reflect LANXESS’s internationality in this
long-term compensation component, it compares the performance
of LANXESS stock against the MSCI World Chemicals Index over
the four-year period, starting with the first tranche for 2014. Since
participants make a personal investment and there is the chance
that the stock will increase in value, these programs are an attractive
long-term incentive and a means of enhancing employee loyalty. The
participation rate is 91%.

Recognizing and rewarding good ideas
When LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work procedures, plants and processes, these ideas pay off. Our idea management
system fosters the development, processing and implementation of
suggestions for improvements to ensure that we continually receive
proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, occupational safety and
environmental protection.
In 2014, employees at LANXESS’s German companies submitted a
total of 2,807 new suggestions, a rate of 373 per thousand employees. In the same period, 1,312 ideas were implemented, yielding
total savings of €2.52 million. As well as cutting costs, 887 of these
ideas led to improvements in occupational safety and environmental
protection. More than €1.0 million was paid out to employees whose
ideas were put into practice.

Acting in partnership
A key pillar of our HR policy that we practice worldwide is close cooperation between employee representatives and management, including
trade unions and employers’ associations, in line with the principle
of active codetermination. This means that we also comply with the
ILO convention in respecting our employees’ freedom of association
and valid collective agreements, as confirmed by our membership of
the Global Compact. Worldwide, more than 67% of our employees
are covered by the terms of collective agreements; in Germany, this
figure is nearly 90%.
We maintain a close dialogue with employee representative bodies
in Germany, Europe and around the world to regularly discuss our
corporate goals and involve these bodies in organizational change
processes at an early stage. This was the case especially in 2014 in
light of the global restructuring program. In addition, the European
Forum in particular serves as a platform for codetermination and dialogue in Europe. It brings together members of the LANXESS works
councils from across the continent and the company’s management in
an annual meeting lasting several days. The meeting in August 2014
was dominated by the realignment of the LANXESS Group. Additionally, the Executive Committee of the European Forum met twice with
company representatives to discuss current issues.
In accordance with the German Works Constitution Act, LANXESS
is obliged to inform the Works Council fully and in good time of any
planned operational changes which could result in material disadvantage to all or substantial parts of the workforce. In light of the
realignment activities, this close dialogue was a cornerstone of our
HR policy in the reporting year especially. We also regularly provided
information about the company’s economic affairs to the Economics
Committee. We fully comply with our legal obligations with respect
to the responsible bodies. In Germany, the notification period is four
weeks.

27

28

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Health, safety, environment and climate protection in
the value creation chain
LANXESS is responsible for its actions across the entire supply and
value creation chain – from the global procurement of raw materials
and product development, through production, storage and transport, to use and disposal. The health and safety of our stakeholders –
employees, contractors, immediate neighbors of our production sites,
customers and end users – is of central importance at each of these
stages.
Through our safety standards, we aim to ensure the responsible
application of chemistry in health and environmental protection, in the
handling of chemicals, in plant safety and in workplace safety precautions. Company-wide standards are in place to define the associated
requirements and responsibilities. Through the ongoing training of our
employees and regular auditing of our health, safety and environmental
management, we ensure that the requirements are systematically and
sustainably implemented in our processes.
Our commitment was again recognized with various awards in 2014.
For example, the Indian Chemical Council recognized the particularly
sustainable water management concept in place at our Nagda production site. The honors we received in China included the Golden
Rubber Award for our contribution to the sustainable development of
the Chinese rubber industry and recognition from the China Finance
Summit as the Best Green Company for our sustained commitment
along the value chain. In addition, the China Petroleum Chemical Industry Federation ranked LANXESS among the top ten in its Corporate
Citizen Model List. Our sites in Changzhou and Qingdao received
local recognition for their occupational and product safety records.
Also, our country company in Mexico was honored for its outstanding
performance in implementing the principles of Responsible Care.

Uniform standards in production
Across the globe, LANXESS operates at 50 production sites in which
it holds more than 50% (as of December 31, 2014). The diversity of
the company’s product portfolio necessitates the use of many different
chemical and technical processes. Uniform standards for planning,
engineering and operating facilities are applied to ensure a high level of
process, plant and occupational safety. Handling chemical substances
and working with technical equipment fundamentally involve health
and safety risks. We systematically identify these risks and the hazard potential and minimize these by taking them into account when
planning facilities and by defining and implementing the necessary
preventive and protective measures. To help us achieve this, we have
established LANXESS-specific guidelines within the context of our

global management system. These govern our procedures for all safetycritical processes in our production facilities and cover aspects such
as the definition and implementation of technical and organizational
protective measures and the environmentally friendly handling of raw
materials and waste.
Experts conduct targeted spot checks as part of on-site audits to assess implementation of the relevant LANXESS guidelines and local
regulations for safe plant operation. At each facility, compliance with
the safety standards must be certified regularly, at least at the intervals
required by local legislation. In 2014, a total of 38 facilities (2013:
36), 19 of them in Germany (2013: 14), were audited in the course
of HSE compliance checks.
It goes without saying that safety and environmental aspects also
have an important role in our acquisition projects. Before making any
acquisition, we carry out technical due diligence tests alongside the
economic appraisals. Gap analyses are performed by LANXESS soon
after the takeover of a production site. These are used to identify any
differences between the management system already in place at the
site and LANXESS’s own system. The results serve as the basis for
drawing up action plans to implement LANXESS’s binding global HSE
standards at these locations. In 2014, we performed one gap analysis.

“Xact”: Board of Management’s global safety initiative
LANXESS attaches the highest priority to the safety of all its work processes. Our “Xact” global safety program, launched in 2011, is aimed
at encouraging our employees to work together to improve safety
throughout the company and at raising their awareness of this issue.
Making a company safer is a complex task in which each and every
employee has the most crucial role. That is why we developed six
“Xact” safety regulations as the central principles of safe working at
LANXESS. These address the main areas in which every employee –
whether they are employed in production or administration and irrespective of their function or position in the hierarchy – can actively
contribute to their own safety and that of their colleagues.
In 2014, we familiarized our employees around the world with the
cultural elements of our occupational safety program. For five of the
new global HSE standards developed in the context of “Xact,” we
prepared training documents in our various corporate languages
and adapted these to the cultural requirements of different countries.
After receiving extensive training from the “Xact” regional managers,
our managerial staff communicated these standards throughout the
entire organization during the reporting year.

Corporate Responsibility

X
A
C
T

Recording accidents and incidents
Striving for Safety

• I always take time for safety.
• I always pay attention to my own
safety and that of my coworkers.
• I decline to do work I cannot do safely.
• I openly address unsafe situations.
• I take action when safety rules are
breached.
• I do not give instructions for unsafe
actions to be carried out.

One measure has been the introduction of a safety dialogue worldwide.
Positive and critical behaviors are discussed and possible improvement measures devised. These discussion sessions regularly take
place between supervisors and their staff as well as among groups
of colleagues.
We are also seeking to achieve an improved mutual understanding of
occupational safety with our partner companies and are increasingly
integrating them into our safety culture. Here, we apply the principle of
“select, train, support and evaluate.” For example, our partners must
provide verification of their own safety management system and that
their employees who work for us have received certain safety training.
Independent of this, we additionally give individual safety briefings
to the employees of our partner companies, the success of which is
measured by a test.
Another new tool introduced as part of the “Xact” program is the
“Pulse Check” survey, which was conducted among all LANXESS
employees for the first time in 2014. This gave them the opportunity to
describe their personal experience of key safety aspects at LANXESS.
Among other things, the anonymous survey seeks to establish the
importance that individuals attach to safe working, whether they feel
involved in safety activities and whether they receive positive feedback
for working safely.

Thanks to our global electronic Incident Reporting System (IRS), we
are able to record accidents and incidents using standardized procedures. The incidents that are documented include accidents involving
people, transport accidents, near accidents, environmental incidents
and downtime caused by, for example, bad weather or strike action.
We communicate significant incidents worldwide via our intranet or
by newsletter. Each incident is carefully analyzed to identify measures
that can be taken to avoid similar accidents, disruptions or near accidents in the future.
The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries for
every million hours worked) in Germany, is one of the indicators used
to assess occupational safety. In 2014, the LTIFR was 2.3, compared
with 3.2 in 2013 and 3.4 in 2012. This substantial improvement is
proof that the joint efforts undertaken in the past three years to improve
occupational safety at LANXESS are now bearing fruit. For example,
we have seen a significant decrease in the number of work-related
accidents at our chrome oxide mine in South Africa.
Our analyses have shown that the number of lost days per accident
has also decreased significantly since 2013, which indicates a decline
in the severity of accidents. This can be attributed to our employees’
raised awareness for occupational safety, which has been enhanced
by our stronger focus on this issue.
Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting
in Absence from Work (LTIFR) 1)
2014

2.3

2013

3.2

2012

3.4

2011

2.7

2010

2.3

0

1

2

3

4

1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following
the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites

5

29

30

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Global product stewardship
LANXESS is committed to the Responsible Care® Global Charter,
an initiative for product stewardship by the world’s chemical industry
launched in 2006 by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) that was the key factor in the development of the Global
Product Strategy (GPS). This aims to provide basic information and risk
assessment data about substances so that the impact of chemicals on
human health and the environment can be minimized and products
can be manufactured and marketed in such a way as to prevent injury
to people and damage to the environment.
In line with the aforementioned commitment, our product stewardship covers the safe handling of chemical substances and products
throughout their life cycle – from procurement and research and development, through production, storage, transportation and downstream
processing to marketing and disposal.
The Product Safety Management at LANXESS Directive steers the
Group-wide observance of product stewardship and secures the necessary participation of everyone involved. This applies in particular
to those substances in our product portfolio that are classified as
hazardous.
Management of chemical control regulations The safe handling, marketability and safe transportation of our chemicals and products are
conditional on compliance with global chemical control regulations.
LANXESS has a global organization supported by an electronic safety
data system to ensure compliance with both mandatory and voluntary
control requirements. Safety data sheets in more than 30 languages
inform our customers worldwide about substance data and the safety
measures that are necessary when using LANXESS products. We
aim to raise marketability and the provision of hazardous goods data
to a globally uniform safety and technical standard by successively
integrating this safety data system into our SAP system worldwide. In
2014, as planned, we finished connecting our organization in China
to this system, which was also rolled out to our country organizations
in Central and Eastern Europe, Turkey and the United Kingdom.
We regularly adapt our electronic safety data system to reflect changes
to the GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals) in various countries. The GHS is a system under
the umbrella of the United Nations that aims to harmonize existing
classification and labeling systems used in various sectors such as
transportation and consumer, employee and environmental protection.
Of course, we observe regional variations in the implementation of the
GHS such as the European Union’s CLP (Classification, Labelling and
Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) regulation.

Before manufacturing, importing or selling our products in a given
country, we examine their marketability in accordance with the chemicals legislation in force there. We register our substances and products
in line with local requirements and we participate in the substance
analysis programs of the relevant authorities by supplying all available
information and producing new data if necessary. During the reporting year, changes were made to chemicals legislation – especially in
Taiwan and South Korea – in respect of registration requirements for
both new and previously listed substances. Benefiting from REACH
implementation in the European Union, we will be working to comply
with these requirements over the coming years.
We expressly support the protection goals of the E.U. REACH regulation, which aims to achieve a high level of safety for human health and
the environment in the manufacture and use of chemicals. We met
the December 1, 2008, deadline for preregistering all substances of
relevance to LANXESS with the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA)
in Helsinki, Finland. We then registered 360 substances that we produce in or import to the European Union in volumes exceeding 100
and 1,000 tons annually by the respective deadlines in 2010 and
2013. Lastly, all substances with volumes exceeding one ton must
be registered in Europe by the third deadline on May 31, 2018. Registration involves the systematic evaluation of information concerning
our substances and their uses. In doing this, we consider the entire
product life cycle.
Within the context of a voluntary commitment made by the German
Chemical Industry Association (VCI) in 1997 to record and assess
substances, we go beyond the legal requirements to determine a
basic data set for our intermediates as well, in line with Appendix VII
of the REACH regulation.
In the case of consumer applications in particular, such as those in the
areas of food and drinking water contact, toys, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical products, we ensure the availability of information
regarding the conformity of our products with national and international
laws and standards, religious dietary laws and quality hallmarks. In
this way, we actively support our customers in the certification of their
materials for drinking water contact applications, for example.
The exchange of information with our customers is an important aspect
of our product stewardship activities. We therefore provide them with
extensive information about our products via the IMDS (International
Material Data System), an automotive industry database for archiving,
exchanging and managing information, or via LANXESS’s productspecific database, which has a public area and a restricted area for
registered business partners.

Corporate Responsibility

REACH Implementation Schedule

Creation of the European
Chemicals Agency

Pre-registration of all substances

Preparation for REACH

Registration of substances
Substances ≥≥ 1,000
1,000 tons
tpa3)per annum
CMR substances1) ≥ 1 ton
tpa per annum
Substances with hazardous
Environmentally
R50/532) ≥
substances
100 tpa ≥ 100 tons per annum
Substances ≥≥ 100
100 tons
tpa per annum
Registration of substances

Substances ≥≥ 11 ton
tpa per annum
Registration of substances

June 1, 2007

June 1, 2008

Nov. 30, 2008

Nov. 30, 2010

May 31, 2013

May 31, 2018

Other obligations: evaluation procedures, authorization

1) CMR: carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic

Product monitoring LANXESS’s Central Product Surveillance Directive systematically governs worldwide tracking of our products and
their applications in respect of potential health and environmental
impacts. The information acquired is used by our product developers
and product safety experts in their evaluations.
A good example of how we use the information gained from product
monitoring to develop our own measures is the No Pellet Emission
project launched in 2013. This focuses on plastic pellets which may
be released into the marine environment due to inattentiveness at
various stages of the value chain – in production, distribution, storage
and transportation. Plastic pellets themselves do not react chemically
but may have an undesired impact on account of their small size
and volume. Therefore, under the umbrella of the Responsible Care®
Initiative, we and PlasticsEurope Deutschland together launched the
No Pellet Loss initiative aimed at motivating all stakeholders to handle
plastic pellets in a responsible way. In LANXESS’s No Pellet Emission
project, the units that handle pellets have set themselves the goal for
2015 of preventing the emission of pellets in the long term.
Procurement in the supply chain Responsible action begins in procurement. At LANXESS, all the raw and other materials, plant and
services needed for our operations must satisfy uniform global safety
and environmental protection requirements. Raw materials in particular are subject to stringent monitoring to ensure safe processing
in our production facilities. For example, the procurement of any raw
material is dependent on the submission by the supplier of a current
safety data sheet. Our procurement department clarifies which of the

REACH requirements must be satisfied in the case of raw materials
from non-European suppliers. In order to minimize our procurement
risks and enhance supply chain transparency, we and five other international chemicals companies founded the Together for Sustainability
initiative in 2012. Further detailed information is contained in the
“Procurement and production” section in the combined management
report on page 74.
Global dangerous goods and transport safety management Through
our global dangerous goods and transport safety management system, we ensure the avoidance of hazardous situations in the relevant
processes. We centrally coordinate, supervise and review the implementation of international, regional and local dangerous goods and
transport safety regulations and internal company guidelines. The
central classification of our products ensures uniform interpretation of
international, regional and local dangerous goods regulations – at the
same time respecting regional and local specifics. The classification
determines the wrapping (packaging and tanks), marking and labeling,
the permitted modes of transport and transport routes. The necessary
classification database is filed in LANXESS’s chemicals safety data
system. The restructuring of the dangerous goods and transport safety
officer organization at our logistics sites worldwide, implemented in
2013, was continued with further process optimizations in 2014.
Improvements were made to the communication processes between
the dangerous goods and transport safety officers, the local and global
reporting processes, the procedure for exchanging best practices
(e.g. securing loads in freight containers) and the harmonization of
training standards.

31

32

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Storage management We operate our own warehouses, but also
commission external warehousing service providers on the basis
of a specified process that considers relevant aspects of logistics,
safety and security, environmental protection and cost-effectiveness.
In line with a corresponding chemical industry concept, we apply a
globally standardized warehouse concept that takes into account the
substances stored and meets fire protection and occupational health
and safety requirements.

Ecological responsibility
As LANXESS sees it, conserving natural resources – for example,
through the most efficient possible use of raw materials and energies – and identifying further potential for reducing emissions and
waste are an ongoing mission and an inherent part of our ecological
responsibility to which we must apply our expertise.

We equip all new production sites in line with state-of-the-art environmental standards, taking into account local requirements. This often
sets us apart from local competitors.
Environmental protection in proximity to our production sites Close
to some of our European sites are protected areas that fall under the
European Habitats Directive. Our industrial sites themselves do not
contain any protected or restored natural habitat since, as a rule, these
areas continue to be used for industrial purposes. Some unused areas
outside the sites are near-natural, for example at La Wantzenau, France,
or – outside Europe – at Duque de Caxias, Brazil.
We are responsible for landfill sites which are still in use and others
which have already been closed. The latter are recultivated in line
with legal requirements and we have established provisions for this
purpose. However, the sites do not necessarily revert to natural habitat.

Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region
petajoules/%
15%

16%
85%

Germany

19 P J
37%

84%

North America

11 P J
63%

27%

EMEA (excluding Germany)

52%

12 P J

26%
57%
17%

21%

Latin America

n Direct energy sources
n Direct energy sources (biomass)
n Indirect energy sources

5 PJ

Our energy consumption reflects the global distribution of our production operations,
slightly more than one third of which are located in Germany.

Asia-Pacific

6 PJ

Corporate Responsibility

Progress in climate protection Our aim is to reduce each segment’s
specific energy consumption and specific emissions of CO2 equivalents by 10% by year end 2015 (base year: 2010). Our measures
are applied in all value creation processes – from energy generation
through manufacturing processes and transportation to waste disposal.

As the volumes produced and our product mix have a significant
role alongside efficiency, the savings cannot be directly represented
in our absolute energy and emissions data. For this reason, global
energy consumption appears largely unchanged compared with the
previous year.

Systematic energy management Resource and energy efficiency are
significant factors in our company’s economic efficiency and in climate
and environmental protection. In this connection, we have established
a global procedure for an energy management system in line with
ISO 50001. The centrally managed global implementation project
was completed in 2014. The further implementation and preparation
for local certification are taking place decentrally at our sites outside
Germany. Our certification in Germany was reconfirmed in 2014.

Energy Consumption

On account of our realignment activities, we have revised our strategy
of global certification of the energy management system in favor of
a regional certification strategy. In future, certification decisions will
be taken locally on the basis of regulatory requirements. In line with
this new strategy, we are preparing for certification at sites in Belgium
and China in 2015.

million gigajoules
100

10
8.43

80

8.16

60

52.0

By the end of 2015, we aim to cut our specific energy consumption
and with it our specific energy costs by 10% compared with 2010. We
continued our pursuit of this target in 2014, systematically implementing it as part of our LEEP project. Some 250 individual measures will
be completed and undergo final evaluation in 2015.

8.31

8.30
8.37

8

55.0

54.5

53.0

6

53.0

40

4

20

2

2010

Since 2012, our measures to increase energy efficiency have been
combined in the LANXESS Energy Efficiency Program (LEEP) which
facilitates a Group-wide overview of potential savings, the cost of
their implementation and their impact on our energy goals. A team of
LANXESS energy experts supports the business units in identifying new
measures. Most of the measures concern especially the optimization of
our production capacities, the use of residual heat and improvements
to refrigeration. A future focus is to be found in fine-tuning our plant
operations to reduce energy consumption.

gigajoules per ton of product

2011

2012

2014

2013

ll In relation to volumes sold   nn Absolute

Energy Consumption by Segment
gigajoules per ton of product
Performance Polymers

8.68
8.38
8.42

Advanced Intermediates

8.40
8.44
9.36

Performance Chemicals

0

7.39
7.94
7.13

2
2014

2013

4
2012

6

8

10

33

34

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Reduction of climate gas emissions In 2014, we pursued our goal
of reducing specific emissions of CO2 equivalents in each of our segments by 10% compared with the base year (2010) by year end 2015.
In the reporting period, we were able to slightly reduce Scope 1 emissions in absolute terms. However, our specific Scope 1 emissions
remained on the same level as the previous year. Scope 1 emissions
cover direct emissions from production and our own energy generation operations. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions associated
with the procurement of energies. The graphic on the following page
shows the development of LANXESS’s specific Scope 1 and Scope 2
emissions.

18 LANXESS facilities in Europe are subject to the European Emissions Trading System (EU-ETS). Trading in CO2 emission rights – or
allowances – is a cost-effective way of reducing harmful CO2 emissions. Three trading periods were defined for emissions trading in the
European Union. The second trading period that ran from 2008 to
2012 was concluded without us having to purchase additional allowances. The German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt) has not yet
allocated the allowances for 2013 and 2014 to German companies.
Since all of our facilities that are eligible for emissions trading are at the
cutting edge of technology and participate in international competition,
we expect to receive an adequate number of free allowances for the
coming years to cover our anticipated CO2 emissions.

Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2)

Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment

thousand tons of CO2 equivalents

CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product

CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product

7,000

6,000

0.56
0.45

0.47

0.46

0.45

0.42

3,000

0.33
0.31
0.35

0.48
Advanced Intermediates

5,000

4,000

Performance Polymers

0.23
0.23
0.25

0.40
0.30

2,708

0.30

2,867

0.29
3,068

0.28

0.28
2,899

2,886

0.32

Performance Chemicals

0.24
0

1,906

1,937

2,000

1,913

1,775

1)

1,762

0.16

0.1

1)2014
F
 igure restated
2013
2014

1,000

0.23
0.251)
0.20

2013

0.2

0.3

0.4

0.5

2012
2012

0.08

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

1) F
 igure restated

ll Scope 1 in relation to volumes sold   nn Scope 1 (absolute)
ll Scope 2 in relation to volumes sold   nn Scope 2 (absolute)

In 2014, we participated for the ninth time consecutively in the Carbon
Disclosure Project (CDP), sharing data and information on climate
protection and the reduction of emissions. The CDP is an organization
representing international institutional investors who have joined forces
in order to improve transparency for the financial market on questions
linked to climate change and the requisite corporate guidelines. We
were not among the top10% and therefore not listed in the Climate
Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) in 2014, as we had been in the
prior two years.

Sustainable logistics We select our transport solutions worldwide on
a case-by-case basis, applying the principles of safety, punctuality and
cost-effectiveness. We also take into account the CO2 emissions resulting
from our transports. A CO2 monitoring dashboard introduced in 2012
enables us to compare the costs and potential CO2 savings of a transport
solution, and thus develop an effective strategy for reducing emissions
in our supply chain. The emission factors used in this dashboard were
determined by a working group set up by the German Chemical Industry
Association (VCI). The dashboard also visualizes our transport-related
CO2 emissions for our employees responsible for logistics procurement
and planning, thus raising their awareness of the issue. In 2014, we
recorded some 90% of global transports in our database. The volumes
were carried by ship, rail, truck and aircraft.

Corporate Responsibility

Today we already select ships as the means of transport with the lowest
emissions for around 90% of all ton-kilometers (tonnage transported
multiplied by the distance transported in kilometers). In Germany, we
continue to use the TÜV SÜD-approved Eco Plus solution offered by
logistics provider DB Schenker Rail for transporting our products by rail.
The electricity required for transport is obtained from renewable energy
sources. In this way, we can reduce the CO2 emissions from our German
rail transport operations by almost 75%. Overall, transport operations
caused around 330,000 tons of CO2 emissions worldwide in 2014.
We use the emission factors determined by the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) in 2010 to calculate our global CO2 emissions.
International emission factors were not used. On account of extensive
restructuring as of the reporting date, these emissions data are based
on extrapolations of half-year figures.

Other atmospheric emissions In the year under review, our emissions
of volatile organic compounds (VOC) decreased further – both in
absolute terms and in relation to the volumes sold. This was due to,
among other things, various measures taken to achieve our environmental protection target of cutting VOC emissions by 30% by year
end 2015 (base year: 2010).
VOC Emissions
tons
14,000

VOC, kilograms per ton of product
1.26

12,000

Packaging is an often critical aspect in sustainable logistics processes.
However, it is of only limited significance to a chemical company like
LANXESS because 60% of our products are transported in reusable
containers.

1.4
1.15

1.2

1.04
0.90

10,000
8,000
8,000

In 2013, we collaborated with TÜV Rheinland as our testing partner
in conducting a large-scale trial of green tires for trucks at one of our
logistics service providers. During meetings with our other logistics
service providers, we presented the positive results of these trials with
the aim of demonstrating the benefits of green tires. The trial found that,
under normal operating conditions, high-quality tires with low rolling
resistance reduce fuel consumption by more than 8% and CO2 emissions by 700 kilograms for every 10,000 kilometers driven compared
with conventional tires.

1.22

7,800

7,600

0.8

6,600
5,700

6,000

1.0

0.6

4,000

0.4

2,000

0.2
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

ll In relation to volumes sold   nn Absolute

Responsible use of water resources All wastewater and surface water
discharges at our sites are subject to legal and permitting requirements.
We use both technical (wastewater treatment) and organizational
(monitoring) measures to comply with these requirements.
Before issuing an operating permit, the authorities assess the possible
economic, social and environmental impacts of water extraction on
the surrounding area. At all LANXESS sites, this takes place under
approved conditions. The issue of water extraction is also addressed
by our environmental protection compliance program.

35

36

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

In the year under review, we again achieved a slight reduction in our
total water consumption in relation to volumes sold. Viewed over the
longer term, we have thus kept consumption at a stable level.
Water Consumption
million cubic meters

cubic meters per ton of product

800

80

600
45.6

45.4

46.9

46.4

60
45.6

400

40
257

239

235

244

236.5

200

20
57
2010

53
2011

52
2012

52
2013

53
2014

l In relation to volumes sold (total water consumption)
nn Cooling water (absolute)   nn Process water (absolute)

Sustainable waste management The company aims to employ a
consistent material flow management process – from the use of raw
materials to the manufacture of the final product – so as to use resources as efficiently as possible and minimize the amount of waste
we produce. Some forms of waste can be used as secondary raw
materials and are thus a valuable resource. Sustainable waste management therefore involves systematically avoiding waste and, if this
is not possible, using waste as a raw material or energy source. In
order to minimize the amount of waste requiring disposal, we seek to
continuously improve our production processes.
The total amount of waste generated worldwide in relation to volumes
sold increased by around 7% on the prior year. At the same time,
the amount of waste classified as hazardous increased by some ten
percentage points to 65%. Both increases are primarily due to the
expansion of production at two waste-intensive sites. All forms of waste
are disposed of or reused in compliance with statutory requirements.
Some 46% of our waste is used in material or energy recovery.
Total Waste

With respect to the amount of wastewater requiring treatment, we
have achieved a relatively stable level over the past years in relation
to volumes sold.
Wastewater

thousand tons

kilograms of waste per ton of product

800

80

600

million cubic meters

cubic meters per ton of product

40.5

41.6

42.9

259

267

283

42.9

273

400
80

8

46.0

292

200
60

40

4.7

31

5.1

5.1

5.1

5.0

6

33

34

32

31.5

4

60

40

20

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

ll In relation to volumes sold   nn Absolute
20

2

Waste for Disposal
2010

2011

2012

ll In relation to volumes sold   nn Absolute

2013

2014

%
6.5
Waste disposal by other means

38
Landfilled waste

19.5
Material recovery

26
Incinerated waste with
energy recovery

10
Incinerated waste without
energy recovery

Corporate Responsibility

The graphic below describes the relationship between the key
indicators.
Input-Output Balance Sheet 2014
LANXESS reporting ceiling

Indirect greenhouse gas emissions
(Scope 2) 2,886
thousand tons

Greenhouse gas emissions from biomass
(climate-neutral) 217
thousand tons

Employees

LTIFR

16,584 1)

2.3 2)

Electricity, steam 38
petajoules

Total energy consumption
approx. €550 million

Coal, gas, oil 13
petajoules

Direct greenhouse gas emissions
(Scope 1) 1,762
thousand tons

Volume
sold 6,343
thousand tons

Sales
€8.0 billion

Biomass 2
petajoules

Material
consumption
€4.0 billion

Strategic
raw materials ~ 8,000
thousand tons

Total waste 292
thousand tons

LANXESS site boundary

Production wastewater 31.5
million cubic meters
Total water consumption 289.5
million cubic meters

Cooling water 236.5
million cubic meters

1) Permanent workforce at the core companies (excluding temporary workers) as of December 31, 2014
2) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites

37

38

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Systematic recording of key performance indicators We use an electronic system for the systematic global recording of key performance
indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and environmental protection.
This system enables us to capture a broad range of HSE performance
data for each business unit and location worldwide. These provide a
valid database for internal and external reporting and map the progress
we are making toward achieving our globally applicable HSEQ objectives (see table on page 40). Data for all indicators except the LTIFR
are gathered only at those production sites in which the company has
a holding of more than 50%. We are working systematically to improve
our data recording processes and data quality.

Environmental and Safety Performance Data*
2012

2013

2014

3.4

3.2

2.3

6,596

6,371

6,343

55

53

53

14

13

13

0

0

0

40

38

38

2

2

2

Total water consumption (EN8)

309

296

289.5

Surface water

135

138

120.5

Groundwater

7

7

6

0.0

0.5

0.5

Safety
Occupational injuries to LANXESS
employees resulting in at least one day’s
absence (per million hours worked)1)
Volume sold 2) in thousand tons/year
Energy in petajoules (1015 joules) 3)
Direct energy sources (EN3)
Non-renewable
Renewable

In the year under review, as in 2012 and 2013, Pricewaterhouse­
Coopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft assessed our HSE indicators and the necessary data recording processes in the course of
a business audit with a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating.
The audit certificate is on page 189 of this Annual Report.

Indirect energy sources (EN4)
Non-renewable
Other direct energy sources
From biomass
Water in million cubic meters/year

Rainwater
Wastewater

2.0

1.5

1.0

Other water sources

165

149

161.5

Cooling water in total
water consumption 4)

257

244

236.5

Process water in total
water consumption

52

52

53

Total greenhouse gas emissions
CO 2 e (EN16)

4,981

4,674a)

4,648

Direct (Scope 1)

1,913

1,775a)

1,762

3,068

2,899

2,886

0.00231

0.00115

0.00132

NOX7)

2.4

2.5

2.8

SO28)

1.2

1.1

1.1

CO

2.1

2.1

2.1

NH3

0.1

0.1

0.1

NMVOC9)

7.6

6.6

5.7

Total wastewater discharge
(EN21)

291

276

268

Cooling water
(uncontaminated, without treatment)4)

257

244

236.5

34

32

31.5

0.53

0.48

0.52

2.2

2.0

2.2

0.0060

0.0045

0.0065

Atmospheric emissions
in thousand tons CO2e/year

5)

Indirect (Scope 2)6)
Ozone-depleting substances
(EN19)
NO X , SO X and other emissions
(EN20)

Wastewater in million cubic meters/year

Production wastewater
(with treatment)
Emissions in wastewater
(after treatment)
Total nitrogen
Total organic carbon (TOC)
Heavy metals10)

Corporate Responsibility

Environmental and Safety Performance Data*
2012

2013

2014

Total weight of waste (EN22)

283

273

292

Incineration with energy recovery

68

63

76.5

Waste in thousand tons/year

Incineration without energy recovery

22

22

29

111

99

111

Material recovery

64

64

56.5

Other forms of disposal

18

25

19

Hazardous

153

160

190

Non-hazardous

130

113

102

Landfilling

Type of waste

Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data
   * T he aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds
an interest of more than 50%. On account of their recent acquisition by LANXESS, the
­following production sites are not yet included: Epierre, France, and Lipetsk, Russia.
• 2012: The data are based on actual values for the period January through October.
Appropriate estimates were used for November and December.
• 2013/2014: Some of the data are based on estimates and projections.
	The indicators were assessed (limited assurance) by PwC AG Wirtschafts­
prüfungsgesellschaft in the course of a business audit.
1)	LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost ­
following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary
­workers) at all sites
2)	Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another
LANXESS company or externally (excluding commercial products)
3)	T he energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions
and typical substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy
(e.g. the energy contained in raw materials).
4)	Equivalent to circulating cooling water
5)	T he emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42
from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006).
In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO 2e are based
on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second
Assessment Report (SAR 1995).
All Scope 1 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO2e. In accordance with the GHG Protocol,
the CO2 emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and are not included
in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during the reporting period:
2012: 225 kt CO2, 2013: 223 kt CO2, 2014: 217 kt CO2.
6)	A ll Scope 2 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO 2e. The conversion factors used were
provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009. Where these were not available,
factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2010 were used for fiscal year 2012,
factors from 2011 were used for fiscal year 2013 and factors from 2012 were used for fiscal
year 2014.
7)	Nitrogen oxide (NO X) calculated as NO 2 (excluding N 2O – nitrous oxide)
8)	Sulfur dioxide (SO2) + SO3 calculated as SO 2
9)	Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone
10)	Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc)
a)	Value for 2013 corrected for additional data

39

40

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

HSEQ Targets for 2014
Target
Date

Target

Program/Action

Target Attainment

1.	Improvement in occupational and plant
safety – no injuries or
environmental incidents

Implementation of the “Xact” safety program

Ongoing
program

In 2014, the “Xact” team developed measures to implement the
LANXESS safety culture and began their global rollout. At 2.3,
the LTIFR was substantially lower than in previous years.

2.	Consolidation of
corporate audits

Increased efficiency of corporate audits through
harmonization/consolidation

2014

The audit consolidation concept was successfully concluded,
increasing efficiency by approx. 30%. It will be implemented in
2015.

3.	Climate protection

Reduction of specific CO2e emissions by 10%
per business segment (base year: 2010)

2015

Ongoing measure

Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10%
per business segment (base year 2010)

2015

Ongoing measure

Increase in resource efficiency and performance
of environmental footprint and life cycle analyses
for relevant products

2014

On account of the ongoing portfolio review, it has not been
possible to define the substances for analysis.

4.	Environmental
protection

Reduction in absolute emissions of volatile organic
compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010)

2015

Ongoing measure

5.	Energy management

Global implementation of the energy management
system and certification readiness

2014

The centrally managed global project to implement the EnMS
through to certification readiness was completed at the end of 2014.
Further implementation and preparation for local certification are
taking place decentrally at our sites outside Germany.

HSEQ Targets for 2015
Target

Program/Action

Target Date

1.	Management of HSEQ risks

Development and introduction of a global HSEQ risk identification and evaluation process with the
following objectives:

2020

• S trengthen awareness of occupational safety and foster continuous improvements in support of
LANXESS’s “Xact” global safety program

• R eduction and prevention of
• incidents relating to plant and process safety
• e nvironmental incidents and their impact
• transport incidents
2. Sustainable supplier management

Development and establishment of a new sustainability standard for our suppliers:

2020

• T he sustainability standard for our suppliers to be advanced in tandem with relevant industry
initiatives

• S upport for the Together for Sustainability initiative, which aims to standardize and share
sustainability assessments of suppliers in the same industry
3.	Climate protection and
resource management

Consolidation of existing efficiency measures in a global resource efficiency program with the
following goals:

2016

Improved energy efficiency within the LANXESS Group:
• R eduction of specific greenhouse gas emissions
• E stablishment of a water management system at all sites in water-scarce areas
Continued from prior years:
• R eduction in specific CO2 emissions by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010)
• Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010)
• R eduction in emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010)
4.	Product stewardship

Compilation of life-cycle analyses for the most important key products (e.g. for all “green” products)

2015

2016

Corporate Responsibility

Society
As a company, we draw numerous benefits from the society in which
we operate – well-trained employees, satisfied customers, legal and
political stability and an excellent infrastructure. We believe it is only
right that, in line with the concept of corporate citizenship, we assume
responsibility and thus also contribute to the evolution of society. Our
social commitment is based on the same fundamental principle as
our entrepreneurial activities – a consistent focus on a limited number
of projects that promise long-term success.
Our not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science
education in schools. After all, skilled employees are a crucial prerequisite for the sustainable success of our company, no matter where
in the world it operates. We endeavor to encourage young people to
develop a passion for chemistry at a young age, awaken their inventive
spirit and make them aware of the diverse career opportunities that
the LANXESS Group offers.
Consequently, some 71% of the 92 projects we implemented in 2014
were dedicated to education. A second major pillar of our social commitment is promoting culture, which in 2014 comprised around 11%
of our projects. Europe was the geographical focus of our activities in
the reporting year and we implemented almost one third of all projects in that region. Overall, more than 218,000 (2013: more than
237,000) mainly young people benefited from our projects, which we
funded with some €0.9 million in 2014 (2013: some €1.5 million).

The LANXESS education initiative
– a global success story
In 2008, we launched the LANXESS education initiative to underscore
our clear commitment to Germany as a business location and as a base
for the chemical industry. We have since provided support to more
than 30 schools close to our sites in Germany. Our funding enabled
the provision of new laboratory facilities, technical equipment and
teaching materials for chemistry, biology, physics and IT classes. We
also cooperate with the schools when it comes to teaching content.
We offer interested and talented students the chance to take part
in project weeks and workshops. In 2014, middle- and high-school
students in cities including Krefeld and Cologne explored the issues
of water and mobility. We supported one of these projects with water
treatment products which, owing to their properties, can be used
repeatedly for further experiments. In order to intensify cooperation
with our schools, we designed a new website as a platform where they
can submit their MINT projects (mathematics, information technology,
natural sciences and technology) and apply directly for support. By the
end of 2014, the website had been used by various partner schools
in Cologne, Leverkusen, Dormagen, Krefeld, Marl and Brunsbüttel to
agree MINT projects for 2015.

LANXESS collaborates with elementary schools as well as with middle
and high schools. Working with educational experts, we developed an
experiment kit for this level of education containing special teaching
materials related to mobility, globalization, urbanization and water. In
2014, we distributed kits worth a total of €360,000 to elementary
schools close to our sites in Germany and elsewhere in the world – from
Canada and South Africa to Japan. Wherever they are in use, our kits
convey the fascination of science and technology and are intended
to wake the inventive spirit of both girls and boys as early as possible.
It is not just in Germany that education is a valuable asset, which
is why our initiative has been extended to other countries in recent
years. Today, projects focusing particularly on the promotion of science education are in place at many LANXESS sites across the globe.
Since 2010, for example, we have been fostering scientific knowledge
and environmental awareness at our sites in Brazil with our Green Cycle
competition. The winners receive recognition for the environmental
protection projects they develop for the competition and LANXESS
fully finances implementation of these projects. Participants additionally
receive assistance from an agency that specializes in implementing
environmental projects. In 2014, a total of 65 projects were submitted for consideration at our six sites in Brazil. Since the competition
began, we have successfully initiated 30 projects that have benefited
more than 6,000 people. In addition, our employees in Brazil have
participated in Community Day since 2011 and spend the day providing practical assistance to facilities such as kindergartens, hospitals,
schools and social centers. More than 20% of our employees around
the country took part in 2014.
The “Educar para Crecer” (Educate to Grow) initiative in Argentina
aims to promote development in the Zárate region by supporting
schools and not-for-profit organizations engaged in educational, social
and environmental protection activities there. As part of this initiative,
we provide funding for sustainable education projects and help those
wishing to launch such projects by delivering the fundamental knowhow they need. Some 10,000 people have already benefited directly
or indirectly from the more than 40 projects implemented since the
program was launched in 2007. At the end of 2014, our experiment
kits were also provided through the initiative which, from 2015, will
be targeting technical colleges.
The “La Basura Sirve” (Waste is Useful) initiative launched in Zárate in
2012 also seeks to promote responsible environmental practices. The
program, which we conduct in collaboration with a group of schools,
encourages the collection and sorting of inorganic household waste.
The income from the sale of reusable materials to recycling companies is used by the participating schools to purchase essential items.
Since the launch of the initiative, thousands of students have already
collected more than 20 tons of PET waste.

41

42

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Social Activities by Topic1)

Social Activities by Region 1)

%

%

13
Other

71
Education

7
Latin America

35
EMEA

5
Climate protection
11
Culture

29
Asia-Pacific

29
North America

1) Basis: 92 projects undertaken in 2014

1) Basis: 92 projects undertaken in 2014

One of our most important CR projects in India is the long-term Teach
for India program initiated in 2010. The program recruits top graduates
from Indian universities as fellows who, after completing their studies,
spend an initial period of two years teaching full-time at schools with
insufficient funding. Through to the end of 2018, we will be supporting Teach for India with €75,000 each year.

In Japan, we expanded the cooperation we initiated some years ago
with aid organization Save the Children Japan in the area of education. With the aim of teaching children more about chemistry and
Germany, employees of our Japanese company held workshops at
two elementary schools in Ishinomaki in August 2014. The program
includes small experiments and a film depicting what our world would
be like without chemistry. The workshops are intended as the first in a
range of educational activities in the region which is still suffering the
effects of the devastating earthquake in March 2011.

As part of our commitment in Nagda, where we have a production facility, we made a substantial contribution toward establishing the city’s first
computer training center. Opened in August 2014, the center teaches
primary computer skills to students and working professionals, enabling
them to greatly enhance their proficiency profiles. LANXESS procured
and installed the necessary hardware and funded the renovation of
the premises provided by the Madhya Pradesh Labour Welfare Board.
In China, we collaborate with the Goethe Institute to offer the
LANXESS-PASCH Dream Career Program. Each year, two students
from the Goethe Institute’s partner schools are given the opportunity
to complete a four-week internship with LANXESS. In Liyang, we
have been providing support to particularly gifted or very committed
students since 2012. Each year, students from the three renowned
universities we partner in Qingdao, Shaanxi and Changzhou can apply
to LANXESS for a scholarship and internship.

Since 2011, we have been the main sponsor of the Rally to Read initiative in South Africa, which aims to reduce the significant difference in
reading and writing skills between students in rural regions and their
urban counterparts. Each year, we provide schools in remote areas
with items such as teacher training guides, container libraries, writing
materials, sports equipment, educational toys and school shoes. More
than 8,000 children benefited from the campaign in 2014. Their
progress is regularly monitored by the local education authorities and
the READ Trust, partner of the Rally to Read initiative.
Our partnership with Junior Achievement in the United States, initiated
in 2013, also fully reflects our commitment to corporate volunteering.
LANXESS employees regularly visit schools in the Pittsburgh area to
teach first- to- third-grade classes basic aspects of economics and
entrepreneurship.
Since the launch of the LANXESS education initiative, we have invested
more than €6 million worldwide in activities which have reached tens
of thousands of children, adolescents and young adults. Feedback
from teachers, principals and school authorities shows that the initiative has significantly enhanced the importance of the MINT subjects
in school timetables.

Corporate Responsibility

Promoting art and culture
We are convinced that successful scientific work and, ultimately, social
progress can only flourish in a culture of thought, research and critical
evaluation. As part of our cultural commitment, we therefore sponsor
both literary and musical talents. We have been the main partner to
lit.COLOGNE, Europe’s biggest literature festival in Cologne, since
2010. Since 2013, we have also been supporting its sister event
phil.COLOGNE, a top-class international philosophy festival. In addition, we foster our employees’ interest in literature. As part of “fliX,”
the Festa Literária LANXESS, several libraries were established at
our Brazilian sites with books donated by our employees, who also
operate the libraries.
The second mainstay of our cultural commitment is support for musical
training, especially for young people. The Young Euro Classic initiative
brings together the greatest talents from Germany and LANXESS’s
main markets around the world. Until 2015, LANXESS SNYO Classic
is sponsoring an exchange and mentoring program for the Singapore
National Youth Orchestra. Also until 2015, we will be supporting the
Ozawa International Chamber Music Academy (OICMA) in Japan,
enabling talented young musicians from across Asia to receive a topquality musical education. Since 2012, we have been a partner to the
“Kölner Philharmonie,” one of Europe’s premier cultural institutions.
In addition to the “Acht Brücken” (Eight Bridges) contemporary music
festival, we support many other activities at this venue, including a
discounted concert subscription for students.

43

44

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Investor Information

Investor Information

Investor Information
The price of LANXESS stock saw substantial declines in fiscal 2014. The way our
stock performed was affected especially
by the challenging situation the company
faced, as well as by the turbulent market
environment. Our share price closed at
€38.46 on December 30, 2014.

2014 was an eventful year for Europe’s stock markets. The German
lead index, the DAX, which includes our stock, turned in a very volatile
performance ranging from new record highs above 10,000 points
to a low of less than 8,400 points. Throughout the fiscal year, the
European stock markets experienced the negative effects of geopolitical risks, especially the crisis in Ukraine. Other restraining factors
were disappointing economic data in the eurozone, weaker growth in
China and South America, and a less expansive U.S. monetary policy.
The substantial drop in the oil price at year end also had a negative
impact on the markets. Factors which buoyed the markets in 2014
were especially further reductions of the key interest rate made by
the European Central Bank (ECB) and positive economic data from
the United States. The U.S. stock markets in particular benefited from
that country’s gratifying economic development and posted a much
more positive performance than their European counterparts. The
leading U.S. index, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, topped the
18,000-point threshold for the first time, gaining 10.7% in 2014.
The DAX closed at 9,806 points on December 30, 2014, delivering
growth of 2.7%.
At the start of fiscal 2014, stock market performance was still very
restrained and was impacted by the crisis in Ukraine. A significant
recovery prevailed in the second quarter, especially as the result of
the ECB’s continuing low interest rate policy. As a result, the DAX
climbed above 10,000 points in June to deliver growth of 2.9%

for the second quarter. The third quarter was marked by some substantial losses. In July, as the situation in Ukraine worsened, the
DAX declined by 4.3% to post its largest monthly loss for 2014.
Performance remained volatile for a decrease of 3.6% at the end of
the third quarter. This was followed by a very turbulent fourth quarter
in which the DAX fell below 8,400 points in mid-October before
again climbing above the 10,000-point threshold to a new all-time
high of 10,087 points. These extreme fluctuations were caused by
news ranging from fears of recession in the eurozone to speculation about bond purchases by the ECB and the reduction of the key
interest rates in China. At the end of the reporting period, the stock
index was influenced by further events such as the strongly declining
oil price and the devaluation of the ruble. At the close of trading on
December 30, 2014, the DAX stood at 9,806 points.
The LANXESS benchmark indices Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM and MSCI World Chemicals Index also registered growth last
year. After starting the year at 758 points, the Dow Jones STOXX 600
ChemicalsSM ranged between 720 and 780 points in the subsequent
months before also fluctuating very widely in the fourth quarter. In
October, it fell to a low for the year of 677 points and then jumped
to 806 points in early December. At year end, this benchmark index
stood at 786 points for a gain of 3.8%. The MSCI World Chemicals
Index, which we adopted in 2014 as a new benchmark index for
our share because it is more comprehensive and has a more international composition, closed the year up 2.6% following a volatile
performance. After reaching lows around 230 points in both the
first and fourth quarters, this index posted a clear increase in value
to end the year at 256 points.
The development of our share price in 2014 was greatly influenced
by LANXESS’s business performance. It opened the year at €48.90
and initially increased in value in the first few months. During this time,
positive momentum came from news of the change of leadership on
the Board of Management. At the end of January, we announced that
Matthias Zachert, former CFO of LANXESS AG, had been appointed
as the new Chairman of the Board of Management effective April 1.
In the first quarter, our share price remained above €50 and closed
the quarter at €54.75.
In the subsequent months, the focus was on communication of
LANXESS’s realignment. At the start of May, we announced that we
would be developing an extensive realignment program. The ten-percent increase in the capital stock of LANXESS AG to €91,522,936,
also at the start of May, represented an important step in financing the
planned measures and strengthening our financial position. However,
despite the measures we had initiated, our share took losses in the
second quarter, falling below the €50 threshold at the end of June.
The uncertainty surrounding the current competitive environment for
our rubber businesses, our future positioning in that arena and the

45

46

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

LANXESS Stock Performance since Listing
%
500

400

300

200

100

0
2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

l ­L ANXESS  l DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM  l DAX  l MSCI World Chemicals Index

LANXESS Stock Performance 2014
%

120

110

100

90

80

70
Dec. 30, 2013

March 31, 2014

June 30, 2014

l ­L ANXESS  l DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM  l DAX  l MSCI World Chemicals Index

Sep. 30, 2014

Dec. 30, 2014

Investor Information

Performance Data 2014

Capital stock/no. of shares1)
Market capitalization

€/no. of shares

Q2 2014

Q3 2014

Q4 2014

Year 2014

83,202,670

91,522,936

91,522,936

91,522,936

91,522,936

4.56

4.51

4.00

3.51

3.51

High/low for the period

€

55.13/44.64

56.75/48.07

51.16/43.37

43.79/36.24

56.75/36.24

Closing price1)

€

54.75

49.30

43.71

38.46

38.46

Volatility2)

%

–

–

–

–

25.01

Trading volume

million shares

70.901

38.903

41.129

60.900

211.833

Average daily trading volume

shares

1,125,413

627,472

623,171

998,367

893,385

Earnings per share

€

0.30

0.63

0.38

(0.74)

0.53

–

–

–

–

4.65

1)

Price/cash flow ratio1) 3) 4)

€ billion

Q1 2014

1) End of quarter: Q1: March 31, 2014, Q2: June 30, 2014, Q3: September 30, 2014, Q4 and full year: December 31, 2014
2) Source: Bloomberg
3) D
 ata, especially cash flow, are influenced by exceptionals, which restricts the significance accordingly
4) Reference value: operating cash flow

further development of our business in 2014 impacted our share
price too strongly. At the end of July, the Board of Management
announced the launch of our Group-wide realignment program
“Let’s LANXESS again,” providing first details of this already in early
August. The three-phase program is focused on increasing the competitiveness of the business and administrative structure, operational
competitiveness and the competitiveness of the business portfolio
(see also “Strategy” on page 8). We also reported on the implementation of the first measures: the consolidation of business units and
administrative functions. The realignment program received a positive response from the capital market but was unable to provide any
momentum for our share price. At this time, news from the general
market environment was negative and clearly dominated the development of share prices, including the price of the LANXESS share
which stood at €43.71 at the end of the third quarter.
During our Capital Markets Day and Media Day in early November,
we announced further details of our realignment and the expected
cost reductions we intend to achieve from the end of 2016 after
implementation of the first phase of the program. We also provided
information about future negative effects in fiscal 2015 and 2016
arising from, for example, the start-up of our new rubber plants. The
capital market responded positively to the high degree of transparency of this information and the details of the financial impact anticipated from the first phase of the realignment program. Nevertheless,
the development of our share price remained under the influence of
our challenging business situation and, toward the end of the fourth
quarter, was additionally impacted by the negative stock market environment. The LANXESS share closed at €38.46 on December 30,
2014, for a decrease of 20.7% over the year.

Capital Market Information
Share class

No-par shares

Listing code

LXS

WKN (German securities
­identification number)

547040

ISIN

DE0005470405

Reuters/Bloomberg codes

LXSG.DE/LXS:GR

Market segment

Prime Standard

Trading venues

XETRA, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart,
Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Hannover, Berlin

Selective indices

DAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM,
DAXsupersector Basic Materials,
MSCI Germany Standard, MSCI Germany
Mid Cap, Dow Jones Sustainability Index
World, Dow Jones Sustainability Index
­Europe, FTSE4Good

Investment-grade ratings (outlook)

Standard & Poor’s: BBB– (stable)
Moody’s: Baa3 (stable)
Fitch: BBB– (stable)

Sustainability
Exercising responsibility in our entrepreneurial activities is a key element of our corporate strategy. We therefore continued to view sustainable development as a high priority in 2014 and underscored our
claim that LANXESS is a sustainable investment.
Last year, our sustainable development was rewarded by our renewed
inclusion in the respected Dow Jones Sustainability™ Indices (DJSI).
We were listed for the fourth year consecutively in the DJSI World and
for the second year in the DJSI Europe following our debut in that index
in 2013. We were given very good ratings especially in the areas of
environmental policy/management system, climate strategy, corporate citizenship, risk and crisis management and antitrust guidelines.
The DJSI World is compiled by assessing the world's 2,500 largest
corporations across 59 different industries.

47

48

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Our listing in the FTSE4Good Index, in which we were first included
in 2011, was also confirmed. In addition, oekom research – one of
the leading sustainability rating agencies – has put our corporate
responsibility rating at C+ since 2011.
Climate protection and transparent reporting about our achievements
in this area have a key role in our sustainability activities, which we
again demonstrated through our participation in the Carbon Disclosure
Project (CDP). Although we no longer ranked in the top 10% of the
350 largest companies surveyed in Germany, Austria and Switzerland
in the reporting year, we continue to systematically pursue our climate
protection objectives and will be ensuring the greatest possible transparency of the environmental data we report to the CDP in the future,
too. In addition, environmental data remain an important component
of our sustainability reporting in this Annual Report.
We made a further major commitment by signing the United Nations
Global Compact, the world’s largest and fastest-growing corporate
social responsibility (CSR) initiative, in 2011 and have annually reaffirmed our commitment since then.
Our commitment in the area of sustainability goes beyond the aforementioned listings and initiatives. For example, we support the Responsible Care® Global Charter initiated by the International Council of
Chemical Associations (ICCA) and we are a cofounder of the Together
for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, which has the goal of assessing and
improving sustainability in the chemical industry supply chain.

In 2014, as in the past, many of our institutional investors were based
in the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany. The proportion
of our stockholders in the United States increased year on year and at
January 31, 2015, was around 31% (2013: 27%). At the same date,
some 18% (2013: 17%) of LANXESS shares were held in the United
Kingdom. In Germany, institutional investors represented about 14%
(2013: 12%) of our shares. Taking private and institutional investors
together, ownership of our shares in Germany increased to around
25% (2013: 24%).
In other regions, LANXESS is represented in France, the Scandinavian
countries and Switzerland, in particular. Overall, institutional investors
in the rest of Europe owned about 18% of our stock (2013: 24%),
while other regions again accounted for some 8% (2013: 8%).
An overview of the institutional investors which have issued mandatory
notices reporting ownership of at least 3% of LANXESS’s outstanding
shares is published on our website. All voting rights announcements
can be found under Investor Relations/Shares.

Stockholder Profile as of January 31, 2015

%
~ 11
Private investors

~ 89
Institutional investors

Detailed information about sustainability is available from page 13 and
on our corporate website. Strengthening our sustainability profile will
remain a priority for LANXESS in 2015.

Ownership structure
The majority of LANXESS’s stockholders are institutional investors
whose strategy is oriented toward growth or value. At January 31,
2015, these investors held around 89% of the stock.
In addition to the stakes held by institutional investors, a holding of
around 11% of our shares is in the hands of private investors, including
LANXESS employees who collectively own some 1%. Since LANXESS
was first listed on the stock market, our private investors have been
primarily located in Germany.

Geographical Breakdown as of January 31, 2015 1)

%
8
Other regions

31
United States

18
Other Europe

18
United Kingdom

1) Based on the stockholders identified

25
Germany

Investor Information

Analysts

Annual Stockholders’ Meeting

LANXESS’s performance is monitored by a large number of analysts.
In fiscal 2014, around 30 sell-side analysts again issued reports detailing their estimates of our company’s current and future development.
In light of the challenges in the 2014 fiscal year, focal points of the
dialogue with analysts were the market situation for our businesses
and the realignment of LANXESS. Alongside our dialogue with the
sell side, we intensified our interaction with fixed-income analysts
during the reporting year. We will continue to accord high priority to
the regular and detailed exchange of information with analysts within
the context of our IR activities.

At our Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 22, 2014, LANXESS
shareholders showed their clear support and passed all the agenda
items by solid majorities. 42,284,197 shares and the same number
of votes – equivalent to 51.10% of the voting capital – were represented at the meeting. Detailed voting results and additional information about LANXESS's Annual Stockholders’ Meeting are available
on our website under Investor Relations/Events & Presentations.

As of January 31, 2015, 37% of analysts (2013: 50%) recommended
buying LANXESS shares. A further 42% (2013: 32%) said to hold
our shares, while 21% (2013: 18%) gave a sell recommendation.
On the basis of the most recent analysts’ appraisals, an independent
service provider regularly compiles consensus estimates, which we
make available on our website under Investor Relations/Shares.

Recommendations as of January 31, 2015

%
21
Sell

37
Buy

The next Annual Stockholders’ Meeting takes place on May 13,
2015, in the LANXESS arena at Willy-Brandt-Platz 1, Cologne.

Dividend
LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. We aim for our stockholders to share in our business performance in an appropriate and
sustainable way. With a view to maintaining continuity, we therefore
also intend to propose a dividend for the very challenging fiscal
year 2014. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of
LANXESS AG will therefore propose to the Annual Stockholders’
Meeting on May 13, 2015, that a dividend of €0.50 per share be
declared for fiscal 2014 (2013: €0.50 per share). This reflects the
company’s difficult business performance in the past year and the
present realignment phase.
Relative to the price of €38.46 at which LANXESS shares ended
2014, this equates to a dividend yield of 1.3%. Subject to approval
of the corresponding resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, the dividend will be paid on May 14, 2015.

42
Hold

Bonds
LANXESS placed no new Eurobonds on the capital market in ­fiscal
2014. The €500 million Eurobond with a term of five years and an
annual­ interest coupon of 7.750% that we issued in April 2009
matured­in April 2014 and was repaid.
The following table provides an overview of our presently outstanding bonds.
Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds
ISIN/WKN

Volume

Term

Coupon

XS0452802175

€200 ­million

September 21, 2009 –
September 21, 2016

5.500 %

XS0629645531

€500 ­million

May 23, 2011 –
May 23, 2018

4.125 %

XS0746637296

CNH 500 ­million
(around €60 million)

February 16, 2012 –
February 16, 2015

3.950 %

XS0855167523

€500 ­million

November 21, 2012 –
November 21, 2022

2.625 %

49

50

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

All LANXESS’s existing Eurobonds were issued by LANXESS Finance
B.V. and are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The term
sheets are available on our website under Investor Relations/Bond.
Further information about our bonds can be found on page 95 ff. of
this Annual Report.

Capital increase
In the second quarter of 2014, we increased the capital stock of
LANXESS by 10%, in part by utilizing our existing authorized capital.
The capital stock was increased by a nominal €8,320,266 against
issuance of 8,320,266 new no-par bearer shares which are entitled
to a dividend as of fiscal 2013.
The additional shares were offered at a price of €52.00 per share
to international institutional investors in a private placement using
an accelerated bookbuilding process, resulting in gross proceeds
of around €430 million. These will be used above all to finance the
ongoing realignment of LANXESS and reduce the company’s debt.
Since May 9, 2014, the capital stock has amounted to €91,522,936,
with 91,522,936 shares in circulation.

Ratings
The rating agencies Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings adjusted their investment-grade ratings for LANXESS in
fiscal 2014 in light of the persistently challenging business environment. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch both reduced their ratings from
BBB to BBB–, while Moody’s adjusted its rating from Baa2 to Baa3.
However, all three rating agencies raised their outlook from negative
to stable.
LANXESS’s weaker financial indicators resulting from the persistently
difficult market environment for the company’s synthetic rubber businesses were cited by the three agencies as the main reason for their
changed ratings. Against this background, they are assuming that it will
be some time before LANXESS can again sustainably strengthen its
financial profile. All three rating agencies justified raising their outlook
to stable by their assumption that the measures initiated by LANXESS
will improve profitability and strengthen key financial indicators in the
coming two years. They also noted as positive LANXESS’s continuing
sound liquidity.
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have had LANXESS at an investmentgrade rating since 2007, Fitch since 2006.

Investor relations activities
Maintaining an active, broad and uninterrupted dialogue with investors
and analysts is a top priority for LANXESS. Our declared objective is
to provide a continuous and sustained flow of information about our
company. For this reason, roadshows, capital market conferences and
individual dialogue meetings at LANXESS headquarters have been
features of our central investor relations (IR) activities right from the
start. We also use events such as our LANXESS Capital Markets Day
to explain and discuss important current corporate topics.
In fiscal 2014, the Chairman of the Board of Management, the Chief Financial Officer and the Investor Relations team represented LANXESS
at roadshows and capital market conferences on a total of 72 days.
Especially in this difficult year, we felt it was very important to sustain
the high frequency of our IR activities so that we could provide timely
information about LANXESS’s performance and realignment. We
continue to focus on our stockholders and foster an intensive dialogue
with fixed income investors and with investors who are focused on
sustainability.

Roadshows and conferences for active and personal
dialogue worldwide
We consider roadshows and conferences to be highly relevant because they enable us to engage in a broad and personal dialogue
with institutional investors. International capital market centers like
Boston, New York, London, Paris, Frankfurt and Zurich are important
roadshow destinations for LANXESS management and the Investor
Relations team. Elsewhere in Europe, the Benelux and Scandinavian
countries have also become destinations for regular roadshows. Other
regions where there is an interest in our shares include especially Asia
(Singapore and Japan) and North America.
We utilize international cross-industry conferences organized by global banks as important platforms for communicating with our target
groups. We also participate at conferences specifically for mid caps
or the chemical industry. In addition, we attend forums for private
investors in order to present our company’s business performance.
In 2015, we intend to maintain a strong presence at international
conferences. We will also continue our participation at events for
private investors.

Investor Information

LANXESS Capital Markets Day and Media Day provide
details of realignment
The realignment of LANXESS was the central focus of our Capital
Markets Day and Media Day on November 6, 2014. As well as describing the current challenges resulting from the changed market
environment, we presented details of our three-phase program to
increase competitiveness and reported on the current status of its
implementation. Already at the end of 2014, we had almost completed
the first phase of the program aimed at improving the competitiveness
of the business and administrative structure. We expect these measures
to generate annual savings of around €150 million from the end of
2016. We have also initiated the first measures in the next phase of
the program, which seeks to increase operational competitiveness.
Here, the focus is on optimizing production, marketing and the supply chain. In 2015, we aim to develop and announce specific steps
that will comprise the third phase of the program, which is directed at
improving the competitiveness of the business portfolio. Repositioning
our rubber businesses is of key importance here.
The presentations made at both the Capital Markets Day and Media
Day are available on our website under Investor Relations/Events &
Presentations.

In the ranking of European companies performed by the U.K.’s respected IR Magazine, based on a survey of some 500 European
portfolio managers and analysts, LANXESS was placed first for investor
relations work by a mid-cap company.
The investors and sell-side analysts surveyed by U.S. magazine
Institutional Investor also rated our performance very highly, ranking
LANXESS second among European chemical companies. In the Best
IR Professional category, sell side and buy side placed LANXESS first
and second, respectively. In compiling its rankings, Institutional Investor
again asked more than 850 fund managers and 1,500 analysts to
rate the investor relations work of European companies.

Investor Relations contacts:
Head of Investor Relations
Oliver Stratmann
Tel. +49 221 8885 9611
E-mail: oliver.stratmann@lanxess.com
Private Investors, Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, Events
Tanja Satzer
Tel. +49 221 8885 3801
E-mail: tanja.satzer@lanxess.com

Further IR activities provide timely information
Conference calls are a further important means of providing capital
market participants with timely and extensive information updates. In
these calls, the Board of Management comments on our published
results and reports on current measures taken by LANXESS. Conference calls are streamed live in the Investor Relations section of the
LANXESS website, and recorded versions are available for download
for one year.
The Investor Relations section of our website also contains the presentations from our roadshows and Capital Market Days and from the
external conferences at which we participate. The offering is rounded
out by our financial reports, publications like the LANXESS Fact Book,
investor news and details about our shares and bonds.

LANXESS honored for its capital market
communications
Maintaining a broad, timely and transparent dialogue with the capital
markets has always been a high priority for us. That is why we are
pleased that, despite the difficulties we faced in fiscal 2014, our IR
activities were recognized by portfolio managers and analysts in prestigious rankings. The main criteria for these were again the credibility
and transparency of our communications, the focus on target groups
and access to top management.

Institutional Investors, Analysts
Ulrike Rockel
Tel. +49 221 8885 5458
E-mail: ulrike.rockel@lanxess.com
Dirk Winkels
Tel. +49 221 8885 8007
E-mail: dirk.winkels@lanxess.com
Matthias Arnold
Tel. +49 221 8885 1287
E-mail: matthias.arnold@lanxess.com

51

52

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance Report

Corporate
Governance Report

The Board of Management and Supervisory Board herein report on
corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to Section 3.10 of the
German Corporate Governance Code. The Board of Management
also issues its corporate governance statement pursuant to Section
289a of the German Commercial Code.
The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are
committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate
governance and control. They place high value on the standards of
good corporate governance with a view to strengthening the trust of
investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS.

Implementation of the German Corporate
Governance Code
As LANXESS is a stock corporation listed on the German stock exchange, corporate governance at the company is aligned with Germany’s securities and capital market legislation and the German
Corporate Governance Code. The latter makes recommendations
and suggestions concerning corporate governance. There is no obligation to comply with this code. However, pursuant to Section 161
of the German Stock Corporation Act, the Board of Management
and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are required to issue an annual
declaration of compliance in line with the recommendations of the
German Corporate Governance Code, providing information about
and stating the reasons for any deviations from these recommendations. Shareholders can view the declaration of compliance on the
company’s website at any time. There they will also find the now invalid
declarations made in the previous five years.
On December 10, 2014, the Board of Management and Supervisory
Board issued the following joint declaration pursuant to Section 161
of the German Stock Corporation Act:
“I. Recommendations
Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance on 11 December
2013, LANXESS AG has complied with the recommendations of
the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code (“Government Commission”) as amended on 13 May
2013, which was published on 10 June 2013 by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the official portion of the electronic version of the

Federal Gazette with the exceptions described in the declaration of
11 December 2013 in Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 2, Sentence 6,
Paragraph 4, Sentence 1, 5.1.2 Paragraph 2 Sentence 3, 5.4.5
Paragraph 2 Sentence 1 and Section 5.4.5, Sentence 2. LANXESS AG
has and will henceforth comply with the recommendations of the
Government Commission as amended on 24 June 2014, which was
published on 30 September 2014, with the following exceptions:
1.	Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 2, Sentence 6
	
The amount of compensation shall be capped, both overall and
for variable compensation components.
	
The current employment contracts for Board of Management members are besides the fixed compensation capped regarding the
variable compensation components and the fringe benefits. They
do not provide in addition a separate overall cap of the compensation also including a possible discretionary bonus. However, the
Supervisory Board will rightfully exercise its discretion regarding a
discretionary bonus as shown in the past.
2.	Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 2, Sentence 8
Changing such performance targets or the comparison parameters
retroactively shall be excluded.
	
In light of the company’s current realignment program the Board
of Management and the Supervisory Board agreed to reduce
the potential maximum amount of payment of the variable salary
component Annual Performance Payment (APP) for the members
of the Board of Management for fiscal year 2014. Moreover, the
Supervisory Board reserves its right to retroactively adapt the comparison parameters of the APP for the members of the Board of
Management for fiscal year 2015 in consideration of the general
conditions.
3.	Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 4, Sentence 1
	
In concluding Management Board contracts, care shall be taken
to ensure that payments made to a Management Board member
on premature termination of his contract, including fringe benefits,
do not exceed the value of two years’ compensation (severance
pay cap) and compensate no more than the remaining term of the
contract.
	
The employment contracts for Board of Management members
limit payments to a Board of Management member on premature
termination of his contract, including fringe benefits, to two years’
compensation, except in the event of a change of control. However,
they do not contain the additional limitation that no more than the
remaining term of the contract shall be compensated. The Supervisory Board does not consider it appropriate to base the absolute
amount of any severance payment on the date of termination.

53

54

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

4.	Section 5.1.2, Paragraph 2, Sentence 3
	An age limit for the members of the Board of Management shall
be specified.
	
The Supervisory Board does not consider an age limit to the
members of the Board of Management as appropriate. The ability
to successfully manage a company does not necessarily cease
when a specific age is reached. It rather may be in the interest of
the company to appoint a member of the Board of Management
beyond a defined age limit.
5.	Section 5.4.1, Paragraph 2, Sentence 1
	
The Supervisory Board shall specify concrete objectives regarding its composition which, whilst considering the specifics of the
company, take into account the international activities of the company, potential conflicts of interest, the number of independent
Supervisory Board members within the meaning of section 5.4.2,
an age limit to be specified for the members of the Supervisory
Board and diversity.
	
The Supervisory Board does not adhere to the rigid age limit for
the Supervisory Board members. The age of Supervisory Board
members is not a criteria for their qualification and competence.
The company does not want to waive longtime experiences. Moreover, the company would restrict itself regarding the appointment
of adequate members to the Supervisory Board.
II. Suggestions
In addition to its recommendations, the Corporate Governance Code
also contains a number of suggestions for efficient, responsible corporate governance compliance which is not required to be disclosed
under the statutory provisions. LANXESS currently complies with these
suggestions as well, with only a few exceptions.
In accordance with Section 3.10 Sentence 2 of the German Corporate
Governance Code, the Board of Management and the Supervisory
Board therefore voluntarily issue the following declaration:
Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance on 11 December 2013, LANXESS AG has complied with the suggestions of the
Government Commission as amended on 13 May 2013, which was
published on 10 June 2013 by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the
official portion of the electronic version of the Federal Gazette, with the
following exceptions and will continue to comply the suggestions of
the Government Commission as amended on 24 June 2014, which
was published on 30 September 2014, with the following exceptions:
1.	Section 2.3.2, Sentence 2, 2nd Half-Sentence
	The Management Board shall arrange for the appointment of a
representative to exercise shareholders’ voting rights in accordance
with instructions; this representative should also be reachable during the General Meeting.

	
The representatives appointed by LANXESS AG to exercise
stockholders’ voting rights in accordance with instructions can
be reached at the Stockholders’ Meeting until the voting is held.
Stockholders not attending the meeting can reach the representatives up to the previous evening.
2.	Section 2.3.3
	
The company should make it possible for stockholders to follow
the General Meeting using modern communication media (e.g.
Internet).
	
The speech by the Chairman of the Board of Management to the
Stockholders’ Meeting is broadcast on the Internet. Continued
broadcasting of the proceedings thereafter, particularly of contributions made by stockholders, could be seen as a violation of the
stockholders’ rights to privacy. For this reason, LANXESS does not
plan to broadcast the further proceedings.”

Other key principles of the management practices
applied by LANXESS
Prominent among the other relevant management practices applied
throughout the company are the principles of business conduct.
LANXESS views compliance with laws and ethical principles as the
basis of sustainable corporate governance. Our employees’ integrity
and awareness of their responsibilities are key factors in the success
of our company. Compliance with laws, social responsibility, sustainable environmental protection, and occupational, plant and product
safety are an essential part of our corporate culture. The Code for
Legal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS, which
is applicable throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards
and gives employees advice and guidance on complying with these
standards. This code can be viewed on our website at http://www.
lanxess.com under Corporate Responsibility/Corporate Governance/
Compliance at LANXESS.
An effective compliance management system has been established
to implement the compliance code. This system was globally audited
in 2012 by Deloitte & Touche GmbH, which applied the AuS 980
standard promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW – Institute of Public Auditors in Germany). The system was rated favorably,
and there were no objections. Components of this system include a
compliance organization that is integrated into the overall LANXESS
Group organization, risk identification and assessment, a compliance
program (comprising directives, hotlines, training, knowledge sharing, compliance reporting and guidance on responding to observed
breaches of compliance), and measures for monitoring the overall
compliance situation within the LANXESS Group. The objective is
to prevent breaches of compliance and to create and foster a culture
of compliance. LANXESS does not tolerate breaches of compliance
and enforces observance of the provisions of its compliance code.

Corporate Governance Report

As an international specialty chemicals enterprise, LANXESS bears
a large degree of responsibility toward people and the environment.
Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense of responsibility. Safety,
environmental protection, social responsibility, quality and economic
efficiency are all key corporate goals at LANXESS. The company’s
objective is sustainable, forward-looking development which meets
the demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure.
The greatest benefits of our corporate responsibility activities are
achieved if they are balanced with entrepreneurial and, especially,
economic objectives. They must therefore be linked to our core business or to our available expertise. An overview of the implementation
of corporate responsibility at LANXESS can be downloaded from
the Corporate Responsibility section of our website at http://www.
lanxess.com/. Additionally, LANXESS joined the United Nations Global
Compact initiative in July 2011 and has supported the Responsible
Care® Global Charter adopted by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) since 2006, a commitment the company
reconfirmed by signature in August 2014.
LANXESS has supplemented German legislation prohibiting insider
trading with a Group-wide insider directive. This defines rules of conduct for trading in the company’s securities so that insider trading
violations can be avoided. The names of persons with authorized
access to insider information required for the performance of their
professional duties are included in an insider register that is regularly
updated. The directive also stipulates the reporting and disclosure
obligations for transactions with LANXESS shares (directors’ dealings).
Corporate policies on other important issues such as occupational
safety and diversity are implemented throughout the Group on the
basis of Board of Management initiatives. With its Diversity & Inclusion
initiative, LANXESS aims to promote equal opportunity for employees
and facilitate work/life balance. Additional information is available on
our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under About LANXESS/Who
we are/Diversity & Inclusion.

Composition and work of the Board of Management
and of the Supervisory Board and its committees
LANXESS AG is a company established under the laws of Germany.
One of the fundamental principles of German stock corporation law
is the two-tier management system with the governing bodies of management board and supervisory board. This system is characterized
by a clear separation between the management board as the body
that manages a company and the supervisory board as the body that
advises and oversees management. Concurrent membership on both
boards is strictly prohibited. The management board and the supervisory board work closely together in a relationship of mutual trust for
the benefit of the company.

Board of Management
The Board of Management of LANXESS AG currently comprises
three members: Matthias Zachert (Chairman), Dr. Bernhard Düttmann
and Dr. Rainier van Roessel. Information about the members of the
Board of Management is available on our website at http://www.
lanxess.com/ under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance/Board
of Management.
The Board of Management is appointed to manage and represent the
company. It is responsible for conducting business in the company’s
interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The principal
tasks of the Board of Management include defining the company’s
goals and strategic alignment, managing and overseeing the operating units, setting human resources policy, arranging the company’s
financing, and establishing an effective risk management system. It
is also responsible for preparing the quarterly and half-year financial
statements, the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated
financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the management
report for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group.
The Chairman coordinates the work of the Board of Management.
As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted with a simple
majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting vote. Resolutions of the Board of Management are generally passed at regularly
held meetings. The rules of procedure for the Board of Management
that are enacted by the Supervisory Board contain further regulations
concerning the form of cooperation within the Board of Management,
the allocation of duties and the matters requiring resolution by the full
Board of Management. In deciding the composition of the Board of
Management, the Supervisory Board gives consideration to professional suitability, leadership qualities and diversity.

Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG is composed of twelve members, with equal numbers of stockholder representatives and employee
representatives in accordance with the provisions of the German
Codetermination Act of 1976. The stockholder representatives are
elected by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, whereas the employee
representatives are elected in accordance with the provisions of the
Codetermination Act and its electoral regulations. Supervisory Board
members normally serve for a five-year term.
Gisela Seidel, Axel Berndt, Ulrich Freese, Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets,
Thomas Meiers and Hans-Jürgen Schicker serve as the employee
representatives on the Supervisory Board. Effective July 1, 2014,
Dr. Gerriets, as the elected substitute, became the representative of
the LANXESS managerial employees, succeeding Dr. Rudolf Fauss

55

56

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

on his retirement. Claudia Nemat, Dr. Friedrich Janssen, Robert J.
Koehler, Rainer Laufs, Dr. Rolf Stomberg and Theo H. Walthie serve
as the stockholder representatives. The Chairman of the Supervisory
Board is Dr. Rolf Stomberg. The Vice Chairman is Ulrich Freese. Information about the members of the Supervisory Board is available
on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under Investor Relations/
Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of Management
in its management of the company and to monitor its conduct of the
business. The Supervisory Board discusses business performance,
planning and strategy at regular intervals. Its responsibilities also include appointing the members of the Board of Management as well
as reviewing the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. The Supervisory
Board reaches its decisions with a majority of the votes cast unless a
different majority is stipulated by law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has two votes in a second ballot on
the resolution, even if this also results in a tie. The German Codetermination Act contains special requirements concerning resolutions.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates the work in the
Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings and represents the concerns of
the body externally. Supervisory Board resolutions are usually adopted
at regularly held meetings.
The Supervisory Board has issued its own rules of procedure, which,
in addition to defining the tasks and responsibilities of the Supervisory
Board and the personal qualifications of its members, establishes the
processes for convening, preparing and chairing meetings as well as
the procedures for voting.
The Board of Management reports to the Supervisory Board on a
timely and comprehensive basis about the progress of business and
the situation of the Group, including potential risks and relevant issues relating to corporate planning. The Supervisory Board has laid
down the Board of Management’s notification and reporting requirements in detail in its rules of procedure. The Chairman of the Board
of Management regularly exchanges information with the Chairman
of the Supervisory Board in order to discuss matters of strategy, planning, business performance, risks, risk management and compliance.
Certain transactions and measures of major or long-term importance
require the Supervisory Board’s approval. Measures requiring approval
include, but are not limited to: adoption of the corporate planning;
the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of real property, shareholdings
or other assets; borrowings and certain other types of financial transactions. Thresholds have been set for some of these transactions.

Goals for the composition of the Supervisory Board
Section 5.4.1, Sentence 5 of the German Corporate Governance
Code states that the concrete objectives of the Supervisory Board
regarding its composition and the status of the implementation of these
objectives are to be published in the Corporate Governance Report.
The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG are expected
to possess the necessary expertise, skills and professional experience to perform their duties. The members of the Supervisory Board
autonomously undertake the necessary training required for their
tasks and are supported in their efforts by the company. In making
nominations, the Supervisory Board applies only legally permissible
and fair selection criteria, acts in the company’s best interests, and
gives consideration to the nominated candidates’ integrity, commitment and independence.
The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG should ensure the provision
of impartial advice and supervision to the Board of Management. All
current stockholder representatives on the Supervisory Board are
independent. The Supervisory Board also assumes the independence
of the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board and that
their ability to act independently is not affected by their status as employees of the company or members of labor unions. No member of
the Supervisory Board has a personal or business relationship with
the company, its executive bodies, a controlling shareholder or any
enterprise affiliated with a controlling shareholder that may cause
a material and not merely temporary conflict of interest. No former
member of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG is a member
of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also aims for all
future members of the Supervisory Board to be independent within
the meaning of Section 5.4.2 of the German Corporate Governance
Code and free of conflicts of interest.
The Supervisory Board does not apply a rigid age limit for its members
as it does not consider age alone to be a measure of their qualification
and competence. The company should not have to forgo extensive
experience.
In general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the principles
of diversity in its composition. On the basis of their various personal
and professional backgrounds, the members of the Supervisory Board
contribute a broad spectrum of experience and skills. The global reach
of LANXESS AG has been reflected in the composition of the Supervisory Board thus far and will remain a factor in selecting candidates
to be proposed to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election to
the Supervisory Board. In many cases, the experience and skills of the
members of the Supervisory Board have been acquired while working
abroad for a long period or in an international field. One member of
the Supervisory Board is not a German citizen. The members of the
Supervisory Board have professional knowledge of the chemical industry and other sectors that are important for the company’s business.

Corporate Governance Report

Two of the twelve members currently serving on the LANXESS AG
Supervisory Board are women. Elections of both stockholder and
employee representatives on the Supervisory Board will take place
in 2015. Only Ms. Nemat’s term of office continues until the Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting in 2019. One of the candidates for election as
an employee representative is a woman. No other women have come
forward as candidates for election. As a result, it will not be possible
to achieve the aim of having at least three women members on the
LANXESS AG Supervisory Board from the beginning of its new term.
With a view to ensuring the appropriate representation of women,
the Supervisory Board remains committed to the aim of increasing
the number of its women members to at least three. For this reason,
women candidates are to be proposed if possible should any seats
on the Supervisory Board become vacant during the course of its new
term. Should legislation be enacted to mandate a higher proportion
of women members on supervisory boards, the Supervisory Board
will implement these legal requirements. Stockholder and employee
representatives to the Supervisory Board view it as their joint responsibility to ensure the appropriate representation of women. They aim
to work together in fulfilling this responsibility.

The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in overseeing
the conduct of the business and deals with matters relating to the
supervision of accounting, the effectiveness of the internal control
system, the risk management system and the internal auditing system,
as well as auditing, including the independence of the auditor and the
work additionally performed by the auditor, and compliance. It prepares
the Supervisory Board’s resolutions concerning the annual financial
statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and recommends an auditor whom the
Supervisory Board then proposes to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting
for appointment. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is an independent financial expert and has specialist knowledge and experience
in the field of accounting acquired through his professional activities.
The members of the Audit Committee are Dr. Janssen (Chairman),
Mr. Berndt, Dr. Gerriets, Mr. Meiers, Mr. Laufs and Mr. Walthie.

Composition and work of the Supervisory Board
committees

The Nominations Committee solely comprises stockholder representatives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory Board to nominate
for election as new members of the Supervisory Board by the
Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The members of this committee are
Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Dr. Janssen and Mr. Walthie.

The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit Committee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German
Codetermination Act and a Nominations Committee formed from
among its members.
The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares the meetings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. It makes decisions
on transactions requiring approval that are already included in the
company’s annual planning. The Presidial Committee may also resolve on the exercise of participation rights pursuant to Section 32
of the German Codetermination Act and on transactions requiring
approval that cannot be deferred. It consults regularly about long-term
succession planning for the Board of Management. Furthermore, the
Committee also prepares the personnel decisions to be made by the
Supervisory Board and resolutions of the full Supervisory Board regarding the compensation of the members of the Board of Management. In
place of the full Supervisory Board, the Presidial Committee resolves
on the conclusion and amendment of employment contracts with
the members of the Board of Management and all other contractual
matters not pertaining to compensation. The members of the Presidial
Committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Ms. Seidel,
Mr. Schicker, Mr. Koehler and Dr. Janssen.

The Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German
Codetermination Act performs the tasks described in Section 31,
Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act. The members of
this committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Ms. Nemat
and Mr. Schicker.

Other Supervisory Board committees established for a particular
purpose perform the duties assigned to them by Supervisory Board
resolution.
The respective committee chairmen report regularly to the Supervisory
Board on the work of the committees.

Stockholders and stockholders’ meetings
The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote on the resolutions submitted. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting resolves on all matters reserved
for its decision by law, with binding effect on the stockholders and the
company. Each share confers one vote.
The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting include
appropriation of the balance sheet profit, ratification of the actions taken
by the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory
Board, appointment of the auditors and election of the stockholder
representatives to the Supervisory Board. The Annual Stockholders’

57

58

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Meeting also resolves on amendments to the articles of association,
measures affecting the company’s capital and the approval of intercompany agreements. Each year there is an Annual Stockholders’
Meeting at which the Board of Management and Supervisory Board
give an account of the last fiscal year. The German Stock Corporation
Act requires the convening of an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting
in certain situations.
All stockholders who register in time and prove their eligibility to attend
the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and exercise their voting rights shall
be allowed to participate in the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockholders may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Stockholders’
Meeting in person, through a proxy of their own choosing or through
a company-nominated proxy who acts according to their instructions.

Reportable securities transactions
Pursuant to Section 15a, Paragraph 1 of the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG), the trading of securities by certain parties, including
members of a management board or supervisory board, must be
reported if the total sum of the transactions undertaken in any given
calendar year equals or exceeds €5,000. Individuals who are closely
related to these parties (e.g. spouses, registered partners and firstdegree relatives) are also subject to this reporting requirement. Reportable securities transactions are published on the LANXESS website.
The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by members of the
Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of December 31,
2014 was less than 1% of all shares issued by the company.

Compensation report

Accounting and auditing

The compensation report, which describes the compensation system
and the amount of compensation paid to the members of the Board of
Management and Supervisory Board for their service in fiscal 2014,
is part of the combined management report for LANXESS AG and
the LANXESS Group.

LANXESS AG prepares its consolidated financial statements and
interim financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European
Union. The separate financial statements of LANXESS AG for any
given fiscal year (“financial statements”) are prepared in accordance
with the German Commercial Code (HGB). The financial statements,
consolidated financial statements and combined management report
are published, once adopted and approved by the Supervisory Board,
within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year. The company’s accounting for the 2014 fiscal year was audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (“PwC”), the auditors chosen at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting held in 2014.
PwC also reviewed the 2014 half-year financial report. The audits
are conducted in accordance with German auditing regulations and
the generally accepted standards for auditing promulgated by the
Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW – Institute of Public Auditors in
Germany). It was agreed with the auditors that they would report to
the Supervisory Board without delay concerning any possible grounds
for their disqualification or bias as well as any significant findings or
incidents that came to light during the audit.

Risk management
Corporate governance also includes the responsible handling of business risks. Therefore, a systematic and effective risk management
system is the basis for professional corporate governance. Our risk
management system aims to identify risks and opportunities at an
early stage and to steer and minimize the risks that materialize. It is
subject to ongoing optimization and adaptation to changing conditions. The Board of Management informs the Supervisory Board about
the existence and development of potential risks on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk
management, internal control and auditing systems.

Liability insurance
Corporate governance statement
The company maintains a directors’ and officers’ (D&O) liability insurance policy for members of the Board of Management and Supervisory
Board. The suitable deductible required by Section 93, Paragraph 2 of
the German Stock Corporation Act has been agreed for members of
the Board of Management, and the recommended deductible within
the meaning of Section 3.8 of the German Corporate Governance
Code has been agreed for the members of the Supervisory Board.

On February 27, 2015, the Board of Management of LANXESS AG
iss­ued its declaration for fiscal 2014 pursuant to Section 289a of
the German Commercial Code, which is published together with the
Corporate Governance Report on our website at http://www.lanxess.
com/ under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance.

Corporate Governance Report

Offices held by serving Board of Management members
(as of December 31, 2014)

Member of
the Board of
Management

External offices

Offices within the LANXESS Group

Matthias Zachert
Chairman of
the Board of
Management

• Member of the Presidium of the German Chemical Industry
Association (VCI)
• Member of the Asia-Pacific Committee of German Business (APA)
• Member of the Presidium of stiftung neue verantwortung e.V.

•C
 hairman of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH

Dr. Bernhard
Düttmann
Chief Financial
Officer

• Member of the Supervisory Board of GfK SE, Nuremberg
• Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsches Aktieninstitut (DAI)
• Member of Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft in der Unternehmens­
führung e.V. (GEFIU)

• Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH
• Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp.

Dr. Rainier
van Roessel
Member of
the Board of
­Management
and ­Industrial
­Relations
­Director

• Member of the Supervisory Board of Currenta
Geschäftsführungs-GmbH, Leverkusen
• Member of the Board of the VCI Regional Association in North
Rhine-Westphalia
• Member of the VCI Trade Policy Committee
• Member of the 1 b Experience-Exchange Group of the German
­Association for Personnel Management (DGFP)
• Member of the Board of the German Chemical Industry Federation
(BAVC)

• Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH
• Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aliseca GmbH
• Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V.
• Executive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS N.V.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of Holding Hispania S.L.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemicals S.L.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp.
• Chairman of the Governing Board of LANXESS Srl.
• Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (China) Co. Ltd.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private Ltd.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS International S.A.

59

60

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

LANXESS AG Supervisory Board
Serving members (as of December 31, 2014)

Dr. Rolf Stomberg (Chairman)

Dr. Friedrich Janssen

• Chairman

of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG
•F
 ormer Chief Executive of the Shipping, Refining and Marketing Division
of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, U.K.
•F
 ormer member of the Board of Directors of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c.,
London, U.K.

Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen

Further offices:
•L
­ ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Chairman)
•B
­ iesterfeld AG, Hamburg* (Vice Chairman)
•H
­ OYER GmbH, Hamburg
•K
­ EMNA Bau Andreae GmbH & Co. KG, Pinneberg
•O
­ AO Severstal, Cherepovets, Russia

Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• National-Bank AG, Essen*
• HanseWerk AG, Quickborn* (formerly E.ON Hanse AG)
• Avacon AG, Helmstedt*
• Thüga Assekuranz Services München Versicherungsmakler GmbH, Munich
• Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman of the Advisory Board)

Robert J. Koehler
Ulrich Freese (Vice Chairman)
•M
 ember of the Bundestag
•F
 ormer Vice Chairman of the German Mining, Chemical and
Energy Industrial Union, Hannover
Further offices:
•L
 ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Vice Chairman)
• Vattenfall Europe Mining AG, Cottbus* (Vice Chairman)
• Vattenfall Europe Generation AG, Cottbus* (Vice Chairman)
• Vattenfall GmbH, Berlin*
• Vivawest Wohnen GmbH, Essen* (Vice Chairman)

Axel Berndt
•S
 pecialist for Portfolio & Change Management in the IT department,
LANXESS Deutschland GmbH
•F
 ormer member of the Works Council at the Leverkusen site
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*

Former Chairman of the Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE, Wiesbaden
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG, Heidelberg* (Chairman)
• Klöckner & Co. SE, Duisburg*
• Freudenberg SE, Weinheim*
• Benteler International AG, Salzburg, Austria (Chairman)

Rainer Laufs
• Self-employed consultant
• Former Chairman of the Management Board of Deutsche Shell AG, Hamburg
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• WCM Beteiligungs- und Grundbesitz AG, Frankfurt am Main* (Chairman)
• Petrotec AG, Düsseldorf* (Chairman)
• Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, Hamburg*
• Asklepios Kliniken Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Königstein im Taunus*
• MediClin AG, Offenburg* (since October 23, 2014)
• Bilfinger Industrial Services GmbH, Munich (Member of the Advisory Board)
• Bilfinger Industrial Technologies GmbH, Frankfurt am Main
(Member of the Advisory Board)

Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets
•C
 hairman of the LANXESS AG Group Managerial Employees’ Committee
•C
 hairman of the LANXESS Managerial Employees’ Committee
•M
 anager of a production facility in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates
business unit of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH
Further offices:
•L
 ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*

Thomas Meiers
District Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union,
Cologne
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne*
• INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne*

Corporate Governance Report

Claudia Nemat
Member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Telekom AG, Bonn
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• Buyln SA, Brussels, Belgium (Vice Chairwoman)
• Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. (OTE S.A.),
Maroussi, Athens, Greece

Hans-Jürgen Schicker
Chairman of the Works Council at the Uerdingen site
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*

Gisela Seidel
Chairwoman of the Works Council at the Dormagen site
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*

Theo H. Walthie
Self-employed consultant
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• NBE Therapeutics AG, Basle, Switzerland (President of the Board of Administration)

The information about offices held refers to memberships of other
supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of companies
in Germany and abroad (as of December 31, 2014).

* Statutory supervisory boards

61

62

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Report of the
Supervisory Board

Dear Stockholders,
Behind LANXESS lies a very challenging year. In particular, the persistently difficult competitive environment in the synthetic rubber businesses and the resulting price pressure continued to substantially
impact LANXESS’s earnings development. With an EBITDA pre exceptionals of €808 million, LANXESS posted slight year-on-year growth
in earnings. However, the earnings situation in the polymers business
clearly reflected the difficult market environment the company faced.
In 2014, the Supervisory Board implemented a change of leadership of the Board of Management. At the start of the year, on account
of strategic differences with Dr. Axel C. Heitmann, the Supervisory
Board approved the mutually agreed termination of Dr. Heitmann’s
appointment as a member and Chairman of the Board of Management.
Effective April 1, 2014, the Supervisory Board appointed Matthias
Zachert as the new Chairman of the Board of Management. Until he
joined Merck KGaA in 2011, Mr. Zachert had been Chief Financial
Officer of LANXESS.
In the reporting year, under the leadership of Matthias Zachert as the
new Chairman of the Board of Management and with the support of
the Supervisory Board, LANXESS initiated an extensive corporate realignment program in response to the difficult economic situation. The
three-phase program is aimed at sustainably increasing LANXESS’s
competitiveness. The first phase of the program, which is focused on
the competitiveness of the business and administrative structures, was
successfully concluded at the end of 2014. In this phase, ­business
units were merged and their number reduced from 14 to 10 effective January 1, 2015. Additionally, LANXESS will be reducing the
workforce by 1,000 positions worldwide through the end of 2016
by means of voluntary separation. Also in 2014, LANXESS initiated
measures from the second phase of the realignment program, which is
focused on manufacturing, commercial and supply chain excellence.
In the reporting year, LANXESS achieved initial savings of around
€20 million as a result of the program. The realignment program will
be systematically pursued in the current fiscal year.

Report of the Supervisory Board

During 2014, the Supervisory Board duly and fully performed the tasks
and duties incumbent upon it under the law, the articles of association
and the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board. It advised the
Board of Management regularly on the management of the company
and monitored its work. Alongside the personnel changes on the Board
of Management, the Supervisory Board concerned itself in particular
with the realignment program initiated after the change of leadership
and the measures aimed at increasing competitiveness.
The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions of fundamental importance for the company. The Board of Management
informed us regularly in written and oral reports about business performance, the situation of the Group, including the risk situation, strategic
development and current issues. On the basis of these reports, we
discussed significant business transactions in detail. We thoroughly
examined the reports and the resolutions proposed by the Board of
Management and discussed them at length in meetings of the full
Supervisory Board and its committees. If the law, articles of association or other provisions required the Supervisory Board to approve the
actions of the Board of Management, we discussed these actions and
adopted resolutions on them.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management
were in regular contact outside of the Supervisory Board’s meetings.
We regularly discussed the present state of the company, matters of
strategy, planning, business performance, risks, risk management and
compliance, as well as material events.

Principal topics discussed by the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board met a total of eight times in 2014.
We regularly discussed the challenging sales and earnings performance of the company and its segments, as well as the financial position. Additionally, the Board of Management kept us updated about
the overall state of the economy, the situation in the chemical industry,
the performance of LANXESS stock, and investment and acquisition
plans. Other important issues addressed by the Supervisory Board
are presented below.
In an extraordinary meeting on January 26, 2014, the subject of which
was the change in leadership at LANXESS, the Supervisory Board
­approved the mutual termination of the appointment of Dr. Heitmann­­
as a member and Chairman of the Board of Management effective­
­February 28, 2014. At the same time, it approved a severance agreement concluded with Dr. Heitmann. The Supervisory Board also approved the appointment of Matthias Zachert as the new Chairman
of the Board of Management. Until Mr. Zachert joined the company,
initially planned for May 15, 2014, Dr. Düttmann was provisionally
assigned the tasks and responsibilities of Chairman of the Board of
Management. In connection with the change of leadership, the Supervisory Board also reassigned Board of Management responsibilities.

In a further extraordinary meeting on February 21, 2014, the Supervisory­
Board resolved the immediate mutual termination of Dr. Heitmann’s­
appointment to the Board of Management. F
­ urthermore, we approved the conclusion of an amendment agreement to the ­severance
agreement made with Dr. Heitmann on January 26, 2014, in which
Dr. Heitmann declared his willingness to waive his right to the agreed
termination benefits. At this meeting, the Supervisory Board also
resolved that Mr. Zachert would already join the LANXESS Board of
Management effective April 1, 2014, after his former employer agreed
to release him from his duties effective that same date.
The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held on March 18, 2014
was the review of the annual financial statements and consolidated
financial statements for fiscal 2013, the proposal for use of the distributable profit, and preparation of the motions for resolution by the
Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board also considered
issues pertaining to corporate governance. Furthermore, it defined the
variable compensation components for the members of the Board of
Management on the basis of target attainment in fiscal 2013.
At the meeting on May 7, 2014, after detailed discussion and on the
basis of the authorization by the Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28,
2010, concerning the use of Authorized Capital II, the Supervisory Board approved an increase in the company’s share capital
by just under 10%, excluding stockholders’ subscription rights, in
an accelerated bookbuilding process. This increase by a nominal
amount of €8,320,266 was against the issuance of 8,320,266 new,
no-par bearer shares in the company. The Supervisory Board also
resolved to establish a Capital Increase Committee to represent the full
Supervisory Board in making the further decisions necessary to implement the capital increase, which resulted in gross proceeds of around
€433 million. This measure strengthened LANXESS’s equity and
reduced net financial liabilities. During the meeting, we also discussed
in detail with the Board of Management possible courses of action
for the rubber businesses and other LANXESS business units. Other
subjects discussed included possible measures to reduce costs and
increase competitiveness. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board decided
to extend Dr. Rainier van Roessel’s term of office as a member of the
Board of Management by five years from January 1, 2015, and to
reappoint him as the company’s Industrial Relations Director.
The meeting that took place immediately prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 22, 2014, served to prepare that meeting.
On August 5, 2014, the Board of Management presented the program
for the realignment of LANXESS. We again discussed in detail strategies and possible measures for the company’s economic recovery.
Other subjects for discussion were the causes of the changed market
developments in the rubber businesses, the anticipated development
of capacities, the cost situation and raw material supplies. At this
meeting, we resolved the mutual termination of the appointment of
Dr. Werner Breuers as a member of the Board of Management effective

63

64

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

August 5, 2014. At the same time, a change to the assignment of
Board of Management responsibilities was also decided.
In the meeting held on November 5, 2014, the Board of Management
reported on the current status of and further steps in the LANXESS
realignment program. We were also informed about the status of the
associated human resources measures. Additionally, the Board of
Management explained the company’s internal control, risk management and auditing systems.
At its meeting on December 10, 2014, the Supervisory Board reviewed
in full and approved the corporate planning for 2015 proposed by
the Board of Management. It also discussed the company’s strategic
alignment and capital expenditure policy. We additionally looked at the
future compliance organization of the LANXESS Group and resolved
to amend the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board. In light
of the ongoing projects for the company’s realignment and in deviation from the original Supervisory Board resolution of December 11,
2013, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board agreed
to reduce the potential maximum amount of the Annual Performance
Payment (APP) variable salary component payable to the members
of the Board of Management for fiscal 2014. Lastly, the Supervisory
Board defined the conditions for the Board of Management’s variable
compensation components for fiscal 2015.
All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees performed
their duties diligently and conscientiously. The Supervisory Board’s
meetings in 2014 were attended by all members, with the exception
of one member who was not present at two meetings. Committee
meetings were attended by all members, with the exception of two
meetings that one member was unable to attend. The stockholder
representatives and employee representatives to the Supervisory
Board worked together in a spirit of trust. They regularly held separate
meetings at which they prepared the meetings of the full Supervisory
Board. The members of the Board of Management attended the Supervisory Board meetings unless the Chairman of the Supervisory
Board determined otherwise.

The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt in particular with the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG for fiscal
2013, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group
and the combined management report for fiscal 2013, the interim
reports issued during fiscal 2014, and the condensed consolidated
financial statements and interim management report included in the
2014 half-year financial report. It also reviewed the company’s risk
management and internal control systems. Other topics discussed
were the significant findings by the internal audit department, corporate
planning, compliance and the determination of the principal areas
of focus for the audit of the 2014 financial statements. The external
auditor attended two of the Audit Committee’s four meetings and
reported on the auditing activities.
The Presidial Committee convened six times during 2014 to prepare
the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the decisions to be reached
by the full Supervisory Board concerning human resources measures
in the company’s Board of Management.
The Nominations Committee met twice in fiscal 2014. The Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German
Codetermination Act did not have to convene.
At its meeting on May 7, 2014, the Supervisory Board established
a Capital Increase Committee up until midnight on May 21, 2014
to represent the Supervisory Board in taking the further necessary
decisions to implement the capital increase resolved by the Board of
Management on the same day. On May 8, 2014, the Capital Increase
Committee approved the Board of Management’s decision concerning the placement price for the issuance of shares in respect of the
capital increase. The members of this committee were the Chairman
of the Supervisory Board, Dr. Rolf Stomberg, and Supervisory Board
members Dr. Friedrich Janssen, Ms. Gisela Seidel and Mr. Hans-Jürgen
Schicker. Dr. Stomberg was elected chairman of this committee, with
Ms. Seidel as his deputy.
The chairmen of the committees each reported on the meetings and
the work of the committees at the meetings of the full Supervisory
Board.

Work of the committees
The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit Committee,
the Presidial Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German
Codetermination Act. The committees are tasked with preparing the
topics and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of the full Supervisory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-making powers
conferred on them by the Supervisory Board.

Corporate governance and declaration of compliance
In the year under review, the Supervisory Board discussed the German
Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The joint declaration of com­
pliance made on December 10, 2014, by the Board of Management
and Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock
Corporation Act can be viewed by stockholders at any time on the

Report of the Supervisory Board

company’s website. As expressed in the declaration, LANXESS AG
complies with the Code’s recommendations and suggestions except in
a few justified cases. No conflicts of interest on the part of Supervisory
Board members became known last year. Further information about
corporate governance can be found in the company’s Corporate
Governance Report.

Financial statements of LANXESS AG and consolidated
financial statements of the LANXESS Group
The Board of Management of LANXESS AG prepared the financial
statements for the 2014 fiscal year in accordance with the rules of the
German Commercial Code, the consolidated financial statements for
fiscal 2014 in accordance with the International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) and the combined management report for 2014.
These were all audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, the auditor appointed by the Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting and engaged by the Supervisory Board. The
auditor issued an unqualified opinion in each case.
The Supervisory Board convinced itself of the independence of the
auditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf.
The audit reports and the documents relating to the financial statements were discussed at length with the Board of Management and the
auditor at the Audit Committee meeting held on March 16, 2015. They
were also discussed in detail on the basis of the required documents
and notes at the Supervisory Board’s financial statements meeting
held on March 17, 2015. The responsible auditor was present for
the discussions concerning the financial statements of LANXESS AG
and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. He
reported on the material results of the audits. He was also available to
the Audit Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide additional
information.
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well as
on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the
LANXESS Group, the combined management report and the proposal
for appropriation of the profit, the Supervisory Board endorsed the
auditor’s conclusions and had no objections to raise. The Supervisory
Board has approved the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG
and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group,
which were prepared by the Board of Management. The Supervisory
Board endorsed the Board of Management’s proposal for use of the
distributable profit after close examination and extensive deliberations that carefully weighed the best interests of the company and
the stockholders.

Composition of the Supervisory Board
The composition of the Supervisory Board changed during fiscal
2014. At midnight on June 30, 2014, Dr. Rudolf Fauss retired and
ceased to be the representative of the LANXESS managerial employees on the Supervisory Board. He was succeeded as a member of the
Supervisory Board by Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets, who was his elected
substitute member.
The Supervisory Board thanks the Board of Management, all of the
Group’s employees and the employee representatives for their enormous dedication and work.

Cologne, March 17, 2015

The Supervisory Board

Dr. Rolf Stomberg
Chairman

65

Financial Information

67

Combined Management Report of the
­LANXESS Group and ­LANXESS AG

68

80

102
110
112
112
112

Combined Management Report
Fundamentals
68 Group structure
68 Business
70 Strategy
72 Value management and control system
74 Procurement and production
76 Sales organization and customers
77 Research and development
79 Corporate responsibility
Economic report
80 Legal environment
80 Business conditions
82 Key events influencing the company’s business
82 Comparison of forecast and actual business
83 Business performance of the ­LANXESS Group
86 Business trends by region
87 Segment information
90 Statement of financial position and financial condition
98 Management’s summary of business development
and the fiscal year
99 Earnings, asset and financial position of ­LANXESS AG
101 Employees
Compensation report
Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 and
Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code
Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code
Events after the end of the reporting period
Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives
112 Economic outlook
114 Future perspectives
115 Opportunity and risk report

68

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Group structure

Management and control organization

Legal structure

LANXESS AG has a two-tier management structure consisting of
the Board of Management, which manages the company, and the
­Supervisory Board, which oversees the Board of Management with the
assistance of an Audit Committee formed from among its members
to advise on financial matters. The Board of Management shapes
Group strategy and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and
organization. As the Group management company, LANXESS AG is
responsible for financing and for communication with the company’s
key stakeholders.

LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS Group and
functions largely as a management holding company. LANXESS
Deutschland GmbH and LANXESS International Holding GmbH are
wholly owned subsidiaries of LANXESS AG and in turn control the
other subsidiaries and affiliates both in Germany and elsewhere.
The following are the principal companies wholly owned by LANXESS AG
directly or indirectly:
Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of ­LANXESS AG
Company Name and Domicile

Function

Segments

­ ANXESS Deutschland GmbH,
L
Cologne, Germany

Production
and sales

All

­ ANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd.,
L
Singapore

Production
and sales

Performance Polymers,
Performance Chemicals

­LANXESS Corporation,
Pittsburgh, U.S.A.

Production
and sales

All

­ ANXESS Elastomères S.A.S.,
L
Lillebonne, France

Production
and sales

Performance Polymers

­ ANXESS Elastomers B.V.,
L
Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands

Production
and sales

Performance Polymers

­ ANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A.,
L
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Production
and sales

Performance Polymers

­ ANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L.,
L
Barcelona, Spain

Holding­
­company

All

­LANXESS Inc.,
Sarnia, Canada

Production
and sales

Performance Polymers

LANXESS India Private Ltd.,
Thane, India

Production
and sales

All

LANXESS International Holding
GmbH, Cologne, Germany

Holding­
­company

All

­ ANXESS International SA,
L
Granges-Paccot, Switzerland

Sales

All

­LANXESS N.V.,
Antwerp, Belgium

Production
and sales

Performance Polymers,
Performance Chemicals

­ ANXESS Rubber N.V.,
L
Zwijndrecht, Belgium

Production

Performance Polymers

Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH,
Mannheim, Germany

Production
and sales

Performance Chemicals

Saltigo GmbH,
Leverkusen, Germany

Production
and sales

Advanced Intermediates

Changes to the Group portfolio
In March 2014, we divested our wholly owned subsidiary PerlonMonofil­ GmbH, Dormagen, Germany. This company is among the
world’s leading producers of polyamide and polyester monofilaments, which are used above all in paper manufacturing, shipping
and ­agriculture.

For additional information, please also see the Corporate Governance
Report.

Business
Business organization
As part of the realignment of the LANXESS Group by means of the
“Let’s LANXESS again” program, we consolidated our business units
effective January 1, 2015. LANXESS is still structured in three segments but these now comprise a total of 10 business units, each of
which conducts its own operations and has global profit responsibility.
The Butyl Rubber and Performance Butadiene Rubbers business units
were merged to form the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit. This
decision was based on overlapping customer structures, regional
commonalities in the established markets and changed conditions
in the emerging economies. Furthermore, LANXESS consolidated
the High Performance Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers business
units in the High Performance Elastomers business unit. Here, too,
there were substantial overlaps in customer structures. The specialty
chemicals product line of the Rubber Chemicals business unit, the
Functional Chemicals business unit and the Rhein Chemie business
unit now make up the new Rhein Chemie Additives business unit.
By consolidating our additives business operations, we are seeking
access to new markets and customers. Effective January 1, 2015,
the antioxidants and accelerators product lines of the Rubber Chemicals business unit were integrated into the portfolio of the Advanced
Industrial Intermediates business unit. These restructuring measures
have no impact on our reporting for fiscal 2014.
Group functions and service companies assigned to them support
our business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other
centralized services. Complementing this global alignment of the
business units and group functions, the country organizations ensure
the necessary proximity to markets and provide the organizational
infrastructure required.

Combined Management Report – Fundamentals
Group structure | Business

The segments in brief

We have combined our application-oriented process and functional
chemicals operations in the Performance Chemicals segment.

We have combined our synthetic rubber and engineering plastics
activities in the Performance Polymers segment.

Performance Chemicals
Business units

Performance Polymers
Business units

Inorganic Pigments
Functional Chemicals 1)

Butyl Rubber 1)
Performance Butadiene Rubbers
Keltan Elastomers

Leather

1)

Rhein Chemie 1)

2)

Rubber Chemicals 2)

High Performance Elastomers 2)
High Performance Materials
Sites

Applications

Material Protection Products

Brilon, Dormagen, Hamm-Uentrop, Krefeld-­
Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Marl, Germany

Liquid Purification Technologies
Sites

Bitterfeld, Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, KrefeldUerdingen, Leverkusen and Mannheim, Germany

Antwerp and Zwijndrecht, Belgium

Epierre, France

Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands

Antwerp, Belgium

La Wantzenau and Port-Jérôme, France

Branston, United Kingdom

Sarnia, Canada

Filago, Italy

Gastonia and Orange, U.S.A.

Lipetsk, Russia

Cabo, Duque de Caxias, Porto Feliz and Triunfo,
Brazil

Vilassar de Mar, Spain

Nantong and Wuxi, China
Jhagadia, India

Burgettstown, Bushy Park, Chardon,
Greensboro, Little Rock and Pittsburgh, U.S.A.

Singapore

Porto Feliz, Brazil

Tires

Burzaco, Merlo and Zárate, Argentina

Automotive

Changzhou, Qingdao, Shanghai and Wuxi, China

Electronics

Jhagadia, India

Electrical engineering

Toyohashi, Japan

Medical equipment

Singapore

1) Effective January 1, 2015, merged to form the new Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit
2) Effective January 1, 2015, merged to form the new High Performance Elastomers
business unit

Merebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg, South Africa

Sydney, Australia
Applications

Disinfection
Protection and preservation of wood,
construction materials, coatings and foodstuffs
Color pigments

The business activities that LANXESS combines in its Advanced
Intermediates segment make it one of the world’s leading suppliers
of industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in the custom
synthesis and manufacturing of chemical precursors and specialty
active ingredients.
Advanced Intermediates
Business units

Advanced Industrial Intermediates 1)
Saltigo

Sites

Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen
and Leverkusen, Germany
Baytown, U.S.A.
Liyang, China
Nagda, India

Applications

Agrochemicals
Automotive
Construction
Dyestuffs
Coatings
Pharmaceuticals

1) E
 ffective January 1, 2015, also includes some activities of the Rubber Chemicals
business unit

Polymer additives
Leather processing products
Tire chemicals
Water treatment products
1) Effective January 1, 2015, merged to form the new Rhein Chemie Additives business unit
2) E
 ffective January 1, 2015, divided between the Advanced Industrial Intermediates and the new
Rhein Chemie Additives business units

69

70

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

­LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World

Europe

North and
Central
America

Asia

South
America

Australia
Africa

Strategy
The LANXESS Group is a globally operating chemicals enterprise that
is characterized particularly by flexible asset structures, a diversified
customer base, a worldwide presence with regional flexibility and
an entrepreneurial management structure. The company’s portfolio
ranges from polymers to industrial, specialty and fine chemicals. Its
development is aligned with four central megatrends:
• The growing demand for mobility, particularly in China, India and
other large emerging economies, and the simultaneous need to
make mobility more environmentally friendly.
• Agriculture, which will have to satisfy the sharp increase in global
food requirements due to a rapidly growing world population.
• Urbanization, resulting worldwide in the migration of people from
rural areas to cities. All these people will need living space, offices
and a robust infrastructure. According to current forecasts, nearly
70% of the world population will be city-dwellers in 2050.
• The rising demand for water due to population growth and climate
change will likely result in water becoming a valuable commodity
in the not-too-distant future.

With the customized products and services offered by their business
units, our segments make a valuable social and economic contribution to mastering the challenges presented by these megatrends.

Structural challenges on the supply side
Whereas we consider long-term demand development to be largely
intact, supported by the aforementioned megatrends, we are facing
three significant structural changes on the supply side:
• The European chemical industry – and thus also LANXESS – is
­increasingly experiencing cost disadvantages in the global competitive arena because of higher raw material and energy prices.
• Import pressure on the European markets is being increased by
suppliers from the emerging economies that are state-owned
or at least supported by state subsidies and by U.S. companies
that benefit from much lower energy costs.
• As the result of expanding local production capacities – also for
high-quality products – export opportunities to the world’s growth
regions are successively declining.

Combined Management Report – Fundamentals
Business | Strategy

Although raw material and energy prices declined during the second
half of 2014, the structural developments are impacting our synthetic
rubber business especially. Overcapacities of some 20% already
exist for the common rubber grades. Additional capacity start-ups,
especially for EPDM and butyl rubbers, could further reinforce this
imbalance.
To be successful in this changed environment in the long term,
we must tangibly improve the efficiency of our business and administrative processes and make LANXESS’s business units more
competitive again.

Extensive realignment program initiated
Against the background of these structural challenges, we initiated
the three-phase “Let’s LANXESS again” program in the third quarter.
We have been working since then on its consistent implementation.
In the first phase of the program, we reduced the number of our
business units from 14 to 10 with effect from January 1, 2015 (see
“Business organization” in this combined management report). We are
also streamlining the administration of our business units and service
functions through cross-functional workforce reductions worldwide and
the consolidation of group functions. Through a more efficient organizational structure, we are fostering market and customer proximity and
also seeking to sustainably improve our cost position. From the end
of 2016, we aim to achieve annual savings of around €150 million.
The first phase of the realignment will result in a reduction of about
1,000 positions worldwide.
As part of the second phase, we have started two excellence initiatives focusing on our operational competitiveness. In a manufacturing
excellence initiative through to the end of 2016, we will be examining
all production processes and facilities with respect to market requirements, potential synergies and the need for temporary or permanent
plant shutdowns. A parallel initiative is focusing on commercial and
supply chain excellence.
We have already initiated the first steps of the program’s third phase
as well, which is closely allied with the second phase. Here, the focus
is on examining portfolio options, as well as improving access to raw
materials and customer markets – also through strategic partnerships.
With the financial headroom gained by “Let’s LANXESS again,” we
aim to redirect our strategic focus beyond 2016 toward growth –
especially in less cyclical businesses.

Capital expenditure strategy
We are striving to increase our international competitiveness through
capital expenditures focused on continuous efficiency improvements
in our production facilities and attractive growth opportunities in profitable markets. The following principles guide our capital expenditure
activities:
• Having focused in recent years on the construction of world-scale
plants in Singapore and China, we intend in the future to target
investment more specifically – with the exercise of strict cost
discipline – on improving the efficiency of existing plants and on
new plants for the Advanced Intermediates and Performance
Chemicals segments.
• We invest in sustainably growing markets that are the strategic
focus for our operating segments.
• Capital expenditures must satisfy clear financial criteria that, at
a minimum, preserve the average return on capital employed
(ROCE) achieved by the LANXESS Group during a normal
­business cycle.
• Capital expenditures are mostly financed out of the cash flow from
operating activities or, if that is insufficient, from other available
liquidity or credit lines.

Financing strategy
Our financing policy is conservative and sustainable. Its cornerstones
are accessing international financial markets and securing long-term
financial flexibility.
In respect of capital requirements and capital coverage, we work to
optimally reconcile competing requirements for profitability, liquidity,
security and autonomy. The debt level is aligned to the ratio systems
used by the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies.
Growth of our company is enabled by its business operations and
specific financing measures. Our goal is to generate positive earnings
contributions along with a positive cash flow.

71

72

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Value management and control system

Earning power

Value Management and Control System
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

€ million

918

1,146

1,223

735

808

%

12.9

13.1

13.4

8.9

10.1

€ million

3,750

4,784

5,442

4,969

5,093

%

17.0

17.2

15.6

5.8

7.9

Days of
inventory
outstanding
(DIO)

Days

69.3

73.7

82.8

70.7

79.1

Days of sales
outstanding
(DSO)

Days

46.3

49.9

47.4

47.8

48.0

Net financial
­liabilities

€ million

913

1,515

1,483

1,731

1,336

1.0x

1.3x

1.2x

2.4x

1.7x

7.4

8.0

8.1

8.1

8.6

EBITDA pre
­exceptionals
EBITDA
margin pre
exceptionals
Capital
employed
ROCE

Net financial
debt ratio
Investment
ratio

%

To achieve our strategic goals, we need specific indicators that we
can use to measure the outcome of our activities. The most important indicator of our financial performance – and thus the company’s
key controlling parameter – is EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) pre exceptionals. We view
­other financial performance ratios such as return on capital employed
(ROCE), days of inventory outstanding (DIO) and net financial debt
ratio as company-specific lead indicators that we monitor but which
are not relevant to steering our business.
The calculation of specific indicators is founded on a reliable, readily
understandable financial and controlling information system. We are
constantly working to further improve the information provided by
the Accounting and Corporate Controlling group functions through
consistent reporting of budget, forecast and actual data.
Our success is largely reflected by our earning power so our control
system is focused on steering this parameter.

The key indicator for steering the earning power of the LANXESS
Group and the individual segments is EBITDA pre exceptionals. It is
calculated from EBIT by adding back depreciation of property, plant
and equipment, amortization of intangible assets and any exceptional
items. The latter are effects of an unusual nature or magnitude. They
may include write-downs, restructuring expenses, expenses for the
design and implementation of IT projects and expenses for portfolio
adjustments. Grants and subsidies from third parties for the acquisition and construction of property, plant and equipment are accounted
for as deferred income using the gross method. In this respect, no
adjustments other than for gross depreciation and amortization are
made when calculating EBITDA pre exceptionals.
Every operational decision or achievement is judged in the short and
long term by its sustainable impact on EBITDA pre exceptionals. As
part of the annual budget and planning process, targets are set for
this benchmark of our company’s success, which are then taken into
account in determining employees’ variable income components.
We use EBITDA pre exceptionals as our key controlling parameter
because it facilitates assessment of the company’s development over
several reporting periods.
Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the Group’s
­controlling parameters because they do not permit any direct conclusions about our profitability. Volatile raw material prices are a hallmark of
our industry and their fluctuation throughout the year impacts our selling prices. This influences sales but, other than short-term effects, has
largely no impact on the margins that are significant to our profitability.
We therefore set no sales targets, either for the short or medium term.

Company-specific lead indicators
Lead indicators support the timely identification of material changes in
the company’s earnings, asset and financial position and the initiation
of appropriate measures.
Our annual budget and planning process delivers key values for the
Group’s earning power and our ability to finance operations from our
own funds as the starting point for steering the company. This information is used, for example, to make financing and capital expenditure
decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes in market conditions

Combined Management Report – Fundamentals
Value management and control system

and the competitive environment, operational forecasts are prepared
twice each year as the basis for updating the full-year budget and the
associated key values we use to control the Group. In addition, regular
forecasts of the key values for our earning power are prepared.
Certain parameters used in budgets and forecasts are defined centrally and applied uniformly because they have a major influence on
the key values. Strategic raw materials, like butadiene, have a crucial
role in forecasting. The ongoing development of procurement prices
is significant to the timely adjustment of selling prices. Even regional
differences in the availability of raw materials over a specific period of
time may become significant. Given the regional diversification of our
production sites and customer markets, exchange rate development
also affects the profitability resulting from sales and cost trends, with
corresponding repercussions for pricing and hedging strategies. In
addition, we draw on continuously updated growth forecasts for our
customer industries and the regions where we do business in order
to prepare and review sales and capital expenditure decisions.

Cost of capital
Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in our case,
from the return on a long-term German government bond plus a
risk premium for industrial companies in the same risk category as
LANXESS. The cost of equity reflects the return expected by investors
from an investment in LANXESS shares. Equity investors demand a
risk premium due to the greater risk involved in acquiring shares than
in buying risk-free government bonds. This is known as a market risk
premium and is calculated using the long-term excess return generated
by a stock investment over an investment in risk-free government bonds
and adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk of an investment in LANXESS stock compared with that of the market as a whole.
In 2014, ROCE was 7.9% – against 5.8% in 2013 – and thus almost
level with our weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after adjustment for comparability.

Capital employment
Profitability
Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented as a profitability ratio at Group level which indicates how efficiently we utilize
our capital. This makes it an important criterion in capital expenditure
decisions, for example.

			 Ebit pre exceptionals
ROCE =	 
			 
Capital employed
Capital employed =	 Total assets
Less deferred tax assets
Less interest-free liabilities

Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for pensions
and other post-employment benefits), income tax liabilities, trade
payables and items included under “other non-financial liabilities.” In
addition, we use a simplified variant of ROCE, called “business ROCE,”
to evaluate the performance of our business units.

To optimize our working capital at the operational level, we use two
key performance indicators: DSO (days of sales outstanding) and DIO
(days of inventory outstanding). These describe receivables in relation
to sales and inventories in relation to the cost of goods sold for the
previous quarter. From the reporting year, DIO replaces the previously
used ratio DSI (days of sales in inventories). In 2014, DIO was at 79.1
days (2013: 70.7 days) and DSO at 48.0 days (2013: 47.8 days).
Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject to rigorous
capital discipline and are aligned systematically with those product
areas with the greatest potential for success. We prioritize investment
projects on the basis of financial indicators such as the pay-off period,
net present value and ROCE. For more detailed information about
our capital expenditure guidelines, please see “Capital expenditure
strategy” above.

73

74

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Debt
The net financial debt ratio, which we use solely at Group level, is
defined as net financial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre exceptionals. ­Net financial liabilities are the total of current and non-current
financial liabilities, less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets.
The financial liabilities reflected in the statement of financial position
are adjusted here for liabilities for accrued interest. Due to lower net
financial liabilities at December 31, 2014, the net financial debt ratio
decreased to 1.7, against 2.4 at the previous year’s reporting date.
Our net financial liabilities declined by €395 million to €1,336 ­million.
Moreover, at Group level, provisions for pensions and other postemployment benefits are considered components of debt. They rose
by €347 million compared with the end of 2013, to €1,290 million.
Net Financial Liabilities
€ million

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Non-current financial
­liabilities

1,302

1,465

2,167

1,649

1,698

176

633

167

668

182

Current financial liabilities
Less
Liabilities for accrued
interest

(41)

(55)

(54)

(53)

(26)

Cash and cash equivalents

(160)

(178)

(386)

(427)

(418)

Near-cash assets

(364)

(350)

(411)

(106)

(100)

913

1,515

1,483

1,731

1,336

Procurement and production
Procurement
LANXESS uses its centrally managed global procurement organization
– Global Procurement & Logistics – to ensure a reliable supply of raw
and other materials and services. Global Categories closely coordinate
with our business units to pool their requirements in the raw materials,
technical goods, packaging materials, energy, services and logistics
segments. Our worldwide procurement network helps them leverage
purchasing synergies, so that we can move efficiently in the market and
exploit price advantages. We avoid delivery bottlenecks or reliance on
individual suppliers using strategies like multiple sourcing. As a result,
we experienced no delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks in the reporting
period that had a material effect on our business development.

Procuring chemical raw materials is a significant priority at LANXESS.
Our aim is to secure our supplies on the basis of long-term contracts.
The availability of raw materials has always been a crucial factor in
facility location decisions. For our butyl rubber plant in Singapore, for
example, we source a large proportion of the most important feedstocks via nearby pipelines. We have taken the same approach to
sourcing the raw materials for our plant to manufacture neodymiumbased performance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR), also in Singapore.
We procure key raw materials like butadiene and utilities in the form of
steam and biomass from the immediate vicinity at several of our other
production sites, too. In this way, we not only minimize the costs and
environmental impact of our transportation activities, but reduce the
risk of delivery shortfalls caused by transportation issues in particular.
Our biggest suppliers of chemical raw materials in 2014 included
BASF, Bayer, BP, Braskem, Evonik, ExxonMobil, INEOS, LyondellBasell,
Nova Chemicals, PT Petrokimia Butadiene Indonesia, Sabic, Shell
Chemicals and Total.
Among the most important strategic raw materials by far for our production operations in 2014 were ammonia, benzene, butadiene,
caustic soda, cyclohexane, ethylene, isobutylene, propylene, styrene
and toluene. In all, strategic raw materials accounted for a purchasing
volume of about €3.0 billion in fiscal 2014 (2013: about €3.2 billion),­ 
or around 75% of the LANXESS Group’s total expenditure for raw
materials and goods in 2014, which amounted to approximately
€4.0 billion (2013: about €4.2 billion). Around 78% (2013: 83%)
of our total expenditure for raw materials and goods went to suppliers
from countries in the upper third of the Country Sustainability Ranking. Of the remaining 22%, nearly two thirds were accounted for by
supplies from Brazil, China and India. Our total procurement volume
in 2014 was around €6.2 billion (2013: about €6.2 billion).
Across the LANXESS Group, a global procurement directive defines
how our employees should behave toward suppliers and their employees. An internal training academy supports the training and ongoing
professional development of our employees and ensures the high
quality of our procurement processes. The training content includes our
seven-step strategic procurement process, negotiating techniques and
intercultural awareness, as well as time, supplier and risk management.
We systematically apply best-practice processes. These include
­e-procurement tools, such as e-catalogs, auctions and electronic marketplaces, many of which are integrated into our internal IT systems.
In 2014, about 66% of all items ordered (2013: around 64%) were
handled in e-procurement systems.

Combined Management Report – Fundamentals
Value management and control system | Procurement and production

Our HSEQ management process begins when raw materials and
services are procured. In the reporting year, our procurement transactions involved more than 16,500 suppliers. Based on the principles
of the U.N. Global Compact, the International Labour Organization
(ILO), Responsible Care® and other corporate responsibility codes, we
expect our suppliers to comply with all applicable national and other
laws and regulations on safeguarding the environment, ensuring health
and safety in the workplace and using appropriate labor and hiring
practices. These criteria, which are defined in our Supplier Code of
Conduct, have a key role in our selection and evaluation of suppliers.
As a founder of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, we aim
to enhance supply chain transparency and thus further minimize procurement risks. The goal of this initiative, membership of which rose to­
12 international chemical companies in the reporting year, is to develop
and implement a global audit process to assess and continuously
improve sustainability activities along the chemical industry supply
chain, focusing on human rights, child labor, working standards, occupational safety, environmental protection and business integrity. As
the assessment and audit results are shared within the initiative, we
had access to a substantially larger number of sustainability assessments (more than 2,600) and audit reports (286) at the end of 2014.
Countries such as Brazil, China and India remained the focus of the
93 audits conducted during the reporting period. These identified a
continuing need for action in respect of labor and human rights and
occupational safety. The first joint TfS Supplier Day held in Shanghai,
China, in October 2014 attracted around 350 participants. It was
used to explain to the attending suppliers the growing importance
of a sustainable supply chain to LANXESS and the other members
of the initiative.

pore; and Wuxi, China. LANXESS also has other production sites in
Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India,
Italy, Japan, Russia, South Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom and
the United States. For a detailed breakdown of our production sites
by segment, please see “The segments in brief” in this combined
management report.
The following significant changes occurred in our global production
network in 2014:
• The High Performance Elastomers business unit has a new
production line for Baypren solid polychloroprene rubber at our
Dormagen, Germany, site.
• The High Performance Materials business unit opened a
state-of-the-art compounding facility for engineering plastics with
an annual capacity of around 20,000 tons in Porto Feliz, Brazil.
• At our site in Antwerp, Belgium, the High Performance Materials
business unit commissioned a new world-scale plant for polyamide plastics with an annual capacity of some 90,000 tons.
• LANXESS subsidiary Bond-Laminates GmbH, which is assigned
to the High Performance Materials business unit, completed
capacity expansion measures for the Tepex high-performance
composite at its headquarters in Brilon, Germany.
• At the site in Leverkusen, Germany, the Liquid Purification
T
­ echnologies business unit commissioned a state-of-the-art,
­food-compatible filling and packaging facility and an additional
production line for weakly acidic cation exchange resins.
Including the measures described above, our cash outflows for capital
expenditures came to €614 million in 2014. Details are given under
“Capital expenditures” in the “Statement of financial position and
financial condition” section of this combined management report.

Production
LANXESS is one of the world’s major producers of chemical and
polymer products. Our production facilities make anywhere from very
small batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty and
fine chemicals and polymers in quantities of several ten thousand tons.
Each of our production facilities is organizationally assigned to an
individual business unit. The most important production sites are at
Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany; Antwerp,
Belgium; Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands; Orange, United States; Sarnia,
Canada; Triunfo and Duque de Caxias, Brazil; Jhagadia, India; Singa-

A strike at our butyl rubber facility in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, in March
and April 2014 resulted in a production stoppage of nine weeks in
total. During this time, we supplied our customers from our butyl
­rubber plants in Sarnia, Canada, and Singapore.

75

76

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Sales organization and customers

Customers

Sales organization

Because of our broad offering, we have business relationships with a
large number of customers all over the world. These customers need
an individualized, well-focused approach, which we are able to provide
because our sales organizations are managed through the business
units. Individual sales and marketing strategies are reviewed on the
basis of regular customer satisfaction surveys.

We sell our products all over the world, to several thousand customers
in more than 150 countries across all continents. LANXESS’s longstanding customer base includes leaders in each of its user industries.
We have well-established customer relationships in all sales regions. To
meet our customers’ needs, we have set up very flexible marketing and
sales structures. We manage our sales throughout the world through
49 companies owned by LANXESS itself. In countries where we do
not yet have our own company, we work with local sales partners.
To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they receive
individual support, each of our business units manages its own sales
organization. Another competitive advantage is derived from having
52 of our own production sites in 17 countries. Wherever possible,
customers are supplied from production sites in the same region,
yielding advantages in terms of time and costs.
In 2014, we expanded our e-business activities in purchasing, sales
and logistics. Altogether, more than 1,000,000 orders and the
­respective automated follow-up notices were handled as e-business.
This capability is provided by the “LANXESS one” Internet portal and
the system-to-system connections via ELEMICA. We will continue to
expand this process, which provides benefits for all involved, by adding
further partners and technical services. The net sales invoice values
accounted for by e-business came to approximately €1.8 billion, an
increase of about 3% on the previous year.
Selling costs in the reporting year came to 9.3% of LANXESS Group
sales, up 0.2 percentage points on the prior-year level of 9.1%.
The table below shows selling costs by segment over the last five years.

LANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires, automotive,
plastics, chemicals, agrochemicals, construction, electronics, leather
and footwear, pharmaceuticals, food, water treatment and furniture.
Shares of Sales by Industry Sector
%

2014

Tires

~ 25

Automotive

~ 20

Chemicals

~ 15

Agrochemicals

~ 10

Construction, electrical/electronics, leather/footwear

~ 15

Others (cumulative share)

~ 15

In fiscal 2014, our top ten customers accounted for about 22% of
total sales (2013: 24%). None of our customers accounted for more
than 10% of Group sales. 50 (2013: 57) customers accounted for
annual sales in excess of €20 million.
The number of customers in each segment varies widely. The
­Performance Polymers segment had some 3,600 customers in 2014
(2013: 3,500), while Advanced Intermediates and Performance
Chemicals had about 3,100 (2013: 3,000) and around 11,300
(2013: 11,600), respectively. This information is based on the number
of customer accounts in each segment. Each segment includes all
customer groups and sales categories. However, one customer may
do business with more than one segment.

Selling Costs
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

646

732

763

755

742

9.1

8.3

8.4

9.1

9.3

Performance Polymers

216

262

284

286

277

Advanced Intermediates

122

127

125

126

123

Performance Chemicals

300

320

335

328

330

8

23

19

15

12

Selling costs (€ million)
% of sales
Breakdown by segment

Reconciliation

The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance Chemicals segment, as well as its broad customer base, reflect the way in
which its business often involves custom-tailored solutions in specialty
chemicals. By contrast, the substantially lower number of customers
in the Performance Polymers segment, which nonetheless generates
relatively high sales, is typical of the synthetic rubber products business. On account of the extensive customer base, no segment can
be considered dependent on just a few customers.

Combined Management Report – Fundamentals
Sales organization and customers | Research and development

Research and development
Research and development makes an important contribution toward
increasing our competitiveness and expanding our product portfolio
through the development of innovative products and processes as well
as the ongoing optimization of existing production processes. In 2014,
we redefined our focus in the course of realigning our ­decentral and
central research and development activities. We are now concentrating
on projects with a short- to medium-term time horizon for the products
and processes in our core businesses.

Organizational focus
Our research programs are directly and consistently aligned with the
needs of our customers in the end markets relevant to our businesses.
For example, the business units in the Performance Polymers ­segment
are strengthening the focus of their activities on optimizing their products and product quality, as well as on developing new products.
Business units with most of their products in very mature markets,
such as the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit in the
Advanced Intermediates segment, concentrate on continuous process
optimization to improve their production facilities and processes.
Our central research unit – the Production, Technology, Safety &
­Environment Group Function – complements the business units’
­research work with cross-business unit projects to ensure that potential
synergies are exploited to the full and innovations can be applied in
various LANXESS units.
Research concentrates on both process and product innovation, which
are handled by separate units.
In the area of process innovation, the emphasis is on planning new
processes and integrating new technologies into existing production
processes with the aim of achieving cost and technology leadership.
One focus is on reviewing current production processes using mathematical and experimental methods in order to pinpoint optimization
potential. In this way, for example, we have identified and in some
cases achieved considerable savings on raw materials and energy.
We have also succeeded in further reducing our operating costs by
implementing process control concepts that include online analytics
in a number of plants. These concepts enable us to run our plants
even closer to the optimum operating point.

Product innovation is focused on generating new products and new
applications for existing products as well as on product modifications.
The development of new products is more broadly based than in the
business units, the main topics are generally applicable to multiple
business units. Here, too, our research goals are derived from the
needs of our customers in the markets that are relevant to LANXESS.
Our main research and development units are at the sites in Leverkusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen, Germany; London, Canada;
and Qingdao and Wuxi, China. Testing covers, for example, highperformance rubbers and engineering plastics for lightweight automotive engineering applications. In Hong Kong, we operate a center
for engineering plastics to strengthen our relations with automakers
in the Asia-Pacific growth region.

Main research and development projects
In the reporting year, the Performance Polymers segment launched
an innovative crosslinking technology for EPDM rubber using resol
synthetic resin with zeolite as the new coactivator. This not only results
in high vulcanization rates but also in particularly efficient crosslinking.
Alongside the established vulcanization processes using sulfur and
peroxide, the main crosslinking technologies for EPDM, resol vulcanization represents a promising alternative for processing this synthetic
rubber. We have also developed a new heat-stabilized polyamide 6 for
use in direct long fiber thermoplastic (DLFT) flow molding. This is the
first customized polyamide 6 for this process and, unlike conventional
long fiber compression molding compounds based on polyamide 6,
it has outstanding flow properties and can be processed fume-free at
extrusion temperatures of around 300 degrees Celsius. It therefore
extends the spectrum of use for the process, which was previously
dominated by polypropylene, to include applications that must display
the typical advantages of polyamide 6.
The Advanced Intermediates segment has introduced Baynox Extra, a
highly concentrated liquid stabilizer for biodiesel. This easily metered
additive prolongs the stability of biodiesel produced from renewable
raw materials, even if it contains polyunsaturated fatty acids. The combination of our proven antioxidants Baynox and Baynox Plus has an
active ingredient content of 50% and prevents premature aging. As
the stabilizer does not crystallize out, it can be used without any problems even at temperatures of minus ten degrees Celsius, therefore
eliminating the need to heat the pre-tank.

77

78

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

The Performance Chemicals segment also brought a number of innovations to market in the reporting year. LANXESS has developed a new
class of retanning materials designated Levotan X-Biomer, for which
it has filed patent applications. These products make up a complete
portfolio for all key steps in the retanning process and offer an alternative to synthetic retanning materials. All the products are based on
biodegradable polymers derived from renewable raw materials and are
given their functionality for retanning applications in a biotechnological process. They can be used to produce chrome-tanned leathers
(wet blues) which meet even the stringent technical requirements for
automotive applications and children’s shoes, for example. Moreover,
the use of Levotan X-Biomer reduces the environmental impact of the
tanning process in many ways. In June 2014, LANXESS also launched
its new Lewabrane RO S range of products, initially comprising three
grades of spiral-wound membrane elements for reverse osmosis, which
were specially developed for seawater desalination. These products
already successfully completed important field tests prior to the launch.
Our central research unit has also developed a new technology which
makes it possible to directly bond elastomers like EPDM to polyamide­
components in a single step during vulcanization. No adhesion promoter or primer is needed, thus reducing the number of steps involved
in the overall process.

The decrease in research and development expenses already reflects
the first savings achieved by our “Advance” and “Let’s LANXESS
again” programs.
The table below shows research and development expenditures in
the past five years.
Research and Development Expenses

Research and development
expenses (€ million)
% of sales

Cost trend and employees
Our total research and development expenses in 2014 decreased
by 14.0% on the prior year to €160 million, or 2.0% of sales (2013:
€186 million, or 2.2% of sales). The Butyl Rubber, High Performance
Materials, Saltigo, High Performance Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers
business units accounted for the largest share of these expenditures in
2014 at 53% (2013: 59%). Saltigo, Butyl Rubber, Liquid Purification
Technologies, Material Protection Products and High Performance
Elastomers were the business units most active in research in terms
of their ratios of research and development expenses to sales.

2011

2012

2013

2014

116

144

192

186

160

1.6

1.6

2.1

2.2

2.0

At the end of 2014, we employed 708 people – against 931 in
2013 – in our research and development laboratories worldwide.
In our central research unit, the number of employees declined to
309 from 383 on December 31, 2013. Headcount in the decentral
units decreased from 548 in 2013 to 399.
Number of Employees in Research and Development

Year end
% of Group employees

The research-intensive product and process development activities
coordinated by the Production, Technology, Safety & Environment
Group Function are conducted mainly via alliances with universities
and research institutes. Generating knowledge in this way is substantially more efficient and cost-effective than if we were to maintain
our own resources for this purpose. In 2014, we had a total of 154
(2013: 194) major research and development alliances, 41 (2013:
73) of which were with universities, 79 (2013: 72) with suppliers or
customers, and 34 (2013: 52) with research institutes.

2010

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

519

731

843

931

708

3.5

4.5

4.9

5.4

4.3

Fields of activity and patent strategy
Within the context of our global realignment, we are focusing our
research and development activities on market-driven core projects. In
2014, we conducted around 210 projects (2013: 260), around 120
of which (2013: 150) aimed to design new products and ­applications
or improve existing ones. Some 90 projects (2013: around 110)
concerned process technology issues with a view to reducing costs,
improving efficiency or increasing capacity. We plan to have roughly
20% of the research and development projects we started in 2014
in the market or technical implementation stages by the end of 2015
(2013: about 20%).
The results of our activities are protected by patents, where this is
possible and expedient. In the course of 2014, we submitted 94
priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, 2014, the full
patent portfolio included approximately 1,010 patent families covering
around 7,360 property rights.

Combined Management Report – Fundamentals
Research and development | Corporate responsibility

Corporate responsibility
As an international specialty chemicals group, we bear a major responsibility toward people and the environment. Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense of responsibility, which is also a key
component of our strategy. Safety, environmental protection, social
responsibility, quality and commercial efficiency are all key corporate
goals at LANXESS. Our products and activities enable us to make a
significant contribution worldwide to supporting our customers and
improving people’s quality of life. Our responsibility spans the entire
supply and value creation chain – from the global procurement of
raw materials and product development, through production, storage and transport, to use and disposal. Moreover, all our corporate
responsibility (CR) activities must be linked to our core business or
to our available expertise.
We consider compliance with laws and ethical principles to be the
basis for sustainable corporate governance. The “Code for Legal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS,” which is applicable
throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards and gives our
employees advice and guidance on complying with these standards.

As of December 31, 2014, our matrix certificate covered 46 companies with 76 sites in 23 countries. In 2014, the new butyl rubber
production facility in Singapore was included in the certificate for the
first time as planned. Our sites in the United States have also received
confirmation of their certification to RC 14001 (RC = Responsible
Care®). In addition, we have implemented an ISO 50001-certified
­energy management system in Germany, which was recertified in
2014.
On account of our realignment activities, we have revised our strategy
of global certification of the energy management system in favor of
a regional certification strategy. In future, certification decisions will
be taken locally on the basis of regulatory requirements. In line with
this new strategy, we are preparing for certification at sites in Belgium
and China in 2015.

Environment data

We have been supporting the Responsible Care® initiative since 2006
and, by signing the revised Responsible Care® Global Charter in 2014,
we reaffirmed our commitment to the visions and ethical principles of
the initiative in the year under review. We are also committed to the
established principles of the world’s largest corporate social responsibility initiative, the U.N Global Compact.

We use an electronic data capture system for the systematic global
recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety
and environmental protection. Data for all indicators except the LTIFR
(lost time injury frequency rate) are gathered only at those production
sites in which the company has a holding of more than 50%. In the
year under review, PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft assessed our HSE indicators for 2014 and the necessary
data recording processes in the course of a business audit, again with
a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating.

Integrated management system

Social commitment

At LANXESS, a central management system provides the necessary global structures to ensure responsible commercial practices.
Worldwide, we apply internal directives and operating procedures
together with the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 international standards
for quality and environmental management. External, independent
experts regularly audit the progress of system integration at new sites
and the performance of our management system worldwide. Confirmation of our compliance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 takes
the form of a global matrix certificate. We successfully completed a
follow-up audit in 2014.

Our not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science education in schools. The LANXESS education initiative is the Group-wide
platform for these activities and has been used to establish relevant
projects at almost all LANXESS sites. Since its launch in 2008, we
have invested a total of more than €6 million worldwide in activities
which have reached tens of thousands of children, adolescents and
young adults.

79

80

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Legal environment
There were no changes in the legal environment in 2014 that would
have had a material impact on the earnings, asset and financial ­position
of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG.

Business conditions
GDP and Chemical Production in 2014
Change vs. prior year in real terms (%)
NAFTA

2.3
2.4

Latin America

0.8
(1.1)

EMEA

1.6
2.4

Germany

1.5
(0.9)

Asia-Pacific

3.9
5.6

World

(2)

0

Gross domestic product

2.4
3.6
2

4

6

Chemical production

as by the renewed escalation of the conflicts in the Middle East. The
German economy started 2014 in robust mood but lost momentum
as the year progressed in light of the aforementioned developments.
At year end, it had grown by 1.5%. In Latin America, the weak growth
of the region’s two major economies – Brazil and Argentina – saw
gross domestic product increase by only a slim 0.8%.
In 2014, the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar
developed counter to the prior-year trend. Monetary policy in both
currency areas remained largely unchanged compared with a year
earlier and was again characterized by very low interest rates. While
the U.S. Federal Reserve ended its bond-buying program toward the
end of the year, the European Central Bank agreed to buy potentially
unlimited numbers of certain government bonds. Against this background, the euro started 2014 at US$1.38, with the U.S. currency
mostly remaining at this level on average throughout the first half
of the year. A substantial devaluation of the euro began in July and
continued into October, interrupted by only slight upturns. Although
the exchange rate subsequently displayed more substantial upturns,
the downward slide of the euro continued unabated. At year end, the
euro cost US$1.21 – an increase of 11.6% in the value of the U.S.
dollar in 2014. The euro’s average rate for the year was unchanged
year on year at US$1.33. Due to the regional positioning of our business, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a positive effect on our earnings. Centralized hedging activities limit any impact that cannot be
neutralized by ensuring that production and sales take place in the
same currency area.
Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro

The economic environment
1.50

Global economic growth weakened slightly during the course of 2014
yet showed an increase of 2.4%, which was just above the prior-year
level of 2.1%. Economic development in the Asia-Pacific region resulted
in growth of 3.9% on the prior year and was driven by the momentum in
the Chinese economic region, which nonetheless lost pace as the year
progressed. Gross domestic product in the NAFTA region increased by
2.3% in the reporting year, although development in the first quarter
was hampered by the long winter period. The economy of the EMEA
region grew by 1.6%. It was impacted by the need for structural reform
in the eurozone and the associated debate concerning the financing of
sovereign debt. Economic development was held back by the crisis in
Ukraine and the resulting economic sanctions against Russia as well

1.40

1.30

1.20

1.10

Jan.

2014
2013

Feb.

March

April

May

Average 2014
Average 2013

June

July

Aug.

Sep.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Legal environment | Business conditions

On the raw material markets, prices declined over the course of the reporting year. We are particularly affected by the prices of petrochemical
raw materials as they have a material impact on our production costs.
The price of our most important strategic raw material, butadiene,
declined over the course of the year – especially from the beginning
of the second half. Reflecting the development of the oil price, the
prices of feedstocks such as benzene and toluene also decreased.

The chemical industry
The general economic trends had an impact on the chemical industry
as well, where production worldwide grew by 3.6 %. The Asia-Pacific
region posted the strongest growth at 5.6%, supported above all by
the development of the Chinese economic region. In the reporting
year, chemical production in the NAFTA region increased by 2.4%. In
the Latin America region, chemical industry production declined by
1.1% after expanding by a slim 0.3% in 2013. The chemical sector
in the EMEA region posted growth of 2.4% whereas the industry’s
business in Germany receded by 0.9%.

Evolution of major user industries
Global tire production increased by 3.2% in 2014, which was on a
par with the prior year. This growth was centered on the Asia-Pacific
region, which expanded by 4.5%. However, the region’s performance
was dampened by development in the Chinese economic region,
which was held back by the debate in the United States concerning
punitive tariffs on tire imports from China. Despite the Ukraine crisis
and the resurgent conflicts in the Middle East, the EMEA region posted
growth of 2.1%. In Germany, the tire industry expanded production
by 5.6%. Compared with other regions, growth in the NAFTA region
was more restrained, reaching just 1.9% despite a recovery in both
the original equipment and replacement tire businesses. In the Latin
America region, where the original equipment business in particular
displayed weakness, tire production saw a substantial decline of 4.5%.
The pace of growth in global automotive production slowed slightly to
2.0% in 2014, compared with 2.7% in 2013. In percentage terms, the
growth driver was the NAFTA region, which posted a robust increase
of 4.6%. Despite the crisis in Ukraine and the associated decline in
automotive production in Eastern Europe, production in the EMEA
region expanded by 3.7%. Stronger local demand and sustained high

exports supported automotive production in Germany and resulted in
growth of 2.2%. On account of weaker development in the Chinese
economic region and other Asian countries, automobile production
in the Asia-Pacific region increased by only 2.2% on the prior year.
Business development in the Latin America region in 2014 was disappointing. On account of the economic crisis in Argentina and slow
development in Brazil, production contracted by 17.2%.
Global production of chemicals for the agricultural industry posted
only modest growth of 1.8% in the reporting year. Development was
positive especially in the Asia-Pacific region, where growth was 2.7%.
In the EMEA region, production increased by 2.2%. By contrast, a
decrease of 0.3% saw production in Germany stay just below the
prior-year level. On account of the long winter period at the beginning
of the year, an effect that was reinforced by high inventory levels at the
end of the previous year, business in the NAFTA region contracted
by 1.1%. Production volumes in the Latin America region decreased
by the same extent.
The construction industry worldwide posted growth of 3.3%. The
Asia-Pacific region saw expansion of 5.6% and thus continued on the
previous year’s growth course. This trend was buoyed by infrastructure
investments in the Chinese economic region. In Germany, momentum
remained positive at 2.8%, setting the country slightly apart from the
EMEA region where, despite the critical developments in Ukraine
and the Middle East, growth of 1.7% was recorded. The industry’s
expansion was slightly stronger in the NAFTA region, closing out the
reporting year with growth of 2.4%. By contrast, construction industry
production in the Latin America region barely improved, remaining
below the prior-year level for growth of 0.6%.
Evolution of Major User Industries in 2014
Change vs. prior year
in real terms (%)
NAFTA

Chemicals

Tires

Automotive

Agrochemicals

Con­
struction

2.4

1.9

4.6

(1.1)

2.4

(1.1)

(4.5)

(17.2)

(1.1)

0.6

2.4

2.1

3.7

2.2

1.7

(0.9)

5.6

2.2

(0.3)

2.8

Asia-Pacific

5.6

4.5

2.2

2.7

5.6

World

3.6

3.2

2.0

1.8

3.3

Latin America
EMEA
Germany

81

82

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Key events influencing the company’s business

Comparison of forecast and actual business

Fiscal 2014 was characterized by the persistently difficult competitive
situation in our synthetic rubber businesses. In principle, the decline
in procurement costs for key raw materials, especially butadiene,
resulted in corresponding adjustments to selling prices. Additional
price pressure was caused by an increase in production capacities as
new suppliers entered the market and established providers expanded
their existing capacities. Exchange rate developments had a positive
effect, as did reduced energy costs due also to the lower oil price.

In the combined management report for fiscal 2013, we had predicted a slight year-on-year increase in EBITDA pre exceptionals in
2014. We narrowed this guidance in our interim reports for 2014.
The actual result of €808 million was 9.9% above the prior-year result
of €735 million and roughly in the middle of the guidance range given
in our interim reports for 2014.

In March and April 2014, a strike at our site in Zwijndrecht, Belgium,
resulted in a nine-week production stoppage with a negative impact
on the earnings of our Performance Polymers segment.
In the year under review, we initiated an extensive corporate realignment program. Against this background, a decision was taken in the
second quarter to increase the capital stock of LANXESS AG and immediately implemented. This yielded gross proceeds of €433 million,­
some of which was used to finance our “Let’s LANXESS again” global
realignment program. This program comprises three phases: competitiveness of the business and administrative structure, operational
competitiveness, and competitiveness of the business portfolio. Further information about “Let’s LANXESS again” can be found in the
“Strategy” section of this combined management report.

In line with our forecast for the LANXESS Group, the Performance
­Polymers and Advanced Intermediates segments slightly increased
EBITDA pre exceptionals on the prior year by 0.8% and 5.9% to
€392 million and €303 million, respectively. By contrast, our Performance Chemicals segment posted earnings of €274 million, which
were substantially higher than the prior-year earnings of €231 million.
For LANXESS AG, we had assumed net income in 2014 slightly above
the level of the previous year. However, due mainly to the reduction in
income from investments in affiliated companies, net income of minus
€85 million was substantially below the prior-year value of €35 million.

Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2014
Forecast for 2014 in Annual Report 2013

Actual 2014

Slight year-on-year increase (2013: €735 million)

€808 million

Slight improvement in demand from the main customer
industries – automotive and tires; most dynamic growth
in the Asian growth markets; continued strong competition
for synthetic rubber products

Persistently difficult competitive situation for
synthetic rubbers; 1.4% decrease in volumes
(EBITDA pre exceptionals: €392 million)

Advanced Intermediates

Good customer demand for agrochemical products;
more scheduled plant shutdowns in 2014

Good demand for agrochemicals; 2.1% increase in volumes
(EBITDA pre exceptionals: €303 million)

Performance Chemicals

Slight improvement in demand;
more dynamic growth in the construction industry

2.8% increase in volumes
(EBITDA pre exceptionals: €274 million)

Varying price trends for individual strategic raw materials;
overall trend toward higher procurement costs with
continuing volatility

Lower raw material prices with continued volatility

At prior-year level (€624 million)

€614 million

Business development: Group
EBITDA pre exceptionals
Business development: segments
Performance Polymers

Raw material prices

Financial condition: Group
Cash outflows for capital expenditures

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Key events influencing the company’s business | Comparison of forecast and actual business |
Business performance of the LANXESS Group

Business performance of the lanxess Group
• Group-wide realignment initiated
•P
 rice-driven sales decline of 3.5% at Group level largely due to
raw materials
•P
 ersistently difficult competitive situation for synthetic rubbers;
good demand for agrochemicals
•E
 BITDA pre exceptionals up 9.9% to €808 million
•E
 BITDA margin pre exceptionals at 10.1%, after 8.9% in 2013
•N
 et income and earnings per share improved to €47 million and
€0.53, respectively, against a net loss of €159 million and minus
€1.91 in the prior year
•D
 ebt reduced by almost €400 million compared with the prior
year

In 2014, LANXESS Group sales declined by 3.5% from €8,300 million in the prior year to €8,006 million. The small increase in volumes
raised sales by 0.4%. The effect of lower selling prices, which caused
sales to decline by 3.5% percent, was compounded by mildly un­
favorable exchange rate developments and slightly negative portfolio
effects. After adjustment for currency and portfolio effects, operational
sales decreased by 3.1%.
Effects on Sales
€ million/%
8,300

+0.4%
(3.5)%

8,006
(0.3)%

(0.1)%

Key Financial Data
€ million

2013

2014

Change %

Sales

8,300

8,006

(3.5)

Gross profit

1,548

1,588

2.6
9.9

EBITDA pre exceptionals

735

808

8.9%

10.1%

–

624

644

3.2

Operating result (EBIT)
pre exceptionals

288

402

39.6

Operating result (EBIT)

(93)

218

> 100

EBITDA margin pre exceptionals
EBITDA

EBIT margin

(1.1)%

2.7%

–

Financial result

(146)

(138)

5.5

Income before income taxes

(239)

80

> 100

Net income (loss)

(159)

47

> 100

Earnings per share (€)

(1.91)

0.53

> 100

Group Sales
€ million
2014

8,006

2013

8,300

2012

9,094

2011

8,775

2010

7,120
2,000

Price

Volume

Currency

Portfolio

2014

Sales in our Performance Polymers segment decreased by a significant
8.0% in 2014 and thus substantially impacted LANXESS’s business
performance. The development of selling prices was due especially
to lower procurement prices for raw materials and to the persistently
challenging competitive situation. Volumes were also down year on
year. Negative currency effects and an unfavorable portfolio effect resulting from the sale of the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen,
Germany, had a minor impact.
The Advanced Intermediates segment posted a slim sales decrease
of 0.2%. Here, the positive development of volumes compensated for
a negative effect arising from the decline in selling prices. Exchange
rate developments had a slightly negative effect.

Sales and earnings

0

2013

4,000

6,000

8,000

10,000

Sales in our Performance Chemicals segment advanced by 2.9%
due to higher volumes and a slight year-on-year increase in selling
prices. A net negative impact was caused by minor portfolio effects
from acquisitions made in the previous year, which were assigned to
the Material Protection Products and Functional Chemicals business
units, as well as from unfavorable exchange rate developments.

83

84

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Sales by Segment
€ million

2013

2014

Change
%

Proportion
of Group
sales
%

Performance Polymers

4,486

4,128

(8.0)

51.6

Advanced Intermediates

1,647

1,643

(0.2)

20.5

Performance Chemicals

2,132

2,193

2.9

27.4

35

42

20.0

0.5

8,300

8,006

(3.5)

100.0

Reconciliation

Gross profit was €1,588 million, up by €40 million or 2.6% against
the prior year. The gross profit margin rose from 18.7% to 19.8%.
Volume expansion and lower manufacturing costs contributed to the
positive development, This effect was opposed by the decline in selling prices, which slightly outweighed the positive impact of lower raw
material costs. Exchange rate developments had a positive effect on
the gross profit of the LANXESS Group.

EBITDA and operating result (EBIT)
LANXESS slightly raised sales in North America, but registered ­declines
in the other regions. Latin America and EMEA (excluding Germany)
were particularly affected, posting sales decreases of 11.1% and
4.5%, respectively. The Asia-Pacific and Germany regions proved
comparatively robust with declines of 3.1% and 1.2%, respectively.
Sales performance across the regions was largely dependent on the
development of the Performance Polymers segment.

Order book status
Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreements on fixed
volumes or prices. Instead, our business is characterized by long-standing relationships with customers and revolving master agreements.
Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders with relatively
short lead times which do not provide a basis for forward-looking
statements about our capacity utilization or volumes. The business
is managed primarily on the basis of regular Group-wide forecasts
of the Group operating target. For additional information, please see
“Company-specific lead indicators.”

Our operating result before depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)
pre exceptionals increased by €73 million, or 9.9%, to €808 million
in 2014, from €735 million the year before. This was due especially
to the decline in manufacturing costs and to the increase in volumes.
Favorable exchange rate effects were a further positive factor and more
than compensated for a slightly negative portfolio effect. Earnings were
held back by selling price adjustments, which exceeded the benefit from
the decline in raw material costs especially because of the challenging
competitive situation in the rubber market. Selling expenses declined
by €13 million to €742 million in 2014. Research and development
costs were down 14.0%, to €160 million. General administrative expenses declined from €301 million to €278 million. The development
of functional costs already reflected cost savings from the “Advance”
and “Let’s LANXESS again” programs. The Group’s EBITDA margin
pre exceptionals improved from 8.9% to 10.1%.
EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals
€ million
2014

808

735

2013

Any disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a given reporting date therefore would not be indicative of the Group’s short- or
medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such disclosure is
made in this report.

The cost of sales showed a disproportionately large decline of 4.9%
compared with sales, to €6,418 million. Declining procurement prices
for raw materials and energies as well as higher capacity utilization
coupled with lower idle capacity costs had a positive impact and more
than offset the opposing effect on costs caused by higher sales volumes. Moreover, the start-up of a new facility had a stronger impact
in the previous year. Exchange rate movements had a positive effect.
Capacity utilization, at around 79%, was one percentage point above
the prior-year level.

8.9%

2012

1,223

1,146

2011

2010

Gross profit

10.1%

0

13.1%

918
250

500

750

13.4%

12.9%
1,000

1,250

1,500

EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Performance Polymers segment
advanced by €3 million from the prior-year level of €389 million, to
€392 million. This was mainly the result of considerably lower manufacturing costs due in part to lower energy and idle capacity costs, as
well as to lower research and development expenses. In addition, the
prior year was impacted by the start-up of a new facility. Lower selling
prices resulting from the persistently difficult competitive situation
for synthetic rubber and a decline in purchase prices for some raw
materials had the opposite effect. The net influence of currency and
portfolio effects was positive.

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Business performance of the LANXESS Group

In the Advanced Intermediates segment, EBITDA pre exceptionals
advanced by €17 million to €303 million. Continued good demand
for agrochemicals led to positive volume effects. The decline in selling
prices was in line with the development of raw material costs. Shifts in
currency parities did not have a significant impact.
The Performance Chemicals segment generated EBITDA pre exceptionals of €274 million, up €43 million or 18.6% on the prior year. At
the segment level, the increase in sales volumes, favorable exchange
rate developments and a positive price effect led to improved earnings.
Higher manufacturing costs had an opposing effect.

plant of the Butyl Rubber business unit. In 2013, net exceptional
charges of €381 million were incurred, €270 million of which had no
impact on EBITDA and were due to impairment charges recognized
for the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and Rubber
Chemicals business units. The exceptional charges of €111 million
which impacted EBITDA in 2013 were mainly related to the “Advance”
program for improving competitiveness across all segments as well
as to expenses associated with the design and implementation of IT
projects.
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss)
€ million

EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment
€ million

Operating result (EBIT)
2013

2014

Change %

Performance Polymers

389

392

0.8

Income from investments
­accounted for using the
equity method

Advanced Intermediates

286

303

5.9

Net interest expense

Performance Chemicals
Reconciliation

Change %

(93)

218

> 100

0

2

–

(106)

(69)

34.9

231

274

18.6

(161)

5.8

Other financial income
and expense

(40)

(71)

(77.5)

735

808

9.9

Financial result

(146)

(138)

5.5

Income (loss) before
income taxes

(239)

80

> 100

71

(36)

< (100)

(168)

44

> 100

(9)

(3)

66.7

(159)

47

> 100

The reconciliation of EBITDA pre exceptionals to the operating result
(EBIT) was as follows:

Income (loss) after
income taxes
of which:

Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to Operating Result (EBIT)

attributable to non-controlling
interests

€ million

attributable to ­LANXESS AG
stockholders [net income (loss)]

2013

2014

Change %

735

808

9.9

Depreciation and amortization

(717)

(426)

40.6

Exceptional items in EBITDA

(111)

(164)

(47.7)

(93)

218

> 100

Operating result (EBIT)

2014

(171)

Income taxes

EBITDA pre exceptionals

2013

The operating result (EBIT) increased very substantially from minus €93 million to €218 million in fiscal 2014. Depreciation and
amortization, at €426 million, was €291 million or 40.6% below
the prior-year period, even after additions from capital expenditures.
Write-downs on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
came to €32 million,­after €279 million in 2013. The write-downs
recognized at year end 2013 reduced the depreciation and amortization base for the reporting year.
The other operating result, which is the balance between other operating income and expenses, improved substantially by €209 million to
minus €190 million. Adjusted for exceptional items, the other operating
result came to minus €6 million, which was €12 million higher than in
2013. Net exceptional charges of €184 million were incurred in the
reporting year, €164 million of which impacted EBITDA and mainly
related to the “Let’s LANXESS again” and “Advance” programs as well
as to expenses associated with the design and implementation of IT
projects. The exceptional charges of €20 million that had no impact
on EBITDA were due above all to write-downs recognized on a pilot

Financial result
The financial result came in at minus €138 million in fiscal 2014,
compared with minus €146 million for the prior year. The prorated
income from the investment in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method, came
to €2 million, against €0 million the previous year. Interest expense
declined by €36 million year on year, mainly due to the repayment
of the €500 million Eurobond issued in 2009, which matured in the
reporting period. As in 2013, the capitalization of a portion of borrowing costs, some of which related to the construction of the new plants
in Singapore and in China, had a positive effect on the financial result.
At €69 million, net interest expense was €37 million lower than in
the previous year. The decline in other financial income and expense
items resulted mainly from the substantially higher net exchange loss.
In addition, interest costs for interest-bearing provisions were slightly
higher than in 2013.

85

86

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Income before income taxes

Sales by Market
2013

Due to the improved EBIT, income before income taxes increased by
€319 million to €80 million.

Income taxes
In fiscal 2014, the Group had tax expense of €36 million, compared
with tax income of €71 million the year before. The Group’s tax rate
was 45.0%, after 29.7% in the previous year.

2014

Change

€ million

%

€ million

%

%

EMEA (excluding
Germany)

2,404

29.0

2,296

28.7

(4.5)

Germany

1,458

17.6

1,440

18.0

(1.2)

North America

1,332

16.0

1,338

16.7

0.5

Latin America

966

11.6

859

10.7

(11.1)

2,140

25.8

2,073

25.9

(3.1)

8,300

100.0

8,006

100.0

(3.5)

Asia-Pacific

EMEA (excluding Germany)
Net income/Earnings per share/Earnings per share pre
exceptionals
The LANXESS Group posted net earnings of €47 million, an increase
of €206 million year on year. A loss of €3 million was attributable to
non-controlling interests, compared with a loss of €9 million in the
previous year.
Earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the
weighted average number of LANXESS shares in circulation during
the reporting year. The number of shares in circulation rose by the
shares issued for the capital increase. This increase was accounted
for pro rata temporis. Earnings per share were €0.53, ahead of the
minus €1.91 recorded for the prior year.
Earnings per share pre exceptionals were €1.98, against €1.37 the
year before. This value was calculated from the earnings per share
adjusted for exceptional items and attributable tax effects. In the reporting year, exceptional items came to €184 million after €381 million
in 2013.

Sales in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) receded by
€108 million,­or 4.5%, to €2,296 million in 2014. Adjusted for currency changes and for portfolio effects from the acquisition of the phosphorus chemicals business of Thermphos France S.A.R.L., ­Epierre,
France, and the sale of the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen,
Germany, sales receded by 4.2%. The Performance Polymers segment
posted a sales decline in the low-double-digit percentage range. In our
Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals segments, sales
increased by medium- and low-single-digit percentages, respectively.
The overall negative trend in the region affected Belgium, Italy, France,
Spain and Turkey in particular. However, sales were bolstered by positive growth in demand in other countries such as the Netherlands, the
Czech Republic and South Africa.
With a 28.7% share of total sales, after 29.0% in the prior year, EMEA
(excluding Germany) remained the largest of the LANXESS Group’s
regions in terms of sales.

Germany
Business trends by region
Sales by Market
%
25.8

25.9

Latin America

11.6

10.7

North America

16.0

16.7

Germany

17.6

18.0

29.0

28.7

Asia-Pacific

EMEA (excluding Germany)

2013

2014

In Germany, our sales came to €1,440 million in 2014, down
€18 million,­or 1.2%, on the previous year. There were no material
portfolio effects to consider. Our Performance Chemicals segment
posted sales growth in the low-single-digit percentage range, whereas
sales of the Performance Polymers segment remained level with the
prior year. In the Advanced Intermediates segment, sales declined by
a mid-single-digit percentage.
Germany’s share of Group sales rose slightly from 17.6% to 18.0%.

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Business performance of the LANXESS Group | Business trends by region | Segment information

North America

Segment information

Sales in this region came to €1,338 million, up €6 million, or 0.5%,
from the previous year. Adjusted for slight currency and portfolio effects,
sales were up by 0.9%. Business performance was characterized by the
positive development of the Advanced Intermediates and Performance
Chemicals segments, which posted sales increases in the low- to midsingle-digit percentage range. These more than offset a low-single-digit
percentage decline in the Performance Polymers segment. The United
States had the primary role in the region’s development.

• Performance Polymers: challenging competitive situation for
­synthetic rubbers; lower selling prices impact sales and earnings
•A
 dvanced Intermediates: earnings increase with sales at
prior-year level; agrochemicals business remains good
•P
 erformance Chemicals: sales and earnings improved especially
by higher volumes at stable prices
Sales by Segment
%

At 16.7%, North America’s share of Group sales was 0.7 percentage
points higher than in the prior year.

Reconciliation

25.7 0.4

27.4 0.5

19.8

20.5

54.1

51.6

Performance Chemicals

Latin America
Sales in Latin America receded by a substantial €107 million, or
11.1%, to €859 million. Adjusted for slight currency and portfolio
effects, sales were down by 10.5%. The crucial factor in business
performance here was the development of the Performance Polymers
segment, where sales declined by a low-double-digit percentage. Sales
also fell in the Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals
segments, but by low-single-digit percentages. Business development
in the region was mainly attributable to the sales performance in Brazil.
LANXESS generated 10.7% of Group sales in Latin America, compared with 11.6% in the prior-year period.

Advanced Intermediates

Performance Polymers

2014

2013

Performance Polymers
Overview of Key Data
2013

Asia-Pacific
Sales in the Asia-Pacific region declined by €67 million, or 3.1%, to
€2,073 million in 2014. Adjusted for negative currency effects and
slight portfolio effects, sales were down by 2.4%. This development
was primarily due to the business performance in our Performance
Polymers and Advanced Intermediates segments, where sales declined by a high- and mid-single-digit percentage, respectively. The
Performance Chemicals segment recorded very positive development,
expanding sales by a high-single-digit percentage. The main contributors to operational development in the region were Hong Kong, China,
Taiwan and Thailand. Increasing sales were posted in India, Singapore
and Indonesia, although the trend in the latter was far more restrained.
Asia-Pacific’s share of Group sales was more or less unchanged at
25.9%, following 25.8% the previous year. Thus, it confirmed its position as the second-strongest region behind EMEA (excluding Germany)
in terms of sales.

€ million
Sales

2014
Margin
%

4,486

€ million

Change
Margin
%

4,128

%
(8.0)

EBITDA
pre ­exceptionals

389

8.7

392

9.5

0.8

EBITDA

372

8.3

351

8.5

(5.6)

Operating
result (EBIT)
pre ­exceptionals

135

3.0

181

4.4

34.1

Operating result
(EBIT)

(117)

(2.6)

120

2.9

> 100

Cash outflows for
capital expenditures

385

428

11.2

Depreciation and
amortization

489

231

(52.8)

5,379

5,176

(3.8)

Employees as of
Dec. 31

Business in our Performance Polymers segment declined year on year
in 2014. Sales decreased by 8.0% to €4,128 million. This development was primarily impacted by a negative price effect of 5.9% and
by a 1.4% decline in volumes. A slightly unfavorable currency effect
and a minor negative portfolio effect from the sale of the shares of
Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen, Germany, accounted for 0.7% of
this decrease.

87

88

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

All business units in this segment were impacted by declining market
prices. Negative effects resulted especially from lower raw material
costs and the persistently difficult market environment for our synthetic
rubber businesses. While the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance
Materials and High Performance Elastomers business units increased
volumes, the Butyl Rubber and Performance Butadiene Rubbers business units posted negative volume development. All business units
were held back to a small extent by exchange rate developments. In
addition, the High Performance Materials business unit registered a
slightly negative portfolio effect. While the segment’s sales in Germany
and North America were slightly below the prior-year level, business
in the other regions declined substantially.

Exceptional items amounted to €61 million, €41 million of which
impacted EBITDA. Most of the exceptional charges with no impact
on EBITDA were due to write-downs recognized on a pilot plant of
the Butyl Rubber business unit. The exceptional charges which impacted EBITDA were largely related to measures associated with the
“Let’s LANXESS again” and “Advance” programs. Exceptional items
in 2013 amounted to €252 million, €17 million of which impacted
EBITDA. Most of the exceptional charges were impairment charges
recognized by the Keltan Elastomers and High Performance Elastomers business units.

Advanced Intermediates
EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals
Overview of Key Data

€ million
2014

392

9.5%

2013

389

8.7%

2012

817

768

2011

2010
0

548
200

400

15.8%

15.2%

14.8%
600

800

1,000

EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Performance Polymers segment advanced slightly from the prior-year level of €389 million to €392 million.­
Here, the Performance Butadiene Rubbers, High Performance Elastomers and High Performance Materials business units showed a positive
development. A positive impact on earnings resulted especially from
considerably lower manufacturing costs that were attributable in part
to lower energy and idle capacity costs. Moreover, in the previous year,
the start-up of a new facility proved to be a stronger burden. Decreased
expenses for research and development and general administration
also contributed positively to this development. Earnings were held
back by lower selling prices resulting from reduced procurement
prices for raw materials and by the persistently difficult competitive
situation for synthetic rubbers. Moreover, a strike at our butyl rubber
plant in Belgium resulted in a production stoppage of nine weeks and
reduced earnings in our Butyl Rubber business unit. At the segment
level, the development of volumes had an additional effect. Exchange
rate development was positive and more than compensated for slightly
negative portfolio effects. The segment’s EBITDA margin pre exceptionals improved from 8.7% to 9.5%.

2013
€ million
Sales

2014
Margin
%

1,647

€ million

Change
Margin
%

1,643

%
(0.2)

EBITDA
pre ­exceptionals

286

17.4

303

18.4

5.9

EBITDA

287

17.4

293

17.8

2.1

Operating
result (EBIT)
pre ­exceptionals

209

12.7

214

13.0

2.4

Operating result
(EBIT)

210

12.8

204

12.4

(2.9)

Cash outflows for
capital expenditures

96

84

(12.5)

Depreciation and
amortization

77

89

15.6

2,854

2,809

(1.6)

Employees as of
Dec. 31

Our Advanced Intermediates segment recorded sales of €1,643 million­
in 2014, more or less level with the prior year. While selling price adjustments necessitated by a decline in raw material prices resulted in
a negative effect of 2.1%, volumes were up by 2.1% against the prior
year. Exchange rate movements had no tangible effect.
Both of the segment‘s business units were able to grow volumes, in
part substantially. In particular, demand for agrochemicals showed
pleasing development. Selling price adjustments, especially in the
Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit, had an offsetting
effect. In North America and EMEA (excluding Germany), the segment
delivered a positive business performance. In the other regions, sales
were below the prior-year level.

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Segment information

EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals
€ million
2014

2013

286

2012

17.4%

305

18.2%

264

2011

2010
0

18.4%

303

17.1%

259
100

18.4%

200

Sales in the Performance Chemicals segment rose by €61 million, or
2.9%, to €2,193 million. While sales were increased particularly by
the 2.8% expansion of volumes, selling prices also edged up by 0.3%
compared with the prior-year level. The net impact of exchange rate
and portfolio effects was slightly negative.

300

400

EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates segment
increased by €17 million, or 5.9%, to €303 million. Earnings were
improved particularly by higher volumes and relief from raw material
costs but held back by selling price adjustments. Changes in exchange
rates had only a slight impact on earnings. The EBITDA margin pre
exceptionals improved from 17.4% to 18.4%.

Overall, the segment’s volumes and selling prices were above the
prior-year level, although the individual business units trended differently. In most of the segment’s business units, the increase in volumes
more than offset the slight decrease in selling prices that was due
in part to lower raw material prices. The Functional Chemicals and
Rubber Chemicals business units were able to largely offset declining
volumes with higher selling prices. Positive portfolio effects in the Material Protection Products and Functional Chemicals business units were
overcompensated by the unfavorable exchange rate developments at
segment level. Business expanded in the Asia-Pacific, North America,
Germany and EMEA (excluding Germany) regions.
EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals
€ million
2014

Exceptional items in the reporting year amounted to €10 million
which fully impacted EBITDA and were largely related to the “Let’s
LANXESS again” program. In the prior year, exceptional income
amounted to €1 million, in which the reversal of provisions for the
realignment of the Saltigo business unit was partly offset by expenses
for further measures relating to the “Advance” program.

274

2013

231

2012

12.8%

289

2011

0

10.8%

281

2010

Performance Chemicals

12.5%

281
100

200

13.6%

14.2%
300

400

Overview of Key Data
2013
€ million
Sales

2014
Margin
%

2,132

€ million

Change
Margin
%

2,193

%
2.9

EBITDA
pre ­exceptionals

231

10.8

274

12.5

18.6

EBITDA

181

8.5

240

10.9

32.6

Operating
result (EBIT)
pre ­exceptionals

139

6.5

188

8.6

35.3

Operating result
(EBIT)

54

2.5

154

7.0

> 100

Cash outflows for
capital expenditures

111

77

(30.6)

Depreciation and
amortization

127

86

(32.3)

5,837

5,613

(3.8)

Employees as of
Dec. 31

EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals segment advanced by €43 million, or 18.6%, against the prior year to
€274 million.­This increase resulted from positive volume effects and,
especially, from favorable exchange rate developments, a beneficial
price effect and a decline in purchasing prices for raw materials. While
earnings were held back by higher manufacturing costs, portfolio
effects did not have a significant impact. The EBITDA margin pre
exceptionals increased from 10.8% to 12.5%.
The exceptional items of €34 million for the segment in 2014
fully impacted EBITDA and mainly related to the “Let’s LANXESS
again” and “Advance” programs. Exceptional items in 2013 came to
€85 million,­€35 million of which did not impact EBITDA. They were
mostly accounted for by impairment charges recognized for the Rubber Chemicals­business unit. The exceptional charges that impacted
EBITDA in the prior year were related especially to measures associated with the “Advance” program.

89

90

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Reconciliation

Structure of the Statement of Financial Position
Dec. 31, 2013

Overview of Key Data
€ million

2013

Sales

2014

Change %

35

42

20.0

EBITDA pre ­exceptionals

(171)

(161)

5.8

EBITDA

(216)

(240)

(11.1)

Operating result (EBIT)
pre ­exceptionals

(195)

(181)

7.2

Operating result (EBIT)

(240)

(260)

(8.3)

Cash outflows for capital
expenditures

32

25

(21.9)

Depreciation and amortization

24

20

(16.7)

3,273

2,986

(8.8)

Employees as of Dec. 31

EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Reconciliation came to minus
€161 million, compared with minus €171 million in the prior year.
The development of functional costs already reflected cost savings
from the “Let’s LANXESS again” and “Advance” programs. The exceptional charges of €79 million, which fully impacted EBITDA, primarily
related to measures associated with the “Let’s LANXESS again” and
“Advance” programs, expenses for the design and implementation
of IT projects and expenses for portfolio adjustments, to the extent
that these expenses could not be allocated to specific segments or
business units. The exceptional charges of €45 million reported in
the Reconciliation in 2013, all of which impacted EBITDA, primarily
related to measures associated with the “Advance” program, expenses
for the design and implementation of IT projects and expenses for
portfolio adjustments, to the extent that these expenses could not be
allocated to specific segments or business units.

Statement of financial position and financial condition
Statement of financial position

Dec. 31, 2014

Change

€ million

%

€ million

%

%

Non-current assets

3,592

52.7

4,101

56.6

14.2

Current assets

3,219

47.3

3,149

43.4

(2.2)

Total assets

6,811

100.0

7,250

100.0

6.4

1,900

27.9

2,161

29.8

13.7

Assets

Equity and
­liabilities
Equity (including
non-controlling
interests)
Non-current
­liabilities

3,029

44.5

3,447

47.6

13.8

Current liabilities

1,882

27.6

1,642

22.6

(12.8)

Total equity
and liabilities

6,811

100.0

7,250

100.0

6.4

Structure of the statement of financial position
Total assets of the LANXESS Group amounted to €7,250 million as
of December 31, 2014, an increase of €439 million, or 6.4%, on
the prior-year figure. This was primarily due to capital expenditures
for property, plant and equipment, an increase in deferred tax assets
and the expansion of inventories. The decline in trade receivables
had an opposing effect. The ratio of non-current assets to total assets
increased from 52.7% to 56.6%. On the equity and liabilities side,
equity increased particularly due to the capital increase in the second
quarter. This effect was counteracted by a net comprehensive loss,
primarily due to remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability
from post-employment benefit plans necessitated by lower interest
rates. At the end of 2014, the equity ratio was 29.8%, after 27.9%
in the previous year.
Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets
€ million

• Increase in total assets, mainly due to capital expenditures
• Equity ratio improved by capital increase
• Higher pension provisions due to lower discount rates
• Net financial liabilities substantially below prior year at ­
€1,336 million

6,811

7,250

Other current assets
533
2,369

Cash and cash equivalents

317

518
2,399

366

3,653

232

Inventories and receivables
448
Other non-current assets

3,226

Intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment

2013

2014

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Segment information | Statement of financial position and financial condition

Non-current assets rose by €509 million to €4,101 million, with
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment increasing by
€427 million to €3,653 million. Cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the reporting period
were €614 million, just below the prior-year level of €624 million.
Depreciation and amortization in 2014 totaled €426 million and was
thus below the prior-year level, mainly because of the lower depreciation and amortization base following comparatively high write-downs
of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment at year end
2013. The carrying amount of investments accounted for using the
equity method decreased by €12 million to €0 million. This change
resulted from the net-asset-driven adjustment to the carrying amount
of the interest in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany.
Deferred taxes increased by €126 million, to €380 million. The ratio
of non-current assets to total assets was 56.6%, up from 52.7% on
December 31, 2013.

in technology and innovation, also a valuable asset, is rooted in our
specific expertise in the areas of research and development and custom manufacturing. It enables us to generate significant added value
for our customers.
The know-how and experience of our employees are crucial factors for
our corporate success. In addition, we have sophisticated production
and business processes that create competitive advantages for us in
the relevant markets.
Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities
€ million
6,811

7,250
560
1,082

502
1,380

Other current liabilities

1,729

Current financial liabilities

Current assets decreased by €70 million, or 2.2%, compared with
December 31, 2013 to €3,149 million. The inventory growth of
€85 million, or 6.5%, to €1,384 million was attributable to slightly
higher volumes and the development of exchange rates, especially
for the U.S. dollar. The lower prices for certain key raw materials offset
inventory growth. Days of inventory outstanding (DIO) increased from
70.7 to 79.1. By contrast, trade receivables were €55 million, or 5.1%,
lower at €1,015 million, despite opposing currency effects. Days of
sales outstanding (DSO) were virtually unchanged at 48.0. Minimal
portfolio effects from the sale of the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH,
Dormagen, Germany, in the reporting year had no significant influence on net working capital. Cash and cash equivalents decreased by
€9 million to €418 million. Near-cash assets decreased by €6 million­
to €100 million at year end following the sale of shares in money
market funds. The ratio of current assets to total assets was 43.4%,
against 47.3% as of December 31, 2013.
The LANXESS Group has significant internally generated intangible
assets that are not reflected in the statement of financial position in
light of accounting rules. These include the brand equity of LANXESS
and the value of other brands of the Group. A variety of measures
was deployed in the reporting period to continually enhance these
assets and help strengthen the positions our business units hold in
their respective markets.
Our established relationships with customers and suppliers also constitute a significant intangible asset. These long-standing, trust-based
partnerships with customers and suppliers, underpinned by consistent
service quality, have made it possible for us to compete successfully
– also in a more challenging business environment. Our competence

1,368
Other non-current liabilities

1,718

1,661
Non-current financial liabilities

2,161

1,900
Equity

2013

2014

Equity amounted to €2,161 million, up by €261 million or 13.7%
compared with December 31, 2013, primarily due to the capital
increase of 10% in the second quarter of 2014. Factors with the opposite effect were the dividend payout of €46 million to LANXESS AG
stockholders in May 2014 and the net comprehensive loss recorded,
which was primarily due to the remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability from post-employment benefit plans necessitated by lower
interest rates. The ratio of equity to the Group’s total assets was 29.8%
as of December 31, 2014, after 27.9% as of December 31, 2013.
Non-current liabilities increased by €418 million to €3,447 million
as of December 31, 2014. Provisions for pensions and other postemployment benefits rose by €347 million compared with the end of
2013, to €1,290 million. This increase mainly related to the change
in the interest rates used in measurement, with minimal effects caused
by the “Let’s LANXESS again” program. Other non-current financial
liabilities amounted to €1,698 million, up by €49 million against
December 31, 2013. This increase resulted primarily from the partial
refinancing of the €500 million Eurobond issued in 2009 that matured
in the reporting period. The ratio of non-current liabilities to total assets
was 47.6%, up from 44.5% as of December 31, 2013.

91

92

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Current liabilities came to €1,642 million, down by €240 million, or
12.8% from December 31, 2013. This decline resulted mainly from
the repayment of the aforementioned Eurobond issued in 2009. At
€799 million, trade payables were €109 million above the prior-year
figure, due in large part to changes in payment terms and, to a smaller
extent, to shifts in exchange rates. In light of the devaluation of the
euro against certain contract currencies, current derivative liabilities
increased by €79 million to €101 million. Other current liabilities
increased by €40 million to €166 million on account of the effects

of the “Let’s LANXESS again” program. By contrast, in spite of small
additions also resulting from this program, other current provisions
decreased by €5 million to €350 million. The ratio of current liabilities
to total assets was 22.6% as of December 31, 2014, against 27.6%
at the end of 2013.
At €1,336 million, net financial liabilities were substantially below the
figure of €1,731 million at December 31, 2013.
The Group’s key ratios developed as follows:

Ratios
%

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Equity1)
Total assets

31.1

30.2

31.0

27.9

29.8

Non-current asset ratio

Non-current assets
Total assets

48.3

50.7

49.8

52.7

56.6

Asset coverage I

Equity1)
Non-current assets

64.3

59.4

62.2

52.9

52.7

Asset coverage II

Equity1) and non-current liabilities
Non-current assets

153.9

137.3

157.2

137.2

136.7

Funding structure

Current liabilities
Total liabilities

37.2

43.5

31.4

38.3

32.3

Equity ratio

1) Including non-controlling interests

Capital expenditures

Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization
€ million

In 2014, capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets came to €692 million, compared with €676 million­
the year before, and led to cash outflows of €614 million (2013:
€624 million).­Depreciation and amortization totaled €426 million in the same period (2013: €717 million). This figure included
€20 million­in write-downs reported as exceptional items (2013:
€270 million). Adjusted for these write-downs, capital expenditures
exceeded depreciation and amortization by a substantial 70% (2013:
51%). The increase was primarily due to the reduction in the depreciation and amortization base following the recognition of write-downs
in 2013.

2014

614
426

2013

624
717

2012

696
378

2011

679
325

2010

0

501
283
200

400

Cash outflows for capital expenditures

600
Depreciation and amortization

800

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Statement of financial position and financial condition

In the reporting year, capital expenditures focused on the following
areas:
• construction of new facilities, expansion and maintenance of e­ xisting
facilities;
• measures to increase plant availability;
• projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply with
environmental protection requirements.
Almost two-thirds of the capital expenditures in 2014 went toward
expansion or efficiency improvement measures, while the rest went
to maintain existing facilities.
In regional terms, 23% of our capital expenditures in the reporting
period were made in Germany, 17% in the EMEA region (excluding
Germany), 7% in North America, 5% in Latin America and 48% in
Asia-Pacific. Capital expenditures in Germany mostly comprised our
investments to increase capacities and modernize facilities in all
segments, especially investments in expansions for the Advanced
Industrial Intermediates and Saltigo business units. The continued
large share of capital expenditures made in the Asia-Pacific region
in the reporting year is due primarily to the construction of a new
production plant for high-performance neodymium-based performance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) for the Performance Butadiene
Rubbers business unit in Singapore and the construction of a new
production plant for EPDM rubber for the Keltan Elastomers business
unit in Changzhou, China.

Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment
€ million
428

84

77 25

2014

614

385

96

111 32

2013

624

Performance Polymers
Advanced Intermediates
Performance Chemicals
Reconciliation

In the Performance Polymers segment, capital expenditures
amounted to €472 million (2013: €405 million), €428 million
(2013: €385 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation
and amortization amounted to €231 million (2013: €489 million).
The major capital expenditures in this segment were made in the
Performance Butadiene Rubbers and Keltan Elastomers business
units. Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates segment
amounted to €94 million (2013: €113 million). Cash outflows came
to €84 million­(2013: €96 million), below the depreciation and
amortization of €89 million (2013: €77 million). They were accounted for by a number of smaller capital expenditure projects.
In the Performance Chemicals segment, capital expenditures
came to €100 million­(2013: €117 million), €77 million (2013:
€111 million)­ of which were cash outflows. Depreciation and amortization stood at €86 million­(2013: €127 million). A key capital
expenditure is the construction of a state-of-the-art plant for iron
oxide red pigments in Ningbo, China, for the Inorganic Pigments
business unit.
The following table shows major capital expenditure projects in the
LANXESS Group.

Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2014
Segment

Site

Description

Performance Butadiene Rubbers

Singapore

Construction of a production plant for neodymium-based performance
butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR), start-up in the first half of 2015

Keltan Elastomers

Changzhou, China

Construction of a production plant for ethylene-propylene-diene (EPDM) rubber,
­start-up in 2015

High Performance Materials

Porto Feliz, Brazil

Construction of a new compounding plant for high-tech plastics,
start-up in April 2014

High Performance Materials

Antwerp, Belgium

Start-up of a new polyamide plastics plant in Q3 2014

High Performance Materials

Gastonia, U.S.A.

Expansion of the high-tech plastics facility by the addition of a second production line,
start-up in 2016

Inorganic Pigments

Ningbo, China

Construction of a plant for iron oxide red pigments with the addition of a mixing and
milling plant for inorganic pigments, completion in Q4 2015 and start-up in Q1 2016

Liquid Purification Technologies

Leverkusen, Germany

Construction of a plant for weakly acidic cation exchange resins,
completion in September 2014

Performance Polymers

Performance Chemicals

93

94

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Expansion of the Group portfolio Please see “Changes to the Group
portfolio” in this combined management report for more information
on the changes in fiscal 2014.

development during the reporting period was mainly attributable
to the decline in trade receivables. This effect was intensified by the
increase in trade payables but offset by the expansion of inventories.
The net cash provided by operating activities was €797 million, against
€641 million in 2013.

Financial condition
• Operating cash flow above prior-year level
• Inflow from reduction in cash tied up in working capital
• Cash used for investing activities reflects extensive capital
­expenditures for growth projects
• Liquidity position remains solid
The cash flow statement shows inflows and outflows of cash and cash
equivalents by type of business operation.
Cash Flow Statement
€ million

2013

Income before income taxes

(239)

80

319

717

426

(291)

Depreciation and amortization
Other items

2014

Change

53

144

91

Net cash provided by ­
operating activities before
change in net working capital

531

650

119

Change in net working capital

110

147

37

Net cash provided by
operating activities

641

797

156

Net cash used in
investing activities

(342)

(587)

(245)

Net cash used in
financing activities

(260)

(222)

38

39

(12)

(51)

427

418

(9)

Change in cash and cash
equivalents from business activities
Cash and cash equivalents
as of December 31

Cash provided by operating activities, before changes in net working
capital, increased by €119 million to €650 million in fiscal 2014.
This was mainly due to the €319 million increase in income before
income taxes to €80 million. Depreciation and amortization decreased
to €426 million from €717 million in the previous year, primarily due
to write-downs recognized on property plant and equipment and
intangible assets at the end of 2013.
The decrease in net working capital compared to December 31,
2013 resulted in a cash inflow of €147 million. The cash inflow from
the change in net working capital in 2013 was €110 million. The

LANXESS’s investing activities in fiscal 2014 resulted in a cash outflow
of €587 million, up from €342 million in the previous year. Disbursements for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment came to
€614 million, which was below the prior-year level of €624 million. The
cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses,
net of acquired cash and cash equivalents, amounted to €15 million
in 2013. The acquisitions made in that year were PCTS Specialty
Chemicals Pte. Ltd., Singapore, and the phosphorus chemicals portfolio of Thermphos France S.A.R.L., Epierre, France. Cash inflows
from financial assets came to €8 million and mainly comprised the
proceeds from the sale of shares in money market funds. The sale of
the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen, Germany, resulted in
a cash inflow of €3 million, net of divested cash and cash equivalents.
Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows from operating activities and the cash used in investing activities – decreased by
€89 million to €210 million.
Net cash used in financing activities came to €222 million, against
€260 million the year before. A major effect came from the cash inflow of €433 million resulting from the capital increase in the second
quarter of 2014. However, this was more than offset by cash outflows
of €478 million attributable to the net repayment of borrowings. Interest payments and other financial disbursements of €131 million were
slightly higher than the previous year’s amount of €119 million. An
outflow of €46 million was accounted for by the dividend paid to the
stockholders of LANXESS AG for fiscal 2013 (2013: €83 million).
The net change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities
in fiscal 2014 was minus €12 million, against €39 million the previous
year. After taking into account currency-related and other changes in
cash and cash equivalents of €3 million, cash and cash equivalents
at the closing date amounted to €418 million, against €427 million
at the previous year’s closing date. Taken together with near-cash assets (short-term investment of liquid assets in money market funds)
of €100 million, against €106 million the previous year, the Group
retained a sound liquidity position of €518 million as of December 31,
2014, compared to €533 million at the end of 2013.

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Statement of financial position and financial condition

Development of ­LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2010
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

BBB/stable
Sep. 1, 2010

BBB/stable
Aug. 23, 2011

BBB/stable
Aug. 31, 2012

BBB/negative
June 27, 2013

BBB –/stable
May 19, 2014

Moody’s Investors Service

Baa2/stable
May 19, 2010

Baa2/stable
Nov. 23, 2011

Baa2/stable
Sep. 26, 2012

Baa2/negative
Aug. 14, 2013

Baa3/stable
June 20, 2014

Fitch Ratings

BBB/stable
Dec. 17, 2010

BBB/stable
Nov. 22, 2011

BBB/stable
Sep. 13, 2012

BBB/negative
Aug. 15, 2013

BBB –/stable
Aug. 18, 2014

Standard & Poor’s

Principles and objectives of financial management LANXESS pursues
a conservative financial policy characterized by the forward-looking
management of financial risks. Our aim is to be able to provide sufficient liquidity to our business operations at all times, regardless of
cyclical fluctuations in the real economy or financial markets. The
debt level is largely aligned with the ratio systems of the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies and we will be seeking
its further reduction in the future. In addition to liquidity risk, financial
management also covers other financial risks, such as interest and
foreign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to mitigate the financial risks
that arise and increase planning reliability, partly by using derivative
financial instruments. Detailed information about the management
of these risks is contained in the “Opportunity and risk report” in this
combined management report and under Note [35], “Financial instruments,” to the consolidated financial statements.
LANXESS Group ratings Access to the capital markets and good relations with German and international commercial banks are essential for
achieving our financial management objectives. Accordingly, ongoing
dialogue and communication with banks, investors and rating agencies
are of crucial importance. In fiscal 2014, the latter reduced LANXESS’s
creditworthiness from BBB and Baa2 to BBB– and Baa3, respectively.
However, they raised the outlook to stable. Justifying this downward
assessment, the rating agencies cited factors such as LANXESS’s
latterly weaker financial data resulting from the persistently difficult
business environment for rubber. They based their stable outlook on
the measures taken by LANXESS, including the capital increase made
in the reporting period and the implementation of the global realignment program we initiated.

Financing analysis In fiscal 2014, LANXESS had a balanced financing
structure and a very sound liquidity position.
The main change to our financial portfolio during the reporting period
resulted from the redemption of the €500 million bond that matured
in April. For this purpose, we drew on a credit line we have with the
European Investment Bank. The proceeds of the capital increase
made in May 2014 served to finance the “Let’s LANXESS again”
program and strengthen our financial position. In the fourth quarter
of 2014, we repaid two bank loans ahead of schedule in order to
reduce gross indebtedness and lower interest burden. We funded
the growth program which ends in 2015 from business operations
and using existing liquidity and credit lines.
LANXESS launched a €2.5 billion debt issuance program in March
2009. On this basis and aligned with the prevailing market conditions,
bonds can be placed on the capital market very flexibly with respect to
timing and volume. As of December 31, 2014, just under €1.5 billion
of the €2.5 billion financing facility had been utilized to issue bonds
and private placements. Utilization was correspondingly reduced after
redemption of our €500 million bond in April 2014. Capital market
financing is a central component in LANXESS’s financing mix, which
is subject to regular review to ensure the adequate diversification of
our financing sources.
Current financial liabilities decreased from €668 million in 2013 to
€182 million at December 31, 2014, largely due to the redemption
of the €500 million bond.

95

96

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

We made only limited use of finance leases, which are reported as
financial liabilities in the statement of financial position. As of December 31, 2014, the financial liabilities from finance leases amounted to
€72 million, against €49 million in the previous year. The LANXESS
Group uses operating leases mainly for operational reasons and not
as a means of financing. Minimum non-discounted future payments
relating to operating leases totaled €390 million (2013: €492 million).
As of December 31, 2014, LANXESS had no material financing
items not reported in the statement of financial position in the form
of factoring, asset-backed structures or project financing, for example.
LANXESS’s total financial liabilities, net of accrued interest, declined
from €2,264 million in 2013 to €1,854 million at December 31,
2014. Net financial liabilities – the total financial liabilities net of cash,
cash equivalents and near-cash assets – declined by €395 million to
€1,336 million.
Of the total financial liabilities, 86% bear a fixed interest rate over the
term of the financing, which is below the prior-year level of 98%. This
enabled us to improve the balance between floating-rate assets and
financial liabilities and additionally benefit from the currently very low
interest rates. Despite the moderate decrease in the proportion of
financing items with fixed interest rates over their term in our present
financing structure, interest rate changes have no material effect on
LANXESS’s financial condition. The proportion of loans and bonds
denominated in euros averaged 79% in the reporting year, which was
below the prior-year level of 96%. The weighted average interest rate
for our financial liabilities was 3.8% at year end 2014, which was
below the prior-year level of 4.8%. This reduction was mainly due to
the redemption of the €500 million bond.
The following overview shows LANXESS’s financing structure as of
December 31, 2014 in detail, including its principal liquidity reserves.

Financing Structure
Instrument

Amount
€ ­million

Eurobond 2009/2016
(€200 million)

Term

Interest
rate %

Financial
covenant 1)

199

September
2016

5.500

no

498

May
2018

4.125

no

Eurobond 2012/2022
(€500 million)

494

November
2022

2.625

no

Private placement
2012/2022
(€100 million)

100

April
2022

3.500

no

Private placement
2012/2027
(€100 million)

99

April
2027

3.950

no

CNH bond 2012/2015
(CNH 500 million)

66

February
2015

3.950

no

Development bank loan

228

April 2019

no

Other loans

98

n/a

no

Finance lease

72

n/a

no

Eurobond 2011/2018
(€500 million)

Total financial
­liabilities

1,854

Cash and
cash equivalents

418

≤ 3 months

Near-cash assets

100

≤ 3 months

Total liquidity

518

Net financial liabilities

1,336

1) Ratio of net financial liabilities to EBITDA pre exceptionals

Due to extensive financing measures taken in past fiscal years, we have
continually improved the maturity structure of our financial liabilities. At
the time this combined management report was finalized, LANXESS
was not exposed to any refinancing risks as it had taken early action
to refinance those financial liabilities that are due to mature. The other
loans related mainly to the use of credit facilities by subsidiaries in
Brazil, China, India and Argentina, some of which mature in 2015
and are extended on a regular, e.g. annual, basis.
Maturity Profile of ­LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2014
€ million
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

after 2019

300

200
Combined Management Report – Economic report
Statement of financial position and financial condition

100

0

Liquidity analysis In addition to cash and cash equivalents of
€418 million­and investments in highly liquid AAA money market
funds of €100 million, LANXESS has additional sizeable liquidity
reserves in the form of undrawn credit facilities. The investments in
money market funds are undertaken only at European Group companies that are not subject to restrictions on foreign exchange and
capital transfers. We can therefore freely dispose of the funds. Around
86% of our cash is held in Group companies in countries with no restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. Only about 14%
of our cash is held in companies in regulated capital markets where
cash transfers are restricted.

By far the most important of LANXESS’s credit lines is the syndicated
credit facility of €1.25 billion, which has not been significantly drawn
upon to date. In February 2015, we extended this facility by one year
until February 2020. This credit facility is designed as an operating
line of credit and to provide funds for capital investment. It corresponds
to market requirements in the European syndicated loan market for
investment-grade companies with a BBB rating. Another important
credit line is the €150 million facility we agreed with the European
Investment Bank in fiscal 2014. None of our major loan agreements
contains a financial covenant. LANXESS had unused credit lines totaling around €1.5 billion as of December 31, 2014, unchanged against
the end of the previous year.
The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us a liquidity scope of around €2.0 billion, as in the prior year. This liquidity
reserve secures our entrepreneurial flexibility and serves as back-up
financing for our global realignment program; it is an expression of
our conservative financial policy. Our solvency is safeguarded for the
short and long term.
Bond performance – evolution of credit spread in 2014 An important
indicator for corporate bonds, apart from the absolute change in price,
is the relative valuation of the risk specific to the issuer in comparison to
a reference interest rate. This credit risk premium is expressed in what
is known as the credit spread. Due to the higher default risk associated
with longer bond maturity, long-term bonds generally feature a wider
credit spread. This, and factors such as liquidity and trading volume,
also apply to the various LANXESS bonds. The following chart shows
the evolution of the credit spreads of our bonds and the average credit
spread of corporate bonds with a BBB rating and a five-year maturity
in comparison to the interest rate swap curve.

31.12.2008

­LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index
Basis points
100

100

80

80

60

60

40

40

20

20

0

0

(20)

Thanks to our good liquidity position, our solvency was assured at all
times in fiscal 2014. This is an aspect that was assessed positively
by the rating agencies in their credit ratings in 2014.

01.01.2008

97

Jan. 1, 2014

 ­LANXESS Eurobond 2014
 ­LANXESS Eurobond 2016
 ­LANXESS Eurobond 2018

Dec. 31, 2014

 ­LANXESS Eurobond 2022
BBB Corporates, 5 years

The credit risk premiums on corporate bonds displayed little volatility­in
2014 and declined steadily during the year. This reflected the overall
positive situation on Europe’s capital markets and, against the background of the further decline in interest rates, the high demand from
investors for corporate bonds with investment-grade ratings.
In the first half of 2014, the credit risk premiums on LANXESS bonds
moved in parallel with but were below those for bonds in the BBBrated reference group. Following the reduction of LANXESS’s ratings to BBB– and Baa3 in the second half of the year, the credit risk
premium on the LANXESS bond which matures in 2018 moved on
the same level as those for bonds with roughly the same maturities
in the BBB-rated reference group. The development of our credit
spreads underscores the fact that we retain competitive access to
capital market financing.

-20

98

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Management’s summary of business development and  
the fiscal year
In 2014, the LANXESS Group’s business was largely characterized
by the persistently difficult competitive situation for synthetic rubbers.
While business development had been unfavorable in 2013, a slightly
more favorable trend was evident in the year under review.
At €8,006 million, LANXESS Group sales in 2014 declined by 3.5%
from €8,300 million in the prior year. Our Performance Polymers
segment posted a substantial decrease in sales, due especially to
lower procurement prices for raw materials and to the persistently
challenging competitive situation. In the Advanced Intermediates
segment, sales were more or less flat with the previous year thanks to
good demand for agrochemicals. The Performance Chemicals segment posted a positive business performance on account of higher
volumes and selling prices.
EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2014 increased by almost 10% to
€808 million from €735 million in the previous year. This was due
especially to lower manufacturing costs and higher volumes. Additionally, cost savings were contributed by the “Advance” and “Let’s
LANXESS again” programs. Earnings were held back by lower selling
prices due to the challenging competitive situation for synthetic rubbers, resulting in part from overcapacities. Overall, net income and
earnings per share were substantially improved year on year.
We upheld our conservative accounting and financing policy. In
­accordance with the consistency principle, we essentially applied the
same measurement methods and exercised the same discretion as in
the previous year. Our equity ratio improved from 27.9% to 29.8%,
which was attributable above all to the capital increase. Total assets
increased, mainly due to capital expenditures.

Our statement of financial position shows that our liquidity position
remains solid. Additional substantial liquidity reserves in the form of
undrawn credit lines are also available. Of the total financial liabilities,
86% bear a fixed interest rate over the term of the financing, which
is below the prior-year level of 98%. This enabled us to improve the
balance between floating-rate assets and financial liabilities and additionally benefit from the currently very low interest rates. Our financial
liabilities are free of financial covenants.
Our net financial liabilities declined by €395 million to €1,336 million.
In fiscal 2014, the rating agencies reduced LANXESS’s creditworthiness from BBB and Baa2 to BBB– and Baa3, respectively. However,
they raised the outlook to stable. This downward assessment was
justified by factors such as LANXESS’s latterly weaker financial data
resulting from the persistently difficult business environment for rubber, among other factors.
In the prior year, we made appropriate corrections to our assets affected by the risks associated with the challenging competitive situation resulting from growing capacities, lower selling prices and less
favorable prices for raw materials and energy. Although there has
been no fundamental change to this environment, we believe that
our company’s business situation remains positive on account of its
balanced financing position in the long term and the intactness of the
megatrends in the medium term.

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Management’s summary of business development and the fiscal year | Earnings, asset and financial position of LANXESS AG

Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview
€ million

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

8,006

Earnings performance
7,120

8,775

9,094

8,300

918

1,146

1,223

735

808

12.9%

13.1%

13.4%

8.9%

10.1%

EBITDA

890

1,101

1,186

624

644

Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals

635

826

847

288

402

Sales
EBITDA pre exceptionals
EBITDA margin pre exceptionals

Operating result (EBIT)
EBIT margin

607

776

808

(93)

218

8.5%

8.8%

8.9%

(1.1)%

2.7%

Net income (loss)

379

506

508

(159)

47

Earnings per share (€)

4.56

6.08

6.11

(1.91)

0.53

Financial position
Cash flow from operating activities

430

672

838

641

797

Depreciation and amortization

283

325

378

717

426

Cash outflows for capital expenditures

501

679

696

624

614

Net financial liabilities

913

1,515

1,483

1,731

1,336

Assets and liabilities
Total assets

5,666

6,878

7,519

6,811

7,250

Non-current assets

2,738

3,489

3,747

3,592

4,101

Current assets

2,928

3,389

3,772

3,219

3,149

Net working capital

1,372

1,766

1,849

1,679

1,600

Equity (including non-controlling interests)

1,761

2,074

2,330

1,900

2,161

605

679

893

943

1,290

Pension provisions
Indicators
ROCE

17.0%

17.2%

15.6%

5.8%

7.9%

Equity ratio

31.1%

30.2%

31.0%

27.9%

29.8%

Non-current asset ratio

48.3

50.7

49.8

52.7

56.6

Asset coverage I

64.3

59.4

62.2

52.9

52.7

Net working capital/sales
Employees (as of December 31)

19.3%

20.1%

20.3%

20.2%

20.0%

14,648

16,390

17,177

17,343

16,584

Earnings, asset and financial position of lanxess ag
LANXESS AG serves primarily as the management holding company
for the LANXESS Group. The principal management functions for the
entire Group are performed by the Board of Management. The Board of
Management shapes Group strategy and manages resource allocation,
infrastructure and organization. The Group management company is
also responsible for financing and communication with LANXESS’s key
stakeholders. The economic performance of LANXESS AG depends
principally on the operating business entities in the LANXESS Group
and on the development of the chemical industry. The balance of

income and losses from investments in affiliated companies resulting
from profit or loss transfers and dividends from affiliated companies is of
key importance for the future ability of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend.
Therefore, especially the statements made in the “Opportunity and
risk report” in this combined management report apply in principle
to LANXESS AG as well.
The financial statements of LANXESS AG are prepared in accordance
with the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG).

99

100

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Sales and earnings of LANXESS AG
LANXESS AG Income Statement in Accordance with the
German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged
€ million
Sales

2013

2014

Change %

4

5

25.0

Cost of sales

(4)

(5)

(25.0)

Gross profit

0

0

–

(39)

(43)

(10.3)

General administration expenses
Other operating income
Other operating expenses
Operating result

2

34

>100

(2)

(14)

< (100)

(39)

(23)

41.0

Income from investments
in affiliated companies

169

53

(68.6)

Net interest expense

(85)

(57)

32.9

Other financial income
and expenses – net

(14)

(33)

< (100)

Financial result

70

(37)

< (100)

Income (loss) before
income taxes

31

(60)

< (100)

4

(25)

< (100)

Net income (loss)

35

(85)

< (100)

Carryforward to new account

13

3

(76.9)

0

135

–

48

53

10.4

Income taxes

Withdrawal from other
retained earnings
Distributable profit

The earnings of LANXESS AG are determined largely by profit or loss
transfers from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH and LANXESS International Holding GmbH, which hold the shares of the other subsidiaries
and affiliates both in Germany and elsewhere.

to minus €37 million. This change was primarily due to the profit
transfer of €67 million from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, down
€102 million from the previous year, and to the assumption of a loss
of €13 million from LANXESS International Holding GmbH. By contrast, the €28 million decrease in net interest expense to €57 million
had a positive effect and was mainly attributable to the repayment of
borrowings from subsidiaries.
Income before income taxes came to minus €60 million, following­
€31 million in the previous year. Net expenses for income taxes­
of €25 million comprised tax expenses of €1 million for 2014
and €24 million for the previous years. The net loss for 2014 was
€85 million­after net income of €35 million in the previous year.
Taking into account the profit carryforward of €3 million and a withdrawal from other retained earnings of €135 million, the distributable profit as of December 31, 2014, increased to €53 million from
€48 million at the end of 2013.

Asset and capital structure of LANXESS AG
LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position in Accordance
with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged
Dec. 31, 2013
€ million

The financial result, which comprises the balance of income and losses
from investments in affiliated companies, the net interest position,
and other financial income and expense, decreased by €107 million

€ million

%

%

Financial assets

757

23.5

758

26.3

0.1

Non-current assets

757

23.5

758

26.3

0.1

1,967

61.1

1,754

60.8

(10.8)

25

0.7

20

0.7

(20.0)

467

14.5

348

12.1

(25.5)

2,459

76.3

2,122

73.6

(13.7)

Receivables from
affiliated companies
Other assets
Liquid assets and securities
Current assets

5

0.2

4

0.1

(20.0)

3,221

100.0

2,884

100.0

(10.5)

1,171

36.4

1,473

51.1

25.8

101

3.1

103

3.6

2.0

59

1.8

1

0.0

(98.3)

1,886

58.6

1,297

45.0

(31.2)

4

0.1

10

0.3

>100

Liabilities

1,949

60.5

1,308

45.3

(32.9)

Total assets

3,221

100.0

2,884

100.0

(10.5)

Total assets
Equity and
Liabilities
Equity
Provisions
Liabilities to banks

General administration expenses increased against the previous year,
up €4 million, or 10.3%, to €43 million. They principally comprised
personnel and other business expenses not directly related to the
services provided to Group companies. The increase in other operating
income was primarily due to the reversal of provisions. The operating
result improved by €16 million to minus €23 million.

%

Change

Assets

Prepaid expenses

Sales of LANXESS AG stood at €5 million, which was slightly higher
than the prior-year level of €4 million. They related to services provided
to LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. A balanced result remained after
deducting the cost of sales, which consisted mostly of personnel expenses and appropriate shares of the general administration expenses.

Dec. 31, 2014

Payables to affiliated
companies
Other liabilities

Combined Management Report – Economic report
Earnings, asset and financial position of LANXESS AG | Employees

In view of its function as a strategic holding company, the statement
of financial position of LANXESS AG is dominated by financial assets
and by receivables from, and payables to, subsidiaries.
LANXESS AG had total assets of €2,884 million as of December 31,
2014, which was €337 million, or 10.5%, below the prior-year figure. Non-current assets were €758 million and primarily included the
carrying amount of the investment in LANXESS Deutschland GmbH,
which stands at €739 million. The share of non-current assets in total
assets increased from 23.5% to 26.3%. Current assets declined by
€337 million,­or 13.7%, to €2,122 million and accounted for 73.6%
of total assets, compared with 76.3% in 2013. Receivables from subsidiaries accounted for 60.8% of total assets and related principally to
financial transactions and short-term loans. The share of bank balances
and securities in total assets decreased from 14.5% to 12.1%.
Equity increased by €302 million to €1,473 million, largely due to the
10% increase in the capital stock. This was partly offset by the dividend
payout for 2013 and the net loss for the reporting period. The equity
ratio was 51.1%, after 36.4% at the end of 2013.
Liabilities decreased by €641 million to €1,308 million, largely on
account of payables to subsidiaries, which were €589 million lower
than the previous year at €1,297 million. The provisions increased
by €2 million to €103 million and related mainly to commitments to
employees and statutory obligations.

Employees
As of December 31, 2014, the LANXESS Group had a total of
16,584 employees, against 17,343 at the closing date of the prior
year. Our global headcount reflected the measures taken to realign
the company. Some 1,000 positions in administration and service
units, marketing, and research and development worldwide were
identified for reduction by 2016 as part of the first phase of our
realignment (competitiveness of the business and administrative
structure).
In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of employees
as of December 31, 2014 was 3,267, down from 3,444 in the
previous year. In Germany, the headcount declined from 8,117 to
7,747. The number of employees in the North America region fell to
1,371, from 1,526 as of December 31, 2013, while Latin America
saw its workforce shrink from 1,560 at the end of last year, to 1,467.
At the reporting date, we employed 2,732 people in the Asia-Pacific
region, which is 36 more than a year ago.
13,598, or 82%, of our employees were men and 2,986, or 18%,
were women. The number of employees who were non-German
nationals was 9,270. In addition, we had 957 employees worldwide
working on temporary employment contracts. LANXESS AG had
139 employees as of the reporting date, versus 144 the year before.
With a total of 496 trainees in 19 different career paths and seven
combined vocational training and study programs at the end of 2014,
LANXESS continues to train more young people than it needs to meet
its own requirements. In 2014, despite our realignment program, we
hired around 75% of those who completed their vocational training
with us in Germany.
Part-time employees accounted for 7.0% of the workforce at our
German core companies as of the reporting date. Individuals with
severe disabilities made up 5.4% of the workforce at our German
companies. In addition, we routinely award contracts to work centers
for the disabled.
The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries
for every million hours worked) in Germany, is the key indicator used
to assess occupational safety within the LANXESS Group. In 2014,
the LTIFR was 2.3, compared with 3.2 in 2013.
Personnel expenses totaled €1,457 million in fiscal 2014 (2013:
€1,339 million). Wages and salaries, at €1,106 million (2013:
€1,006 million), accounted for the greater part of this figure. Social
security contributions were €202 million (2013: €194 million),
while pension plan expenses totaled €136 million (2013: €128 million), and social assistance benefits came to €13 million (2013:
€11 million).

101

102

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

HR strategy

Employees by Region

%

16.5
Asia-Pacific

19.7
EMEA (excluding Germany)

8.8
Latin America
8.3
North America
46.7
Germany

The strategic development initiative in the HR function, which was
started in 2013, was integrated into the “Let’s LANXESS again”
­program in 2014. Within the context of our realignment, leadership,
dialogue, organizational consulting and change management were
special areas of focus for the HR organization.

31.2
Performance Polymers

In addition to developing and implementing innovative concepts for
addressing the challenges resulting from demographic change, our
top long-term strategic human resources goal is to attract and cultivate
a range of talented employees for LANXESS. We aim to strengthen
our diversity, particularly in terms of age, national origin and gender.
As part of our Diversity & Inclusion initiative, we have set a goal for the
company: to voluntarily increase the proportion of women in middle
and upper management to around 20% by 2020. The figure currently
stands at around 15.3%.

Employees by Segment

%

18.0
Other

33.9
Performance Chemicals

Our entrepreneurial success is fundamentally based on our employees’
professionalism, implementation skills and sense of responsibility. Only
through their ongoing training and development – especially aimed
at strengthening their willingness to learn and change – can we safeguard our company’s ability to continuously adapt to complex market
challenges and sustainably improve LANXESS’s competitiveness.

16.9
Advanced Intermediates

Compensation report
Compensation of the Board of Management

Employees by Functional Area (Annual Average)

%
4.6
Research
11.2
Administration
11.8
Marketing

72.4
Production

The structure of the compensation system and the level of compensation for the members of the Board of Management are determined
by the Supervisory Board. The appropriateness of the compensation
is regularly reviewed. The criteria for determining the appropriateness of the compensation for an individual Board of Management
member include, in particular, his duties, his personal performance,
the economic situation, and the success and sustainable growth of
the LANXESS Group. Consideration is also given to compensation
at comparable companies and the company’s overall compensation
structure, including as well the ratio between the compensation of
the Board of Management and that of LANXESS’s senior executives and the rest of the workforce, both overall and in terms of time.
The compensation structure is also designed to be competitive in
the international market for highly qualified executives and provide
the motivation to successfully work toward sustainable corporate
development.

Combined Management Report
Employees | Compensation report

The compensation system that was introduced for members of the
Board of Management in 2010 was approved by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 28, 2010. This compensation system was applied when concluding the service contracts with
all Board of Management members.
The components of the compensation for members of the Board of
Management are the annual base salary; the variable components,
which are the Annual Performance Payment, the Long-Term Incentive Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan and the Long-Term
Performance Bonus; and a retirement pension. The three variable
components are linked to LANXESS’s annual performance and,
particularly, to its corporate success over a number of years. The
average compensation mix of 30% annual base salary and 70% variable compensation components, assuming 100% target attainment,
is strongly aligned with the company’s performance and long-term
value creation. The present service contracts for members of the
Board of Management set out the annual base salary and limits on
the amounts for the variable compensation components. They do not
provide for an additional separate limit on total compensation, even
taking into account a possible discretionary bonus.
Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management

which are defined by the Supervisory Board before the beginning of
the respective fiscal year. In the case of 100% target attainment, the
individual APP budget for 2014 for Mr. Zachert is 125% and for the
other members of the Board of Management 115% of their respective
annual base salaries. The maximum payment is defined on an annual
basis by the Supervisory Board. For fiscal 2014, it has been capped
at 100% and for fiscal 2015 at 150% of the individual budgets for
the members of the Board of Management – assuming 100% target
attainment. Actual payments may differ from the amount calculated
in advance.
The Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is another element of variable
compensation. This compensation component is based on the performance of LANXESS stock against a reference index, the Dow Jones
STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM. The LTIP responds to the call by legislators
for a stronger focus on long-term company performance. It is divided
into three three-year tranches, with the first tranche having begun in
2008. Participation required a prior personal investment each year
in LANXESS shares to a value of 13% of the annual base salary. The
shares were subject to a five-year lock-up period. The last payments
from the LTIP were made in 2013. 100% target attainment brought a
payment per tranche of 50% of the individual target income, which is
the annual base salary plus the APP assuming 100% target attainment.

%
Annual base salary

30

Annual Performance Payment

36

Long-Term Incentive Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan

20

Long-Term Performance Bonus

14
100

Annual base salary The fixed compensation comprises the annual base
salary and compensation in kind, the latter consisting mainly of the
tax value of perquisites such as the use of a company car. The annual
base salary of the members of the Board of Management is marketoriented and in line with that paid at other comparable companies.
Variable compensation The annual performance-based component
of the variable compensation, known as the Annual Performance
Payment (APP), is based on corporate business targets and other
conditions, such as the attainment of certain Group EBITDA targets,

The LTIP was succeeded effective fiscal 2010 by two other long-term
variable compensation components: the Long-Term Stock Performance
Plan (LTSP) and the Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB).
The LTSP is divided into four four-year tranches. The 2010–2013
tranche is also based on the performance of LANXESS stock against
the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM reference index. Compared to
the previous LTIP, the possible payment per tranche under the new plan
has been reduced from 50% to 30% of the individual target income,
assuming 100% target attainment. The condition for participation in
the LTSP is a prior personal investment each year in LANXESS shares
to a value of 5% of the annual base salary. The shares are subject to an
average five-year lock-up period. The LTSP 2014–2017 offered since
2014 uses the MSCI World Chemicals Index as the new reference index but is otherwise largely unchanged from the 2010–2013 tranche.

103

104

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Compensation of the Board of Management
Fixed compensation

€ ’000

Variable compensation

Payments from
LTSP rights

Year

Annual
base
salery

Compensation in
kind

Performance
bonus1)

Payment for
previous
years4)

2014

900

54

1,125

–

2013

–

–

–

–

2014

650

60

673

–

263 7)

LTPB
(multiyear)

Total cash
compensation

Number
of rights

Fair
values

Total

2,485

810,000

689

3,174

–

–

–

–

1,646

419,250

356

2,002

Serving members of the
Board of Management as
of December 31, 2014
Matthias Zachert
(as of April 1, 2014)
Dr. Bernhard Düttmann
Dr. Rainier van Roessel

406 5)
–

2013

613

57

346 2)

–

218 6)

1,234

322,500

177

1,411

2014

650

49

673

–

263 7)

1,635

419,250

356

1,991

2013

613

47

346 2)

–

218 6)

1,224

322,500

177

1,401

Former members of the
Board of Management as
of December 31, 2014
Dr. Axel C. Heitmann
(until February 21, 2014)

2014

157

(1)

2013

1,000

130

Dr. Werner Breuers
(until August 5, 2014)

2014

387

34

238

–

659

–

–

659

2013

613

51

346 2)

–

218 6)

1,228

322,500

177

1,405

2014

2,744

196

2,709

–

932

6,581

1,648,500

1,401

7,982

2013

2,839

285

1,653

34

977

5,788

1,564,125

859

6,647

Total

–
615 3)

–
34

–
323 6)
–

156

–

–

156

2,102

596,625

328

2,430

1) Payment in 2014 and 2015, respectively
2) The performance bonus was voluntarily reduced by 10% of the annual base salary.
3) The performance bonus was voluntarily reduced by 6% of the annual base salary.
4) Payment in 2013
5) Payment in 2014
6) Payment of 50% each in 2014 and 2015
7) Payment of 50% each in 2015 and 2016

For more information, particularly regarding the valuation parameters
applied, please see Note [14] to the consolidated financial statements.
The personnel expenses for (2013: gain from) share-based com­­
pensation in fiscal 2014 amounted to €100 thousand for ­­­Mr. Zachert,
€20 thousand (2013: €56 thousand) for Dr. Düttmann,­€428 thousand­
(2013: €223 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel, €564 thousand (2013:
€385 thousand) for Dr. Heitmann and €1,056 thousand (2013:
€223 thousand) for Dr. Breuers.
The LTPB, which is the third variable compensation component, is
likewise aligned with long-term corporate performance. It rewards
target attainment only after two successive fiscal years. The basis for
calculating the LTPB is the individual APP target attainment for the
fiscal years in question. The exact amount of the LTPB results from the
average individual APP target attainment for the two fiscal years. Assuming an average APP target attainment of 100%, the LTPB amounts
to 45% of the annual base salary. Actual payments in 2015 and 2016
may differ from the amounts calculated in advance.
In 2014, Mr. Zachert received a one-time payment of €2,000 thousand­
in partial recompense for the multi-year variable compensation originally agreed under his previous employment contract but not paid
out because of his move to LANXESS AG. His total compensation

therefore amounts to €5,174 thousand. The table shows the total
compensation of the other members of the Board of Management.
The aggregate compensation of the entire Board of Management
totaled €9,982 thousand (2013: €6,647 thousand), comprising
€4,940 thousand (2013: €3,124 thousand) in non-performancerelated components, €3,641 thousand (2103: €2,664 thousand)
in performance-related components and €1,401 thousand (2013:
€859 thousand) in components with a long-term incentive effect.
Retirement pensions On termination of their service contracts, the
members of the Board of Management receive benefits under the
company pension plan. These benefits are paid when the beneficiary
reaches age 60 or if the beneficiary is permanently unable to work.
They are paid to surviving dependents in the event of the beneficiary’s
death.
The pension plan for the members of the Board of Management is a
defined contribution plan stipulating a basic contribution to be made
by the company equal to 25% of the annual base salary and APP.
The maximum amount taken into account for calculating the APP
contribution is that due on 100% target attainment, irrespective of
the actual target attainment. Moreover, the members of the Board of
Management must themselves pay an amount from deferred compensation amounting to 12.5% of the APP. The members of the Board of

Combined Management Report
Compensation report

Management may increase their personal contribution to up to 25%
of the APP. From the date of entitlement, up to 30% of the accumulated capital – including the interest thereon – may be converted to
a pension benefit. There are claims arising from provisions in place
before 2006 that are granted as vested rights to individual members
of the Board of Management. If the service contract ends before the
beneficiary reaches the age of 60, the company pays certain additional
benefits up to a defined ceiling.
LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims of Board of
Management members. The total service cost recognized under IFRS
accounting rules in the 2014 consolidated financial statements for this
purpose was €2,496 thousand (2013: €1,264 thousand). The present value of the obligations for the members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, 2014 was €9,994 thousand­(2013:
€21,740 thousand). Under IFRS accounting principles, the service
cost for pension entitlements earned in 2014 and the present value of
the obligations, including acquired rights, as of December 31, 2014
amounted, respectively, to €1,574 thousand­and €1,993 thousand­
for Mr. Zachert, €254 thousand and €2,095 thousand­(2013:
€394 thousand­and €1,584 thousand) for Dr. Düttmann, and
€148 thousand and €5,906 thousand (2013: €118 thousand
and €5,090 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel. The service cost for
Dr. Heitmann­and Dr. Breuers for their service on the Board of Management in 2014 came to €366 thousand and €154 thousand,
respectively.
The net expense for pension entitlements recognized under HGB accounting rules in the 2014 annual financial statements for this purpose
was €109 thousand (2013: €3,470 thousand). This amount includes
income in connection with pension entitlements for Dr. Heitmann and
Dr. Breuers of €1,851 thousand and €2 thousand, respectively. The
present value of the obligations for the members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, 2014 was €7,787 thousand­
(2013: €18,565 thousand). Under HGB accounting principles,
the present value of the obligations, including vested rights, for the
members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31,
2014 amounted, respectively, to €1,287 thousand for Mr. Zachert,
€1,644 thousand (2013: €1,348 thousand) for Dr. Düttmann, and
€4,856 thousand (2013: €4,477 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel.
As of December 31, 2014, obligations to former members of the Board
of Management totaled €27,921 thousand (2013: €11,578 thousand)­
under IFRS accounting rules and €21,215 thousand­ (2013:
€9,734 thousand) under HGB accounting rules. In 2014, this total
contained obligations to Dr. Heitmann and Dr. Breuers for the first time.
Benefits associated with and following termination of service on the
Board of Management The members of the Board of Management
have indemnification rights should their service contracts be terminated
for defined reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event
of a material change of control over the company. The terms depend

on the respective circumstances and, regardless of the remaining
term of the service contract, include severance payments amounting
to up to two times the annual base salary or, in the event of a change
of control, three times the annual base salary, plus the APP and LTPB
assuming 100% target achievement and compensation pro rata temporis of LTSP rights.
No additional benefits have been pledged to any member of the Board
of Management in the event of termination of their service.
Dr. Heitmann resigned from the Board of Management by mutual
agreement effective February 21, 2014, and left the company. Up
to this time, the contractually agreed benefits were granted and paid,
including the variable compensation for fiscal 2013 that had already
been earned. Dr. Heitmann waived further claims, i.e. to variable compensation (APP and LTPB) pro rata, compensation for existing LTSP
rights or other severance payments.
Dr. Breuers will be leaving the company on expiration of his service
contract on May 31, 2015. He already resigned from the Board of
Management effective August 5, 2014. The contractually agreed
terms of his compensation shall remain applicable until he leaves
the company. At that time, existing LTSP rights shall be evaluated at
€1.00 per right and compensation paid pro rata, depending on the
length of the retention period that has already elapsed. This results in
an entitlement of €729 thousand. In addition, Dr. Breuers has been
granted a severance payment of €1,690 thousand comprising a target income, which is the annual base salary plus the APP and LTPB
assuming 100% target attainment.
In 2014, compensation of former members of the Board of Management totaled €1,983 thousand (2013: €308 thousand).
Other benefits In 2014, no member of the Board of Management
received benefits or assurances of benefits from third parties in respect
of their duties as members of the Board of Management.
No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management in
fiscal 2014.
Individual compensation in line with the recommendations of the
German Corporate Governance Code
The following tables list the compensation, additional benefits and
allocations (payments) for 2013 and 2014, in line with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. The variable
compensation components differ depending on the reference period.
The amounts of compensation shown also include the maximum and
minimum attainable compensation.

105

106

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014)
€ ’000

Matthias Zachert
Chairman of the Board of Management
Appointed April 1, 2014

Dr. Bernhard Düttmann
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed April 1, 2011

Dr. Rainier van Roessel
Member of the Board of Management
Appointed January 1, 2007

Target
value
2013

Target
value
2014

2014
(min.)

2014
(max.)

Target
value
2013

Target
value
2014

2014
(min.)

2014
(max.)

Target
value
2013

Target
value
2014

2014
(min.)

2014
(max.)

Annual base salary

–

900

900

900

613

650

650

650

613

650

650

650

Compensation
in kind

–

54

54

54

57

60

60

60

47

49

49

49

Total

–

954

954

954

670

710

710

710

660

699

699

699

Annual
Performance
Payment
(APP) 2)

–

1,125

1,125

1,125

748

748

0

748

748

748

0

748

Multi-year
variable
compensation

–

1,365

406

2,431

538

649

0

1,059

538

649

0

1,059

LTPB (tranche
2012–2013)

–

–

–

–

68

–

–

–

68

–

–

–

LTPB (tranche
2013–2014)

–

203

203

203

293

0

0

(146) 3)

293

0

0

(146) 3)

LTPB (tranche
2014–2015)2)

–

473

203

608

0

293

0

366

0

293

0

366

LTSP
2010–2013
(tranche 2013)

–

–

–

–

177

–

–

–

177

–

–

–

LTSP
2014–2017
(tranche 2014)

–

689

0

1,620

0

356

0

839

0

356

0

839

Total

–

3,444

2,485

4,510

1,956

2,107

710

2,517

1,946

2,096

699

2,506

Service cost

–

1,574

1,574

1,574

394

254

254

254

118

148

148

148

Total
compensation 1)

–

5,018

4,059

6,084

2,350

2,361

964

2,771

2,064

2,244

847

2,654

1) In 2014, Mr. Zachert also received a one-time payment of €2,000 thousand in partial recompense for the multi-year variable compensation originally agreed under his previous employment contract but not
paid out because of his move to LANXESS AG.
2) Maximum target attainment for 2014 reduced from 200% to 100%
3) 2013 grant adjusted retrospectively to 100% for 2014

Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014)
€ ’000

Matthias Zachert
Chairman of the Board of Management
Appointed April 1, 2014

Dr. Bernhard Düttmann
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed April 1, 2011

Dr. Rainier van Roessel
Member of the Board of Management
Appointed January 1, 2007

2013

2014

2013

2014

2013

2014

Annual base salary

–

900

613

650

613

650

Compensation in kind

–

54

57

60

47

49

Total

–

954

670

710

660

699

Annual Performance Payment
(APP) 2)

–

1,125

346 2)

673

346 2)

673
825

Multi-year variable
compensation

–

406

328

212

1,349

LTPB (tranche 2012–2013)

–

–

328

–

328

–

LTPB (tranche 2013–2014)

–

203

–

212

–

212

LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)

–

203

–

–

–

–

LTIP 2008–2010
(tranche 2010)

–

–

–

–

1,021

–

LTSP 2010–2013
(tranche 2010)

–

–

–

–

–

613

Total

–

2,485

1,344

1,595

2,355

2,197

Service cost

–

1,574

394

254

118

148

Total compensation 1)

–

4,059

1,738

1,849

2,473

2,345

1) In 2014, Mr. Zachert also received a one-time payment of €2,000 thousand in partial recompense for the multi-year variable compensation originally agreed under his previous employment contract but not
paid out because of his move to LANXESS AG.
2) The performance bonus (APP) was voluntarily reduced by 10% of the annual base salary.

Combined Management Report
Compensation report

Compensation Granted (Former Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014)
Dr. Axel C. Heitmann
Chairman of the Board of Management
Resigned February 21, 2014

€ ’000

Target
value
2013

Target
value
2014

2014
(min.)

Dr. Werner Breuers
Member of the Board of Management
Resigned August 5, 2014

2014
(max.)

Target
value
2013

Target
value
2014

2014
(min.)

2014
(max.)
387

1,000

157

157

157

613

387

387

130

(1) 3)

(1) 3)

(1) 3)

51

34

34

34

Total

1,130

156

156

156

664

421

421

421

Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1)

1,236

–

–

–

748

445

0

445

880

–

–

–

538

87

0

(59)

LTPB (tranche 2012–2013)

68

–

–

–

68

–

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2013–2014)

484

–

–

–

293

0

0

(146) 2)

Annual base salary
Compensation in kind

Multi-year variable compensation

0

–

–

–

0

87

0

87

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013)

328

–

–

–

177

–

–

–

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2014)

0

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

3,246

156

156

156

1,950

953

421

807

376

366

366

366

376

154

154

154

3,622

522

522

522

2,326

1,107

575

961

LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)1)

Total
Service cost
Total compensation
1) Maximum target attainment for 2014 reduced from 200% to 100%
2) 2013 grant adjusted retrospectively to 100% for 2014
3) Including correction for prior year

Allocations (Former Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014)
€ ’000

Annual base salary
Compensation in kind
Total

Dr. Axel C. Heitmann
Chairman of the Board of Management
Resigned February 21, 2014

Dr. Werner Breuers
Member of the Board of Management
Resigned August 5, 2014

2013

2014

2013

2014

1,000

157

613

387

130

(1)

51

34

1,130

156

664

421

Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1)

615 2)

–

346 1)

238

Multi-year variable compensation

2,316

1,064

1,349

693

LTPB (tranche 2012–2013)

542

–

328

–

LTPB (tranche 2013–2014)

–

–

–

80
–

LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)
LTIP 2008–2010 (tranche 2010)
LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2010)
Total
Service cost
Total compensation
1) The performance bonus (APP) was voluntarily reduced by 10% of the annual base salary.
2) The performance bonus (APP) was voluntarily reduced by 6% of the annual base salary.

–

–

–

1,774

–

1,021

–

–

1,064

–

613

4,061

1,220

2,359

1,352

376

366

376

154

4,437

1,586

2,735

1,506

107

108

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Compensation of the Supervisory Board
The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by Section 12 of the company’s articles of association. The members of
the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG receive fixed compensation
of €80 thousand per year. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board
receives three times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half times, this
amount. Serving as the chair or a member of Supervisory Board committees is compensated separately in accordance with the German
Corporate Governance Code. Supervisory Board members who belong
to a committee receive one half of the fixed compensation amount
in addition. The chair of the Audit Committee receives a further half.
Supervisory Board members who chair a committee other than the
Audit Committee receive a further quarter. However, no member may
receive in total more than three times the fixed compensation amount.
Supervisory Board members are reimbursed for their expenses in
addition and also receive an attendance allowance of €1.5 thousand
for each Supervisory Board meeting and each committee meeting
they attend, with the exception of meetings of the Committee formed
pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination
Act and meetings of the Nominations Committee. With respect to their
membership on the supervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies,
the members of the Supervisory Board are remunerated only for their
service on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH in
the amount of €5 thousand each.
The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term incentive
based on the company’s performance during the standard term of an
individual’s membership on the Supervisory Board (five years). Unlike
the fixed compensation component, this variable compensation component is not paid every year, but only once at the end of the standard
term of office. If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term,
the amount is prorated.

Payment of the variable compensation depends on how LANXESS’s
stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM
index during a member’s five-year term. The average price of LANXESS
stock and the average level of the index during the 90 trading days
prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which the Supervisory
Board members were elected are each compared with the respective
average for the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at the conclusion of which the members’ terms end. The variable
compensation is only payable if the stock has outperformed the benchmark index. The exact amount of the variable compensation depends
on the extent to which the stock price outperformed the benchmark
index in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock has outperformed
the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up to ten percentage
points, the variable compensation amounts to €50 thousand­for this
five-year ­period; if it has outperformed the index by between ten and
20 percentage points, €100 thousand is paid, and if the degree of outperformance is greater than this, the compensation is €150 thousand.
No variable compensation was paid in fiscal 2014.
The expected compensation payable for the term of office that began
with the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28,
2010, and runs until the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting that resolves to ratify the Supervisory Board members’ actions for
fiscal 2014 was valued at €0 thousand (2013: €1,800 thousand)
at December 31, 2014.
None of the members of the Supervisory Board received benefits for
services provided personally during the reporting period. No loans or
advances were granted to members of the Supervisory Board during
the reporting year.
The following table breaks down the compensation received by each
member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the Supervisory
Board in fiscal 2014.

Combined Management Report
Compensation report

Compensation of the Supervisory Board1)
€

Dr. Rolf Stomberg, Chairman
Ulrich Freese, Vice Chairman
Axel Berndt
Dr. Rudolf Fauss
(pro rata temporis until
June 30, 2014)
Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets
(pro rata temporis from
July 1, 2014)
Dr. Friedrich Janssen
Robert J. Koehler
Rainer Laufs
Thomas Meiers

Year

Fixed
compensation
­LANXESS AG

Compensation as
committee member
­LANXESS AG

Attendance
allowance

Fixed
compensation
­LANXESS
Deutschland GmbH

Total

267,500

2014

240,000

0

22,500

5,000

2013

240,000

0

16,500

5,000

261,500

2014

120,000

40,000

21,000

5,000

186,000

2013

120,000

40,000

16,500

5,000

181,500

2014

80,000

40,000

18,000

5,000

143,000

2013

80,000

40,000

15,000

5,000

140,000

2014

40,000

20,000

10,500

2,500

73,000

2013

80,000

40,000

15,000

5,000

140,000

2014

40,000

20,000

7,500

2,500

70,000

2013

0

0

0

0

0

2014

80,000

120,000

27,000

5,000

232,000

2013

80,000

96,548

18,000

5,000

199,548

2014

80,000

40,000

21,000

5,000

146,000

2013

80,000

40,000

13,500

5,000

138,500

2014

80,000

40,000

18,000

5,000

143,000

2013

80,000

40,000

15,000

5,000

140,000

2014

80,000

40,000

18,000

5,000

143,000
140,000

2013

80,000

40,000

15,000

5,000

Dr. Ulrich Middelmann
(deceased July 2, 2013)

2014

0

0

0

0

0

2013

40,110

20,055

7,500

2,507

70,172

Claudia Nemat
(effective July 25, 2013)

2014

80,000

0

9,000

5,000

94,000

2013

35,068

0

3,000

2,192

40,260

2014

80,000

40,000

22,500

5,000

147,500

Hans-Jürgen Schicker
Gisela Seidel
Theo H. Walthie
Total
1) Figures exclude value-added tax

2013

80,000

40,000

16,500

5,000

141,500

2014

80,000

40,000

22,500

5,000

147,500

2013

80,000

40,000

16,500

5,000

141,500

2014

80,000

40,000

18,000

5,000

143,000

2013

80,000

40,000

15,000

5,000

140,000

2014

1,160,000

480,000

235,500

60,000

1,935,500

2013

1,155,178

476,603

183,000

59,699

1,874,480

109

110

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4
and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German
Commercial Code
Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 and Section 315,
Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 of the German Commercial Code, we hereby
make the following declarations:
1.	The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936 as
of December 31, 2014, and is composed of 91,522,936 no-par
bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations.
One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share.
The rights and obligations arising from the shares are governed
by the German Stock Corporation Act.
2.	We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights or the
transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under employee stock
plans are subject to a lock-up period before they may be sold.
3.	We received no reports of direct and indirect equity investments in
the capital of LANXESS AG exceeding 10% of total voting rights.
4.	No shares carry special rights granting control authority.
5.	Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS AG
through employee stock programs. There are no restrictions on
directly exercising the control rights arising from these shares.
6.	Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act and
Section 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply to the appointment and dismissal of Board of Management members. Under
the provisions of these sections, Board of Management members
are appointed by the Supervisory Board for a term not exceeding five years. Such appointment may be renewed or the term
of office may be extended, provided that the term of each such
renewal or extension shall not exceed five years. Appointments
require a majority­of at least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board
members’­ votes. Section 6, Paragraph 1 of the articles of association
states that the Board of Management must consist of at least two
members. The number of members of the Board of Management
is determined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board
may appoint a chairman of the Board of Management and a vice
chairman of the Board of Management. Alternative members of
the Board of Management may be appointed. The Supervisory
Board may revoke the appointment of a member of the Board of
Management or the appointment of a member as Chairman of the
Board of Management for cause (Section 84, Paragraph 3 of the
German Stock Corporation Act).
	Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act provides
that a resolution of the Stockholders’ Meeting is required for
any amendment to the articles of association. Pursuant to Section 17, Paragraph 2 of the articles of association, resolutions of

the Stockholders’­ Meeting require a simple majority of the votes
cast and, if a capital majority is required, a simple majority of the
capital stock, unless otherwise required by law or provided by the
articles of association. The articles of association contain no further
provisions in this regard. Section 10, Paragraph 9 of the articles of
association of LANXESS AG authorizes the Supervisory Board to
resolve on amendments relating solely to the form of the articles
of association.
7.	The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been authorized
to issue or repurchase shares as follows:
Own shares The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on
May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until May 17,
2016, to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10% of
the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted by law.
This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of the company
or by third parties on behalf of the company or its subsidiaries. At the
discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be acquired
either in the market or via a public tender offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by law. In
particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than via the stock
exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or transfer them against
consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts
of companies or equity interests in companies or in order to conclude
mergers. It is also authorized to use them to satisfy conversion rights
from convertible or warrant bonds and/or profit-participation rights or
income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the
company and to grant holders of convertible or warrant bonds and/
or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of
these instruments) issued by the company or its direct and indirect
affiliates that grant a conversion or option right or stipulate a conversion or warrant obligation the number of shares for which such parties
would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or
option rights or fulfillment of the conversion or warrant obligation. The
stockholders shall not have subscription rights in such cases, except
where the shares are retired.
Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG
on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until May 17,
2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one or
more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, profitparticipation rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these
instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as either registered
or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to €2,000,000,000,
with or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or impose option obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds,
profit-participation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants,
and/or to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obligations on, the holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible
profit-participation rights or convertible income bonds in respect of
bearer shares of the company representing a total pro rata increase
of up to €16,640,534 in the company’s capital stock on the terms

Combined Management Report
Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code

to be defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of
the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus
conditionally increased by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional Capital).
The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the
extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exercise, option or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the
company or a dependent company against cash contributions, or
issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the company
or a dependent company, on or before May 17, 2016, on the basis
of the authorization granted to the Board of Management by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option
or conversion rights or, where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such
obligation, or to the extent that the company elects to grant shares in
the company in place of all or part of the cash amount due for payment. The conditional capital increase shall not be implemented if
cash compensation is granted or if the company’s own shares, shares
issued out of authorized capital or shares in another listed company
are used to service the option or conversion rights.
When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with
the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights
in the following cases:
• for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio;
• insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued
­option or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights
to the number of new shares to which they would be entitled
to subscribe as stockholders upon exercise of their option or
conversion rights or fulfillment of their option or conversion
obligations;
• in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue
price is not significantly below the theoretical market value of the
bonds with option or conversion rights or conversion obligations,­
as determined using accepted pricing models; if bonds are
issued by application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4
of the ­German Stock Corporation Act, in which case the issued
shares may not exceed a total of 10% of the capital stock either
at the time this authorization takes effect or at the time it is
utilized;
• if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option
or conversion rights or conversion obligations are vested with
bond-like characteristics.
Authorized Capital I and II ­Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of
LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2013, authorized the Board of Management until
May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase
the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par
shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of
€16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. With
the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can be
excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of war-

rants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates
subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parties
would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or
option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with the
approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital stock is
increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the acquisition of
companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval
of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/
or warrant bonds issued by the company or its affiliates new shares
upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be
excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price
of the new shares is not significantly lower than the stock market price
at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed
10% of the company’s capital stock. The upper limit of 10% of the
capital stock is reduced by the proportionate interest in the capital stock
which is attributable to those shares issued or sold during the term
of this authorization while excluding stockholders’ rights in direct or
analogous application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the
German Stock Corporation Act. Further details are given in Section 4,
Paragraph 2 of the articles of association.
In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s
articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28,
2010, authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015, with
the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s capital
stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares against
cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of €8,320,268
(Authorized Capital II). In fiscal 2014, €8,320,266 of the original
Authorized Capital II of €16,640,534 was used to increase the share
capital. Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights when
Authorized Capital is utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory
Board, subscription rights can be excluded for residual amounts and
in order to grant holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by
the company and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new
shares for which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon
exercise of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription
rights can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board
when the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in
kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription rights
can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board in
order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by
the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights.
Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval of
the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the stock market price at the time the issue price
is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s
capital stock. The upper limit of 10% of the capital stock is reduced
by the proportionate interest in the capital stock which is attributable
to those shares issued or sold during the term of this authorization
while excluding stockholders’ rights in direct or analogous application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the German Stock
Corporation Act. Further details are given in Section 4, Paragraph 3
of the articles of association.

111

112

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

8.	The service contracts between the company and the members
of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain provisions
regarding the potential departure of the members of the Board
of Management in the context of a change of control. These are
outlined in the compensation report in this combined management report. Such agreements, albeit with different terms, also
exist between the company and members of the first level of upper
management. In addition, the terms for placing bonds under the
company’s existing debt issuance program may contain a changeof-control clause which gives bondholders the right to redeem the
bond should certain events occur that affect its rating. This applies to
the €200 million Eurobond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in the
2009 fiscal year, the €500 million Eurobond issued by LANXESS
Finance B.V. in the 2011 fiscal year, and the €500 million Eurobond
issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in November 2012. At the end
of fiscal 2014, it also applied to the CNH 500 million bond issued
by LANXESS Finance B.V. in February 2012 and redeemed in
February­2015. All of these bonds are guaranteed by LANXESS AG.
The terms for two private placements with a volume of €100 million
each made by LANXESS Finance B.V. under the debt issuance
program in the 2012 fiscal year likewise contain corresponding
change-of-control clauses. These placements are also guaranteed
by LANXESS AG. In fiscal 2011 and 2014, LANXESS Finance
B.V. and LANXESS AG signed agreements with an investment bank
for loans of €200 million and €150 million, respectively. The loan
agreement signed by LANXESS Finance B.V. was transferred to
LANXESS AG in January 2015. These agreements may be terminated without notice or repayment of the outstanding loans may
be required if another company or person gains control of more
than 50% of LANXESS AG. The company also entered into an
agreement with a syndicate of banks concerning a credit facility that
is currently at €1,250 million. This agreement can also be terminated without notice if another company or person takes control of
more than 50% of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, according to agreements between the company and LANXESS Pension Trust e.V.,
the company is obligated to make considerable payments to
LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. in the event of a change of control.
9.	The service contracts between the company and the members of
the Board of Management of LANXESS AG as well as between
the company and members of the first and second levels of upper
management of LANXESS AG contain compensation agreements
applicable in the event of a change of control, as such change is
more particularly described in the respective contracts.

Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German
­Commercial Code
The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have issued the
corporate governance declaration pursuant to Section 289a of the
German Commercial Code (HGB). This has been made available to
the stockholders and can be found on our website at www.lanxess.
com under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance.

Events after the end of the reporting period
No events of particular significance took place after December 31,
2014, that could be expected to have a material effect on the earnings,
asset and financial position of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG.

Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives
The economic outlook below describes our expectations for economic
development. Following the report on future perspectives, we discuss
the opportunities and risks which may result in deviations from our
predictions. To give the informed reader a clearer view of the LANXESS
Group’s expected development, opportunities and risks, the opportunities and risks will be described in a combined report starting in the
year under review. In addition, there have been changes to the form
and content of the reporting.

Economic outlook
General business conditions We expect global economic growth of
3.0% in 2015. This forecast is based on the assumption that there will
be no further escalation in the crises in Ukraine and the Middle East.
A sustained low oil price could result in slight additional stimulation
of the economy. In the NAFTA region, we are anticipating growth of
3.0%, which will likely be driven by private consumption. Especially
due to a slightly improved economic environment in Europe, we are
assuming expansion of 2.5% in the EMEA region. A lower oil price
and a stronger U.S. dollar are expected to have a positive effect, while
the crisis in Ukraine will likely continue to dampen development. We
are forecasting growth of 2.0% in Germany, facilitated by low unemployment and an associated improvement in consumer sentiment. In
the Asia-Pacific region, we predict a gain of 4.5%. Growth in China
is expected to weaken somewhat because the country’s exports will
possibly no longer increase at the same pace as in the past.

Combined Management Report
Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code | Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code |
Events after the end of the reporting period | Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives

Expected Growth 2015
Change vs. prior year
in real terms (%)1)

Gross domestic
product

Chemical
production

NAFTA

3.0

2.5

Latin America

2.5

3.0

EMEA

2.5

2.0

Germany

2.0

1.0

Asia-Pacific

4.5

6.0

World

3.0

4.0

1) R
 ounded to the nearest 0.5%
Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight

Future performance of the chemical industry We believe that the
chemical industry will continue to expand in 2015, with production
growing by 4.0%. The emerging economies are expected to again be
the focus of this growth. Driven by development in China, we expect
production expansion in the Asia-Pacific region to be 6.0% above
the prior year. In the NAFTA region, we forecast a gain of 2.5%. We
anticipate growth of 3.0% in Latin America and gains of 2.0% and
1.0% in the EMEA and Germany regions, respectively.
Future evolution of selling markets We expect the global tire industry
to increase production by 2.5% in 2015. In the Asia-Pacific region,
a gain of 4.5% is anticipated. China is likely to remain the driver for
growth, albeit at a slower pace. In our predictions for the industrial
nations, we expect rising imports to result in a production decline
of 1.5% in the EMEA region. The NAFTA region is predicted to see
positive development of 1.0%. Latin America may see growth of 3.5%
in the current year, while we expect Germany to post a gain of 1.0%.
We are assuming growth of 4.5% in automotive production in 2015.
With anticipated expansion of 5.0%, the Asia-Pacific region is likely
to remain the focus of development. We see the Chinese economic
region, the ASEAN countries and India as the growth drivers here.
In the NAFTA region, we predict expansion of 4.0%. The situation in
Latin America should stabilize and this region is expected to turn in
growth of 4.0% following the strong decline in 2014. In the EMEA
region, we are anticipating a gain of 2.5%, with production in Germany
expected to rise by 0.5%.

Growth of 5.0% is projected for the construction industry in 2015. In
our view, the Asia-Pacific region will remain one focus of this development with a forecast increase of 5.5%. We are also anticipating an
improvement in the NAFTA region and assume growth of 8.0%. Latin
America is expected to post a gain of 4.0%. Due to a lack of momentum
in some eurozone countries and continued tensions in Eastern Europe,
we anticipate growth of 2.5% for the EMEA region. Germany should
continue its positive development for expansion of 4.0%.
The market for agrochemicals should remain robust and post growth of
3.0%. The NAFTA region is expected to see an increase of 2.0%. We
are also anticipating a recovery in Latin America with a gain of 3.0%.
In the EMEA region, growth of 3.0% is expected. Growth in Germany
is likely to weaken for an increase of 0.5%, whereas we anticipate
expansion of 3.5% in the Asia-Pacific region.
Expected Evolution of Major User Industries
Change vs. prior year
in real terms (%)1)

Tires

Automotive

Agrochemicals

Construction

2015

2015

2015

2015

NAFTA

1.0

4.0

2.0

8.0

Latin America

3.5

4.0

3.0

4.0

(1.5)

2.5

3.0

2.5

Germany

1.0

0.5

0.5

4.0

Asia-Pacific

4.5

5.0

3.5

5.5

World

2.5

4.5

3.0

5.0

EMEA

1) R
 ounded to the nearest 0.5%
Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight

113

114

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Future perspectives
Expected earnings position of the LANXESS Group We anticipate
that our earnings in fiscal 2015 will be influenced by the persistently
challenging competitive environment, especially for our synthetic
rubber businesses. Additional effects will likely come from the rampup costs for our new rubber plants and the associated idle capacity
costs. We do not expect any significant momentum for our business
development from the slight growth forecast for the global economy.
We assume the following development for the ten business units in
our three segments. The assumptions made for each segment are
based especially on the differing market and competitive situations
faced by the business units and the customer industries they serve.

In 2014, against the background of the continuing challenges facing
LANXESS, we initiated the three-phase “Let’s LANXESS again” program for the realignment of our company with the aim of sustainably
strengthening our competitiveness. In connection with the first phase
of the program, aimed at increasing the efficiency of business and
administrative structures, we have planned total exceptional charges
with no impact on EBITDA of €150 million through 2016. Of these
exceptional charges, around €110 million were incurred in the reporting year and some €40 million are expected in 2015. As decisions are
taken, we will be giving further details of the second and third phases
of the program during 2015, although we already initiated the first
measures of these phases in 2014. The cost reductions expected
from the realignment initiated in the reporting year are expected to
have a positive effect on our operating result in 2015.

For the Performance Polymers segment, we expect a slight improvement in demand from the main customer industries – automotive
and tires – in 2015 compared with the previous year. We believe that
the tire classification and labeling regulations and initiatives in various countries will slightly support demand for this segment’s rubber
products. However, in those business units which produce synthetic
rubbers – especially EPDM and butyl rubber – we are anticipating
continued price pressure due to additional capacities. In 2015, we
predict further positive development of our business with plastics for
lightweight construction applications in the automotive industry. The
U.S. dollar is the main currency for our rubber businesses and we
expect positive effects from its continued strength. For the current
year, this segment is expected to incur ramp-up costs totaling around
€25 million for the new Nd-PBR rubber plant in Singapore and the
EPDM rubber plant in Changzhou, China. Also for the current year,
we are anticipating idle costs of some €50 million for the additional
capacities of these two new plants.

In the current year, higher costs are also to be expected as a result
of the increase in wages and salaries associated with the pending
negotiations on the collective bargaining agreement in Germany.

In 2015, we expect continued good demand from key customer
industries for the Advanced Intermediates segment. According to
current market forecasts, growth for agrochemical products is likely
to be rather restrained. In the Saltigo business unit, we anticipate a
slight project-related decline in our fine chemicals and pharmaceutical
products businesses.

The U.S. dollar will remain the key currency for our businesses. We
expect this currency to remain volatile against the euro in 2015 and
anticipate that it will be slightly stronger than in 2014.

We expect a slight improvement to the demand situation for the
­Performance Chemicals segment in 2015. Our business with inorganic pigments for the construction industry should develop well, as
should our leather chemicals business although there we anticipate
a burden from the continued price pressure for chrome ore products.
The additives business, which has close links with the tire industry,
should see stable development overall. However, we anticipate challenges for our rubber additives in the Chinese market. We anticipate
ongoing strong demand for the products of our Liquid Purification
Technologies business unit.

Against the background of the anticipated influences, which are
­expected to have a largely offsetting effect on the individual segments,
we predict EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year 2015 to be just
about on a comparable level to 2014. This takes account of the expected cost savings from the realignment initiated in the reporting year.
In 2015, we are predicting the continuing volatile development of raw
material costs, which were at a comparatively low level at the end of
the year under review. We anticipate an increase in procurement costs
against the second half of 2014, especially for the petrochemical raw
materials that are crucial to the synthetic rubber products of our Performance Polymers segment. The starting point for this development
is the comparatively low cost level at year end 2014.

The effective tax rate for the LANXESS Group is significantly influenced
by the regional distribution of its earnings. For the medium term, after conclusion of its realignment, LANXESS is targeting a tax rate of
between 22% and 25%. Given the persistently challenging business
situation and our ongoing realignment program, we expect a tax rate
of more than 30% for the current fiscal year.

Combined Management Report
Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives

Expected financial position of the LANXESS Group
Liquidity situation LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking
and conservative financial policy in the current year. With more than
€2.0 billion in cash and undrawn credit lines, unchanged at year
end 2014 compared with 2013 and as described under “Financial
condition,” we have a very good liquidity and financing position which
will enable us, for example, to safeguard our entrepreneurial flexibility
and implement our ongoing realignment program.

Dividend policy LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. As
in the past, our future dividend proposals will take into account the
business performance of the relevant fiscal year, the Group’s financing
goals and development trends in the new fiscal year.
Summary of the Group’s projected performance LANXESS remains
well positioned with its product portfolio in the relevant customer industries and key global markets and with its strategic alignment with
the world’s most important trends.

Capital expenditures In the future, our capital expenditures will be increasingly focused on the maintenance of existing production facilities
as well as efficiency improvements and the expansion of existing plants.
Following the start-up of our two large Nd-PBR and EPDM rubber
plants in Asia in 2015, we have no further plans for major investments
in the construction of new production facilities in the coming years.
We will successively reduce our capital expenditures in the coming
years and expect cash outflows for capital expenditures of around
€450 million in 2015. A further reduction to between €400 million
and €450 million may possibly be envisaged for 2016. In this way,
we are seeking to achieve a balanced investment cycle to ensure our
financial headroom.

In 2014, in light of the structural challenges on the supply side,
which are impacting our synthetic rubber businesses in particular, we
launched a comprehensive three-phase global realignment program,
which we will continue to systematically implement in the current year.
This program is aimed at sustainably increasing the competitiveness
of the business and administrative structure, operational competitiveness and the competitiveness of the business portfolio. We view our
realignment as a key element of our activities in the current fiscal
year. Although our measures have already yielded cost savings in
support of our business, our development in 2015 will continue to
be primarily shaped by the challenging environment for our synthetic
rubber businesses.

Financing measures LANXESS is in a good position due to the longterm nature of its financing since it ensures the financing for planned
capital expenditures and the realignment program it has initiated by
future cash flows, available liquidity and existing lines of credit. The
same also applies to the expected dividend payment. Other than for the
redemption of a CNH 500 million bond in February 2015, there will be
no further significant need for refinancing in fiscal 2015. In addition,
LANXESS will continue its efforts to secure long-term funding as part
of a conservative financing policy by further diversifying its financing
sources and implementing forward-looking financing measures.

We do not expect any significant momentum for our business development from the slight forecast growth in the global economy.

Expected earnings position of LANXESS AG In the current fiscal year,
we expect the earnings position of LANXESS AG to be substantially
better than in 2014. It is influenced by the administration expenses
the company incurs in performing its tasks as a management holding
company and by the financial result, especially the net interest position
and the balance of income and losses from investments in affiliated
companies. We expect the net interest position to be negative on
­account of the financing structure. The balance of income and losses
from investments in affiliated companies and the corresponding ability
of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend will depend in large measure on
the profit transfers and dividends paid by the other companies of the
LANXESS Group. We will maintain our consistent dividend policy and
expect LANXESS AG to report a distributable profit that will enable
our stockholders to adequately participate in the LANXESS Group’s
earnings in the coming year.

Following on from the comparatively low cost levels at year end 2014,
we believe that the costs of petrochemical raw materials, which are
crucial to our rubber businesses, will increase compared to the second
half of 2014.
We predict EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year 2015 to be just
about on a comparable level to 2014.

Opportunity and risk report
Opportunity and risk management system Our success is significantly
dependent on identifying opportunities and risks in our business activities and actively managing them. The goal of the opportunity and risk
management system is to safeguard the company’s existence for the
long term and ensure its successful future development by identifying
opportunities and risks and, depending on their nature, appropriately
considering these in strategic and operational decisions. Opportunities
and risks are understood as potential future trends or events that might
result in either positive or negative departures from forecasts or goals.
Our management system is based both on internal organizational workflows that are managed by way of control and monitoring mechanisms
and on early warning systems that are used to closely observe changes
in external conditions and systematically implement the appropriate
measures. This approach applies equally to opportunities and risks.

115

116

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this system
does not offer absolute protection. However, it does serve to prevent
business risks from having a material impact on the company with a
sufficient degree of certainty.
Structural basis The principles of our opportunity and risk management
system are set forth in a Group directive. The management system,
which uses the COSO model as the enterprise risk management framework, comprises many different elements that are incorporated into
business processes through the company’s organizational structure,
its workflows, its planning, reporting and communication systems,
and a set of detailed management policies and technical standards.
The system is based on an integration concept. In other words, the
early identification of opportunities and risks is an integral part of the
management system and not the object of a separate organizational
structure. The management of opportunities and risks is therefore a primary duty of the heads of all business units, as well as of those people
in Group companies who hold process and project responsibility.­
This is why our opportunity and risk management is based on clearly
defined business processes, the precise assignment of responsibilities
throughout the Group, and reporting systems that ensure the timely
provision of the information required for decision-making to the Board
of Management or other management levels.
Roles of key organizational units At LANXESS, the business units
each conduct their own operations, for which they have global profit
responsibility. Group functions and service companies support the business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other centralized
services. Complementing this global alignment of the business units
and group functions, the country organizations ensure the required
proximity to markets and the necessary organizational infrastructure.
In line with this division of duties, we have assigned responsibility to
risk owners for the following:
• identification and assessment of opportunities and risks;
• implementation of control measures (measures taken to exploit
or enhance opportunities and to avoid or minimize risks);
• monitoring the development of opportunities and risks (e.g. on
the basis of performance indicators and, perhaps also, early
­warning indicators);
• risk mitigation (measures to minimize damage upon occurrence
of a risk event);
• communication of the key opportunities and risks to the management committees of the business units and group functions.

The Corporate Controlling Group Function is responsible for collecting
and aggregating key information across the Group at the following
intervals:
• twice per year during the intrayear forecasting process;
•o
 nce per year as part of the budget and planning process for
the subsequent year and the medium-term forecast horizon.
The Corporate Development Group Function systematically analyzes
and measures significant and strategic opportunities and risks with
the goal of ensuring that the Group is pursuing the correct long-term
strategy.
Transactions particularly for the transfer of financial but also operating risk (hedging transactions or insurance) are managed centrally
by the Treasury Group Function. This is explained in more detail in
­“Opportunities and risks of future development.”
Due to the highly integrated nature of our general business processes,
we have specialized committees composed of representatives of the
business units and group functions who deal with issues concerning
the Group’s opportunities and risks. This enables us to react quickly
and flexibly to changing situations and their influence on the company.
In addition, a Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer
analyzes the material risks and their development for their potential
impact on the company as a whole. The Risk Committee brings together representatives from selected group functions to analyze existing
measures to counter risks, initiate additional measures, define Groupwide risk management standards and guidelines and, if necessary,
initiate further analyses of individual opportunities and risks that have
been identified.
The duty to report opportunities and risks to the Corporate Controlling Group Function is based on the anticipated impact on Group
net income or EBITDA pre exceptionals. All opportunities and risks
must be reported if their anticipated impact is more than €1 million
following the implementation of countermeasures. In addition, those
risks must be reported which have an anticipated impact that was
reduced by more than €10 million through the implementation of
countermeasures. These thresholds guarantee that the information
gathered about opportunities and risks is comprehensive and that the
collection of information is not just limited to material risks or risks that
could jeopardize the future of the company as a going concern. The
Corporate Controlling Group Function centrally determines the top
opportunities and risks only after the information has been gathered.

Combined Management Report
Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives

There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on specific
risk issues such as unexpected operational events with an impact of
more than €10 million after the implementation of countermeasures.
In 2014, there was no cause for immediate reporting of this kind.
The reported opportunities and risks are collected in a central database
and regularly analyzed for the Board of Management and Supervisory
Board. This ensures that when new opportunities and risks arise or
when existing ones change substantially, the necessary information
can be communicated in a timely manner all the way to the Board of
Management and therefore also be specifically integrated into the
general management of the company.
Opportunity and risk assessment Opportunity and risk management
is integrated into the planning and forecasting process and identifies
opportunities and risks as potential deviations from planned or forecast
EBITDA pre exceptionals or Group net income.
Depending on the type of opportunity or risk, different calculation
methods are applied in their assessment. Distribution-based opportunities and risks are described by scenario-based fluctuations in
planning parameters such as exchange rates, raw material prices,
energy prices and economic development assumptions. Changes
in these variables may result in either positive or negative deviations
from planned or forecast figures.
Event-based opportunities and risks (such as the failure of a supplier
or the occurrence of an insured event) that would only impact earnings if they actually occur are evaluated on the basis of the expected
probability of their occurrence and the predicted effect on EBITDA
pre exceptionals or Group net income.
Significance of the Group-wide planning process Corporate planning
is a core element of our opportunity and risk management. Events with
a high probability of occurrence flow directly into the planning process.
The processes for corporate planning and intrayear forecasting as well
as the corresponding analyses and suggestions for action are steered
by the Corporate Controlling Group Function, which works closely in
this regard with the business units. Certain Board of Management
meetings are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate planning outcomes, including the associated opportunities and risks. We
monitor, and if necessary adjust, the annual budget in any given fiscal
year by regularly updating our expectations for business development.
Compliance as an integral component Risk management also includes
preventing illegal conduct by our employees. To this end, we obtain
extensive legal advice concerning business transactions and obligate
employees by means of our compliance code to observe the law and
to act responsibly. The compliance code is part of a comprehensive

compliance management system that has been structured in accordance with the principles of an internationally recognized framework
for enterprise risk management (COSO). A Compliance Committee
promotes and monitors adherence to our compliance guidelines. Its
work is supported by compliance officers who have been appointed
for each country in which we have a subsidiary. The Compliance Committee is chaired by a Group Compliance Officer, who reports directly
and regularly to the Board of Management.
(Group) accounting aspects of the internal control and risk management system The aspects of the internal control and risk management
system relating to the (Group) accounting process include the principles, procedures and measures required to ensure the effectiveness,
efficiency and propriety of the company’s accounting, and compliance
with applicable legal regulations. To this end, clear organizational, control and monitoring structures have been established. The distinctive
features of the chemical industry and the risk management tools used
regularly by LANXESS in this regard are taken into account. In addition
to the (Group) accounting process in its narrower sense, this also includes the aforementioned structured budget and forecasting process,
and extensive contract management. However, the effectiveness and
reliability of the internal control and risk management system can be
restricted by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or
other circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used are
applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of (Group) accounting issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance.
The Accounting Group Function, which reports to the Chief Financial
Officer, is responsible for the (Group) accounting process and therefore
for preparing the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and
the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. It is
also responsible for ensuring the uniform preparation of the singleentity financial statements of the subsidiaries that are included in
the consolidated financial statements. The Board of Management
prepares the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements, which are then forwarded to the Supervisory Board’s
Audit Committee without delay. Upon recommendation by the Audit
Committee, the annual financial statements and the consolidated
financial statements are adopted and approved by the Supervisory
Board at its financial statements meeting. The Supervisory Board, and
especially its Audit Committee, deal with major questions relating to
LANXESS’s accounting, opportunity and risk management, the audit
mandate and the areas of focus for the auditor’s audit of the annual
financial statements.

117

118

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Consolidated interim financial statements are prepared each quarter. The condensed consolidated half-year financial statements are
reviewed, while the annual financial statements and the consolidated
financial statements are subjected to a full audit by the auditor of the
company’s annual financial statements and consolidated financial
statements.
LANXESS AG’s accounting in compliance with the German Commercial Code is based on a structured process with appropriate organizational structures and workflows, including the related working
instructions. In addition to the segregation of duties, the dual-control
principle and continual plausibility testing serve as fundamental monitoring tools during the financial statement preparation process. On the
IT side, the accounting process is supplemented by an integrated IT
system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected
by security measures against unauthorized access. The correctness
of the automatically generated postings and the master data required
for them is regularly reviewed. Manual postings are based on a systematic voucher system, documented to the necessary extent and
verified downstream.
The foundation for uniform and IFRS-compliant consolidated financial
reporting at LANXESS is the Group Financial Statements Guideline.
This governs the way the provisions of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) applicable to the Group are applied by the
subsidiaries as reporting entities. Moreover, the guideline also defines
the chart of accounts that is binding throughout the Group. On the IT
side, the guideline is supplemented by a uniform, Group-wide delivery
and consolidation system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software
and is protected by security measures against unauthorized access.
By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s (Group) accounting process, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices in line
with the applicable laws and standards are applied and guarantee the
reliability of our financial reporting. The (Group) accounting-related
internal control system we use is based on generally accepted standards (COSO model). There were no material changes to this system
during the period under review. Corresponding standards also apply
to the single-entity financial statements of the subsidiaries.
Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is based on a
detailed process that includes specifying a financial statement calendar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data. A further
component is regular reviews of the correctness and completeness
of the scope of consolidation. The principle of the segregation of
duties as expressed in structured authorization and approval procedures and the dual-control principle as well as continual plausibility
testing on data is applied end-to-end throughout the preparation and
consolidation process.

For the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries subject to
reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting data using the
above-mentioned consolidation system. Validation rules integrated
into the system ensure that the data reported by the subsidiaries are
consistent at the time of delivery. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring
the correctness of the reported data content lies with the accounting
departments of the subsidiaries. The Corporate Accounting Department within the Accounting Group Function conducts more detailed
testing of the correctness of the data content. To this end, the department evaluates standardized reports in which the companies explain
material facts relevant to financial reporting. After the process-based
controls have been applied, consolidation including currency translation is carried out in the same system, without additional interfaces,
utilizing both automated and manual procedures. The correctness of
the automated consolidation steps and of the master data necessary
for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information that
must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to the
extent required and verified downstream. This is supplemented by
validation rules that are integrated into the system.
Regular coordination with other financial group functions, particularly the Treasury, Tax & Trade Compliance and Corporate Controlling
group functions, assists the financial reporting process. A continual
exchange of information with the operating business units and other
group functions makes it possible for the Accounting Group Function to identify and deal with issues arising outside of accounting
processes. These include litigation risks, projections for impairment
testing and special contractual agreements with suppliers or customers. In addition, third-party service providers are consulted on special
issues, particularly ­relating to the valuation of pensions and other
post-employment benefits.
Monitoring of risk management system and internal control system
(ICS) LANXESS’s Internal Auditing Department within the ­Legal &  Compliance Group Function is tasked with overseeing whether the internal
control and monitoring system is functioning properly and whether
organizational safeguards are being observed. The planning of audits
(selection of audit subjects) and the audit methods applied are correspondingly aligned with risks. To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an
annual self-assessment is also carried out in major Group companies,
operating units and group functions. In addition, the early warning system
is evaluated by the external auditor as part of the audit of the consolidated
and annual financial statements. The Supervisory Board also exercises
control functions, including regular monitoring of the efficiency of the
management systems described above by the full Supervisory Board
and by its Audit Committee. The Audit Committee reviews reports about
the Compliance Committee’s activities and findings, the work of the
Internal Auditing Department, and the status of the risk management
and internal control system.

Combined Management Report
Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives

Opportunities and risks of future development Full identification of the
LANXESS Group’s opportunities and risks is performed on the basis
of a catalog of categories, which are summarized in the table below:
Categories
Procurement markets
Human resources
Plant operations and hazards
Corporate strategy
Sales markets
Finance
Legal, regulatory and political environment

Subsequent reporting is based on a planning horizon of one year.
Procurement markets On the procurement side, the principal opportunities and risks lie in the high volatility of raw material and energy
prices. An increase or decrease in the price of the materials we use
directly results in higher or lower production costs. If prices decrease,
write-downs may have to be recognized on inventories. In addition,
changes in raw material prices result in higher or lower selling prices
– either immediately or after a delay. We mitigate situations like this
by following a sensible inventory and procurement policy. Most of the
company’s raw material and energy needs are met by long-term supply contracts and contracts containing price escalation clauses. Many
agreements with customers also contain price escalation clauses. We
also have the option of hedging this risk via derivatives transactions
if liquid futures markets are available for hedging raw material and
energy price risks (see also “Financial markets”). Additionally, we are
constantly looking for ways to use our resources more efficiently so
that we can offset higher costs by raising productivity. The volatility
of raw material prices, especially for our key raw material butadiene,
impacts our Performance Polymers segment in particular.
To guard against possible supply bottlenecks due to factors such as
the failure of a supplier or of an upstream operation at a networked
site, we pursue an appropriate inventory strategy and line up alternative sources of supply.

Human resources The risk of industrial actions resulting from disputes
in connection with negotiations concerning future collective pay agreements or associated with restructuring measures cannot be ruled out.
We also face increases in our personnel expenses because of future
wage increases. Such an increase in the cost of human resources can
be just as detrimental to earnings as increases in raw material prices,
as described above, but in the case of human resources we cannot
hedge the risk in futures markets or pass it on to our customers. We
counter this risk by fostering open communication with our employees
and their representatives in a culture of active labor relations. The
employee representatives in various countries have been consulted
especially with regard to our “Let’s LANXESS again” program. Continuous use is made of existing dialogue platforms such as the European
Forum, which brings together the works councils in Europe. We also
actively seek dialogue with the representatives of our employees, the
trade unions and other interest groups in the other regions in which
we operate.
Our employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes and issues
relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor in the ­efficiency
of our business operations. We take various approaches to mitigate
the risk of losing this expertise and to increase our employees’ loyalty
to the company, including attractive compensation models, challenging jobs and international career options. We continue to invest in the
next generation of employees by increasing the number of training
opportunities in Germany. We have also launched and expanded regional internship, trainee and loyalty programs in, for example, North
America, Brazil, India and China as well as Germany. In some regions
and countries, including China, we continue to go into schools in
search of interesting talents we can develop. In Germany, our preschool education program aims to arouse the interest of the youngest
children in scientific phenomena.
The growing lack particularly of skilled employees in our global markets
is becoming tangible in individual cases. However, this effect has been
mitigated by the “Let’s LANXESS again” program launched in the third
quarter of 2014, which in the first instance substantially reduced our
specific need for skilled employees in the reporting period. However,
a forward-looking and sustainable HR policy will remain important,
which is evidenced by our regular HR development conferences. In
line with our needs, we are expanding our cooperations with research
institutes, universities, colleges and high schools in Germany, as well
as with public-sector entities both in Germany and other key target
markets. At many events and conferences around the world, we have
positioned our company as an attractive employer and continue to seek

119

120

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

early contact with highly talented young people. In Germany, where we
have the largest headcount, we have established a LANXESS program
to provide both financial and expert support for undergraduate and
postgraduate students. We also have a loyalty program for particularly
outstanding interns. Both these programs focus on the natural and
engineering sciences. Similar programs for young talents are being
established in other major regions, where they always take account
of local requirements. All these measures are an expression of our differentiated employer branding approach, which we will use to sustain
our positive employer image and expand this as required even during
our company’s realignment phase.
In preparing the “Let’s LANXESS again” program, we identified mission-critical activities with a view to offering the relevant knowledge
holders a perspective within the LANXESS Group or to retaining their
knowledge for the company by means of succession planning and
know-how transfer.
There are a number of other HR risks which, because of their longterm nature, will have virtually no impact on the planned EBITDA
pre exceptionals for fiscal 2015. These risks include in particular
demographic change, which we actively manage. In Germany, in
order to ensure continued access to a highly skilled workforce, we
have been implementing a comprehensive package of measures
known as “XCare” since 2009. Interdisciplinary working groups are
collaborating closely with employee representatives at LANXESS to
develop innovative concepts to preempt and actively address shifts
resulting from demographic change. We have also initiated comparable
programs in other regions.
Plant operations and hazards A lack of plant availability and disruptions
of plant and process safety can make it impossible for us to meet production targets and adequately service existing demand, resulting in a
loss of marginal income. We use a comprehensive range of measures
to counter this scenario. These include proactive facility maintenance,
regular compliance checks, the preparation of risk assessments and
systematic training of employees to improve standards and safety. We
also counter the risk of unplanned production stoppages by manufacturing certain products at various sites worldwide.
Although LANXESS applies high technical and safety standards to the
construction, operation and maintenance of production facilities, interruptions in operations, including those due to external factors, such as
natural disasters or terrorism, cannot be ruled out. These can lead to
explosions, the release of materials hazardous to health, or accidents
in which people, property or the environment are harmed. In addition
to systematically monitoring compliance with quality standards in order
to avoid such stoppages and accidents, we are also insured against
the resulting damage to the extent usual in the industry.

LANXESS’s product portfolio includes substances that are classified
as hazardous to health. In order to prevent possible harm to health,
we systematically test the properties of our products and draw our
customers’ attention to the risks associated with their use. We also
carry product liability insurance that is customary in our industry.
In line with LANXESS’s forward-looking approach, product monitoring enables us to identify and evaluate potential hazards associated
with our product portfolio and initiate suitable measures if relevance
is established.
Our information technology (IT) supports LANXESS’s business
­activities worldwide, including the processes from receiving an order
to receiving payment and from placing an order to paying a vendor.
It is important that the people who use the systems receive correct
and meaningful information when they need it. We support this by
developing a uniform, integrated system architecture and investing
in the expansion of IT services worldwide.
The operation and use of IT systems entails risks. For example, networks or systems may fail, or data and information may be compromised or destroyed because of operator and programming errors or
external factors. In particular, we are observing a growing number
of threats to our IT infrastructure resulting from outside attack. All of
these can cause serious business interruptions. To mitigate such risks,
we invest in suitable data protection systems designed to prevent the
loss of data and information. Various security and monitoring tools
and access restriction and authorization systems are used to ensure
the integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and information
and the trouble-free operation of systems. With a view to improving
the security of our IT infrastructure, we are evaluating existing security
measures for their suitability in defending against current attack scenarios. Where necessary, these measures will be upgraded. Additional
security systems are being established worldwide as defense against
new and specific threats.
Corporate strategy We actively pursue the strategic optimization of
the enterprise. Our efforts include ongoing efficiency enhancement,
strengthening of core businesses, active portfolio management and
proactive participation in industry consolidation through partnerships,
divestments and acquisitions. Further information can be found in the
“Strategy” section of this combined management report.
The success of the decisions associated with these efforts is naturally
subject to forecasting risk in respect of predicting future (market) developments and making assumptions about the feasibility of planned
measures. For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment
could be based on profitability or growth expectations that prove to
be unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and systematically analyzing the information that is relevant to decision-making.
During this process, the business units affected and the Board of
Management receive support from departments with the requisite
expertise and, if necessary, from external consultants.

Combined Management Report
Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives

The LANXESS product portfolio is systematically aligned with key
global trends that promise continuous growth in the coming years.
With our products, we offer innovative solutions for these trends and
generate measurable added value for our customers. We are successfully positioned in those markets in which our product portfolio
will enable us to particularly benefit from these trends in the medium
and long term. The BRICS countries – especially Brazil, China and
India – will retain a central role in this regard.
When gathering information in the context of acquisitions, it is possible
that certain facts required to assess an acquisition candidate’s future
performance or to determine the purchase price are not available or
are not correctly interpreted. We address this risk by conducting wellstructured due diligence analyses and, where possible, by concluding
appropriate agreements with the sellers. Insufficient integration of
acquired companies or businesses can result in expected developments not materializing. For this reason, we have processes in place
with which full integration of acquired businesses is assured. If assumptions concerning future developments – such as the realization
of synergies – do not materialize, this might result in a write-down
on assets. We monitor this risk by carrying out impairment testing at
least once a year.
Unlocking and exploiting operational opportunities is an important
aspect of LANXESS’s entrepreneurial activities. We are committed
to using existing products and new solutions to advance our growth
and sustainably strengthen our position in global markets. Investing
in new plants as well as expanding the capacities and increasing
the productivity of existing ones are key elements in these efforts.
The anticipated effects are taken into account in our planning or are
reported as opportunities. In principle, we expect investments to yield
benefits but they are also coupled with risks. Thus, for example, the
success of our investments in Asia has been substantially impacted
by the challenging competitive situation in the synthetic rubber businesses. The preparatory work for investments that exceed a specified
significance threshold is the responsibility of the relevant business
units. After review by an Investment Committee set up for this purpose, the information is presented to the Board of Management for
a decision. By following this procedure, we ensure that investments
are in line with our corporate strategy and satisfy our profitability and
security requirements.

The fundamental risk remains that difficulties may arise in connection
with the start-up of our new plants for Nd-PBR rubber in Singapore and
for EPDM rubber in Changzhou, China, both of which are scheduled
for 2015. From the present viewpoint, however, we do not anticipate
any problems.
Sales and earnings effects expected from our investments and acquisitions are already considered in our forecasts. These targeted investments may also generate further operational opportunities because
they enable us to unlock new potential and improve our positioning
in key markets.
Sales markets LANXESS is inherently exposed to general economic
developments and political change in the countries and regions in
which the LANXESS Group operates. Regional differences in economic
performance and the associated demand trends can affect the Group’s
pricing and sales potential in its various geographical markets, with
corresponding positive or negative effects on its earnings. Our global
presence, which we are continuing to expand in growth markets,
enables us to participate in favorable regional developments and,
at the same time, reduce our dependence on certain regions. This
­approach is discussed in further detail in the “Strategy” section of this
combined management report.
The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of the global chemical and
polymer markets and their dependence on developments in customer
industries harbor uncertainties for LANXESS’s business. As well as
the influence of general economic development, the particular dependence of the rubber business on customers in the tire and automotive industries can result in sales volatility. Additional and unplanned
sales opportunities may arise through access to new markets or the
acquisition of new customers. In addition to being subject to these
demand-side market influences, our earning power can be impacted
by structural changes in markets, such as the disappearance of existing
competitors or the entry of new ones and the availability of additional
capacities, regional shifts, the migration of customers to countries with
lower costs, and product substitution or market consolidation trends
in some sectors. We counter such trends by systematically managing
costs and continuously adjusting our product portfolio, sharpening its
focus and aligning our offering with innovative customer segments
which will enable us to operate successfully in the long term.

121

122

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

In our Performance Polymers segment, the synthetic rubber business
continues to face increasing competition, partly from new manufacturers entering the market. In some business units, this may result in
further overcapacities and stronger competition on prices. LANXESS
is pursuing a product-specific strategy in these areas based on factors
such as product and process differentiation and global positioning.
In 2014, the company additionally initiated the three-phase “Let’s
LANXESS again” program for the global realignment of the LANXESS
Group. Further information about this program can be found in the
“Strategy” section.
Finance The Treasury Group Function has the task of centrally recording and managing financial opportunities and risks. Chief among
these are:
Financial Opportunities and Risks
Price
changes

Liquidity and
refinancing

Counterparty
risks

Capital
investments

Insurance

Currencies

Availability
of cash

Customers

Shortfall
in cover

Interest
rates

Access to
multi- and
bilateral capital
markets

Banks

Investments
in pension
assets

Raw
materials
Energies

• Price changes
Currencies Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in
various currencies, it is exposed to fluctuations in the relative value
of these currencies. Fixed exchange rates were used in our planning
for fiscal 2015. The development of the U.S. dollar against the euro
is of particular relevance. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar compared
with the exchange rate used in planning would have a positive effect
on our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. We have already entered
into hedging transactions for 2015 and 2016 to mitigate the effects
of currency fluctuations.
Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial instruments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) arise mainly
when receivables and payables are denominated in a currency other
than the company’s local currency. These risks and the currency risks
arising on financial transactions, including the interest component,
are generally fully hedged through forward exchange contracts. In
the short term, therefore, the appreciation or depreciation of the euro
against other major currencies can have no material impact on future
cash flows.

The opportunities and risks relating to operating activities are systematically monitored and analyzed. To this end, both sales and costs are
planned in foreign currencies. In the long term, exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect future cash flows should the LANXESS
Group not be able to counter them, for example, by pricing its products
in the respective local currencies. This risk is minimized by partial
hedging with derivative financial instruments. Hedging is performed
in line with principles determined by the Board of Management and
is subject to continuous monitoring.

Interest rates Market interest rate movements can cause fluctuations
in the fair value of a financial instrument. They affect both financial
assets and financial liabilities.
Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at fixed
interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years will have
only a limited impact on the LANXESS Group.

Raw materials/energies Where certain market-price risks for energies
and raw materials cannot be passed on to customers in their entirety,
they may be hedged on a case-by-case basis by forward commodity­
contracts in order to reduce the volatility of cash flows. As in the previous year, LANXESS had no forward commodity contracts as at the
reporting date.
• Liquidity and refinancing
We ensure our access to the capital markets and our solvency through
a conservative financing policy and a target capital structure that is
largely based on the ratio systems used by leading rating agencies. Our
conservative financing policy takes into account the risk of a change
to our rating and the associated effects on financial risk management,
even though LANXESS has no direct influence on the assessments
by independent rating agencies.
Our main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit facility,
which remained largely undrawn on the reporting date. In February
2015, its original term was extended by one year to February 2020.
We have a further material credit line of €150 million with the European Investment Bank. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has
short-term liquidity reserves of €518 million in the form of cash and
cash equivalents and highly liquid investments in AAA-rated money
market funds. Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity position
based on a broad range of financing instruments.

Combined Management Report
Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives

• Counterparty risks  
Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade relationships with
customers and dealings with banks and other financial partners, especially with regard to the investment business and financial instrument
transactions.

• Capital investments
Opportunities and risks associated with the investment of pension
assets are monitored by the Pension Committee, which is made up
of the Chief Financial Officer and representatives from the Treasury,
Accounting and Human Resources group functions.

Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and managed
using both internal and external information sources. Customer portfolios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the risk
profile is elevated.

Additional information on our financial risks can be found in Note [35],
“Financial instruments,” to the consolidated financial statements.

The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is to collect
all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and thus to minimize
the risk of default. Continuous monitoring is computer-assisted based
on the payment terms agreed with the customers. These are generally
based on the customary payment terms for the business or country.
Reminders are sent out at regular intervals if payments are overdue.
Credit insurance has been concluded with a well-known European
credit insurer to cover material credit risks relating to receivables from
customers. After a deductible, these cover default risks, especially in
Europe, that could arise up to the end of the respective fiscal year
in the mid-double-digit millions of euros. The maximum credit risk
is further reduced by letters of credit in favor of LANXESS. In certain
cases, prepayment is agreed with the contracting partner.
In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title to goods until the
contractual partner has paid the full purchase price. The vast m
­ ajority
of receivables relate to customers with very high credit standing.
The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in the
­financial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS Group,
especially in the selection of banks and financial partners for capital
investments and transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS
therefore endeavors to undertake transactions with banks and other
financial counterparties that have at least an investment-grade rating.
The derivatives and financial assets outstanding as of the closing date
were almost all concluded with banks with an investment-grade rating.
Credit risk management also includes global management of the
counterparty risk relating to all existing relationships with banks and
financial partners. The LANXESS Group pays particular attention to
risk diversification to prevent any cluster risks that could jeopardize
its existence. Through master agreements, the market values of open
trading positions can be netted if a partner becomes insolvent, thereby
further reducing risks.

• Insurance
The LANXESS Group carries insurance cover against material risks
such as those arising from property damage, business interruption and
product liability. If a loss event occurs, LANXESS must therefore pay
only those damages in excess of the deductible. However, there is a
residual risk of events that are not covered by the insurance or which
result in damages in excess of the cover guaranteed by the insurer.
Legal, regulatory and political environment Companies in the
LANXESS Group are subject to legal risks and are parties to various
litigations. The outcome of individual proceedings cannot be predicted
with assurance due to the uncertainties always associated with legal
disputes. To the extent necessary in light of the known circumstances
in each case, we have set up risk provisions for the event that the
outcome of such proceedings is unfavorable to LANXESS. Taking
into account existing provisions and insurance, as well as agreements
reached with third parties in respect of liability risks arising from legal
disputes, it is currently estimated that none of these proceedings will
materially affect our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals.
As a preventive approach to avoiding legal risks, LANXESS has established an extensive compliance management system incorporating a
range of organizational measures. Among the main risks LANXESS
has identified are those relating to antitrust legislation, plant safety
and environmental protection, foreign trade legislation and corruption.
In connection with risks relating to antitrust legislation, for example,
LANXESS has developed a program that combines classroom training and e-learning to ensure compliance with competition law. In this
way, our employees and managers are schooled in the particular
risks pertaining to their areas of business and made aware of their
significance. This training is performed and documented at regular
intervals. Our employees can also contact designated experts in the
Legal & Compliance Group Function if they have any specific questions.
Further information about compliance can be found in the Corporate
Governance Report and in the “Compliance as an integral component”
section of this opportunity and risk report.

123

124

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Regulatory measures may lead to the tightening of safety, quality and
environmental regulations and standards. These may result in additional
costs and liability risks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the
implementation of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration,
Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). As
well as direct costs that could arise due to additional measures necessary to comply with these standards, market structures could change
to our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and customers to regions outside Europe. Additional requirements imposed by
energy and environmental policy, such as the new emission trading
regulations, new environmental taxes and the redistribution of costs
associated with the German Renewable Energy Act, could result in
higher costs and in part substantial disadvantages in international
competition. With a view to mitigating this risk, we are discussing
the economic consequences of increasing energy prices with the
authorities and government – either directly or in cooperation with
other energy-intensive companies via industry organizations.

Any violations of foreign trade regulations may result in prohibitions and
restrictions on LANXESS’s export activities and the loss of its privileges
in respect of export procedures. In individual cases, this may also result
in fines, trade sanctions and loss of reputation. The LANXESS Group
ensures compliance in foreign trade and export control through the
global implementation and optimization of appropriate and stable
control instruments and automated screening processes. By proactively
monitoring trade policy developments, timely information is provided
to both the operating units and the management organs concerning
changes to foreign trade and the associated opportunities and risks,
and appropriate recommendations for action are made.

LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at which chemicals have been produced for periods that in some cases exceed 140
years. This responsibility also extends to waste disposal facilities. The
possibility cannot be ruled out that pollution occurred during this time
that has not been discovered to date. We are committed to the Responsible Care® initiative and pursue active environmental management
and proactive environmental protection management. This includes
constant monitoring and testing of the soil, groundwater and air and
of various emissions. We have set up sufficient provisions for necessary containment or remediation measures in areas with identified
contamination. Additional information on our environmental provisions
can be found in Note [14], “Other non-current and current provisions,”
to the consolidated financial statements.

Significance of opportunities and risks and result of opportunity and
risk assessment The opportunities and risks of future development
that we identify are categorized and grouped. Their significance lies in
their potential impact on planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. Individual
categories or groups in which the opportunity or risk may produce
a deviation of more than 5% from our projected EBITDA pre exceptionals in the planning year are considered to be of medium to high
significance.

Tire-labeling initiatives can lead to stronger than anticipated demand
for higher-quality tires and thus for synthetic high-performance rubbers.
This would particularly benefit our Performance Polymers segment
with its global production network and customer relationships spanning many years.

Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms of their assessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other countries. Even
if we believe that all circumstances have been reported correctly and
in compliance with the law, the possibility cannot be ruled out that the
tax authorities may come to a different conclusion in individual cases.

Within the context of opportunity and risk management for the planning
year, the economic development, raw material prices and energy prices
categories as well as the legal, regulatory and political environment and
finance groups are considered to be of medium to high significance.
Based on the scenarios applied or the assumed probability of occurrence, these categories and groups could produce a positive deviation
of up to 13% or a negative deviation of up to 16% from our projected
EBITDA pre exceptionals, which is our key controlling parameter. The
aforementioned groups were influenced in particular by opportunities and risks in the environmental policy, currencies and insurance
categories. Opportunities and risks in other categories – such as risks
from litigations – are of very little significance.

Combined Management Report
Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives

Despite mixed economic developments across regions and sectors,
our risk exposure during the reporting year was not fundamentally or
materially different from our risk exposure during the previous year due
to our broadly diversified product and customer portfolios. Nonetheless,
we would like to point to the increasing competitive pressure facing
our synthetic rubber businesses. All planning is subject to a certain
degree of forecasting risk, which could necessitate flexible adjustments
to rapidly changing business conditions over the course of the year.
This is particularly true in view of the fact that planning and forecasts
in general have become somewhat less reliable due to the changes
observed recently in our procurement and customer markets.

Opportunitiy and Risk Profile 1)
%
Economic development

Raw material prices

Energy prices

Legal, regulatory and political environment

Finance

(20)%
Risks

(10)%

Forecast EBITDA
pre exceptionals

+10%

+20%

Opportunities

1) Event- and distribution-based opportunities and risks in line with assumed scenarios;
addition of the opportunities and risks shown is not permissible.

In light of its extensive global activities and its dependence on raw
materials characterized by volatile price trends, our Performance
Polymers segment especially may be vulnerable to these risks, which
we seek to mitigate by means of suitable countermeasures.
Summary of overall opportunities and risks In recent years, LANXESS
has consistently aligned its product portfolio to the key growth trends
and is successfully positioned in major growth markets. Through targeted investments, we are continuing to strengthen our segments
worldwide and are pursuing our research and development activities
to deliver process and product innovations in all segments that will
continue to set us apart from our competitors. We are responding to
increasing competition, especially in our synthetic rubber businesses,
with our “Let’s LANXESS again” program for the global realignment of
our company. Our global position and our flexible corporate structures
enable us to rapidly respond to the challenges we face and successfully
utilize the strategic and operational opportunities that arise in the future.

In light of our present financing structures, our sound liquidity position, and our demonstrated ability to adapt our businesses, even on
short notice, to significant changes in the business environment, we
are confident that we will be able to successfully master any risks that
materialize in the future.
Based on an overall evaluation of risk management information, the
Board of Management at the present time cannot identify any sufficiently likely risks or risk combinations that would jeopardize the
existence of LANXESS.

125

127

Consolidated Financial Statements

128
129
130
131
132
133
133
133
133
134
135
136
137
143
146

Consolidated Financial Statements
Statement of Financial Position
Income Statement
Statement of Comprehensive Income
Statement of Changes in Equity
Statement of Cash Flows
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
General information
Structure and components of the
consolidated financial statements
Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied
Financial reporting standards and interpretations issued
but not yet mandatory
Consolidation
Currency translation
Accounting policies and valuation principles
Estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion
Companies consolidated

149
149
150
151
151
152
152
153
153
153
153
154
154
156

(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
(13)

162
166
167
167
167
167

(14)
(15)
(16)
(17)
(18)
(19)

Notes to the Statement of Financial Position
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investments accounted for using the equity method
Investments in other affiliated companies
Derivative financial instruments
Other non-current and current financial assets
Other non-current assets
Inventories
Trade receivables
Near-cash assets
Other current assets
Equity
Provisions for pensions and
other post-employment benefits
Other non-current and current provisions
Other non-current and current financial liabilities
Non-current and current income tax liabilities
Other non-current and current liabilities
Trade payables
Further information on liabilities

168
168
168
168
168
168
168
168
169
169
170
171

(20)
(21)
(22)
(23)
(24)
(25)
(26)
(27)
(28)
(29)
(30)

171
171
171
172
173

(31)
(32)
(33)
(34)

174
182
183
185
185

(35)
(36)
(37)
(38)
(39)

185

(40)

186
187

Notes to the Income Statement
Sales
Cost of sales
Selling expenses
Research and development expenses
General administration expenses
Other operating income
Other operating expenses
Financial result
Income taxes
Earnings and dividend per share
Personnel expenses
Other Information
Employees
Contingent liabilities and other financial commitments
Related parties
Compensation of the Board of Management
and the Supervisory Board
Financial instruments
Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows
Segment reporting
Audit fees
Declaration of Compliance pursuant to
Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act
Utilization of disclosure exemptions
Responsibility ­Statement
Auditor’s Report

128

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Statement of Financial Position
­LANXESS Group

€ million

Note

Dec. 31, 2013

Dec. 31, 2014

Assets
Intangible assets

(1)

323

320

Property, plant and equipment

(2)

2,903

3,333

Investments accounted for using the equity method

(3)

12

0

Investments in other affiliated companies

(4)

13

13

Non-current derivative assets

(5)

20

5

Other non-current financial assets

(6)

11

11

1

6

(28)

254

380

Non-current income tax receivables
Deferred taxes
Other non-current assets

(7)

Non-current assets

55

33

3,592

4,101

Inventories

(8)

1,299

1,384

Trade receivables

(9)

1,070

1,015

427

418

(10)

106

100

Current derivative assets

(5)

58

14

Other current financial assets

(6)

6

5

55

28

Cash and cash equivalents
Near-cash assets

Current income tax receivables
Other current assets

198

185

Current assets

(11)

3,219

3,149

Total assets

6,811

7,250

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital stock and capital reserves

889

1,317

Other reserves

1,690

1,253

Net income (loss)

(159)

47

Other equity components

(525)

(458)

Equity attributable to non-controlling interests

5

2

Equity

(12)

1,900

2,161

Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits

(13)

943

1,290

Other non-current provisions

(14)

258

275

(5)

12

20

Other non-current financial liabilities

(15)

1,649

1,698

Non-current income tax liabilities

(16)

49

25

Other non-current liabilities

(17)

89

118

Deferred taxes

(28)

Non-current derivative liabilities

Non-current liabilities

29

21

3,029

3,447
350

Other current provisions

(14)

355

Trade payables

(18)

690

799

(5)

22

101
182

Current derivative liabilities
Other current financial liabilities

(15)

668

Current income tax liabilities

(16)

21

44

Other current liabilities

(17)

126

166

Current liabilities

1,882

1,642

Total equity and liabilities

6,811

7,250

Consolidated Financial Statements
Statement of Financial Position | Income Statement

Income Statement ­­
­LANXESS Group

€ million

Note

Sales

(20)

8,300

8,006

Cost of sales

(21)

(6,752)

(6,418)

1,548

1,588

Gross profit

2013

2014

Selling expenses

(22)

(755)

(742)

Research and development expenses

(23)

(186)

(160)
(278)

General administration expenses

(24)

(301)

Other operating income

(25)

128

118

Other operating expenses

(26)

(527)

(308)

( 93)

218

Income from investments accounted for using the equity method

0

2

Interest income

2

3

( 108)

(72)

Operating result (EBIT)

Interest expense
Other financial income and expense
Financial result

(27)

Income (loss) before income taxes
Income taxes

(28)

Income (loss) after income taxes
of which attributable to non-controlling interests
of which attributable to ­LANXESS AG stockholders [net income (loss)]
Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€)

(29)

( 40)

(71)

(146)

(138)

( 239)

80

71

(36)

(168)

44

(9)

(3)

(159)

47

(1.91)

0.53

129

130

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Statement of Comprehensive Income
­LANXESS Group

€ million

2013

2014

Income (loss) after income taxes

(168)

44

Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans

(4)

(308)

Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method

26

(19)

Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss

Income taxes

5

95

27

(232)

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss if specific conditions are met
Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone
Financial instruments
Income taxes

(199)

122

(7)

(75)

3

20

(203)

67

Other comprehensive income, net of income tax

(176)

(165)

Total comprehensive income

(344)

(121)

of which attributable to non-controlling interests
of which attributable to L
­ ANXESS AG stockholders

(8)

(3)

(336)

(118)

Consolidated Financial Statements
Statement of Comprehensive Income | Statement of Changes in Equity

Statement of Changes in Equity
­LANXESS Group

Capital
stock

Capital
­reserves

Other
reserves

Net
income
(loss)

83

806

1,238

508

Allocations to retained earnings

508

(508)

Dividend payments

(83)

€ million

Dec. 31, 2012

Total comprehensive income

27

Income (loss) after income taxes
Other comprehensive income,
net of income tax
Remeasurements of the net
defined benefit liability for
post-employment benefit plans
Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the
eurozone

(159)

Other equity components
Currency
translation
adjustment

Financial
instruments

Equity
­attributable
to
LANXESS AG
stockholders

(329)

8

2,314

(200)

(4)

(159)
27

(200)

(4)

(200)

26
5
83

806

8

420

Allocations to retained earnings
Capital increase
Dividend payments

3
(159)

(159)

159

(232)

Income after income taxes
Other comprehensive income,
net of income tax
Remeasurements of the net
defined benefit liability for
post-employment benefit plans
Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the
eurozone

(529)

4

(232)

122

( 55)

122

( 55)

(308)

(19)
95
1,253

1) Effects of the transition to full consolidation and the change to proportionate consolidation

0
(83)

(336)

(8)

(344)

(159)

(9)

(168)

(177)

1

(176)

(4)

1

47

(407)

(199)

(7)

(7)

26

26

8

8

0

(3)

(3)

1,895

5

1,900

0

0

428

428
(46)

(118)

(3)

(121)

47

(3)

44

(165)

0

(165)

122
(75)

1,226

0

( 308)

122

91

2,330

(46)
47

47

Financial instruments
Other comprehensive income
(net of income tax) attributable
to investments a­ ccounted for
using the equity method
Income taxes on other
­comprehensive ­income
Dec. 31, 2014

1,690

(46)

Total comprehensive income

16

(83)

(200)
(7)

Other changes 1)
Dec. 31, 2013

Equity

(4)

(4)

Financial instruments
Other comprehensive income
(net of income tax) attributable
to investments a­ ccounted for
using the equity method
Income taxes on other
comprehensive income

Equity
attribut-able
to noncontrolling
interests

(308)

0

122

(75)

(75)

(19)

(19)

20

115

(51)

2,159

115
2

2,161

131

132

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Statement of Cash Flows
­LANXESS Group

€ million

Note

Income (loss) before income taxes
Amortization, depreciation and write-downs of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
Gains on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
Income from investments accounted for using the equity method

2013

2014

(239)

80

717

426

(2)

(1)

0

(2)

Financial losses

111

75

Income taxes paid

(41)

(31)

Changes in inventories

186

(39)

5

97

Changes in trade receivables
Changes in trade payables

(81)

89

Changes in other assets and liabilities

(15)

103

Net cash provided by operating activities

641

797

Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

(624)

(614)

Cash inflows from financial assets

290

8

Cash inflows from the divestment (cash outflows for the acquisition) of subsidiaries and
other businesses, less divested (acquired) cash and cash equivalents

(15)

3

Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

5

8

Interest and dividends received

2

8

(342)

(587)

0

433

Net cash used in investing activities

(36)

Cash inflow from capital increase
Proceeds from borrowings

105

324

Repayments of borrowings

(163)

(802)

Interest paid and other financial disbursements

(119)

(131)

Dividend payments
Net cash used in financing activities

(36)

Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities
Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1
Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31

(36)

(83)

(46)

(260)

(222)

39

(12)

386

427

2

3

427

418

Consolidated Financial Statements
Statement of Cash Flows | General information |
Structure and components of the consolidated financial statements | Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied

Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

General information
LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial
Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652. Its registered
office is at Kennedyplatz 1, 50569 Cologne, Germany.
The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated
financial statements of the LANXESS Group, to which the auditors,
PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungs­
gesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, have issued unqualified auditor’s
­reports, are published in the German Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger).

Financial reporting standards and
interpretations applied
The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group as of
­December 31, 2014 were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the
European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretations, together
with the additional requirements of Section 315a, Paragraph 1 of the
German Commercial Code (HGB).

Accounting for participating interests in other entities
The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group
for fiscal 2014 were prepared by the Board of Management of
LANXESS AG and authorized for submission to the Supervisory
Board on ­February 27, 2015. It is the responsibility of the Supervisory
Board to examine the consolidated financial statements and declare
whether or not it approves them.

Structure and components of the consolidated
financial statements
The consolidated financial statements comprise the statement of
financial position, the income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement
of cash flows and the notes, which include the segment information.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros (€).
Amounts are stated in millions of euros (€ million) except where other­
wise indicated. Assets and liabilities are classified in the statement of
financial position as current or non-current. Further details of their
maturities are provided below in certain cases.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared on the basis of
historical acquisition, generation, construction or production costs of
the assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed, these
are used. They are explained in the section on accounting policies
and valuation principles.
The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales method.
The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements is the
­calendar year.

As of January 1, 2014, the LANXESS Group applied new or revised
standards on accounting for participating interests in other entities.
These comprise the new standards IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12
together with the revised standards IAS 27 and IAS 28. IFRS 10
replaces the requirements for consolidated financial statements and
special purpose entities previously contained in IAS 27 and SIC 12
and largely redefines the control concept, which forms the basis for
determining which companies are to be fully consolidated. This did
not result in any changes for LANXESS, however. IFRS 11, which
supersedes IAS 31 and SIC 13, prescribes the accounting for joint
arrangements and requires a reassessment of whether a joint arrangement constitutes a joint operation or a joint venture. The interest in
a joint operation is accounted for by recognizing the share of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses according to the rights and obligations of the partners. Joint ventures, by contrast, are accounted for
in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method in
line with the new requirements of IAS 28. The investment in DuBay
Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, was previously accounted for using
the proportionate consolidation method. This entity is to be regarded
as a joint operation, since the partners exercise joint control over it,
purchasing its entire output between them. The company is therefore
accounted for according to LANXESS’s shares of its assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses. The application of the new or revised standards did not affect the classification of Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG,
Leverkusen, Germany, as an associate. It therefore continues to be
accounted for using the equity method according to IAS 28. Finally,
IFRS 12 relates only to disclosure requirements. The application of
the new and revised standards as a whole had no material impact on
the LANXESS Group’s earnings, asset and financial position.

133

134

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Impairment of assets

Financial instruments

Also mandatory as of the beginning of 2014 are the amendments to
IAS 36 that were published in May 2013. The new rules make it clear
that the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit now
only has to be disclosed for periods in which a write-down has been
recognized or reversed. Additional disclosures are required when a
write-down is recognized or reversed and the recoverable amount is
based on fair value less costs of disposal. Since these amendments
relate solely to disclosures in the notes to the financial statements, they
had no impact on the earnings, asset and financial position.

In November 2009, the IASB published IFRS 9. The new requirements
this standard introduced for classifying and measuring financial assets were supplemented in October 2010 by requirements for the
measurement of financial liabilities and the derecognition of financial
instruments. In November 2013, the IASB published amendments
to IFRS 9 containing new rules on hedge accounting. These amendments allow early adoption of the requirement that fair value changes
attributable to changes in the credit risk of a liability designated as at
fair value through profit or loss be presented in other comprehensive
income under certain conditions even if the other rules of IFRS 9 are
not simultaneously applied. In July 2014, the IASB issued the final
version of IFRS 9. This contains revised regulations for classifying and
measuring financial assets and, for the first time, rules on impairment
charges for financial instruments. The expected loss model is now used
to anticipate and recognize future losses as well as losses that have
already been incurred. The new standard is to be applied for annual
periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Earlier application
is permitted. It has not yet been endorsed by the E.U. The LANXESS
Group is currently evaluating the impact the application of this standard
will have on its earnings, asset and financial position.

Further changes
The mandatory first-time application of the following financial reporting
standards and interpretations in 2014 currently has no impact, or no
material impact, on the LANXESS Group:
• Amendments to IAS 32: Offsetting financial assets and
financial liabilities
• Amendments to IAS 39: Novation of derivatives and
continuation of hedge accounting

Financial reporting standards and interpretations
­issued but not yet mandatory
In 2014 the LANXESS Group did not yet apply certain further financial
reporting standards and interpretations that had already been issued
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the IFRS
Interpretations Committee but were not mandatory for that year. The
application of these standards and interpretations is in some cases
contingent upon their endorsement by the E.U. It is therefore possible
that the dates for mandatory application may ultimately be later than
indicated below.

Revenue from contracts with customers
The IASB published the new standard IFRS 15 on May 28, 2014. It
supersedes IAS 11 and IAS 18 and introduces a five-step model containing basic principles for revenue recognition. These basic principles
relate, in particular, to the identification of the services performed and
the associated revenues and rules on the timing of revenue recognition. The standard also contains further rules on specific issues and
requires additional disclosures in the notes on the type, level, timing
and uncertainties relating to revenues from contracts with customers. The new standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning
on or after January 1, 2017. Earlier application is permitted. It has
not yet been endorsed by the E.U. The LANXESS Group is currently
evaluating the impact the application of this standard will have on its
earnings, asset and financial position.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied | Financial reporting standards and
interpretations issued but not yet mandatory | Consolidation

The following financial reporting standards and interpretations currently have no impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group.

Standard/Interpretation

Date of
publication

Mandatory for
LANXESS as of
fiscal year

Endorsed by
the E.U.
yes

IFRIC 21

Levies

May 20, 2013

2015

IAS 19

Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions – Amendments to IAS 19

Nov. 21, 2013

2016

yes

Various IAS and IFRS

Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2010–2012 Cycle

Dec. 12, 2013

2016

yes

Various IAS and IFRS

Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2011–2013 Cycle

Dec. 12, 2013

2015

yes

IFRS 14

Regulatory Deferral Accounts

Jan. 30, 2014

2016

no

IFRS 11

Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations – Amendments to IFRS 11

May 6, 2014

2016

no

IAS 16 and IAS 38

Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation – Amendments to
IAS 16 and IAS 38

May 12, 2014

2016

no

IAS 16 and IAS 41

Agriculture: Bearer Plants – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41

June 30, 2014

2016

no

IAS 27

Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements – Amendments to IAS 27

Aug. 12, 2014

2016

no

IFRS 10 and IAS 28

Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture –
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28

Sep. 11, 2014

2016

no

Various IAS and IFRS

Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2012–2014 Cycle

Sep. 25, 2014

2016

no

IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and
IAS 28

Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception – Amendments to IFRS 10,
IFRS 12 and IAS 28

Dec. 18, 2014

2016

no

IAS 1

Disclosure Initiative – Amendments to IAS 1

Dec. 18, 2014

2016

no

Consolidation
The financial statements of the consolidated companies were prepared
using uniform accounting policies and valuation principles.
If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not end on December 31,­interim financial statements are prepared for the purpose of
consolidation.
Intra-Group profits, losses, sales, income, expenses, receivables and
payables are eliminated.

Scope of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include
LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the control of LANXESS AG.
Control exists if LANXESS AG is exposed to variable returns from the
relationship with a company and has power over the company. Power
means that LANXESS AG has existing rights that give it the current
ability to direct the relevant activities of the company and thus exert

a significant influence over the variable returns. The ability to control
another company generally derives from direct or indirect ownership
of a majority of the voting rights. In the case of structured entities,
control normally derives from contractual agreements. A company
is consolidated as of the date from which LANXESS AG is able to
exercise control and deconsolidated when this is no longer the case.
Interests in associates in which the LANXESS Group exerts a significant influence, generally through an ownership interest between 20%
and 50%, and interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the
equity method.
Entities that are in aggregate immaterial to the Group’s earnings, asset
and financial position are not consolidated, but are included in the
consolidated financial statements at cost of acquisition.
Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the section headed
“Companies consolidated,” which also contains a list of companies.

135

136

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Fully consolidated companies

Joint operations

Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of a business combination is stated as the aggregate of the
fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the assets transferred, liabilities
incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued in exchange
for control of the acquiree. It also contains the fair value of assets and
liabilities resulting from contingent consideration contracts.

Joint operations are joint arrangements in which the parties that exercise
joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities
relating to the arrangement. LANXESS accounts for its share of the
joint assets and joint liabilities of such joint operations and its share of
the revenues and expenses, including its share of any jointly incurred
expenses.

For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities identified in the course of the acquisition are measured at
fair value as of the acquisition date.

Currency translation

For each business combination, there is an option to include any shares
not acquired either at their fair value or at the pro rata share of the fair
value of the acquiree’s net assets. They are reported in the statement
of financial position as equity attributable to non-controlling interests.

In the financial statements of the individual consolidated companies
that form the basis for the consolidated financial statements of the
LANXESS Group, all foreign-currency assets and liabilities are translated at closing rates, irrespective of whether they are hedged. Forward
contracts serving as economic hedges against fluctuations in exchange
rates are reflected at fair value.

Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt or
equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss.
Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess of the
consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests
and the fair value of any previously held equity interest over the fair
value of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is immediately
recognized in profit or loss after the purchase price allocation has
been re-examined.

Investments accounted for using the equity method
The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the equity
method (associate) is adjusted annually by the percentage of any
change in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s percentage interest
in the entity. If any decline in value exceeds the carrying amount of
the entity, write-downs are recognized on the associated non-current
assets. If the carrying amount of the entity and the associated assets
are reduced to zero, liabilities would be recognized if the owner has
entered into a legal or substantive obligation, e.g. to offset pro rata
losses, or has made payments for the entity.
Differences arising from the first-time accounting for investments using
the equity method are determined according to the same principles as
for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is included in the carrying
amount of the associate.

The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued on the basis
of the currency of the primary economic environment in which the
entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the majority of
foreign companies are financially, economically and organizationally
autonomous and their functional currencies are therefore the respective local currencies. The assets and liabilities of these companies
are translated at closing rates, while income and expense items are
translated at average rates for the year.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recorded in
the currency of the acquired entity and translated at the closing rate,
irrespective of the date on which it arose.
Equity is translated at historical rates, while income, expenses and
other changes during the year are translated at average rates. The
differences between the resulting amounts and those obtained by
translating at closing rates are reported separately in other comprehensive income as exchange differences on translation of operations
outside the eurozone.
If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange differences are
reversed and recognized in profit or loss.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidation | Currency translation | Accounting policies and valuation principles

The principal exchange rates used for currency translation in the
LANXESS Group were:

The costs incurred for in-house software development at the application
development stage are capitalized and amortized over the expected
useful life of the software from the date it is placed in service.

Exchange Rates
€1

Closing rate, Dec. 31

Average rate

2013

2014

2013

2014

ARS

8.99

10.28

7.28

10.76

BRL

3.23

3.22

2.87

3.12

China

CNY

8.35

7.54

8.16

8.19

United Kingdom

GBP

0.83

0.78

0.85

0.81

India

INR

85.23

76.54

77.82

81.05

Japan

JPY

144.72

145.23

129.62

140.39

Canada

CAD

1.47

1.41

1.37

1.47

Singapore

SGD

1.74

1.61

1.66

1.68

South Africa

ZAR

14.57

14.04

12.83

14.41

United States

USD

1.38

1.21

1.33

1.33

Argentina
Brazil

Accounting policies and valuation principles
The accounting policies and valuation principles are the same as those
used in the previous fiscal year and have been consistently applied.
However, certain changes have resulted from the mandatory first-time
application in 2014 of new or amended financial reporting standards
and interpretations. These changes are explained in the section headed
“Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied.”

Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets such as
software, concessions, industrial property rights, similar rights and assets, and licenses to such rights and assets. Acquired intangible assets
with a definite useful life are recognized at cost and amortized over their
respective useful lives using the straight-line method. The amortization
period for intangible assets other than goodwill is between 3 and 20
years. Amortization for 2014 has been allocated to the respective
functional areas. Any further decline in value is recognized by means
of a write-down. Write-downs are reversed in the following year if the
reasons for them no longer exist, provided that this does not cause the
carrying amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at
which they would have been carried if the write-downs had not been
recognized or their current recoverable amount. The lower of these
two amounts is recognized. Intangible assets with indefinite useful
lives and goodwill are not amortized. They are tested for impairment
annually or more often if events or a change in circumstances indicate
a possible impairment. Any impairment charges are recognized in other
operating expenses. Impairment charges on goodwill are not reversed.

Emissions allowances are recognized at cost. Allowances allocated
free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt)
or comparable authorities in other European countries are capitalized
at a value of zero.

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of acquisition or
construction less depreciation for wear and tear. LANXESS does not
use the revaluation model. Write-downs are recognized for any reduction in value that goes beyond normal depreciation. In compliance with
IAS 36, impairment charges are measured by comparing the carrying
amounts to the discounted cash flows expected to be generated by
the assets in the future. Where it is not possible to allocate future
cash flows to specific assets, the impairment charge is assessed on
the basis of the discounted cash flows for the cash-generating unit to
which the asset belongs. Write-downs are reversed if the reasons for
them no longer apply, provided that this does not cause the carrying
amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which
they would have been recognized if they had not been written down
or their current recoverable amount.
The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment comprises
the direct cost of materials, direct manufacturing expenses, and appropriate allocations of material and manufacturing overheads and an
appropriate share of the depreciation and write-downs of assets used
in construction. It also includes the shares of expenses for company
pension plans and discretionary employee benefits that are attributable to construction.
Where an obligation exists to decommission or dismantle assets at
the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its original condition,
the present value of the obligation is capitalized along with the cost
of acquisition or construction and a provision in the same amount is
recognized.
If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over
a long period, the directly attributable borrowing costs incurred up to
the date of completion are capitalized as part of the cost of acquisition
or construction.

137

138

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are recognized directly
in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition or construction costs are
capitalized if they will result in future economic benefits and can be
reliably determined.
Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants are recognized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of the related assets
and depreciated over the period between one general overhaul and
the next using the straight-line method.
Where assets comprise material components with different purposes,
different properties, or different useful lives, the components are capitalized individually and depreciated over their useful lives.
When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference between
the net proceeds and the carrying amount is recognized as a gain or
loss in other operating income or expenses.
Assets are depreciated by the straight-line method based on the following useful lives, which are applied uniformly throughout the Group:

Buildings

20 to 50 years

Outdoor infrastructure

10 to 20 years

Plant installations

6 to 20 years

Machinery and equipment

6 to 12 years

Storage tanks and pipelines
Vehicles

Property, plant and equipment also include assets that LANXESS leases
or rents out to third parties under agreements other than finance leases.
However, if the lessee is to be regarded as the economic owner of
the assets, a receivable is recognized in the amount of the discounted
future lease or rental payments.
Leasing arrangements may be embedded in other contracts. Where
IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing arrangement, the
components of the contract are recognized and measured separately.

Financial instruments

Useful Lives

Laboratory and research facilities

The future lease payments are recorded as financial liabilities. ­Liabilities
under finance leases are recognized at the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease or the present value of the minimum
lease payments, whichever is lower. Thereafter the minimum lease
payments are divided into financing costs and the portion representing repayment of the principal. In the case of leasing contracts that do
not include the transfer of substantially all risks and rewards incidental
to ownership (operating leases), the lessee recognizes the lease payments as current expenses.

3 to 5 years
10 to 20 years
5 to 8 years

Computer equipment

3 to 5 years

Furniture and fixtures

4 to 10 years

Leasing
In accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where substantially all risks
and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred (finance leases)
are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and the present value of
the minimum lease payments at the date of addition. They are depreciated over their useful lives. If subsequent transfer of title to the leased
asset is uncertain, it is depreciated over the shorter of its estimated
useful life and the lease term.

Financial instruments are contracts that give rise simultaneously to
a financial asset for one party and a financial liability or equity instrument for another. These include primary financial instruments, such
as trade receivables or payables and other financial assets or liabilities,
as well as derivative financial instruments, which are used to hedge
risks arising from changes in currency exchange rates, raw material
prices or interest rates.
Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the LANXESS Group
becomes the contracting party to them. Financial assets are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive payments from them expire
or the financial assets are transferred together with all significant risks
and rewards. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the contractual
obligations are met or canceled, or when they expire.
In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement date is
the relevant date for first-time recognition or derecognition of financial
assets in the financial statements.
Trade receivables and other financial receivables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amortized cost
using the effective interest method. Write-downs are recognized for
any decline in value using separate accounts.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Accounting policies and valuation principles

Investments in affiliated companies and the equity instruments included
in non-current assets are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and recognized at fair value, except where their fair value cannot
be reliably determined, in which case they are recognized at cost.
Where objective evidence exists that such assets may be impaired, an
impairment charge is recognized on the basis of an impairment test.
Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method are
recognized at the amounts corresponding to LANXESS’s shares in
their equity in accordance with IAS 28.
Financial assets held for trading are recognized at fair value. Any gain
or loss arising from subsequent measurement is reflected in the income statement.
All other primary financial assets are classified as available for sale
and recognized at fair value except if they are allocable to loans and
receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subsequent measurement,
with the exception of write-downs and of gains and losses from currency translation, is recognized in other comprehensive income until
the asset is derecognized.
Primary financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value less
any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, they are measured at
amortized cost using the effective-interest method.
LANXESS does not utilize the option of designating non-derivative
financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss upon
initial recognition.

Derivative financial instruments and hedging
transactions
The LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial instruments as
assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. Gains and
losses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized in profit
or loss. Where foreign currency derivatives or forward commodity
contracts used to hedge future cash flows from pending business or
forecast transactions qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant
financial reporting standard, changes in the value of such instruments
are recognized separately in other comprehensive income until the
underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recognized here are

subsequently reclassified to other operating income or cost of sales,
as appropriate, when the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or
loss. Any portion of the change in value of such derivatives deemed to
be ineffective with regard to the hedged risk is recognized directly in
profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used
to hedge long-term liabilities with variable interest rates – provided
such derivatives qualify for hedge accounting – are recognized in other
comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
as interest income or expense at the same time as the income from
the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss.
Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivering nonfinancial items based on expected purchases, sales or utilization and
held for this purpose are recognized not as financial derivatives but as
pending transactions. If the contracts contain embedded derivatives,
the derivatives are accounted for separately from the host contract,
provided that the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded
derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract.

Determination of fair value
The principal methods and assumptions used in measuring the fair
value of financial instruments are outlined below:
Trade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivalents
are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is therefore
their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are discounted
using current interest rates to determine their fair value.
The fair value of securities is determined from their market price on
the closing date, disregarding transaction costs.
The fair value of loans and liabilities to banks is calculated from discounted future interest payments and capital repayment amounts.
The bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair values are
the prices determined and published by the market. If no liquid market
price is available for a bond, its fair value is determined on the basis
of observable inputs, using a risk-related discount rate.

139

140

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

The fair value of trade payables and other primary financial liabilities
due within one year is normally their carrying amount. That of all other
liabilities is determined by discounting them to present value where
feasible.
The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to finance leases
are the present values of the net lease payments calculated using the
market rate for comparable lease agreements.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise checks, cash and balances with
banks. Securities with maturities of up to three months from the date
of acquisition are recognized in cash and cash equivalents in view of
their high liquidity.

Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale
Most of the derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS are
traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values as of the end of the
reporting period pertain exclusively to forward exchange contracts
and are derived from their trading or listed prices using the “forward
method.” Where no market price is available, values are determined
using recognized capital market pricing methods based on observable
market data. In determining the fair values, adjustments for LANXESS’s
own credit risk and counterparty credit risk are made on the basis of
the respective net positions.

Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be sold in
their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such assets may
be individual non-current assets, groups of assets (disposal groups)
or complete business entities. A disposal group may also include
liabilities if these are to be divested together with the assets as part
of the transaction.
Assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated. They are
recognized at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount.

Inventories
Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary course of
business (finished goods and merchandise), assets in the process of
being manufactured for sale (work in process) and assets consumed
during the production process (raw materials and supplies). They
are valued by the weighted-average method and recognized at the
lower of cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling
price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated remaining
production costs and selling expenses.
The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials, direct
manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of fixed and
variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal capacity
utilization, where these are attributable to production.
It also includes expenses for company pension plans, corporate welfare
facilities and discretionary employee benefits that can be allocated to
production. Administrative costs are included where they are attributable to production.
Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not included
in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as the products are
not manufactured using long-term production processes.
Given the production and distribution sequences characteristic of the
LANXESS Group, work in process and finished goods are grouped
together.

Provisions
Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 37
and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best estimates
of the amounts of the obligations. Non-current portions of material
provisions due in more than one year are discounted to present value
if the extent and timing of the obligation can be assessed with reasonable certainty. Where the projected obligation alters as the time
of performance approaches (interest effect), the related expense is
recognized in other financial expense.
If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change in the
estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding amount and
the effect is recognized in the income or expense item(s) in which the
provision was originally recorded.
Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits are established for defined benefit pension plans. The provision is measured
according to the actuarial present value of the obligation, calculated
using the projected unit credit method. This takes into account not
only the known pensions and pension entitlements as of the closing
date, but also expected future salary and benefit increases. Remeasure-

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Accounting policies and valuation principles

ments of the net defined benefit liability are fully recognized in other
comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. They are
not reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period.
Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual bonus
payments, payments under multi-year compensation programs and
other personnel costs.
The stock-based employee compensation programs (Long-Term Incentive Plan – LTIP and Long-Term Stock Performance Plan – LTSP)
provide for cash settlement. Provisions are established for the obligations entered into under such programs on the basis of the proportionate fair value of the rights allocated to employees. The fair value
is determined using the Monte Carlo method, in which future returns
are simulated and the expected payment is calculated from the value
of the rights based on a two-dimensional standard distribution of
returns. The fair value of the rights is reflected in a pro rata provision
during the vesting period.
The stock-based compensation program for members of the
Supervisory Board provides for variable cash settlement, provided that
LANXESS stock has outperformed a defined index during their term of
office. Provisions are established for the expected obligations on the
basis of the fair value of the expected settlement amount.
The LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or pending
legal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be reasonably
estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees and legal costs
and the cost of potential settlements. However, litigation expenses
are only included if it is assumed that they will have to be borne by
LANXESS. The amounts of such provisions are based upon information
and cost estimates provided by the Group’s legal advisers. The provisions are regularly reviewed together with the Group’s legal advisers
and adjusted if necessary.

Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties or existing
commitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably estimated
or which are unlikely to lead to an outflow of resources. They are not
recognized in the statement of financial position unless they have been
entered into in connection with a business combination.

Liabilities
Other current liabilities are recognized at repayment or redemption
amounts. Other non-current liabilities are recognized at amortized cost.
Subsidies received from third parties for the acquisition or construction
of property, plant and equipment are reflected in other liabilities and
released to the respective functional area of the income statement
over the underlying period or expected useful life of the assets to
which they relate.

Sales and other revenues
Revenues are recognized as soon as delivery has been made or the
service rendered and are reported net of sales taxes and deductions.
This is normally the case when the significant risks and rewards associated with ownership of the goods pass to the purchaser. It must also
be sufficiently probable that the economic benefits will be obtained
and the costs incurred must be reliably determinable.
Customer rebates are reflected in the period in which the revenues
are realized. Revenues such as license fees, rental income, interest
income or dividends that are attributable to a subsequent fiscal year
are accrued.
The LANXESS Group does not have long-term production orders.
Accordingly, the percentage-of-completion method is not applied to
determine when revenues are realized.

Research and development expenses
According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized, whereas
development costs must be capitalized if, and only if, specific narrowly
defined conditions are fulfilled. Development costs must be capitalized
if it is sufficiently certain that the development activity will generate
future economic benefits which will also cover the associated development costs. However, since the development and optimization of
products and processes frequently involves uncertainties, the conditions for capitalization of development costs are generally not met.

141

142

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Income taxes
This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual
countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the
basis of local tax rates.
Income tax liabilities and provisions for income taxes comprise the
liabilities relating to the respective fiscal year and any liabilities from
previous years. They are assessed on the basis of the applicable legislation, taking into account present legal practice judgments and
prevailing opinion.
In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for temporary
differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities in the
statement of financial position and the tax base and for differences
arising from consolidation measures or realizable tax loss carryforwards. The calculations are based on tax planning calculations and
customary and realizable tax strategies. Deferred taxes are calculated
at the rates which are expected to apply in the individual countries at
the time of realization, taking into account the period for which deferred taxes may be used and any constraints on the utilization of loss
­carryforwards. These are based on the statutory regulations in force,
or already enacted in relation to future periods, as of the closing date.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each closing
date and only the amount likely to be realizable due to future taxable
income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards
are recognized if it is probable that the carryforwards can be utilized.

Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment are
included in the cash flows for investing activities after deducting any
third-party subsidies. Investments involving finance leases, along with
capitalized borrowing costs, are not included. Comparison therefore
should not be made between these items and the capital expenditures
shown in the schedule of changes in property, plant and equipment.
Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash flows from
operating activities. Disbursements made under finance leases where
LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as cash outflows for financing
activities, while cash inflows under finance leases where LANXESS
is the lessor are recognized as cash inflows from investing activities.
Cash outflows relating to the financing of pension obligations are
allocated to cash flows for operating activities.
Purchase prices paid or received in connection with acquisitions or
divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities are included in
the investing cash flow after deducting cash and cash equivalents
acquired or divested.
Interest and dividends received are also included in investing cash flow,
while interest and dividends paid are reflected in financing cash flow.

Global impairment testing procedure and impact

Statement of cash flows

In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-current assets
starts with an analysis to determine whether impairment charges
need to be recognized or previously recognized impairment charges
reversed. If there are indications that this is the case, the residual
carrying amount of each cash-generating unit is compared to its recoverable amount. In the LANXESS Group these impairment tests are
performed at least once a year.

The statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and outflows
during the year affected the cash and cash equivalents of the LANXESS
Group. Cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing
activities in accordance with IAS 7. The liquidity reported in the statement of cash flows comprises cash and cash equivalents.

Cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are tested annually for impairment – or more frequently if events or changes in
circumstances indicate a possible impairment. The residual carrying
amount of each cash-generating unit, including the goodwill allocated
to it, is compared to its recoverable amount.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to income
taxes levied by the same tax authorities.

The cash flow from operating activities is calculated using the indirect
method. This involves eliminating the translation effects and the effects
of changes in the scope of consolidation from the changes recognized
in the items on the statement of financial position. Therefore, the cash
flows calculated by the indirect method cannot be directly derived
from the statement of financial position.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Accounting policies and valuation principles | Estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion

The LANXESS Group defines its business units as the cash-generating
units. However, if there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current
assets below business-unit level, impairment testing is also performed
at this level and impairment charges are recognized in the income
statement where necessary.

Future net cash flows are discounted using the weighted average cost
of capital, which is derived according to IAS 36 from capital market
models, taking into account the capital structure and business risks
specific to the chemical industry, and is extrapolated from external
market information.

The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less
costs of disposal and the value in use. If the carrying amount of a
cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment
charge is recognized in certain circumstances. The fair value less costs
of disposal – which represents the best estimate of the potential sale
proceeds at the time of the respective impairment test – is the amount
obtainable from the sale of a cash-generating unit in an arm’s-length
transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of
disposal. The value in use is defined as the present value of future
cash flows based on the continuing use of the asset and its retirement
at the end of its useful life. The first step in an impairment test is to
determine the fair value less costs of disposal. If this is less than the
carrying amount of the cash-generating unit, the value in use is then
determined. The fair value less costs of disposal is generally calculated
using a capital value method which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair
value hierarchy (see under “Fair value measurement” in Note [35]).

If a decline in value is determined, an impairment charge is first recognized for any goodwill assigned to the respective strategic business unit. Any remaining impairment amount is allocated among the
other non-current assets of the strategic business unit in proportion to
the carrying amounts on which the impairment test was based. The
recoverable amount of any non-current assets below the level of the
cash-generating unit is assessed and the loss is allocated, but only
up to the recoverable amount of these assets. Any further impairment
charge that would have been allocated to these assets is allocated
proportionately to the other assets in the cash-generating unit.

Determination of the recoverable amount based on the fair value less
costs of disposal relies on a forecast of future net cash flows. This is
based on the planning approved by the management of LANXESS AG,
which contains estimates of expected market conditions and other
factors such as future raw material prices, energy costs, functional cost
items and exchange rates. The interactions which exist between these
factors are reflected in the expected net cash flows. The estimates are
based on management’s past experience, taking account of internal
and external economic and industry-specific sources of information.
Capacity expansions, reorganization projects and the resulting synergies, provided these can also be used by a third party, are reflected in
future net cash flows through estimates. Determination of the value
in use is based on a corresponding forecast of future net cash flows.
However, cash inflows and outflows relating to expansion projects that
have not yet commenced, restructuring that is planned but has not
yet been approved, and the associated synergies are not taken into
account. The forecasts used to calculate the fair value less costs of
disposal and to determine the value in use cover a five-year period.
Growth rates are not reflected in the perpetual annuity calculation.

Impairment charges are fully recognized in the income statement under
other operating expenses and reflected in the segment reporting in
the expenses of the respective segments.
The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal 2013 and 2014
are outlined in the following section.

Estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance
with IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and valuation
principles and the use of forward-looking assumptions and estimates
that may affect the measurement of assets and liabilities, income and
expenses, and contingent liabilities.
All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated financial
statements are based on management’s expectations. Information
that could alter these estimates is reviewed continually and may result
in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the respective assets and
liabilities.
Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the measurement of the LANXESS Group’s assets and liabilities are explained
below.

143

144

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

The LANXESS Group tests its cash-generating units for impairment at
least once a year by determining the respective recoverable amount
(for further information see the section headed “Global impairment
testing procedure and impact”). The test is based on forecasts of future
net cash flows, derived from reasonable assumptions representing the
management’s best assessment of the economic circumstances at
the time of the impairment test. Management’s expectations of future
net cash flows therefore indirectly affect the measurement of goodwill
and other assets.
The assumptions and estimates used for the impairment test conducted on assets in fiscal 2014 could differ from the actual values in
subsequent periods, necessitating subsequent valuation adjustments.
The annual impairment tests are based on a discount rate after taxes
of 7.4% (2013: 7.9%), without using growth rates to determine the
perpetual annuity. The calculation is based on a capital value method
which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy in accordance
with IFRS 13. The testing of the cash-generating units showed no
need for the recognition or reversal of impairment charges in fiscal
2014. There has been no material change in the estimates used for
the impairment charges recognized in the previous year for the cashgenerating units Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers
and Rubber Chemicals.
In 2013, an impairment charge of €174 million was recognized
for the cash-generating unit Keltan Elastomers, the business activities of which comprise the production and marketing of ethylene-­
propylene-diene (EPDM) rubber. Of the impairment charge recognized,
€11 million­­related to goodwill, €16 million to other intangible assets
and €147 million to property, plant and equipment. The impairment
charge was recognized in the income statement under other operating
expenses. This reduced the carrying amount of the Keltan Elastomers
cash-generating unit to its fair value less costs of disposal. In view of
the temporary overcapacities anticipated for the coming years and the
energy cost advantages enjoyed by U.S.-based producers, changes are
forecasted in the market and competitive environment which will have
an effect beyond the five-year planning period. To determine the fair
value less costs of disposal, the terminal value according to the five-year
plan was and is therefore assessed over a further five-year period and
the outcome of this assessment taken into account in the valuation.

Further, in view of the challenging competitive environment and the
change in the assessment of growth prospects, impairment tests
were performed in 2013 on the High Performance Elastomers cashgenerating unit in the Performance Polymers segment and the Rubber Chemicals cash-generating unit in the Performance Chemicals
segment using a discount rate after taxes of 7.8%. These tests led
to the recognition of a €54 million impairment charge for the High
Performance Elastomers cash-generating unit and a €29 million impairment charge for the Rubber Chemicals cash-generating unit. The
business activities of the High Performance Elastomers cash-generating
unit comprise the production and distribution of synthetic rubber with
special technical properties for the manufacturing industry, especially
the automotive and construction sectors, and mechanical engineering.
The impairment test led to the recognition of a €54 million impairment
charge to reduce the carrying amount to the recoverable amount less
costs of disposal. This impairment charge was recognized in the income statement under other operating expenses. €1 million pertained
to intangible assets and €53 million to property, plant and equipment.
The business activities of the Rubber Chemicals cash-generating unit
comprise the production and marketing of specialty rubber chemicals
sold mainly to manufacturers of tires and technical rubber products.
The impairment test as of year end 2013 led to the recognition of a
€29 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount to the
recoverable amount less costs of disposal. This impairment charge
was recognized in the income statement under other operating expenses in fiscal 2013. €5 million pertained to intangible assets and
€24 million to property, plant and equipment.
The annual impairment test for the principal goodwill items is performed on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal. The calculation
is based on a capital value method which is allocated to Level 3 of the
fair value hierarchy in accordance with IFRS 13. Impairment tests are
performed on goodwill items in local currency if triggering events occur
and at least once yearly on the regular impairment testing date. These
items mainly comprise goodwill of €80 million (2013: €80 million)­carried by the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit, €27 million­
(2013: €25 million) allocated to the Material Protection Products business unit and €18 million (2013: €
­ 18 million) pertaining to the High
Performance Materials business unit. Information on calculating the
net cash flows can be found in this chapter and the previous chapter.
The Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit is dependent in
large part on market development in the tire and automotive industries,
the Material Protection Products business unit on the performance of
various industries and the High Performance Materials business unit
primarily on market development in the automotive industry.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion

The impairment test performed on goodwill items in 2014 did not
indicate any need for recognition of impairment charges. Neither a
one-percentage-point increase in the discount rate nor a 10% reduction
in expected future net cash flows would have led to the recognition of
an impairment charge on goodwill items.
In 2013, goodwill of €2 million recognized upon the acquisition of
PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd., Singapore, was allocated to
the Material Protection business unit in the Performance Chemicals
segment and was also tested for impairment as of the end of 2013.
The goodwill of €11 million pertaining to the Keltan Elastomers cashgenerating unit was impaired to zero in 2013.
The recognition and measurement of provisions are also affected
by assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timing, the underlying discount rate and the absolute level of risk. The LANXESS
Group performed sensitivity analyses on all provisions existing as of
­December 31, 2014, as required by the IFRS. These involved calculating the impact of variations in the parameters used, especially
the probability of occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk.
The outcome of these sensitivity analyses shows that variations in
the assumptions described above would not have a material impact
on the level of other provisions reported in the consolidated financial
statements of the LANXESS Group. For further information on the
sensitivity analyses relating to provisions for pension and other postemployment benefits, see Note [13].
Defined benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial computations
and measurements. The section on provisions for pensions and other
post-employment benefits contains information on the assumptions
on which the actuarial calculations and estimates were based (see
Note [13]).
Further, the LANXESS Group is affected by legal disputes. As an international chemicals company, the LANXESS Group is exposed to
administrative or court proceedings in the normal course of business
and may be again in the future. Administrative and court proceedings generally involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are
therefore subject to a number of imponderables. The outcomes of any
current or future proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. It is

therefore possible that legal judgments could give rise to expenses
that are not covered, or not fully covered, by recognized provisions
or equivalent insurance and that could materially affect the business
operations, revenues, earnings or cash flows of the LANXESS Group.
There is also a degree of uncertainty surrounding the assessment of
certain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the LANXESS
Group believes it has presented all tax-relevant information correctly
and in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax authorities
may occasionally reach different conclusions. Provisions have been
established where changes in tax assessments are probable. In addition, charges from tax risks from previous years are not considered to
be likely. In the event of unfavorable developments, LANXESS could
be faced with additional charges in the low-double-digit millions of
euros. The calculations are principally based on experience of the
outcome of previous tax audits and their impact on the subsequent
periods and the applicable legislation, taking into account present
legal practice and prevailing opinion.
Other significant estimates and discretion are used to assess the
useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment,
the capitalization of development costs, the probability of collecting
receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventories and the ability
to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets recognized for temporary
differences and tax loss carryforwards. The first-time consolidation of
business operations also involves estimation uncertainties and the
exercise of discretion in determining the fair values of the acquired
assets and assumed liabilities.

145

146

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Companies consolidated
The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include the parent company LANXESS AG and all domestic and foreign
­affiliates.

EMEA (excl.
Germany)

Germany

North America

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

Total

23

12

5

5

20

65

(1)

(2)

(1)

(1)

18

62

Fully consolidated companies
(incl. parent company)
Jan. 1, 2014
Additions

0

Retirements

(1)

Mergers
Dec. 31, 2014

23

11

5

5

Consolidated associates and
jointly controlled entities
Jan. 1, 2014

2

2

Additions

0

Retirements

0

Mergers
Dec. 31, 2014

0
0

2

0

0

0

2

2

2

1

3

2

10

(1)

(1)

3

1

9

77

Non-consolidated companies
Jan. 1, 2014
Additions

0

Retirements
Mergers
Dec. 31, 2014

0
2

2

1

Total
25

16

6

8

22

Additions

Jan. 1, 2014

0

0

0

0

0

0

Retirements

0

(1)

0

0

(2)

(3)

Mergers
Dec. 31, 2014

0

0

0

0

(1)

(1)

25

15

6

8

19

73

Also consolidated in the EMEA (excluding Germany) region are the
structured entities Dirlem (RF) (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa,
and Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust, Modderfontein, South Africa. The purpose of these structured entities is to
ensure employee participation in the company in accordance with
South Africa’s Black Economic Empowerment legislation. LANXESS
exercises control because the principal business activities were defined by LANXESS when the structured entities were established.
LANXESS guarantees the value of the interests in LANXESS Chrome
Mining (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa, held and managed
by these structured entities. This does not entail any material risks for
the LANXESS Group.

DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, is included in the consolidated financial statements as a joint operation on a pro rata basis in
accordance with IFRS 11 because the partners exercise joint control and purchase its entire output between them. The interest held
by LANXESS in this company’s capital is 50%. The purpose of the
company is to produce polybutylene terephthalate base resins and
blends for the joint owners and their affiliated companies. This business relationship does not involve any material risks.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Companies consolidated

Further, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, is an
associate accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method (see Note [3]). LANXESS’s share in its capital
is 40%. Given its ability to contribute to material aspects of financial
and business policy decisions, LANXESS is able to exert a significant
influence. Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG principally provides site services in the areas of energy, infrastructure and logistics for LANXESS’s
production sites in Germany. In view of its status as a personally liable
partner, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital in the future.
Transactions with this company are outlined in Note [33].

Other information on companies consolidated
The following table lists the affiliated companies in accordance with
Section 313, Paragraph 2 of the German Commercial Code:
Company Name and Domicile
%
Fully consolidated companies
Germany
­LANXESS AG, Cologne

LANXESS-TRSC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong,
China, is a producer of nitrile rubber. LANXESS’s share in its capital
is 50%. This company is fully consolidated because LANXESS can
determine key aspects of its financial and business policy. The noncontrolling interests in this company have a negligible influence on
the activities and cash flows of the LANXESS Group.
Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain, and Rhein Chemie (Qingdao)­
Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China, are production companies in which
LANXESS has a stake of 52% and 90%, respectively. These companies are fully consolidated because LANXESS holds the majority of
the voting rights and therefore exercises control. The non-controlling
interests in these companies have a negligible influence on the activities and cash flows of the LANXESS Group.
Cash transfers from companies in China, Brazil, India, South Africa,
South Korea, Argentina and Russia are subject to restrictions as a
result of regulated capital markets. These affect approximately 14%
(2013: 10%) of the LANXESS Group’s cash and cash equivalents.
Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at cost. These companies are immaterial to the LANXESS Group’s earnings, asset and
financial position, since together they account for less than 0.1% of
Group sales and less than 0.1% of equity.
PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd., which is based in Singapore, was
consolidated for the first time effective April 5, 2013. The provisional
purchase price allocation made with respect to this transaction was
not adjusted in light of any new information or knowledge within one
year from the acquisition date and is therefore final.
The same applies to the purchase price allocations for the phosphorus
chemicals business of Thermphos France S.A.R.L., Epierre, France,
which was acquired on September 14, 2013.
Nexachem Trading (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China, was liquidated
in the reporting period. In addition, PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte.
Ltd., Singapore, was merged with LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Singapore.
LANXESS sold all the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen,
Germany, effective March 19, 2014. These changes had no material
impact on the LANXESS Group’s earnings, asset and financial position.

Interest held

–

Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen

100

Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon

100

IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin

100

­LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne

100

­LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl

100

­LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne

100

­LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen

100

­LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Cologne

100

Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim

100

Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen

100

EMEA (excluding Germany)
Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain

52

­LANXESS (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa

100

­LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia

100

­LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain

100

­LANXESS CISA (Pty.) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa

100

­ ANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty.) Ltd.,
L
Modderfontein, South Africa

100

­LANXESS Elastomères S.A.S., Lillebonne, France

100

­LANXESS Elastomers B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands

100

­LANXESS Emulsion Rubber S.A.S., La Wantzenau, France

100

­LANXESS Epierre SAS, Epierre, France

100

­LANXESS Finance B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands

100

­LANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Barcelona, Spain

100

­LANXESS International SA, Granges-Paccot, Switzerland

100

­LANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Istanbul, Turkey

100

­LANXESS Limited, Newbury, U.K.

100

­LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium

100

­LANXESS Rubber N.V., Zwijndrecht, Belgium

100

­LANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France

100

­LANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy

100

OOO ­LANXESS, Moscow, Russia

100

OOO ­LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia

100

Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., Ede, Netherlands

100

Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd.,
Newbury, U.K.

100

147

148

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Company Name and Domicile
%

Company Name and Domicile
Interest held

%

Interest held

Jointly controlled entity

Fully consolidated companies

Germany

North America
­LANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S.A.

100

­LANXESS Inc., Sarnia, Canada

100

­LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S.A.

100

Rhein Chemie Corporation, Chardon, U.S.A.

100

Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A.

100

DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm

Associate accounted for using the equity method
Germany
Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen

Latin America

50

­LANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

100

­ ANXESS Industria de Produtos Quimicos e Plasticos Ltda.,
L
São Paulo, Brazil

100

­LANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico

100

EMEA (excluding Germany)

­LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina

100

Dirlem (RF) (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa

Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay

100

Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust,
­Modderfontein, South Africa

40

Structured entities

49
0

Asia-Pacific
­ ANXESS Elastomers Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.,
L
Shanghai, China

100

­LANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China

100

­LANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China

100

­LANXESS (Ningbo) Pigments Co., Ltd., Ningbo City, China

100

­LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Singapore

100

­LANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China

100

­LANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, China

100

­LANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India

100

­LANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan

100

­LANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, South Korea

100

­LANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore

100

­LANXESS PTY Ltd., Homebush Bay, Australia

100

­LANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China

100

­LANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China

100

­ ANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd.,
L
Nantong, China

50

­LANXESS (Wuxi) Chemical Co., Ltd., Wuxi, China

100

Rhein Chemie Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan

100

Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China

90

Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries
Germany
­LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Cologne

100

Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen

100

EMEA (excluding Germany)
­LANXESS Mining (Proprietary) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa

100

W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, U.K.

100

North America
­LANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, U.S.A.

100

Latin America
Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago, Chile

100

Petroflex Trading S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay

100

Asia-Pacific
PCTS Specialty Chemicals Malaysia (M) Sdn. Bhd.,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

100

Other non-consolidated immaterial companies
Latin America
Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serra, Brazil

39

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Companies consolidated | Notes to the statement of financial position

Notes to the statement of financial position
1

Intangible assets

Changes in intangible assets were as follows:
Changes in Intangible Assets in 2013
Acquired goodwill

Other
intangible assets

Advance payments

Total

Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2012

175

325

28

528

Changes in scope of consolidation 1)/acquisitions

2

8

€ million

10

Capital expenditures

18

6

24

Disposals

(7)

0

(7)

Reclassifications

14

(14)

0

(16)

0

(34)

159

342

20

521

(1)

(137)

0

(138)

(11)

(65)

0

(76)

(11)

(23)

0

(34)

Exchange differences

(18)

Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2013
Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2012

0

Changes in scope of consolidation 1)
Amortization and write-downs in 2013
of which write-downs
Disposals

7

Reclassifications

0

Exchange differences

0

7
0

0

0

9

9

Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2013

(12)

(186)

0

(198)

Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2013

147

156

20

323

Acquired goodwill

Other
intangible assets

Advance payments

Total

159

342

20

521

1) Including effects of the transition to full consolidation and the change to proportionate consolidation

Changes in Intangible Assets in 2014
€ million
Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2013
Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions

(1)

(1)

Capital expenditures

7

12

19

Disposals

0

(1)

(1)

Reclassifications
Exchange differences

5

4

(4)

0

9

1

15

Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2014

164

361

28

553

Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2013

(12)

(186)

0

(198)

0

(31)

Changes in scope of consolidation

0

Amortization and write-downs in 2014

(31)

of which write-downs

0

Disposals

0

Reclassifications

0

Exchange differences

0
0
0
0

0

(1)

( 3)

Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2014

(13)

(220)

0

( 233)

Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2014

151

141

28

320

The write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets in fiscal 2013
mainly comprised impairment charges recognized on the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and Rubber Chemicals cashgenerating units as a result of the respective impairment tests. Further
information is provided in the section headed “Estimation uncertainties
and exercise of discretion.”

(4)

149

150

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

2

Property, plant and equipment

Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows:
Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2013
€ million

Cost of acquisition or construction,
Dec. 31, 2012

Land and
buildings

Technical
equipment and
machinery

Other fixtures,
fittings and
equipment

Advance payments
and assets under
construction

Total

8,624

1,399

6,201

278

746

Changes in scope of consolidation 1)/acquisitions

15

(8)

0

0

7

Capital expenditures

44

165

29

414

652
(157)

Disposals

(24)

(104)

(24)

(5)

Reclassifications

113

431

19

(563)

0

Exchange differences

(52)

(159)

(11)

(25)

(247)

Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2013

1,495

6,526

291

567

8,879

Accumulated depreciation and write-downs,
Dec. 31, 2012

(864)

(4,562)

(204)

0

(5,630)

3

19

0

(95)

(446)

( 33)

(67)

(641)

(38)

(140)

0

(67)

(245)

23

103

23

5

154

0

0

0

0

0

18

93

8

0

119

(915)

(4,793)

(206)

(62)

(5,976)

580

(1,733)

85

505

2,903

Land and
buildings

Technical
equipment and
machinery

Other fixtures,
fittings and
equipment

Advance payments
and assets under
construction

Total

Changes in scope of consolidation 1)
Depreciation and write-downs in 2013
of which write-downs
Disposals
Reclassifications
Exchange differences
Accumulated depreciation and
write-downs, Dec. 31, 2013
Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2013

22

1) Including effects of the transition to full consolidation and the change to proportionate consolidation

Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2014
€ million

Cost of acquisition or construction,
Dec. 31, 2013

1,495

6,526

291

567

8,879

Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions

(5)

(28)

0

0

(33)

Capital expenditures

25

146

17

485

673

(11)

(138)

(11)

(3)

(163)

Disposals
Reclassifications

39

190

13

( 242)

0

Exchange differences

44

156

6

54

260

Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2014

1,587

6,852

316

861

9,616

Accumulated depreciation and write-downs,
Dec. 31, 2013

(915)

(4,793)

(206)

(62)

(5,976)

4

25

0

(48)

(315)

(30)

(2)

(395)

(2)

(26)

(2)

(2)

(32)

7

138

11

1

157

(1)

(14)

(2)

17

0

(12)

(82)

(4)

0

(98)

(965)

(5,041)

(231)

(46)

(6,283)

622

1,811

85

815

3,333

Changes in scope of consolidation
Depreciation and write-downs in 2014
of which write-downs
Disposals
Reclassifications
Exchange differences
Accumulated depreciation and
write-downs, Dec. 31, 2014
Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2014

Write-downs were recognized on buildings and infrastructure, technical equipment and machinery and assets under construction due to
reorganization or other events that gave rise to a decline in value. The
write-downs in fiscal 2014 mainly related to a pilot facility in the Butyl

29

Rubber Business Unit. In 2013, impairment charges were recognized
for the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and Rubber
Chemicals cash-generating units, as explained in the section headed
“Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion.”

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the statement of financial position

Capitalized property, plant and equipment include assets with the
following gross and net values held under finance leases:

Data from the Statement of Financial Position
€ million

Dec. 31,
2013

Dec. 31,
2014
653

Assets Held Under Finance Leases

Non-current assets

476

€ million

Current assets

523

524

Total assets

999

1,177

Non-current liabilities

696

1,110

Current liabilities

245

269

Total liabilities

941

1,379

58

(202)

(46)

116

0

86

12

0

Dec. 31, 2013
Gross
carrying
amount

Buildings

3

Dec. 31, 2014

Net
carrying
amount

Gross
carrying
amount

3

3

Net
carrying
amount
2

Technical equipment
and machinery

62

37

87

59

Fittings and equipment

10

6

18

11

75

46

108

72

Equity
Adjustment of LANXESS’s interest and
equity valuation
Pro rata loss not recognized in consolidated
financial statements
Investments accounted for using
the equity method

Directly attributable borrowing costs of €17 million (2013: €15 million)­
were capitalized. The average cost of debt for the LANXESS Group
was 3.6% in 2014 (2013: 4.5%).

3

Investments accounted for using the equity method

As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen,
Germany, was accounted for using the equity method. As of the first
quarter of 2013, the investment in LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China, was no longer accounted for
using the equity method. Instead, the company was fully consolidated
as a subsidiary.
The following tables show the main items of the income statements,
statements of comprehensive income and statements of financial
position of investments accounted for using the equity method:
Data from the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income
€ million

2013

2014

Sales

1,386

1,311

Operating result (EBIT)

50

43

Income after income taxes

14

5

Other comprehensive income, net of income tax

63

(261)

Total comprehensive income

77

(256)

The €12 million decrease (2013: €4 million increase) in the carrying
amount of investments accounted for using the equity method – after
taking into account income of €2 million (2013: €0 million) from
­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted
for using the equity method – arose from losses of €19 million­(2013:
gains of 23 million) recognized in other comprehensive income and the
obligation to assume the pro rata loss of €5 million (2013: profit transfer of €2 million). In 2013, the carrying amount was further ­reduced
by disbursements of €12 million from reserves and by €8 million
relating to the first-time full consolidation of LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China. The divestment
of Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Co., Ltd., Tongling, China, in 2013 had
no impact on the carrying amount of the investments.
A share of the losses in fiscal 2014 and of the accumulated losses
of Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, amounting to
€86 million was not recognized in the consolidated financial statements (2013: €0 million).

4

Investments in other affiliated companies

This item contains interests in other affiliated companies totaling­
€13 million (2013: €13 million).
As of December 31, 2014, all the other investments classified as
available-for-sale financial assets – apart from the shares in Gevo, Inc.,
Englewood, United States, and BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United
States – comprised unlisted equity instruments. Since the fair values of
these instruments at the closing date could not be reliably determined,
they were recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose
of these investments.

151

152

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

5

 Derivative financial instruments

The derivative financial instruments held by the LANXESS Group
comprise forward exchange contracts and are capitalized in the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2014 at a total fair value of
€19 million (2013: €78 million). Instruments with a negative fair value
totaling €121 million (2013: €34 million) are recognized as liabilities.

The LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized losses on currency hedges recognized in other comprehensive income in 2014,
€42 million will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss in 2015
and €8 million in 2016 (2013: €7 million of unrealized gains in 2014
and €2 million of unrealized losses in 2015).
Information on the maturity structure of derivative assets and liabilities
is given in Note [35].

Derivative Financial Instruments
Dec. 31, 2013

€ million

Current forward
exchange contracts
Non-current forward
exchange contracts

Notional
amount

Positive
fair values

Negative
fair values

2,037

58

(22)

401

20

(12)

2,438

78

( 34)

6

 Other non-current and current financial assets

Other Financial Assets
Dec. 31, 2013

€ million
Non-current

Current

Total

Receivables under finance leases

0

2

2

Available-for-sale financial assets

1

0

1

10

4

14

11

6

17

Other financial receivables
Derivative Financial Instruments
Dec. 31, 2014

€ million
Notional
amount

Positive
fair values

Negative
fair values

Current forward
exchange contracts

2,120

14

(101)

Non-current forward
exchange contracts

383

5

(20)

Receivables under finance leases

–

–

–

2,503

19

(121)

Available-for-sale financial assets

1

0

1

10

5

15

11

5

16

Other Financial Assets
Dec. 31, 2014

€ million
Non-current

Other financial receivables

Cash flow hedges As of December 31, 2014, the unrealized losses
recognized in other comprehensive income in 2014 or earlier periods
from currency hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting
amounted to €50 million (2013: unrealized gains of €5 million). In
2014, €1 million was reclassified from equity to profit or loss due to
the realization of the hedged transactions and recognized as a loss
(2013: gain of €5 million). Currency hedging contracts concluded to
hedge future sales in foreign currencies had a total notional amount of
€1,017 million (2013: €967 million). As of December 31, 2014, these
contracts had positive fair values of €3 million (2013: €35 million)­
and negative fair values of €73 million (2013: €30 million).­Contracts
with a total notional amount of €756 million (2013: €712 million)
were due within one year. The hedged cash flows will be realized
within the next three years.

Current

Total

As of the reporting date, there were no receivables from lease agreements (finance leases) in which the other party, as lessee, is to
be r­ egarded as the economic owner of the leased assets (2013:
­€2 million­due within one year).
Write-downs of other financial assets amounted to €7 million (2013:
€7 million) and related to other financial receivables which have been
written down entirely.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the statement of financial position

7

Other non-current assets

9

Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less any
­write-downs. No write-downs were made in 2013 or 2014.
Other non-current assets comprised:

Trade receivables

All trade receivables – totaling €1,015 million (2013: €1,070 ­million) –­
are due within one year. Of the trade receivables, €3 million (2013:
€3 million) pertained to investments accounted for using the equity
method and €1,012 million (2013: €1,067 million) pertained to
other customers.

Other Non-Current Assets
€ million

Dec. 31,
2013

Dec. 31,
2014

Receivables from pension obligations

22

0

Other receivables

33

33

55

33

Trade receivables as of December 31, 2014, are stated after
­write-downs of €17 million (2013: €18 million) on gross receivables
of €17 million (2013: €19 million).
The changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as follows:
Write-Downs of Trade Receivables

The €22 million decline in receivables from pension obligations was
mainly attributable to the change in value of the plan assets held by
the associated pension fund. The other receivables include periodic
accruals and other reimbursement claims.

€ million
Balance at beginning of year
Additions charged as expenses

2014

(13)

(18)

(9)

(4)

Reversals/utilization

3

6

Exchange differences

1

(1)

(18)

(17)

Balance at end of year

8

2013

Inventories
The maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was as follows:

The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprised:

Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables

Inventories
€ million
Raw materials and supplies
Work in process, finished goods and merchandise

Dec. 31,
2013

Dec. 31,
2014

€ million

238

260

1,061

1,124

of which neither impaired nor past due

1,299

1,384

of which unimpaired but past due by

Carrying amount

Write-Downs of Inventories
2013

2014

Balance at beginning of year

(86)

( 92)

Additions charged as expenses

(36)

(65)

28

33

Reversals/utilization
Changes in scope of consolidation

–

1

Exchange differences

2

(4)

(92)

(127)

Balance at end of year

1,070

1,015

939

896

106

94

12

15

between 61 and 90 days

7

3

more than 90 days

5

7

With regard to trade receivables that were neither impaired nor past
due, there were no indications as of the closing date that the respective debtors would not meet their payment obligations.

The changes in write-downs of inventories were as follows:

€ million

Dec. 31,
2014

between 31 and 60 days

up to 30 days

Inventories of €227 million (2013: €246 million) are reflected at net
realizable value.

Dec. 31,
2013

10

Near-cash assets

The near-cash assets of €100 million (2013: €106 million) comprise
units of money market funds that can be sold at any time and are
expected to be realized within twelve months after the closing date.

153

154

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

11

Other current assets

Other receivables and other assets totaling €185 million (2013:
€198 million) are stated at amortized cost less any write-downs,
which were €2 million in 2014. They principally comprise miscellaneous claims for tax refunds amounting to €144 million (2013:
€128 million),­m
­ ainly pertaining to sales taxes, and other reimbursement claims from goods and service transactions.

12

Equity

Capital stock The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to
€91,522,936 as of December 31, 2014 and is composed of
91,522,936 no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights
and obligations. One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed
per share.
Capital increase On May 7, 2014, the Board of Management of
LANXESS AG resolved, with the approval of the Supervisory Board
and pursuant to the authorization of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting
of May 28, 2010, on Authorized Capital II, to increase the capital stock
of LANXESS AG by a nominal amount of €8,320,266, corresponding
to nearly 10% of the capital stock, by the issuance of 8,320,266 new
no-par bearer shares under exclusion of stockholders’ subscription
rights, in order to strengthen the LANXESS Group’s financial position.
The new shares were placed with international investors through an
accelerated bookbuilding process at a price of €52 per share. The
capital increase took effect on May 9, 2014, when it was entered in
the commercial register. The placement increased the company’s
equity by the gross proceeds of €433 million. The transaction costs of­
€7 million were recorded as a deduction from equity, taking tax effects
of €2 million into account. Following this capital increase, the capital
stock of LANXESS AG is now €91,522,936.
Authorized capital As of December 31, 2014, the company’s authorized capital comprised the following:
Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of
LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’
­Meeting on May 23, 2013, authorized the Board of Management
until May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to
increase the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new
no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount
of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally
entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized.
With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can
be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of

warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates
subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion
or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with
the approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital
stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the
acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded
with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders of
convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its affiliates
new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription rights
can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board if the
issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the stock
market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued shares
do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. The upper limit
of 10% of the capital stock is reduced by the proportionate interest in
the capital stock attributable to those shares issued or sold during the
term of this authorization while excluding stockholders’ rights in direct
or analogous application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4
of the German Stock Corporation Act. Further details are given in
Section 4, Paragraph 2 of the articles of association.
In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s
articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28,
2010, authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015,
with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par
shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of
€8,320,268 (Authorized Capital II). In fiscal 2014, €8,320,266 of
the Authorized Capital II of €16,640,534 was used to increase the
share capital. Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights
when Authorized Capital is utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can be excluded for residual amounts
and in order to grant holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued
by the company and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of
new shares for which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon
exercise of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription
rights can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board
when the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in
kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription rights
can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board in
order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by
the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights.
Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval of the
Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly
lower than the stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed
and the issued shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital
stock. The upper limit of 10% of the capital stock is reduced by the
proportionate interest in the capital stock attributable to those shares
issued or sold during the term of this authorization while excluding
stockholders’ rights in direct or analogous application of Section 186,
Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act. Further
details are given in Section 4, Paragraph 3 of the articles of association.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the statement of financial position

Conditional capital As of December 31, 2014, the company’s conditional capital comprised the following:
Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG
on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until May 17,
2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one or
more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, profitparticipation rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these
instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as either registered
or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to €2,000,000,000,
with or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or impose
option obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, profitparticipation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants, and/or
to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obligations on, the
holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible profit-participation
rights or convertible income bonds in respect of bearer shares of the
company representing a total pro rata increase of up to €16,640,534
in the company’s capital stock on the terms to be defined for these
bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased
by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional Capital).
The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the extent
that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exercise, option
or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the company or
a dependent company against cash contributions, or issued against
cash contributions and guaranteed by the company or a dependent
company, on or before May 17, 2016, on the basis of the authorization­
granted to the Board of Management by the Annual Stockholders’
Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option or conversion rights or,
where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such obligation, or to the extent
that the company elects to grant shares in the company in place of all
or part of the cash amount due for payment. The conditional capital
increase shall not be implemented if cash compensation is granted or
if the company’s own shares, shares issued out of authorized capital
or shares in another listed company are used to service the option or
conversion rights.
When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with
the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights
in the following cases:
• for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio;
• insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued option or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights to the
number of new shares to which they would be entitled to subscribe
as stockholders upon exercise of their option or conversion rights or
fulfillment of their option or conversion obligations;
• in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue price is
not significantly below the theoretical market value of the bonds with
option or conversion rights or conversion obligations, as determined
using accepted pricing models; if bonds are issued by application of

Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act, in which case the issued shares may not exceed a total of
10% of the capital stock either at the time this authorization takes
effect or at the time it is utilized;
• if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option or conversion rights or conversion obligations are vested with bond-like
characteristics.
Share buyback and retirement The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of
LANXESS AG on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management
until May 17, 2016, to acquire shares in the company representing up
to 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of the
company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its subsidiaries.
At the discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be
acquired either in the market or via a public tender offer. The Board of
Management is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by
law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than via the
stock exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or transfer them against
consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts of
companies or equity interests in companies or in order to conclude
mergers. It is also authorized to use them to satisfy conversion rights
from convertible or warrant bonds and/or profit-participation rights or
income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the
company and to grant holders of convertible or warrant bonds and/
or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of
these instruments) issued by the company or its direct and indirect
affiliates that grant a conversion or option right or stipulate a conversion or warrant obligation the number of shares for which such parties
would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or
option rights or fulfillment of the conversion or warrant obligation. The
stockholders shall not have subscription rights in such cases, except
where the shares are retired.
Capital reserves The capital reserves of LANXESS AG were increased
by €419,456,790 in the fiscal year and stood at €1,225,652,280
as of December 31, 2014.
Other reserves The €437 million decrease in other reserves to
€1,253 million was entirely attributable to the decrease in retained
earnings from €1,531 million to €1,094 million.
Retained earnings comprise prior years’ undistributed income of companies included in the consolidated financial statements. They also
contain remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability from postemployment benefit plans and the related tax effects.
Other equity components The other equity components mainly comprise exchange differences from the translation of operations outside
the eurozone and remeasurements of derivatives for purposes of cash
flow hedge accounting.

155

156

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests comprise the interests held by other stockholders in the equity of Europigments,
S.L., Barcelona, Spain, Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao,
China, and LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd.,
Nantong, China.
Capital management The main purpose of capital management in the
LANXESS Group is to maintain the long-term viability of the business
operations and achieve an attractive return on capital compared to
the chemical industry average. LANXESS’s financial policy defines
a second key criterion for capital management, which is to maintain
an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the Group has to
meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most of these are derived
from the statement of financial position, the income statement or the
statement of cash flows. Details can be found in the section headed
“Value management and control system” in the combined management report for fiscal 2014. Capital management in the LANXESS
Group entails decisions by the relevant internal bodies on the capital
structure shown on the statement of financial position, the appropriateness of the company’s equity, the use of the distributable profit,
the amount of the dividend, the financing of capital expenditures, and
thus on issuances or repayments of debt. The articles of association
of LANXESS AG do not contain any specific capital requirements.

13  Provisions

for pensions and other
post-employment benefits

Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to retirement
benefits on the basis of contractual agreements or statutory regulations. These are provided through defined contribution or defined
benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans In the case of defined contribution plans,
the company pays contributions into separate pension funds. These
contributions are included in the functional cost items as expenses
for the respective year, and thus in the operating result. Once the
contributions have been paid, the company has no further payment
obligations. Payments to defined contribution plans in 2014 totaled
€49 million (2013: €49 million).

Multi-employer plans The pension plan in Germany financed through
Bayer-Pensionskasse is also accounted for in the consolidated financial statements as a defined contribution plan. The above amounts
include contributions of €28 million (2013: €28 million) to BayerPensionskasse. Contributions of about the same amount are expected
for the following fiscal year.
Bayer-Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurance company and is therefore subject to the German Insurance Supervision
Act. Since the obligations of the participating entities are not confined to payment of the contributions for the respective fiscal year,
Bayer-Pensionskasse constitutes a defined benefit multi-employer
plan and therefore would normally have to be accounted for pro rata
as a defined benefit plan.
Bayer-Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of coverage
for individual benefit entitlements, but on the actuarial equivalence
principle, based on totals for the whole plan. This means that the sum
of existing plan assets and the present value of future contributions
must be at least equal to the present value of the future benefits payable under the plan. The LANXESS Group is therefore exposed to the
actuarial risks of the other entities participating in Bayer-Pensionskasse.
Thus no consistent or reliable basis exists for allocating the benefit
obligation, plan assets and costs that would enable LANXESS to account for Bayer-Pensionskasse as a defined benefit plan in accordance
with IAS 19. As contributions are based on future coverage of the
total obligation, all participating entities pay contributions at the same
rates based on the employee income levels on which social security
contributions are payable. Bayer-Pensionskasse is therefore accounted
for as a defined contribution plan and not as a defined benefit plan.
There are no minimum funding requirements, nor is there any information that could be used to estimate the future contributions on
the basis of current underfunding or overfunding. The statutes do
not provide for the sharing of any surplus or shortfall in the event that
Bayer-Pensionskasse is wound up or LANXESS ceases to participate.
LANXESS’s share of the total contributions to Bayer-Pensionskasse
was unchanged from the previous year at approximately 17%. BayerPensionskasse has been closed to new members since January 1,
2005.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the statement of financial position

Defined benefit plans The global post-employment benefit obligations
are calculated at regular intervals – at least every three years – by an
independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Comprehensive actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for
all major post-employment benefit plans.
Contractually based defined benefit pension plans exist primarily in
Germany, Canada and Brazil.
The defined benefit pension obligations in Germany mainly relate to
lifelong benefits payable in the event of death or disability or when
the employee reaches retirement age. Benefits are determined on
the basis of the total annual pension increments earned during the
period of employment and vary according to employees’ individual
salaries. Additional pension entitlements exist that are related to salary components set aside by employees and are payable when they
reach retirement age. Alongside direct commitments, the pension
adjustment obligation assumed by Bayer-Pensionskasse is accounted
for in a separate defined benefit plan in accordance with Section 16
of the German Occupational Pensions Improvement Act (BetrAVG).
In Canada, the defined benefit obligations comprise, in particular,
lifelong pension benefits, which are payable in the event of disability
or death or when the employee reaches retirement age. The level of
these benefits is determined from the total annual pension increments
earned during the period of employment, depending on the employee’s
individual salary and the actual date of retirement. The existing defined
benefit pension plans are closed to new members.
In Brazil, the defined benefit obligations comprise lifelong benefits,
principally in the event of death or disability or when the employee
reaches retirement age. The benefits are calculated according to the
total annual pension increments earned during the period of employment and also depend on individual salary, the number of years for
which statutory social insurance contributions have been paid, and
comparable statutory pension benefits. The principal defined benefit
pension plans are closed to new members.

Only limited defined benefit pension obligations exist on the basis of
statutory regulations. These principally comprise obligations to make
a lump-sum payment if employment is terminated. The amount of this
payment mainly depends on years of service and final salary.
The other post-employment benefit obligations primarily relate to the reimbursement of retirees’ healthcare costs in North and South America.
The other post-employment benefit obligations in Germany comprise
other long-term benefits payable to employees and benefits payable
upon termination of employment. These are mainly early-retirement
benefits and collectively agreed salary components granted in the
form of pension benefits. They are included in pension provisions as
they are by nature pension entitlements.
The defined benefit pension obligations are financed both internally
through provisions and externally through legally independent pension
funds. The pension obligations in Germany are partly covered on a
voluntary basis via LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany.
The allocation of funds to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. is dependent
on future decisions by the company. In Canada and Brazil, pension
obligations have to be financed through pension funds. Allocations
to pension funds in these countries are determined by the regulatory
environments and the need to comply with funding regulations. Contributions are paid mainly by the employer. The investment strategy is
determined principally by the LANXESS Corporate Pension Committee
and is designed to protect the capital, optimally manage risks, take
into account changes in pension obligations and ensure the timely
availability of plan assets. At the regional level, the strategy is generally
directly coordinated and monitored by representatives of LANXESS via
the relevant committees of the pension funds or of LANXESS Pension
Trust e.V., taking regulatory requirements into account. In Brazil, the
investment of plan assets forms an integral part of the pension fund’s
overall investment strategy and is basically managed and supervised
by the pension fund.
Minimum funding requirements may have to be met for defined benefit
obligations in both Brazil and Canada. These depend on the local
regulatory framework and are reflected in additional pension provisions. Funding surpluses from defined benefit plans are recognized
as receivables relating to pension obligations to the extent that they
can be used to reduce future contributions, taking into account the
asset ceiling. These mainly relate to defined benefit plans in Brazil. The
respective calculations are based on actuarial valuations.

157

158

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

In 2014, total expenses of €120 million (2013: €106 million) for
defined benefit plans were recognized in profit or loss and are split
between the operating result and the financial result as follows:

The table shows the amounts recognized in other comprehensive
income rather than profit or loss in 2014:
Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income

Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans
€ million

€ million
Pension plans

2013

Other post-­
employment benefit
plans

2014

2013

2014

Operating result
Current service cost

34

37

36

38

Past service cost

17

10

(9)

0

Gains/losses from settlements

0

0

–

–

Administration expenses/taxes

1

1

0

Actuarial gains/losses from
changes in financial a­ ssumptions

–

–

0

Return on plan assets excluding
amounts included in interest

Pension plans

Other post-­
employment benefit
plans

2013

2014

2013

2014

(45)

21

0

0

Actuarial gains/losses
from ­changes in demographic
assumptions

0

(17)

0

0

0

Actuarial gains/losses from
changes in financial ­assumptions

101

(282)

7

(7)

2

Actuarial gains/losses from
­experience adjustments

(37)

(12)

4

2

Changes in effects of the asset
ceiling

(61)

2

–

–

Changes in effects of minimum
funding requirements

(2)

(15)

–

–

(44)

(303)

11

(5)

Financial result
Net interest

22

27

5

5

Recognized in profit or loss

74

75

32

45

Administration expenses in the operating result contain expenses from
the investment of assets that are not directly attributable to the earning
of income on plan assets. The costs of managing the plan assets that
are directly attributable to the earning of income on plan assets are
recognized in other comprehensive income.

Amounts recognized in other
comprehensive income

The change in the net defined benefit liability for post-employment
benefit plans is shown in the following table:
Changes in Net Defined Benefit Liability

The actuarial gains and losses relate to other non-current employee
benefits or termination benefits that are included in pension provisions
because they are by nature retirement benefits.
The net interest is the balance of the interest expense from compounding the defined benefit obligation, interest expense from changes in
the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements,
and interest income from plan assets.

€ million

Net defined benefit liability,
January 1
Recognized in profit or loss

Pension plans

Other post-­
employment benefit
plans

2013

2014

2013

2014

708

797

121

124

74

75

32

45

Recognized in other
comprehensive income

44

303

(11)

5

Employer contributions

(13)

(21)

0

(1)

Benefits paid

(10)

(17)

(21)

(22)

Business combinations
and disposals

1

(5)

0

0

Exchange differences

4

3

(8)

4

797

1,130

124

160

Receivables from pension
obligations

(22)

0

–

–

Provisions for pensions and other
post-employment benefits

819

1,130

124

160

Net defined benefit liability,
December 31

797

1,130

124

160

Net defined benefit liability,
December 31
Recognized in the statement
of financial position

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the statement of financial position

The components of the reconciliation of the net recognized liability
are explained in the following tables, which show the development of
the defined benefit obligation, the external plan assets and the effects
of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements, and explain
the major changes.
The defined benefit obligation developed as follows:
Change in Defined Benefit Obligation
€ million

Pension plans

Other post-­
employment benefit
plans

2013

2014

2013

2014

Defined benefit obligation
Defined benefit obligation,
January 1

1,854

1,787

125

128

Current service cost

34

37

36

38

Interest expense

90

93

5

5

0

17

0

0

Actuarial gains/losses
from changes in demographic
assumptions
Actuarial gains/losses from
changes in financial assumptions

(101)

282

(7)

9

Actuarial gains/losses from
experience adjustments

37

12

(4)

(2)

Past service cost

17

10

(9)

0

Gains/losses from settlements

0

0

–

–

Employee contributions

1

2

–

–

(70)

(78)

(10)

(17)

–

0

–

–

1

(6)

–

0

33

0

–

–

Benefits paid
Disbursements for settlements
Business combinations
and disposals
Other additions
Administration expenses/taxes

0

0

0

0

Exchange differences

(109)

22

(8)

5

Defined benefit obligation,
December 31

1,787

2,178

128

166

Of the defined benefit obligation for pensions, Germany accounts
for 58% (2013: 56%), Canada for 22% (2013: 22%) and Brazil for
15% (2013: 17%).

Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability due to changes in actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in financial assumptions
are mainly attributable to changes in the discount rates for defined
benefit obligations in the main countries of relevance for LANXESS.
The changes in past service cost for pension obligations and in current
service cost for the other post-employment benefit obligations result
mainly from the “Advance” and “Let’s LANXESS again” programs in
Germany and relate to early-retirement agreements, to improvements
to existing benefit entitlements for employees taking early retirement,
and to severance agreements. In the previous year, the other postemployment benefit obligations included a negative change in past
service cost in the United States due to the new regulatory requirements aimed at securing health care benefits.
The disposals result from the divestment of Perlon-Monofil GmbH,
Dormagen, Germany.
The other additions in 2013 mainly resulted from the reclassification
of existing pension plans in Belgium as defined benefit plans because
the insurance companies’ guaranteed interest rates have dropped
below the statutory minimum return on contributions to corporate
pension plans.
The exchange differences pertaining to defined benefit obligations
mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates for the Canadian
dollar and the Brazilian real.
The change in external plan assets is shown in the following table:
Change in External Plan Assets
€ million

Plan assets, January 1
Return on plan assets excluding
amounts included in interest
Gains/losses from settlements
Employer contributions
Employee contributions
Benefits paid

The actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions result from the application of new mortality tables, mainly
in Canada.

Other post-­
employment benefit
plans

2013

2014

2013

2014

1,146

1,046

4

4

68

73

0

0

(45)

21

0

0

–

–

–

–

13

21

0

1

Plan assets at fair value
Interest income

The other post-employment benefit obligations comprise €74 ­million
(2013: €63 million) for the reimbursement of health care costs and
€92 million (2013: €65 million) for miscellaneous other benefit commitments.

Pension plans

Disbursements for settlements
Business combinations and
disposals
Other additions
Costs of managing plan assets/
taxes

1

2

–

–

(49)

(56)

0

0

–

–

–

–

–

(1)

–

–

33

–

–

–

(1)

(1)

0

0

Exchange differences

(120)

20

0

1

Plan assets, December 31

1,046

1,125

4

6

159

160

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Of the plan assets, Canada accounts for 40% (2013: 37%), Brazil for
34% (2013: 36%) and Germany for 19% (2013: 20%).

The fair value of plan assets is comprised as follows:
Breakdown of Plan Assets as of December 31

Employer contributions are used both for external funding of pension
obligations where LANXESS is eligible for reimbursements of pension payments and for external funding of pension obligations where
subsequent pension payments will be made directly out of external
plan assets.

€ million
Cash and cash equivalents
of which quoted in an active market

The disposals result from the divestment of Perlon-Monofil GmbH,
Dormagen, Germany.
The exchange differences pertaining to plan assets mainly resulted
from changes in the exchange rates for the Canadian dollar and the
Brazilian real.
Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding
requirements are shown in the following table:

January 1
Interest expense

Effects of the
asset ceiling

25
25

231

215

120

110

245

393

245

393

372

268

304

204

35

132

16

102

Real estate

27

23

Insurance contracts

55

60

Equity instruments
of which quoted in an active market
of which quoted in an active market
Corporate bonds
of which quoted in an active market
Investment funds
of which quoted in an active market

of which quoted in an active market
Other
of which quoted in an active market

0

1

16

15

0

3

1,050

1,131

The plan assets do not include any real estate used by the company,
nor do they normally include any financial instruments owned by the
company. However, plan assets could conceivably include index products containing LANXESS securities.
The following weighted discount rates were used to calculate the
defined benefit obligation and determine the pension expense:

Changes in Effects of the Asset Ceiling and Minimum Funding
Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans
€ million

2014

69
69

Government bonds

The latter type of obligations exists mainly outside Germany and
­totaled €21 million in 2014 (2013: €13 million). External funding
where LANXESS can assert reimbursement claims mainly pertains
to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. No additional funding was provided
to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V in 2014 or 2013.

2013

Minimum funding
requirements

Valuation Assumptions as of December 31

2013

2014

2013

2014

0

54

0

2

0

7

0

0

Additions (+) / deductions (–)

61

(2)

2

15

Exchange differences

(7)

0

0

1

December 31

54

59

2

18

Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling mainly relate to the Brazilian
defined benefit pension plans, while changes in minimum funding
requirements relate to the Canadian plans.

%

Pension plans

Other post-­
employment benefit
plans

2013

2014

2013

2014

Discount rate

5.31

4.38

3.98

2.87

Germany

3.75

2.75

1.43

0.59

Canada

4.50

3.75

4.75

3.75

12.25

12.50

12.25

12.50

Brazil

The following weighted valuation assumptions were used for the other
parameters:
Valuation Assumptions as of December 31
%

Pension plans

Other post-­
employment benefit
plans

2013

2014

2013

2014

Expected salary increases

3.4

3.3

3.2

3.1

Expected benefit increases

2.2

2.3

–

–

Expected increases
in medical costs

–

–

7.3

7.0

Expected long-term increases
in medical costs

–

–

5.2

5.1

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the statement of financial position

The assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined benefit
­obligation at year end. The discount rates used for Germany and Canada
are derived from high-quality fixed-interest corporate bonds with the
same maturities. In Brazil, however, there is no liquid market for such
bonds so the discount rate is based on those for government bonds
with the same maturities. This method of deriving the discount rates is
unchanged from the previous year in the principal countries.
The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to take place
within 13 years (2013: 13 years).
The Heubeck mortality tables 2005 G form the biometric basis for
the computation of pension obligations in Germany. Current national
biometric assumptions are used to compute benefit obligations at
other Group companies.
A change in the principal valuation parameters would result in the
­following percentage changes in the defined benefit obligation:
Sensitivities of Defined Benefit Obligations as of December 31, 2014
%

Pension plans

Other post-­
employment benefit
plans

2013

2014

2013

2014

+0.5%-pt.

(8.1)

(7.8)

(3.3)

(2.9)

– 0.5%-pt.

8.7

8.9

3.7

3.2

+0.25%-pt.

0.5

0.5

0.2

0.2

– 0.25%-pt.

(0.4)

(0.5)

(0.2)

(0.2)

+0.25%-pt.

3.6

3.9

–

–

– 0.25%-pt.

(3.2)

(3.7)

–

–

Discount rate

Sensitivity is calculated by altering one parameter while leaving all the
others unchanged. The method used is the same as for the a­ ctuarial
valuation of benefit obligations. However, sensitivity calculations depend on interest rate effects and the absolute change in the parameter. Moreover, it is unlikely in practice that only one parameter would
change, so the change in a parameter could correlate with other
assumptions. Where the expected development of the parameter
used in the sensitivity calculation was based on a different variation
in the parameter, the stated change in the benefit obligation was approximated using the straight-line method.
The weighted average duration of defined benefit pension obligations
was 17 years (2013: 16 years). This figure was based on weighted
average durations of 21 years (2013: 20 years) for Germany, 13 years
(2013: 11 years) for Canada and 10 years (2013: 12 years) for Brazil.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations for
other post-employment benefits was 7 years (2013: 9 years).
The funded status is reported in the following table as the underfunding or overfunding of the defined benefit obligation after deduction of
plan assets, without taking into account changes in the effects of the
asset ceiling or minimum funding requirements:
Funded Status as of December 31
€ million

Expected salary increases

2013

Expected benefit increases

Mortality
– 10%

Pension plans

2.7

2.7

3.2

1.1

Expected increases in medical costs
+1%-pt.

–

–

3.7

3.6

– 1%-pt.

–

–

(3.4)

(3.3)

The sensitivity of the mortality rates was calculated for the countries
with significant pension obligations. A reduction in mortality increases
the individual life expectancy of insurees. A 10% reduction would
increase the average life expectancy of employees of retirement age
in the countries of importance for LANXESS by about one year.

2014

Other post-­
employment benefit
plans
2013

2014

Funded status
Defined benefit obligation for
funded plans

1,497

1,790

12

14

(1,046)

(1,125)

(4)

(6)

Underfunding of funded plans

451

665

8

8

Defined benefit obligation for
unfunded plans

290

388

116

152

Funded status, December 31

741

1,053

124

160

External plan assets

The expected cash outflow for pension fund contributions and benefit
payments in 2015 is €42 million based on year-end 2014 exchange
rates.

161

162

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

14  Other

non-current and current provisions

On the closing date, the LANXESS Group had other current provisions
of €350 million (2013: €355 million) and other non-current provisions of €275 million (2013: €258 million). The maturity structure
of other provisions is shown in the following table:
Other Provisions
€ million

Dec. 31, 2013

Dec. 31, 2014

Up to 1 year

1–5 years

Over 5 years

Total

Up to 1 year

1–5 years

Over 5 years

Total

100

49

39

188

142

43

34

219

Environmental protection

16

18

71

105

15

27

74

116

Trade-related commitments

96

6

–

102

68

8

–

76

Restructuring

39

14

5

58

30

12

5

47

104

44

12

160

95

55

17

167

355

131

127

613

350

145

130

625

Personnel

Miscellaneous

The total of other provisions increased from €613 million to
€625 million­in 2014. The changes in other provisions were as follows:
Changes in Other Provisions in 2014
Jan. 1, 2014

Additions

Interest effect

Utilization

Reversals

Exchange
­differences

Dec. 31, 2014

Personnel

188

138

3

(99)

(14)

3

219

Environmental protection

105

8

4

(6)

0

5

116

Trade-related commitments

102

35

1

(49)

(14)

1

76

58

15

0

(21)

(6)

1

47

160

68

1

(28)

(36)

2

167

613

264

9

(203)

(70)

12

625

€ million

Restructuring
Miscellaneous

Personnel-related provisions Personnel-related provisions are mainly
established for annual performance-related compensation and multiyear compensation programs.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the statement of financial position

Multi-year compensation programs
Stock-based compensation LANXESS AG offers a stock-based
compensation program to members of the Management Board and
top-level managers. The program provides for cash settlement. Following the granting of rights under a three-year Long-Term Incentive
Plan launched in 2008 (LTIP 2008–2010), a new Long-Term Stock
­Performance Plan (LTSP 2010–2013) was introduced in 2010 under
which rights were granted for the years 2010–2013. Awards are
based on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the Dow
Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM. The Long-Term Stock Performance
Plan (LTSP 2014–2017) introduced in 2014 is largely identical with
the LTSP 2010–2013. The main difference is that awards are based
on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the MSCI World
Chemicals Index. The base price of the stock and the benchmark
index for the LTSP programs are calculated using a volume-weighted
average of the closing prices on the first ten trading days in January­
of the year of issue of the tranche. The date of issue of the rights granted
and still outstanding and the rights from the outstanding tranches is
February 1 each year. Participation in the programs is conditional
upon each manager making a personal investment in LANXESS stock,
depending on his/her base salary.
LTIP 2008–2010 If LANXESS stock outperformed the index, a payment of at least €0.75 per right was made. For each percentage point
up to 5% by which the stock outperformed the index, €0.05 was paid
in addition. For each percentage point above 5%, €0.06667 was
paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however,
was €2.00.
LTSP 2010–2013 and LTSP 2014–2017 If LANXESS stock outperforms the respective index, a payment of at least €0.75 per right is
made. For each percentage point by which the stock outperforms the
index, €0.125 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment
per right, however, is €2.00.

Obligations arising from the stock-based compensation are valued on
the basis of the following principal parameters:
Principal Parameters as of December 31
%

2013

2014

37.0

34.0

2.0

2.0

Expected volatility of
Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM

20.0

19.0

Correlation between LANXESS stock and
Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM

77.0

73.0

–

16.0

–

66.0

0.6

0.0

Expected share price volatility
Expected dividend payment

Expected volatility of
MSCI World Chemicals Index
Correlation between LANXESS stock and
MSCI World Chemicals Index
Risk-free interest rate

The relevant risk-free interest rate in 2014 was 0.01 % (2013: 0.63%).
The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of
LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM or the
MSCI World Chemicals Index in the past four years.

163

164

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

At the end of 2014, there were no longer any rights outstanding from
the LTIP programs. The following table provides information on the
tranches of the other programs outstanding as of December 31, 2014:
LTIP and LTSP
LTIP
2008 – 2010

LTSP
2010 – 2013

LTSP
2014 – 2017

Tranche 2010

Tranche 2010

Tranche 2011

Tranche 2012

Tranche 2013

Tranche 2014

Duration

6 years

7 years

7 years

7 years

7 years

7 years

Vesting period

3 years

4 years

4 years

4 years

4 years

4 years

Feb. 1, 2013

Jan. 31, 2017

Jan. 31, 2017

Jan. 31, 2017

Jan. 31, 2017

Jan. 31, 2018
€47.41

Holding period for personal investment shares
Initial ­LANXESS share price

€27.28

€27.28

€55.60

€44.54

€63.25

432.44 points

432.44 points

564.17 points

533.45 points

665.98 points

–

–

–

–

–

–

238.07 points

Fair value per right as of December 31, 2013

€0.90

€0.92

€0.15

€0.26

€0.25

–

Fair value per right as of December 31, 2014

–

€0.25

€0.05

€0.10

€0.07

€0.54

9,888

9,525,520

10,493,544

11,532,576

12,774,998

–

–

–

–

–

–

13,619,349

9,888

9,392,924

–

–

–

–

–

35,883

2,009,082

2,117,354

2,183,824

1,701,484

Initial Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM price
Initial MSCI World Chemicals Index price

Change in number of outstanding rights
Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2014
Rights granted
Rights exercised
Rights compensated
Rights forfeited

–

85,734

929,130

998,254

1,065,541

269,070

Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2014

0

10,979

7,555,332

8,416,968

9,525,633

11,648,795

LANXESS shares were trading at €38.46 at year end 2014. The Dow
Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM benchmark index stood at 786.36
points, while the MSCI World Chemicals Index was 256.43 points.
Due to the exercise of the rights from the 2010 tranche of the LTSP
2010–2013 at maximum value and the settlement of rights in connection with LANXESS’s realignment program, net expense of €16 million
was recorded in 2014 (2013: net gain of €3 million). The rights from
the tranches granted in 2010 were exercised at maximum value. A
provision of €3 million existed as of December 31, 2014 (2013:
€12 million). Of this amount, the intrinsic value of rights exercisable
as of the closing date accounted for €0 million (2013: €0 million).

LANXESS stock plan An employee stock plan was implemented
in 2013 under which LANXESS staff could purchase shares in the
company at a 50% discount. Employees acquired a total of 225,419
LANXESS shares under this program. These shares must be retained
for at least three years. Since there are no further conditions attached
to this stock plan, the discount of €5 million in the prior year was
­expensed immediately. Stock plans are discretionary benefits granted
by LANXESS and do not confer any right to receive or claim similar
benefits in the future.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the statement of financial position

Environmental provisions The Group’s activities are subject to extensive legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which it does business.
­Compliance with environmental laws may require LANXESS to remove
or mitigate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical substances
at various sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous site
owner or plant operator may be held liable for the costs of removing
hazardous substances from the soil or groundwater on its property
or neighboring areas, or rendering them harmless, without regard to
whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of
the contaminants, and often regardless of whether the practices that
resulted in the contamination were legal at the time they occurred. As
many of LANXESS’s production sites have a long history of industrial
use, it is not always possible to accurately predict the effects such
situations may have on the LANXESS Group in the future.
Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility therefore cannot
be excluded that soil or groundwater contamination may have occurred
at its locations in the past. Claims in this regard could be brought
by government agencies, private organizations or individuals. Such
claims would then relate to the remediation of sites or areas of land
owned by the LANXESS Group where products were manufactured
by third parties under contract manufacturing agreements or where
waste from production facilities operated by the LANXESS Group was
treated, stored or disposed of.
Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under legislation
such as the U.S. environment law commonly known as “Superfund.”
At locations in the United States, numerous companies, including
LANXESS, have been notified that the U.S. authorities or private individuals consider such companies to be potentially responsible parties
under Superfund or related laws. At some sites, LANXESS may be
the sole responsible party. Remediation measures have already been
initiated at most of the sites concerned.
The existing provisions for environmental remediation costs relate
primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, recultivation of
landfills, and redevelopment and water protection measures. The pro-

visions for environmental remediation costs are stated at the present
value of the expected commitments where environmental assessments
or clean-ups are probable, the costs can be reasonably estimated and
no future economic benefit is expected to arise from these measures.
Costs are estimated based on significant factors such as previous
experience in similar cases, environmental assessments, current cost
levels and new circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of
current environmental laws and regulations, the number of other potentially responsible parties at each site and the identity and financial
position of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of the
liability, and the remediation methods likely to be employed.
It is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental protection
and remediation because of many uncertainties concerning the legal
requirements and the information available about conditions in the
various countries and at specific sites. Subject to these factors, but
taking into consideration experience gained to date with matters of a
similar nature, we believe our provisions to be adequate based upon
currently available information. However, the possibility that additional
costs could be incurred beyond the amounts accrued cannot be excluded. LANXESS nevertheless estimates that such additional costs,
should they occur, would not materially impact the Group’s earnings,
asset and financial position.
Trade-related commitments Provisions for trade-related commitments
mainly comprise those for rebates, customer discounts, product returns, impending losses and onerous contracts.
Provisions for restructuring Provisions for restructuring totaled
€47 million­on December 31, 2014 (2013: €58 million). Of this
amount, €25 million (2013: €38 million) comprised provisions for
human resources measures and €22 million (2013: €20 million)
comprised provisions for other expenses and, to a small extent, for
demolition.
Sundry provisions The sundry provisions contain provisions for guarantees and product liability, and provisions for other liabilities.

165

166

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

15  Other

non-current and current financial liabilities

The following tables show the structure and maturities of other ­financial
liabilities:
Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2013
€ million

Current

Non-current
> 2018

Total

497

692

1,448

2015

2016

Bonds

500

60

199

Liabilities to banks

105

46

46

39

22

9

6

6

5

4

54

2

1

2

668

114

252

46

Liabilities under finance leases
Other primary financial liabilities

2017

2018

2014

153
19

40

3

8

523

714

1,649

2019

> 2019

Total

693

1,390

Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2014
€ million

Current

Non-current

2015

2016

Bonds

66

199

Liabilities to banks

78

10

8

9

7

30

2

2

182

220

9

Liabilities under finance leases
Other primary financial liabilities

The following bonds were outstanding on December 31, 2014:
Bonds
Issuance

Nominal
amount
million

Carrying
amount
€ million

Interest
rate
%

Maturity

September 2016

September 2009

200 EUR

199

5.500

May 2011

500 EUR

498

4.125

May 2018

February 2012

500 CNH

66

3.950

February 2015

April 2012

100 EUR

100

3.500

April 2022

April 2012

100 EUR

99

3.950

April 2027

November 2012

500 EUR

494

2.625

November 2022

2017

2018
498

238

228
6
504

6
234

36

64

2

6

732

1,698

Liabilities under lease agreements are recognized if the leased assets are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as the economic property of the Group (finance leases). Lease payments totaling €94 million (2014: €60 million), including €22 million (2013:
€11 million) in interest, are to be made to the respective lessors in
future years.
Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest of €26 ­million
(2013: €53 million) on financial liabilities. Of this amount, €24 million
(2013: €52 million) relates to the above-mentioned bonds.
Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and the contractually
agreed payments, especially interest payments, is given in Note [35].

The weighted average interest rate for the LANXESS Group’s financial
liabilities denominated in euros and other currencies at year end was
3.8% (2013: 4.8%).

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the statement of financial position

16  Non-current

and current income tax liabilities

The other current liabilities are recognized at settlement cost. They
comprise:

The non-current and current income tax liabilities comprised:
Other Current Liabilities
Income Tax Liabilities

Dec. 31,
2013

Dec. 31,
2014

Payroll liabilities

15

53

Other tax liabilities

45

47
21

€ million
Dec. 31, 2013

€ million

Provisions
Payables

Non-current

Current

Total

49

20

69

Social security liabilities

20

–

1

1

Miscellaneous liabilities

46

45

49

21

70

126

166

The increase in payroll liabilities mainly relates to severance payments
in connection with the “Let’s LANXESS again” program.

Income Tax Liabilities
Dec. 31, 2014

€ million

Provisions
Payables

Non-current

Current

Total

25

42

67

–

2

2

25

44

69

Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ own tax liabilities, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities on behalf
of third parties.
Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance contributions that had not been paid by the closing date.

17  Other

non-current and current liabilities

At year end the other non-current liabilities comprised:
Other Non-Current Liabilities
Dec. 31,
2013

Dec. 31,
2014

Payroll liabilities

0

14

Social security liabilities

5

5

Miscellaneous liabilities

84

99

89

118

€ million

The miscellaneous non-current liabilities mainly included asset subsidies of €97 million (2013: €83 million) granted by third parties.

The miscellaneous liabilities principally comprise accruals for
outstanding­invoices relating to the reporting period. As of December 31, 2014, there were liabilities of less than €1 million to Currenta
GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. There were no such liabilities
to other affiliated companies in 2013.

18

Trade payables

Trade accounts are payable mainly to third parties. As in the previous
year, the entire amount totaling €799 million (2013: €690 million) is
due within one year.
Trade payables of €109 million (2013: €40 million) related to Currenta
GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using
the equity method, and its affiliated companies, while trade payables of
€690 million (2013: €650 million) related to other suppliers.

19  Further

information on liabilities

Of the total liabilities, €738 million (2013: €721 million) have maturities of more than five years. The change was mainly attributable to an
increase in liabilities under finance leases.

167

168

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Notes to the income statement
20

24

Sales

Sales, which amounted to €8,006 million (2013: €8,300 million),
mainly comprise goods sold less discounts and rebates.
A breakdown of sales and the change in sales by segment and region
is given in the segment information (see Note [37]).

General administration expenses

The general administration expenses, amounting to €278 million
(2013: €301 million), comprise costs not directly related to operational business processes and the costs for the country organizations.

25  Other

operating income

Other Operating Income

21  Cost

€ million

of sales

Income from non-core business

Cost of Sales
€ million

2013

2014

Expenses for raw materials and merchandise

4,234

4,000

Direct manufacturing and other production costs

2014

92

84

Income from hedging with
derivative fi­ nancial ­instruments

7

0

Income from the reversal of provisions

5

8

Gains from the disposal of non-current assets

3

1

2,518

2,418

Income from reversals of write-downs of
­receivables and other assets

6,752

6,418

Miscellaneous operating income

Direct manufacturing costs include those for personnel, depreciation,
amortization, write-downs, energies, and goods and services procured.
The other production costs mainly comprise inventory valuation effects
and inventory discrepancies.

2013

26  Other

1

1

20

24

128

118

2013

2014

84

74

9

4

operating expenses

Other Operating Expenses

22

€ million

Selling expenses

Expenses for non-core business
Write-downs of trade receivables
and other current assets

Selling Expenses
€ million

2013

2014

Marketing costs

471

459

Outward freight charges and
other selling expenses

284

283

755

742

Expenses for hedging with
derivative financial instruments

0

3

381

184

of which impairment charges recognized on
cash-generating units

257

0

Losses from the disposal of non-current assets

1

0

52

43

527

308

Exceptional items

Miscellaneous operating expenses

The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal and external marketing and sales organization, freight charges, warehousing,
packaging and the provision of advice to customers.

23  Research

and development expenses

The research and development expenses of €160 million (2013:
€186 million) mainly include the costs incurred to gain new scientific
and technical knowledge, expenses relating to the search for alternative products and production processes, and costs for applying the
results of research.

Of the exceptional items of €184 million (2013: €124 million, excluding impairment charges recognized on cash-generating units),
€70 million (2013: €72 million) was allocable to the cost of sales in
line with its economic relevance, while €39 million (2013: €9 million)
was allocable to research and development expenses, €32 million
(2013: €22 million) to administration expenses, €23 million (2013:
€9 million) to selling expenses, and €20 million (2013: €12 million)
to miscellaneous operating expenses.
The exceptional items mainly comprise the costs of the “Let’s LANXESS
again” program for the global realignment of the Group, and the costs
of the “Advance” program initiated the previous year. The research and
development costs they include comprise write-downs of €19 million­
on a pilot facility in the Butyl Rubber business unit (Performance Polymers segment).

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the income statement

The impairment charges of €257 million recognized on the cashgenerating units in 2013 mainly related to the Performance Polymers
segment and, to a lesser extent, the Performance Chemicals segment.
They were primarily allocable to the cost of sales. Further information
on the background to and the extent of the impairment charges recognized can be found in the section headed “Estimation uncertainties
and exercise of discretion.”
The impairment test performed on the cash-generating units in 2014
did not show any need for the recognition or reversal of impairment
charges.

28

Income taxes

This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual
countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the
basis of local tax rates.
The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows:
Income Taxes by Origin
€ million
Current taxes

2013

2014

(17)

(59)

62

(1)

Deferred taxes resulting from

27

temporary differences

Financial result

statutory changes in tax rates
loss carryforwards
Income taxes

The financial result is comprised as follows:

0

0

26

24

71

(36)

Financial Result
€ million

2013

2014

Income from investments accounted
for u
­ sing the equity method

0

2

Interest income

2

3

Interest expense

(108)

(72)

Net interest expense

(106)

(69)

(33)

(41)

(1)

(23)

0

(7)

Interest expense from compounding
interest-bearing provisious
Net exchange loss
Miscellaneous financial expenses
Dividends and income from
other affiliated companies
Other financial income and expense
Financial result

(6)

0

(40)

(71)

(146)

(138)

Interest expense mainly includes payments of bond interest. The
amount recognized has been adjusted for capitalized borrowing costs
of €17 million­(2013: €15 million). The interest portion of the lease payments under finance leases, amounting to €3 million (2013: €3 million),
is included in interest expense. In 2013, the income from other affiliated
companies was reduced by €6 million due to a valuation adjustment for
the interest held in BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States, resulting
from that company’s stock performance.

In 2014, deferred tax income and deferred tax expenses of roughly
the same amount resulted from changes in temporary differences.
The actual tax expense for 2014 was €36 million (2013: tax income
of €71 million). This is €11 million (2013: €5 million) more than the
expected tax expense of €25 million (2013: expected tax income of
€76 million).
In calculating the expected tax expense for the LANXESS Group,
an unchanged overall tax rate of 31.8% was applied to the German
companies. This comprises a corporation tax rate of 15.0%, plus a
solidarity surcharge (5.5% of corporation tax) and trade tax.

169

170

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax result
is as follows:
Reconciliation to Reported Tax Result
€ million

2013

Income (loss) before income taxes

2014

(239)

80

31.8%

31.8%

Expected tax result

76

(25)

Tax difference due to differences between
local tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate

(8)

(14)

tax-free income and reduction of tax bases

4

3

utilization of unrecognized loss carryforwards

0

3

(7)

(15)

Aggregated income tax rate of ­LANXESS AG

Reduction in taxes due to

Increase in taxes due to
non-tax-deductible expenses
Other tax effects
Actual tax result
Effective tax rate

6

12

71

(36)

29.7%

45.0%

The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the various items
of the statement of financial position as follows:
Deferred Taxes
€ million

Dec. 31, 2013
Deferred
tax
assets

Dec. 31, 2014

Deferred
tax
­liabilities

Deferred
tax
assets

Deferred
tax
­liabilities

Intangible assets

11

52

9

52

Property, plant and equipment

32

119

29

130

Inventories

20

3

31

1

8

24

8

29

Receivables and other assets

157

0

243

–

Other provisions

Pension provisions

96

11

93

11

Liabilities

28

3

58

0

Loss carryforwards

85

–

111

–

437

212

582

223

of which non-current
Set-off

264

179

392

182

(183)

(183)

(202)

(202)

254

29

380

21

The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows:
Changes in Deferred Taxes
€ million
Deferred taxes as of January 1

2013

2014

129

225

Tax income/expense recognized in the
income statement

88

23

Changes in scope of consolidation

(5)

(1)

Deferred taxes recognized in other
comprehensive income

9

111

Exchange differences

4

1

225

359

Deferred taxes as of December 31

The deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive income comprised €91 million (2013: €6 million) related to remeasurements
of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans
and €20 million (2013: €3 million) relating to financial instruments.
In addition, other comprehensive income contained current taxes of
€4 million (2013: minus €1 million).
Deferred tax assets of €337 million (2013: €75 million) relate to tax
jurisdictions in which losses were recorded in 2014 or 2013. The
increase was mainly attributable to the fact that the corporate tax entity
in Germany reported a loss, primarily due to the exceptional items in
connection with the “Advance” and “Let’s LANXESS again” programs.
The deferred tax assets of €231 million for the German tax entity mainly
related to differences in the valuations of pension provisions for tax
purposes. LANXESS assumes that is will generate sufficient taxable
income in the future to realize the deferred tax assets.
Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred tax assets of €111 million (2013: €85 million) were recognized on the
€380 million­(2013: €292 million) in tax loss carryforwards that represent income likely to be realized in the future. This amount included
deferred taxes of €82 million (2013: 59 million) on loss carryforwards
with an unlimited carryforward period.
Deferred taxes were not recognized for €158 million (2013:
€192 million)­of tax loss carryforwards. Of this amount, €100 million­
(2013: €147 million) can theoretically be used over more than five
years. Further, deferred tax assets were not recognized in 2014 for taxdeductible temporary differences of €43 million (2013: €29 million).
Accordingly, deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of €39 million (2013:
€52 ­million) and deferred tax assets on tax-deductible temporary
differences of €15 million (2013: €11 million) were not recognized.

29

Earnings and dividend per share

The calculation of earnings per share for 2014 included only earnings
from continuing operations and was based on the weighted average
number of shares outstanding during the reporting period. As of December 31, 2013, 83,202,670 shares were outstanding. The capital
increase in the second quarter of 2014 outlined in Note [12] resulted in
the issuance of 8,320,266 new shares, so from this time 91,522,936

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the income statement | Other information

shares were outstanding. The capital increase was taken into account
on a pro rata temporis basis when calculating the average number of
shares outstanding. On this basis, the weighted average number of
shares outstanding in the reporting period was 88,472,172. Since
there are currently no equity instruments in issue that could dilute
earnings per share, basic and diluted earnings per share are identical.
Further information on equity instruments that could dilute earnings
per share in the future is contained in Note [12].

Other information
31

Employees

The average number of employees in the LANXESS Group in 2014
was 16,807 (2013: 17,430). The decline compared to the previous
year was mainly due to employees who left the company as a result of
the “Advance” and “Let’s LANXESS again” programs, and to changes
in the scope of consolidation.

Earnings per Share
2013
Net income (loss) (€ million)
Number of shares outstanding
Earnings per share
(­undiluted/diluted) (€)

2014

Change %

(159)

47

> 100

83,202,670

88,472,172

6.3

(1.91)

0.53

> 100

Employees by Function

Production

30

Personnel expenses

The breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows:
Personnel Expenses
€ million

2013

2014

Wages and salaries

1,006

1,106

Social security contributions

194

202

Retirement benefit expenses

128

136

Social assistance benefits

11

13

1,339

1,457

Total personnel expenses increased in 2014, mainly as a result of the
expenses for the “Let’s LANXESS again” program and for performancerelated remuneration. The personnel expenses shown here do not
contain the interest expenses for compounding personnel-related
provisions, especially pension provisions, which is reflected in the
financial result (see Note [27]).

2014

12,456

12,163

Marketing

2,082

1,987

Administration

1,980

1,878

Research

LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €53 million for fiscal
2014 (2013: €48 million). The dividend payment made to stockholders of LANXESS AG during fiscal 2014 amounted to €0.50 per share
(2013: €1.00 per share).

2013

912

779

17,430

16,807

32  Contingent

liabilities and other financial
­commitments

Contingent liabilities result from guarantees and similar instruments
assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent potential future
commitments in cases where the occurrence of certain events would
create an obligation that was uncertain at the closing date. An obligation to perform under such contingent liabilities arises in the event of
delayed settlement or insolvency of the debtor.
Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2014 amounted to €7 million­
(2013: €8 million). There are no contingent liabilities relating to
­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is ­accounted
for using the equity method. As a personally liable partner in Currenta
GmbH & Co. OHG, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital
into this company in the future.
Apart from provisions, liabilities and contingent liabilities, financial
commitments also exist under operating leases.
As explained in the section on recognition and valuation principles,
operating leases are those which – unlike finance leases – do not
transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to the ownership
of the leased assets to the lessee. In the LANXESS Group, operating
leases are mainly used for operational reasons and not as a means
of financing.

171

172

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

The minimum non-discounted future lease and rental payments relating to operating leases totaled €390 million (2013: €492 million).
The respective payment obligations mature as follows:
Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments
Dec. 31,
2013

Dec. 31,
2014

Up to 1 year

61

56

1 to 2 years

54

48

2 to 3 years

49

41

3 to 4 years

41

36

4 to 5 years

40

35

247

174

492

390

€ million

More than 5 years

Payments under operating leases in 2014 amounted to €67 million
(2013: €61 million). Future lease and rental payments include agreements relating to the Group’s headquarters in Cologne, to which it
relocated in 2013, and to the production site in Singapore.
Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed under purchase agreements relating to planned or ongoing capital expenditure
projects in the area of property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets totaled €171 million (2013: €283 million). Of the respective
payments, €130 million are due in 2015, €38 million in 2016 and
€3 million in 2017.
Description of the master agreement Under the master agreement that
was concluded between Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with the
Spin-Off and Takeover Agreement, Bayer AG and LANXESS AG agreed,
among other things, on commitments regarding mutual indemnification
for liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on special
arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims in the areas
of product liability, environmental contamination and antitrust violations.
The master agreement also contains arrangements for the allocation
of tax effects relating to the spin-off and to the preceding measures
to create the subgroup that was subsequently spun off.

33  Related

parties

In the course of its operations, the LANXESS Group sources materials,
inventories and services from a large number of business partners
around the world. These include companies in which LANXESS AG
has a direct or indirect interest. Transactions with these companies
are carried out on an arm’s-length basis.
Transactions with Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany,
which is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using
the equity method, and its subsidiaries mainly comprised the purchase
of site services in the fields of utilities, infrastructure and logistics totaling €423 million (2013: €455 million). As of December 31, 2014,
trade payables of €109 million (2013: €40 million) and receivables of
€3 million (2013: €5 million) existed as a result of these transactions.
In addition, a provision of €5 million was recorded as of the reporting
date in respect of the claim by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG to offset
the loss for 2014. There were also payment obligations to Currenta
GmbH & Co. OHG amounting to €1 million (2013: €5 million) under
operating leases and obligations of €4 million (2013: €3 million)
under purchase agreements. Contingent liabilities relating to Currenta
GmbH & Co. OHG are outlined in the previous section.
Information on the compensation of the Board of Management and
Supervisory Board can be found in the next section.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Other information

34  Compensation

of the Board of Management
and the Supervisory Board

For fiscal 2014, total compensation of €9,982 thousand (2013:
€6,647 thousand) was paid to the members of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG, comprising €7,649 thousand (2013:
€4,777 thousand) in short-term compensation (fixed compensation, annual bonus, benefits in kind and other), €0 thousand (2013:
€34 thousand) in compensation relating to the previous year, and
other long-term compensation components totaling €932 thousand­
(2013: €977 thousand) as part of the Long-Term Performance
­Bonus (LTPB). The total also includes compensation paid under the
stock-based L
­ ong-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP), under which
1,648,500 share-based compensation rights were granted in 2014
(2013: 1,564,125). The fair value of these rights at the grant date was
€1,401 thousand (2013: €859 thousand). Personnel expenses for the
stock-based compensation programs amounted to €2,168 thousand
in fiscal 2014 (2013: a gain of €887 thousand).
Details of the compensation system for members of the Board of
Management and an individual breakdown of the compensation are
given in the “Compensation report” section of the combined management report for fiscal 2014.
In addition, service costs of €2,496 thousand (2013: €1,264 thousand) ­relating to defined benefit pension plans were incurred in
2014 for members of the Board of Management as part of their
compensation package. The present value of the defined benefit obligation as of ­December 31, 2014 was €9,994 thousand (2013:
€21,740 thousand).­
The total net expense for the compensation of the members of the
Board of Management in 2014 was €14,935 thousand (2013:
€6,165 thousand). This amount includes expense of €1,690 thousand for the severance payment made to Dr. Breuers. Together with
settlement of his LTSP rights amounting to €729 thousand, benefits
granted to a former member of the Board of Management who stepped
down during the fiscal year totaled €2,419 thousand and were granted
during the fiscal year.

The balances outstanding to members of the Board of Management
totaled €2,336 thousand (2013: €4,706 thousand), comprising
provisions of €1,346 thousand (2013: €1,653 thousand) for annual
bonuses, €687 thousand (2013: €1,899 thousand) for the LTPB and
€303 thousand (2013: €1,154 thousand) for the LTSP.
Pension benefits of €293 thousand (2013: €308 thousand) were paid
to former members of the Board of Management. The total obligation
toward former members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014 was €27,921 thousand (2013: €11,578 thousand).
Payments totaling €1,983 thousand were made to former members
of the Board of Management in fiscal 2014 (2013: €308 thousand).
The members of the Supervisory Board received total compensation of
€1,936 thousand in 2014 (2013: €1,874 thousand), which was paid
at the start of the following year. The provisions established for stockbased compensation for Supervisory Board members as of December 31, 2014 amounted to €0 thousand (2013: €1,800 thousand).
In addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board
who are on LANXESS’s payroll received remuneration under their
employment contracts. The amounts of these salaries represented
appropriate compensation for the employees’ functions and tasks
within the Group.
Details of the compensation system for members of the Supervisory
Board and an individual breakdown of the amounts paid are contained
in the “Compensation report” section in the combined management
report for fiscal 2014.
No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management or
the Supervisory Board in fiscal 2014 or 2013.

173

174

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

35

Financial instruments

Primary financial instruments are reflected in the statement of financial
position. In compliance with IAS 39, financial assets are categorized
as “loans and receivables,” “held at fair value through profit or loss,”
“held to maturity” or “available for sale” and, accordingly, recognized at
cost or fair value. Liability instruments that are neither held for trading
nor constitute derivatives are recognized at amortized cost.
Risks and risk management The global alignment of the LANXESS
Group exposes its business operations, earnings and cash flows to a
variety of market risks. Material financial risks to the Group as a whole,
such as currency, interest rate, counterparty, liquidity and raw material
price risks, are centrally managed.
These risks could impair the earnings and financial position of the
LANXESS Group. The various risk categories and the risk management
system for the LANXESS Group are outlined below.
The principles of risk management are defined by the Board of Management. At the regular strategy meetings of the Financial Risk Committee, which are chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, reports on
the outcome of financial risk management and on current risks levels
are presented and any further action is decided upon. Simulations are
performed to assess the impact of market trends. The implementation
of the Financial Risk Committee’s decisions and ongoing risk management are undertaken centrally by the Treasury Group Function. The
aim of financial risk management is to identify and evaluate risks and
to manage and limit their effects as appropriate.
Currency risks Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions
in various currencies, it is exposed to fluctuations in the relative value
of these currencies. The development of the U.S. dollar against the
euro is of particular relevance.
Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial instruments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) arise mainly
when receivables and payables are denominated in a currency other
than the company’s local currency. Such risks and the currency risks
arising on financial transactions, including the interest component,
are generally fully hedged using forward exchange contracts. In the
short term, the appreciation or depreciation of the euro against other
major currencies can have no material impact on future cash flows
due to hedging.

The risks relating to operating activities are systematically monitored
and analyzed. To this end, both sales and costs are planned in foreign
currencies. In the long term, exchange rate fluctuations could adversely
affect future cash flows should the LANXESS Group not be able to
absorb them, for example, by pricing its products in the respective
local currencies. This risk is minimized by partial hedging with derivative financial instruments. Changes in the fair values of these instruments are recognized in the financial result or, in the case of cash flow
hedges, in other comprehensive income. Realized income or expense
from the effective portion of cash flow hedges is recognized in other
operating income or expenses. Hedging is performed in line with
principles determined by the Board of Management and is subject to
continuous monitoring.
If the exchange rate for the euro had been 5% higher against the
hedged currencies on the reporting date, this would have had a
€23 million (2013: €19 million) effect, mainly on other comprehensive income, which would have improved accordingly. This effect
mainly relates to the U.S. dollar. A correspondingly lower rate for the
euro would have had basically the opposite effect.
Many companies in the LANXESS Group are based outside the eurozone. Since the Group prepares its consolidated financial statements
in euros, the annual financial statements of these subsidiaries are
translated into euros for consolidation purposes. Changes in the average exchange rate for a given local currency from one period to the
next can materially affect the translation of both sales and earnings
reported in this currency into euros (translation risk). Unlike the effect
of exchange rate fluctuations in the case of transaction risk, translation
risk has no impact on Group cash flows in the local currency.
The LANXESS Group has material assets, liabilities and businesses
outside the eurozone that are reported in local currencies. The related
long-term currency risks are estimated and evaluated on a regular
basis. In view of these risks, however, foreign currency transactions
are only concluded if consideration is being given to withdrawing
from a particular business and it is intended to repatriate the funds
released by the withdrawal. The effects of exchange rate fluctuations
on the translation of net positions into euros are reflected in other
comprehensive income.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Other information

Interest rate risks Market interest rate movements can cause fluctuations in the fair value of a financial instrument. These interest rate
changes affect both financial assets and financial liabilities.
Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at fixed
interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years will have
only a limited impact on the LANXESS Group.
The financial liabilities with variable interest rates are covered by investments with short-term fixed interest rates from available liquidity
so that the LANXESS Group will incur slightly higher interest costs if
interest rates increase. A general change of one percentage point in
interest rates as of December 31, 2014 would have reduced Group
net income by €1 million (2013: increased net income by €1 million).
Counterparty risks Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade
relationships with customers and dealings with banks and other financial partners, especially with regard to the investment business and
financial instrument transactions.
Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and managed
using both internal and external information sources. Customer portfolios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the risk
profile is elevated.
The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is to collect all
outstanding payments punctually and in full, and thus to minimize the
risk of default. Continuous monitoring is computer-assisted, based on
the payment terms agreed with the customers. These are generally
in line with the customary payment terms for the business or country.
Reminders are sent out at regular intervals if payments are overdue.
The maximum risk of default on receivables, cash and cash equivalents,
near-cash assets, derivatives and other financial assets is reflected in
their carrying amounts in the statement of financial position (disregarding netting arrangements not reflected in the statement of financial
position).
Credit insurance has been concluded with a well-known European
credit insurer to cover material credit risks relating to receivables from
customers. After a deductible, these cover default risks, especially in

Europe, that could arise up to the end of the respective fiscal year
in the mid-double-digit millions of euros. The maximum credit risk
is further reduced by letters of credit in favor of LANXESS. In certain
cases, prepayment is agreed with the contracting partner.
In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title to goods until
the contractual partner has paid the full purchase price. The vast majority of receivables relate to customers with very high credit standing.
The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in the financial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS Group,
especially in the selection of banks and financial partners for capital
investments and transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS
therefore endeavors to undertake transactions with banks and other
financial counterparties that have at least an investment-grade rating.
The derivatives and financial assets outstanding as of the closing date
were almost all concluded with banks with an investment grade rating.
Credit risk management also includes global management of the
counterparty risk relating to all existing relationships with banks and
financial partners. The LANXESS Group pays particular attention to
risk diversification to prevent any cluster risks that could jeopardize
its existence. Through master agreements, the market values of open
trading positions can be netted if a partner becomes insolvent, thereby
further reducing risks.
Liquidity risks Liquidity risks arise from potential financial shortfalls
and the resulting increase in refinancing costs. The aim of liquidity
management in the LANXESS Group is to ensure that the Group has
sufficient liquidity and committed credit facilities available at all times
to enable it to meet its payment commitments, and to optimize the
liquidity balance within the Group.
The main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit facility.
In February 2015, this was extended by one year to February 2020.
There is a further material credit line of €150 million with the European Investment Bank. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has
short-term liquidity reserves of €518 million (2013: €533 million) in
the form of cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid AAA-rated
money market funds. Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity
position based on a broad range of financing instruments.

175

176

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

The following table shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted)
cash flows for primary financial liabilities, the interest components
thereof and derivative financial instruments:

Dec. 31, 2013
€ million

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

> 2018

Bonds

(542)

(114)

(252)

(41)

(541)

(802)

(42)

(54)

(52)

(41)

(41)

(102)

(108)

(62)

(37)

(41)

(22)

0

(3)

(4)

(3)

(2)

0

0

(11)

(8)

(8)

(6)

(5)

(22)

(2)

(2)

(2)

(1)

(1)

(3)

(57)

(3)

(1)

(2)

0

0

(54)

0

0

0

0

0

(136)

(48)

116

39

(182)

(14)

(24)

(6)

(6)

180

13

23

5

5

(415)

(131)

(3)

444

138

3

Disbursements

(972)

(32)

(1)

(3)

Receipts

1,002

38

5

4

of which interest
Liabilities to banks
of which interest
Trade payables
of which interest
Liabilities under finance leases
of which interest
Other primary financial liabilities
of which interest

(690)
0

Derivative liabilities
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Disbursements
Receipts
Other hedging instruments
Disbursements
Receipts
Derivative assets
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Disbursements
Receipts
Other hedging instruments

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Other information

Dec. 31, 2014
€ million

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

> 2019

Bonds

(96)

(252)

(41)

( 541)

(21)

(781)

of which interest

(30)

(52)

(41)

(41)

(21)

(81)

Liabilities to banks

(79)

(14)

(2)

(2)

(229)

0

(1)

(4)

(2)

(2)

(1)

0

(12)

(12)

(10)

(8)

(8)

(44)

(4)

(3)

(3)

(2)

(2)

(8)

(30)

(2)

(2)

0

0

(2)

(26)

0

0

0

0

0

(618)

(227)

559

214

(1,086)

(32)

(4)

(1)

(13)

1,041

28

4

0

10

(21)

( 9)

0

23

9

0

4

0

of which interest
Trade payables

(799)

of which interest

0

Liabilities under finance leases
of which interest
Other primary financial liabilities
of which interest
Derivative liabilities
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Disbursements
Receipts
Other hedging instruments
Disbursements
Receipts
Derivative assets
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Disbursements
Receipts
Other hedging instruments
Disbursements

(191)

Receipts

The contractually agreed payments for other primary financial liabilities
due within one year from the reporting date included accrued interest
of €26 million (2013: €53 million) that mainly related to the bonds.
Raw material price risks The LANXESS Group is exposed to changes
in the market prices of energies and raw materials used for its business
operations. Increases in energy and raw material procurement costs are
generally passed on to customers. Where such risks cannot be passed
on in their entirety, the related risks may be hedged on a case-by-case
basis by forward commodity contracts in order to reduce the volatility
of cash flows. Where cash flow hedges qualify for hedge accounting,
changes in their fair values are recognized in other comprehensive
income until the hedged transaction is realized.

203

LANXESS had no forward commodity contracts at year end 2014
or 2013.
Carrying amounts, measurement and fair value of financial instruments The following table shows the carrying amounts of the individual
classes of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values. The basis
of measurement is also shown:

177

178

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Dec. 31, 2013
€ million

IAS 39 measurement
­category

Carrying amount
Dec. 31, 2013

LaR

1,070

Financial assets
Trade receivables
Receivables under finance leases

–

2

Other financial receivables

LaR

14

Cash and cash equivalents

LaR

427

Near-cash assets

AfS

106

Other available-for-sale financial assets

AfS

14

Available-for-sale financial assets

Derivative assets
–

35

FAHfT

43

Bonds

FLAC

(1,948)

Liabilities to banks

FLAC

(258)

Trade payables

FLAC

(690)

Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Other hedging instruments
Financial liabilities

Liabilities under finance leases
Other primary financial liabilities

–

(49)

FLAC

(62)

Derivative liabilities
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Other hedging instruments

–

(30)

FLHfT

(4)

IAS 39 measurement
­category

Carrying amount
Dec. 31, 2014

LaR

1,015

Dec. 31, 2014
€ million

Financial assets
Trade receivables
Receivables under finance leases

–

–

Other financial receivables

LaR

15

Cash and cash equivalents

LaR

418

Near-cash assets

AfS

100

Other available-for-sale financial assets

AfS

14

Available-for-sale financial assets

Derivative assets
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting

–

3

FAHfT

16

Bonds

FLAC

(1,456)

Liabilities to banks

FLAC

(316)

Trade payables

FLAC

(799)

Other hedging instruments
Financial liabilities

Liabilities under finance leases
Other primary financial liabilities

–

(72)

FLAC

(36)

Derivative liabilities
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Other hedging instruments
LaR
AfS
FAHfT
FLAC
FLHfT

Loans and receivables
Available-for-sale financial assets
Financial assets held for trading
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Financial liabilities held for trading

–

(73)

FLHfT

(48)

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Other information

Measurement according to IAS 39
Amortized cost

Acquisition cost

Fair value (other
comprehensive income)

Fair value
(profit or loss)

Measurement
­according to IAS 17

1,070

Fair value
Dec. 31, 2013

1,070
2

2

14

14

427

427

9

106

106

5

5

35

35
43

43

(1,948)

(2,032)

(258)

(264)

(690)

(690)
(49)

(62)

(62)
(30)

(30)
(4)

Measurement according to IAS 39
Amortized cost

(51)

Acquisition cost

Fair value (other
comprehensive income)

Fair value
(profit or loss)

(4)

Measurement
­according to IAS 17

1,015

Fair value
Dec. 31, 2014

1,015
–

–

15

15

418

418

10

100

100

4

4

3

3
16

16

(1,456)

(1,630)

(316)

(316)

(799)

(799)
(72)

(36)

(78)
(36)

(73)

(73)
(48)

(48)

179

180

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Fair value measurement of the bonds is allocated to Level 1 of the
hierarchy outlined in the section “Fair value measurement.” However, three bonds with a fair value of €311 million are allocated to
Level 2 as there is no liquid market for them. Fair value measurement
of non-current liabilities to banks is also allocated to Level 2. In 2014,
their carrying amounts were equal to their fair value. The fair value of
­liabilities allocated to Level 2 is calculated using discounted cash flows
and taking account of observed market interest rates.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value
€ million

Dec. 31, 2013
Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Non-current assets
Investments in other affiliated
companies

4

–

–

Non-current derivative assets

–

20

–

Other non-current financial assets

–

1

–

Current assets
Near-cash assets

Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Category
€ million
Loans and receivables
Available-for-sale financial assets
Financial assets held for trading
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Financial liabilities held for trading

Dec. 31,
2013

Dec. 31,
2014

1,511

1,448

120

114

43

16

1,674

1,578

(2,958)

(2,607)

(4)

(48)

(2,962)

(2,655)

106

–

–

Current derivative assets

–

58

–

Other current financial assets

0

–

–

–

12

–

–

22

–

Non-current liabilities
Non-current derivative liabilities
Current liabilities
Current derivative liabilities

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value
€ million

Fair value measurement The measurement of fair value is based on a
hierarchy reflecting the significance of the measurement inputs. The
fair value measurement hierarchy for an asset or liability comprises
three levels:
Level 1	Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities on the measurement date
Level 2	Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly
or indirectly
Level 3	Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Non-current assets
Investments in other affiliated
companies

3

–

–

Non-current derivative assets

–

5

–

Other non-current financial assets

–

1

–

Current assets
Near-cash assets

100

–

–

Current derivative assets

–

14

–

Other current financial assets

0

–

–

–

20

–

–

101

–

Non-current liabilities
Non-current derivative liabilities
Current liabilities
Current derivative liabilities

The following table shows the volumes of assets and liabilities that
were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of the end of the
reporting period and the levels of the fair value hierarchy into which
the measurement inputs were categorized. Reclassification between
the levels is reviewed as of each reporting date. There were no reclassifications in 2013 or 2014.

Dec. 31, 2014

The investments in other affiliated companies measured at fair value
pertain to shares in the listed companies Gevo, Inc., Englewood, United
States, and BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States. The item “Investments in other affiliated companies” in the statement of financial
position also includes €10 million in non-listed equity instruments, the
fair values of which at the end of the reporting period could not be
reliably measured and which are therefore recognized at cost. There
are currently no plans to dispose of these investments.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Other information

Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Offsetting was
not used for the financial assets and financial liabilities recognized
in the statement of financial position. The following table shows how
legally enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements
impact, or could impact, the Group’s financial position:

Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2013
€ million

Carrying amount
of financial
instruments

Related amounts not offset in the
statement of financial position

Net amount

Financial instruments

Financial collateral

1,070

(36)

(1)

1,033

78

(7)

0

71

(690)

36

0

(654)

(34)

7

0

(27)

Financial assets
Trade receivables
Derivative assets
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Derivative liabilities

Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2014
€ million

Carrying amount
of financial
instruments

Related amounts not offset in the
statement of financial position
Financial instruments

Net amount

Financial collateral

Financial assets
Trade receivables

1,015

(30)

0

985

19

(9)

0

10

Trade payables

(799)

30

0

(769)

Derivative liabilities

(121)

9

0

(112)

Derivative assets
Financial liabilities

Either contracting party may offset on a net basis the positive and
negative fair values arising from past-due derivative asset or liability
contracts with the same counterparty.

181

182

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Net result by category The following table provides an overview of the
net results based on the measurement categories defined in IAS 39:
Net Results by IAS 39 Category
€ million
Loans and receivables

2013

2014

(27)

64

Available-for-sale financial assets

(6)

0

Assets and liabilities held for trading

41

(120)

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

(121)

(39)

(113)

(95)

Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and expense
and remeasurement effects.
In addition, fees of €14 million were incurred in 2014 (2013:­
€9 million) in connection with financial instruments.
Collateralization of financial liabilities Financial liabilities amounting
to €0 million (2013: €0 million) were collateralized by mortgages or
other property claims.
Mezzanine financing Mezzanine instruments such as profit participation rights, convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued.
Information on the possible issuance of such instruments is given in
Note [12].

36

Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows

Explanation of the method used to calculate and present cash
flows For a general explanation, please see the comments on the
statement of cash flows in the section headed “Accounting policies
and valuation principles.”
Net cash flow provided by operating activities The net cash flow from
operating activities is determined by deducting the financial result,
depreciation, amortization and write-downs and non-cash items from
income before income taxes. A further adjustment is then made for
the change in other assets and liabilities. Income before income taxes,
which is the starting point for the statement of cash flows, amounted to
€80 million (2013: minus €239 million) after depreciation, amortization and write-downs of €426 million (2013: €717 million). Income
taxes paid in 2014 amounted to €31 million (2013: €41 million). The
change in net working capital resulted in a cash inflow of €147 million­
(2013: €110 million). Taking into account the increase in other assets
and liabilities of €103 million (2013: decrease of €15 million), the
cash inflow provided by operating activities amounted to €797 million
in 2014 (2013: €641 million).

Net cash used in investing activities Purchases of intangible assets,
property, plant and equipment led to a cash outflow of €614 million in
2014 (2013: €624 million). Cash inflows from investment subsidies
reduced cash outflows for capital expenditures by €25 million (2013:
€30 million). Cash inflows from financial assets mainly comprised proceeds from the sale of units in money market funds. The divestment of
subsidiaries resulted in a cash inflow of €3 million (2013: €0 million)
net of acquired cash and cash equivalents and retrospective purchase
price adjustments. Included in interest and dividends received is a cash
inflow of €2 million from a profit transfer from Currenta GmbH & Co.
OHG, Leverkusen, Germany (2013: cash outflow of €17 million for
loss assumption). The cash inflows comprised €4 million (2013:
€2 million) in interest received and €4 million (2013: €0 million)
from other affiliates. The net cash outflow for investing activities was
€587 million (2013: €342 million).
Net cash used in financing activities The 10% increase in the capital
stock in 2014 resulted in gross proceeds of €433 million (2013:
€0 million). Outflows included €478 million (2013: €58 million) for
the repayment of borrowings, €131 million (2013: €119 million)
for interest paid and other financial disbursements, and €46 million
(2013: €83 million) for the dividend, including €46 million (2013:
€83 million) paid to the stockholders of LANXESS AG. A net cash
outflow of €222 million (2013: €260 million) was recorded for financing activities. Details of unused credit facilities are given in Note [35].
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, which comprise cash, checks and bank balances, amounted to €418 million­
(2013: €427 million). In accordance with IAS 7, this item also
includes­securities with maturities of up to three months from the
date of ­acquisition.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Other information

37

Segment reporting

Key Data by Segment
€ million

External sales
Inter-segment sales
Segment/Group sales

Performance
Polymers

Advanced
Intermediates

Performance
Chemicals

Reconciliation

2013

2014

2013

2014

2013

2014

2013

4,486

4,128

1,647

1,643

2,132

2,193

1

0

51

46

8

9

4,487

4,128

1,698

1,689

2,140

2,202

­LANXESS

2014

2013

2014

35

42

8,300

8,006

(60)

(55)

0

0

(25)

(13)

8,300

8,006

Segment result/EBITDA pre exceptionals

389

392

286

303

231

274

(171)

(161)

735

808

Exceptional items affecting EBITDA

(17)

(41)

1

(10)

(50)

(34)

(45)

(79)

(111)

(164)

3,294

3,647

1,026

1,023

1,392

1,455

161

158

5,873

6,283

Segment assets
Segment acquisitions

18

18

0

Segment capital expenditures

405

472

113

94

117

100

41

26

676

692

Depreciation and amortization

253

208

76

84

87

84

22

18

438

394

Write-downs

236

23

1

5

40

2

2

2

279

32

Segment liabilities

817

1,018

577

660

671

816

396

504

2,461

2,998

Employees (December 31)

5,379

5,176

2,854

2,809

5,837

5,613

3,273

2,986

17,343

16,584

Employees (average for the year)

5,419

5,220

2,857

2,813

5,928

5,693

3,226

3,081

17,430

16,807

Key Data by Region
EMEA (exclud­
ing Germany)

€ million

External sales by market
Non-current region assets

Germany

North America

Latin America

2014

2013

2014

2013

2014

2013

2014

2013

2014

2013

2014

2,404

2,296

1,458

1,440

1,332

1,338

966

859

2,140

2,073

8,300

8,006

631

642

1,039

1,029

388

413

319

320

882

1,284

3,259

3,688

18

Capital expenditures
Employees (December 31)

­LANXESS

2013

Acquisitions

18

0

135

117

229

158

46

46

50

34

216

337

676

692

3,444

3,267

8,117

7,747

1,526

1,371

1,560

1,467

2,696

2,732

17,343

16,584

Notes to the segment reporting The valuation principles applied in
segment reporting correspond to the uniform recognition and valuation
principles used for the consolidated financial statements prepared in
accordance with IFRS.
On December 31, 2014, the LANXESS Group comprised the following reporting segments:
Segment

Operations

Performance Polymers

Special-purpose rubbers for high-quality rubber prod­
ucts, e.g. for use in vehicles, tires, ­construction and
footwear; engineering plastics; polyamide compounds

Advanced Intermediates

Intermediates for the agrochemicals and coatings industries; fine chemicals as precursors and intermediates for pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and specialty
chemicals; custom manufacturing

Performance Chemicals

Asia-Pacific

Material protection products; inorganic pigments for
the coloring of concrete, emulsion paints and other
coatings; finishing agents for the leather industry;
­rubber chemicals; reverse osmosis membrane elements and ion exchange resins for water treatment;
plastics additives such as flame retardants and
plasticizers

The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and reflects assets
and liabilities not directly allocable to the core segments including, in
particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center. The reconciliation also includes €0 million (2013: €12 million) relating to Currenta
GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using
the equity method, and the income of €2 million (2013: €0 million)
from this investment (see note [3]).
The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transactions are
calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been agreed upon
between independent third parties in comparable circumstances
(arm’s-length principle).
The majority of employees reflected in the reconciliation provide services for more than one segment. They include technical service staff.

183

184

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s activities are
organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle East, Africa),
Germany, North America, Latin America and Asia-Pacific.
Regional sales are calculated according to the recipient’s place of
business. In fiscal 2014, no individual customer of the LANXESS
Group accounted for more than 10% of Group sales.

Reconciliation of Segment Sales
€ million

2013

2014

Total segment sales

8,325

8,019

Other/Consolidation
Group sales

(25)

(13)

8,300

8,006

2013

2014

Reconciliation of Segment Results

The earnings indicator used for internal management purposes in
the LANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciation and
amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals (see the section headed “Value
management and control system” in the combined management report
for 2014). This is disclosed as the “segment result.” The starting point
for calculating EBITDA pre exceptionals is the operating result (EBIT),
which comprises gross profit, selling expenses, general administration
expenses, research and development expenses and other operating
income and expenses. EBITDA pre exceptionals is calculated from
EBIT by adding back depreciation and impairments of property, plant
and equipment, amortization and impairments of intangible assets,
disregarding exceptional items. The latter are effects of an unusual
nature or magnitude. They may include write-downs, restructuring
expenses, expenses for the design and implementation of IT projects
and expenses for portfolio adjustments.
In view of the Group’s central financial management, interest income
and expense and income tax income and expense are not reported
at segment level. The write-downs recognized in the Performance
Polymers and Performance Chemicals segments in the previous fiscal
year mainly comprised impairment charges resulting from the impairment tests carried out for the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance
Elastomers and Rubber Chemicals cash-generating units. Further
information is provided in the section headed “Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion.” The write-downs in fiscal 2014 mainly
related to a pilot facility of the Butyl Rubber business unit (Performance
Polymers segment).
In 2014, the exceptional items that impacted EBITDA mainly related to
measures associated with the “Let’s LANXESS again” and “Advance”
programs. The corresponding exceptional items in the previous year
mainly resulted from reorganizational measures taken as part of the
“Advance” program.

€ million

906

969

Depreciation and amortization

(717)

(426)

Exceptional items affecting EBITDA

(111)

(164)

Other financial income and expense

(40)

(71)

(106)

(69)

Total segment results

Net interest expense
Income from investments accounted
for using the equity method

0

2

Other/Consolidation

(171)

(161)

Income (loss) before income taxes

(239)

80

Segment assets principally comprise intangible assets, property, plant
and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. In particular, segment assets do not include cash and cash equivalents, income tax
receivables, receivables from derivatives, or other financial assets.
Information on equity-method income is contained in Note [3].
This mainly arises from the provision of site services by Currenta
GmbH & Co.OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is not allocated among
the segments.
Reconciliation of Segment Assets
€ million
Total segment assets

Dec. 31,
2013

Dec. 31,
2014

5,712

6,125

Cash and cash equivalents

427

418

Deferred tax assets

254

380

Near-cash assets

106

100

Income tax receivables

56

34

Derivative assets

78

19

Other financial assets

17

16

161

158

6,811

7,250

Other/Consolidation
Group assets

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Other information

Capital expenditures made by the segments mainly comprise additions
to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment.

39  Declaration

All depreciation, amortization and impairments in fiscal 2013 and
2014 were recognized directly in profit or loss.

A Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance
Code has been issued pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders on the
LANXESS website.

Segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade payables and
other liabilities. In particular, segment liabilities do not include income
tax liabilities, liabilities from derivatives, or other financial liabilities.

of Compliance pursuant to
Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act

40

Utilization of disclosure exemptions

Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities
Dec. 31,
2013

Dec. 31,
2014

Total segment liabilities

2,065

2,494

Other financial liabilities

2,317

1,880

Derivative liabilities

34

121

Income tax liabilities

70

69

€ million

Deferred tax liabilities
Other/Consolidation
Group liabilities

38

29

21

396

504

4,911

5,089

Audit fees

In 2014, total audit fees of €2,731 thousand (2013: €2,151 thousand) for the auditor of the consolidated financial statements of the
LANXESS Group were recognized as expenses. Of this amount,
€1,322 thousand (2013: €1,333 thousand) related to the auditing
of financial statements, €560 thousand (2013: €485 thousand) to
other audit-related services and €849 thousand (2013: €333 thousand) to other services rendered to Group companies. The amount
recognized for other services is influenced, among other things, by
a purchase in the area of IT services made by the auditors of the
financial statements. The fees for financial statements audit services
comprise all fees, including incidental expenses, paid or to be paid for
the audits of the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS
Group and the mandatory financial statements of LANXESS AG and
its German subsidiaries.

In 2014, the following German subsidiaries utilized disclosure exemptions pursuant to Section 264, Paragraph 3 of the German Commercial
Code (HGB):
•A
 liseca GmbH, Leverkusen
•B
 ond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon
• IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin
•L
 ANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne
•L
 ANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl
•L
 ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne
•L
 ANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen
•L
 ANXESS International Holding GmbH, Cologne
•R
 hein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim
•S
 altigo GmbH, Leverkusen
• Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen
Outside of Germany, LANXESS Limited (registration no. 03498959),
Newbury, United Kingdom, utilized the exemption from the auditing of
its annual financial statements as permitted by Section 479A of the
U.K. Companies Act 2006. As required by law, LANXESS AG, as the
parent company, guaranteed all outstanding liabilities as of December 31, 2014, with respect to Section 479C of the U.K. Companies
Act 2006.

185

186

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Responsibility
­Statement

To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements
give a true and fair view of the earnings, asset and financial position
of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair
review of the development and performance of the business and the
position of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, together with a
description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the
expected development of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG.
Cologne, February 27, 2015
LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft

The Board of Management
Matthias 		
Zachert 		

Dr. Bernhard 	   Dr. Rainier
Düttmann 	   van Roessel

Consolidated Financial Statements
Responsibility Statement | Auditor’s Report

Auditor’s Report

We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by
the LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, comprising the statement of financial position, the income statement and the statement
of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, cash flow
statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements,
together with the group management report, which is combined with
the management report of the company, for the business year from
January 1 to December 31, 2014. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report
in accordance with the IFRSs, as adopted by the E.U., and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § (Article)
315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) are the responsibility of the parent company’s Board
of Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
consolidated financial statements and the combined management
report based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements
in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted
standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the
Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany)
(IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the
net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework and in the combined management
report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the
business activities and the economic and legal environment of the
Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into
account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness
of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence
supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements

and the combined management report are examined primarily on
a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes
assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included
in consolidation, the determination of the entities to be included in
consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and
significant estimates made by the company’s Board of Management,
as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
financial statements and the combined management report. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.
In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated
financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the E.U.
and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant
to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets,
financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance
with these provisions. The combined management report is consistent
with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a
suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the oppor­
tu­nities and risks of future development.

Cologne, March 2, 2015
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Bernd Boritzki			
German Public Auditor		

Carsten Manthei
German Public Auditor

187

188

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

About this Report

Reporting methodology and data collection

GRI

The full report made here is aligned to national and international
standards for financial and sustainability reporting: the International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) and the principles of the Global Compact. It thus combines
financial and sustainability reporting by the LANXESS Group.

The report is compiled in accordance with GRI Guidelines. We used
the G3.1 Guidelines, issued in March 2011, which include more than
120 indicators that describe the company, its sustainability information
and the report itself. GRI reporting is performed annually.

The reporting period is 2014. In compiling the data, we applied the
principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and
reliability. The report covers the Group companies that are included
in the consolidated financial statements.
Environmental protection data are gathered only at those production
sites in which the company has a holding of more than 50%. On account of their recent acquisition by the LANXESS Group, the following
production sites are not yet included: Epierre, France, and Lipetsk,
Russia. By contrast, the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known
as MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked) in Germany, applies
to all sites in which LANXESS has a holding of more than 50%. In the
case of other indicators which do not refer to the LANXESS Group,
the areas of scope are explicitly defined in the report.
We use an electronic data capture system for the systematic global
recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety
and environmental protection. With regard to data collection, we have
additionally taken the following recommendations into consideration:
Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), International Energy Agency
(IEA).
We use a standardized corporate information system for reporting
HR data worldwide.

In the GRI Content Index, we list which criteria from the current GRI
Guideline are addressed in the LANXESS Annual Report 2014. In
addition to the disclosures contained in this report, supplementary
information can be found on the LANXESS Group website. Our disclosures have been made in accordance with GRI Application Level B.
This has been confirmed by the Global Reporting Initiative in the
context of an audit (B+). To ensure the quality of the data, PricewaterhouseCoopers has audited selected indicators with limited assurance.
These are identified accordingly in the report.

Further information
About this Report | HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report

HSEQ: Independent
Assurance Report

Independent Assurance Report
To LANXESS AG, Cologne
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement
for selected environmental and safety performance data including supplementing annotations for the period January 1, 2014 to
­December 31, 2014. These data can be found in the “Environmental
and Safety Performance Data” table in the “Health, safety, environment and climate protection along the value chain” section of the
“Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2014 of
LANXESS AG, Cologne (hereinafter the Company) marked with*)
(hereinafter sustainability data).

Management’s Responsibility
The Company’s Board of Managing Directors is responsible for the
proper preparation of the sustainability data in accordance with the
criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1
(pp. 7–17) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI):
• Materiality,
•S
 takeholder Inclusiveness,
•S
 ustainability Context,
• Completeness,
• Balance,
• Clarity,
• Accuracy,
• Timeliness,
• Comparability and
• Reliability.

This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the sustainability data as well as the use of
assumptions and estimates for individual environmental and safety
performance data which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and
maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of
the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2014.

Our Independence and Quality Control
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by
the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is
founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional
competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and
­accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance
with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal
and regulatory requirements.

Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed as to whether any matters have come to our attention that
cause us to believe that the selected sustainability data in the “Health,
safety, environment and climate protection along the value chain” section of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report
2014 of LANXESS have not been prepared, in all material respects,
in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability
Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 of the GRI. The sustainability data subject
to our procedures are marked with*). Any links to external sources of
documentation as well as prospective statements and statements from
external experts were not in scope of our engagement. We also have
been engaged to make recommendations for the further development of CR management and CR reporting based on the results of
our ­assurance engagement.

189

190

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard
on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that
we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to express our conclusion with limited assurance.
In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures
are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and
therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance
engagement.
The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the
­following procedures:
• Interviews with employees who are responsible for reporting the
environmental and safety performance data regarding the processes and controls in place when collecting the environmental
and safety performance data;
• Inventory of the processes and inspection of the systems and
­processes that are implemented to collect, calculate, analyze,
verify and aggregate the environmental and safety performance
data as well as sample testing;
• Analytical evaluations of the environmental and safety performance data based on samples in line with the quarterly and
­annually data collection;
• Review of internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports of
external services providers.

Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to
our attention that causes us to believe that the selected sustainability
data have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance
with the criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1
(pp. 7–17) of the GRI.

Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of CR management and
CR reporting:
•C
 onsistent implementation of the internal control system for the
HSE data based on the defined target processes particularly with
respect to organizational changes and new business units;
•F
 urther development of an integrated understanding at the
­different company levels with regards to controlling in order to
use synergy effects to financial controlling more efficiently and to
further improve data quality.

Cologne, February 27, 2015
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Bernd Boritzki 			
Hendrik Fink			
Wirtschaftsprüfer			Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)		
(German Public Auditor)

Further information
HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report | GRI Content Index

GRI Content Index

GRI Indicators

Location

Explanation

1.

Strategy and analysis

1.1

Foreword by the Chairman of the Board
of Management

p. 2

1.2

Key impacts, risks and opportunities

pp. 5 –6, pp. 119 –125

2.

Organizational proﬁle

2.1

Name of the organization

2.2

Primary brands, products or services

pp. 68 – 69

2.3

Operational structure, business units

p. 68, pp. 147 –148

2.4

Location of the organization’s headquarters

2.5

Countries where the organization operates

pp. 69 – 70,
http://lanxess.com/en/
corporate/about-lanxess/
sites-worldwide/

2.6

Nature of ownership and legal form

p. 68

2.7

Markets

p. 76, pp. 86 – 89

2.8

Scale of the organization

Table of key data, inside
front cover; p. 28, p. 38,
p. 90

2.9

Signiﬁcant changes in the organization’s size,
structure or ownership

p. 68, pp. 146 –147

2.10

Awards received in the reporting period

p. 17, p. 28, p. 51

3.

Report parameters

3.1

Reporting period

3.2

Date of most recent previous report

3.3

Reporting cycle

p. 188

3.4

Contact point regarding the report

Masthead

3.5

Process of deﬁning report content

p. 17

3.6

Boundary of the report

pp. 147 –148, p. 188

3.7

Limitations on the scope or boundary
of the report

pp. 38 –39, p. 188

3.8

Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced
operations

pp. 135 –136, p. 188

3.9

Data measurement techniques
and the bases of calculations

pp. 38 –39, pp. 142 –145,
p. 188

3.10

Effects of any re-statements of information
provided in earlier reports

p. 38 –39

3.11

Changes in the scope, boundary or
measurement methods applied in the report

pp. 38 –39, p. 68,
pp. 146 –147

3.12

GRI Content Index

pp. 191 –197

3.13

External assurance for the report

pp. 189 –190

Status:

Fully reported

LANXESS AG

Cologne, Germany

p. 188

Partly reported

2014

Not reported

T Core indicator T Additional indicator

Status

UNGC

191

192

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

GRI Indicators
4.

Location

Explanation

Status

UNGC

Governance, commitments
and engagement

4.1

Governance structure of the organization

p. 13

1–10

4.2

Independence of the Chairman of the
­Supervisory Board

pp. 55 –56

1–10

4.3

Independent members of highest governance
body

pp. 55 –56

1–10

4.4

Mechanisms for shareholders and employees
to provide recommendations or direction to the
highest governance body

p. 27, p. 49, pp. 57 –58

1–10

4.5

Linkage between compensation for members
of the highest governance and management
bodies and the organization’s performance

pp. 26 –27, pp. 103 – 105

1–10

4.6

Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided

pp. 14 –15

1–10

4.7

Qualifications and expertise of the members of
the highest governance body for guiding the
organization’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics

p. 3,
http://lanxess.com/en/
corporate/about-lanxess/
management/board-ofmanagement/

1–10

4.8

Mission, values, codes of conduct and
principles

pp. 13 –16, p. 79

1–10

4.9

Procedures of the highest governance body
for overseeing the organization’s economic,
environmental and social performance

pp. 6 – 8, pp. 13 –15

1–10

4.10

Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance with respect
to economic, environmental and social
performance

pp. 103 – 105

4.11

Explanation of how the precautionary principle
is addressed

pp. 77 – 78, pp. 115 –118

7

4.12

Participation in and endorsement of externally
developed economic, environmental, and
social charters, principles or other initiatives

pp. 14 –15

1–10

4.13

Important memberships

pp. 14 –15, pp. 74 –75

1–10

4.14

List of stakeholder groups

p. 16

4.15

Basis for identification of stakeholder groups

pp. 16 –18

4.16

Engagement of stakeholder groups

pp. 16 –18, p. 75,
pp. 77 –78

4.17

Response to key topics and concerns raised
by stakeholder groups

pp. 16 – 18

Economic performance indicators
EC1

Management approach

pp. 5 –11, pp. 41 – 43

Direct economic value generated
and distributed

p. 41, p. 92,
pp. 100 –101, p. 129

EC2

Financial implications of climate change

pp. 5 –8

EC3

Coverage of the organization’s
defined-benefit plan obligations

pp. 26 –27, p. 101

EC4

Financial assistance received from government

EC6

Selection of locally based suppliers

EC7

Hiring of local human resources

pp. 19 – 21, p. 24

EC8

Infrastructure investments and services
­provided primarily for public benefit

p. 21, pp. 41 – 43

Status:

Fully reported

Partly reported

1, 4, 6, 7

7

p. 74

Not reported      T Core indicator

6

T Additional indicator

Further information
GRI Content Index

GRI Indicators

Location

Explanation

Status

UNGC

Environmental performance indicators
Management approach

pp. 13 –15, pp. 30 – 36,
p. 40, p. 74
p. 74

EN1

Materials used by weight or volume

EN2

Percentage of materials used that are recycled
input materials

EN3

Direct energy consumption by primary energy
source

EN4
EN5

7, 8, 9
8
Not relevant as LANXESS cannot use any significant quantities
of recycled input materials in the manufacture of its products.

8–9

p. 38

8

Indirect energy consumption by primary source

p. 38

8

Energy saved due to conservation
and efficiency improvements

p. 33

8–9

EN6

Initiatives to increase energy efficiency
or based on renewable energies

p. 33, pp. 77 – 78,
http://green-mobility.
com/en/home/, http://
webmagazin.lanxess.de/
nimms-leicht/nimms-leicht.
html (German only)

8–9

EN7

Initiatives to reduce indirect energy
consumption and reductions achieved

p. 33

8–9

EN8

Total water withdrawal by source

p. 36, p. 38

8

EN11

Land in or adjacent to protected areas

pp. 32 –33

8

EN12

Impacts on biodiversity in protected areas

EN13

Habitats protected or restored

pp. 32 –33

8

EN16

Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions
by weight

pp. 33 – 35, p. 38

8

EN17

Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions
by weight

p. 35

8

8

EN18

Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions

pp. 33 – 35

7–9

EN19

Emissions of ozone-depleting substances
by weight

p. 38

8

EN20

NOX, SOX and other air emissions by type
and weight

p. 38

8

EN21

Total water discharge

p. 36, p. 38

8

EN22

Quantity of waste by type and disposal method

p. 36, p. 39

EN23

Total number and volume of significant spills

8
During work to clean a vessel in Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany, on
­September 9,­­2014, a chemical reaction occurred which resulted in
the emission of HCl and SO2. The road adjacent to the Chempark site
was closed as a precaution. The vapors were knocked down by the Fire
Department. No personal injury occurred.

8

On September 17, 2014, a technical defect at the site in Antwerp,
Belgium, resulted for a short time in elevated emissions of sulfur dioxide
from a stack. Due to the prevailing weather conditions, this had a negative
impact on one production area in a neighboring facility. Several employees
received medical treatment but were subsequently able to continue
working. The incident’s causes were investigated in detail and technical
improvements were installed.
EN26

Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts

p. 31, p. 36,
http://lanxess.com/en/
corporate/about-lanxess/
megatrends/water/

7–9

EN27

Reclaiming of packaging materials

p. 35

8–9

EN28

Fines for non-compliance with environmental
laws and regulations

EN29

Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials
used for the organization’s operations, and
transporting members of the workforce

8
pp. 34 –35

8

193

194

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

GRI Indicators

Location

Explanation

Status

UNGC

Labor practices and decent work
Management approach

pp. 18–26, pp. 28 – 29,
p. 40

LA1

Total workforce by employment type,
region and gender

p. 23, pp. 101 – 102

LA2

Employee turnover by age group,
gender and region

p. 19

LA3

Benefits provided to full-time employees

pp. 26 – 27

LA4

Employees covered by collective bargaining
­agreements

p. 27

1, 3

LA5

Minimum notice periods regarding significant
­operational changes

p. 27

3

LA6

Workforce representation in health
and safety c­ ommittees

LA7

Injuries, occupational diseases
and work-related accidents

pp. 28 – 29, p. 38, p. 101

1

LA8

Measures regarding serious diseases

p. 26 , pp. 28 –29

1

LA9

Health and safety topics covered in formal
­agreements with trade unions

p. 26

1

LA10

Hours of training per employee

pp. 22 – 24

LA11

Programs for skills management
and lifelong learning

pp. 22 – 25

LA12

Percentage of employees receiving regular
­performance and career development reviews

pp. 22 – 24
p. 3, p. 25, pp. 60 – 61

LA13

Composition of governance bodies

LA14

Ratio of basic salary and remuneration
of women to men

LA15

Take-up of parental leave, by gender

Status:

Fully reported

Partly reported

1, 3, 6

6

1

1, 6
1, 6

p. 25

Not reported      T Core indicator

T Additional indicator

Further information
GRI Content Index

GRI Indicators

Location

Explanation

Status

UNGC

Human rights
Management approach

pp. 13 –15, p. 18,
pp. 24 – 27, pp. 74 –75

1– 6

HR1

Investment agreements and contracts that
include human rights clauses or that have
undergone human rights screening

HR2

Percentage of suppliers and contractors that
have undergone human rights screening

HR3

Employee training on human rights aspects

We do not implement training dedicated to the topic of human rights. In
our view, the principles set forth in human rights are so firmly anchored in
LANXESS’s corporate culture that no further training appears to be necessary. There was no statistical measurement of the amount of time devoted
to the topic of human rights in general compliance training.

1– 6

HR4

Incidents of discrimination and actions taken

We have received no reports nor are we aware of any systematic discrimination of employees by LANXESS with regard to race, skin color, age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion, disability, union membership or
political opinion. In individual cases, misconduct by employees in respect
of colleagues or third parties was reported. We will never tolerate such
misconduct, if verifiable, and it will always result in disciplinary sanctions
up to and including dismissal. Such incidents are processed decentrally at
LANXESS and there is no central reporting system.

1, 2, 6

HR5

Violation of the right to exercise freedom
of ­association or collective bargaining

HR6

Principles and measures to eliminate
child labor

The LANXESS Group does not use child labor. By accepting our Supplier
Code of Conduct, suppliers also undertake not to use child labor. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier
assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier
Code of Conduct. We have received no reports or other indications of the
use of child labor by our suppliers.

1, 2, 5

HR7

Principles and measures to eliminate forced
or compulsory labor

The LANXESS Group does not use forced or compulsory labor. By accepting our Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers also undertake not to use
forced or compulsory labor. Significant suppliers of goods and services are
regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such
as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We have received no
reports or other indications of the use of forced or compulsory labor by our
suppliers.

1, 2, 4

HR8

Security personnel training

LANXESS does not employ its own security personnel at its sites but
procures security services from specialized external providers. They, like
all our suppliers, are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also
covers human rights.

1, 2

HR9

Violations involving rights of indigenous people

In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of cases involving
the violation of indigenous rights.

1, 2

HR10

Operations that have been subject to human
rights reviews and/or impact assessments

Our global Compliance Management System (CMS) covers all of
LANXESS’s business activities. Like all LANXESS’s business entities, the
CMS itself is subject to internal and external audits. On account of the full
integration of our CMS in the LANXESS organization, all business activities
are subject to permanent compliance monitoring, which also covers the
respect of human rights.

All acquisitions of companies or interests in companies are subject to a
careful due diligence process to ensure that human rights are also respected by the target company. Significant suppliers of goods and services are
regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as
compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human
rights. In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of human
rights violations by our suppliers.
p. 16, pp. 74 –75

1– 6

1– 3

In respect of our suppliers, LANXESS is actively involved in the Tf S (Together
for Sustainability) initiative, which was established and is operated by a
number of major chemical companies. Respect for human rights is one of
the main objectives and criteria of the supplier evaluations and audits that
are jointly performed by this initiative.
HR11

Number of grievances related to human
rights filed

1– 6

In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of grievances
related to human rights.

195

196

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

GRI Indicators

Location

Explanation

Status

UNGC

Society
Management approach

pp. 13 –15, pp. 17 –18,
pp. 41 – 43,
http://lanxess.com/en/
corporate/about-lanxess/
public-affairs/

SO1

Percentage of operations with implemented
local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs

pp. 41 – 43

SO2

Business units analyzed for risks related
to corruption

The analysis and monitoring of risks related to corruption are the responsibility of our Legal & Compliance Group Function. Various analytical
approaches and scopes are applied:
1. Assessment of the risk of exposure to corruption and general monitoring
of the internal control system: all business units
2. Transaction monitoring to ensure compliance with company regulations
with an influence on the prevention of corruption in the standard SAP
system: approximately 80% of all transactions
3. Dedicated corruption scans in seven countries which Transparency
International deems to be particularly at risk: approximately 20% of all
transactions

10

SO3

Percentage of employees trained in anticorruption policies and procedures

LANXESS applies a risk-oriented training concept. Corruption training
targets exposed professional groups and countries. The proportion of
employees from the total workforce who have received classroom-based
training is around 15%.

10

SO4

Actions taken in response to incidents
of corruption

In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of cases of active
corruption by LANXESS employees. In individual cases of verifiable corruption of LANXESS employees (passive corruption), we take disciplinary action
(usually dismissal) and, if the legal chances of success are high enough,
initiate civil damage claims (damages and criminal litigation). In fiscal 2014,
we recorded a single-digit number of cases of passive corruption.

10

SO5

Public policy positions and lobbying

SO8

Penalties for non-compliance with laws
and regulations

SO9

Operations with significant potential or actual
­negative impacts on local communities

pp. 32 – 34, pp. 36 –37,
p. 120

SO10

Prevention and mitigation measures
implemented

pp. 32 – 36

Status:

Fully reported

Partly reported

10

1–10

pp. 17 –18,
http://lanxess.com/en/
corporate/about-lanxess/
public-affairs/

Not reported      T Core indicator

T Additional indicator

Further information
GRI Content Index

GRI Indicators

Location

Explanation

Status

UNGC

Product responsibility
Management approach

pp. 13 –15, pp. 28 – 31

1, 8

PR1

Health and safety impacts during product
life cycles

pp. 28 – 32, pp. 74 – 75

1

PR3

Type of product and service information
required by legislation

pp. 30 – 31

8

PR4

Incidents of non-compliance with regulations
and voluntary codes concerning product and
service information

PR5

Customer satisfaction including results of
surveys measuring customer satisfaction

PR6

Programs for adherence to laws, standards
and voluntary codes related to advertising

Our communication and marketing activities comply with the relevant
laws and regulations, our corporate values and the Code for Legal
­Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS. The same applies to product marketing and advertising.

PR8

Complaints regarding breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer data

In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of complaints
regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.

PR9

Fines for non-compliance with laws
and r­ egulations concerning the provision
and use of products and services

At the present time, neither our compliance organization nor the Legal &
Compliance Group Function yet has a system for recording such cases. We
met the labeling and reporting deadlines resulting from the REACH and
GHS regulations for all affected substances in our portfolio.

8

p. 17

1

197

198

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Glossary

ISO 50001 International standard which defines requirements for
systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy
costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts.
ISO 9001 International standard which defines minimum requirements for quality management systems.
Polyamide A synthetic polymer with very good mechanical and
electrical properties and high resistance to chemicals and wear.

Industry-specific terms
CLP and GHS CLP is the abbreviation for classification, labeling and
packaging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains new provisions for the
classification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures.
It was announced on December 31, 2008 and has already entered
into force.
This new regulation is based on the Globally Harmonized System of
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which
ensures that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world.
The use of internationally agreed classification criteria and ­labeling
elements is aimed at making things easier for distributors and at
­protecting people and the environment worldwide from the hazards
that may be caused by chemicals.
Compounding facility A facility for processing and finishing engineering plastics to enhance their functional properties.
Elastomers Stable yet elastic and formable polymers that are used
to manufacture tires, rubber bands and sealing rings, for example.
ISO 14001 International standard which supports organizations
in introducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental
targets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental
management system.

REACH Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation, A
­ uthorization
and Restriction of Chemicals. The E.U. REACH Regulation stipulates the registration, assessment and approval of chemicals ­before
­marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers to
­determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and e
­ stimate
their impact on health and the environment.
Synthetic rubber Synthetic rubber is the term used for elastic
­polymers produced from petrochemical raw materials. It is the
­starting product for rubber production. With a 50 to 60% share of
production­volume, styrene-butadiene rubber is the most important
of the s­ ynthetic rubbers. It is used especially in the manufacture of
car tires.
VOC emissions Volatile organic compounds is the collective term for
organic carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become
gaseous at low temperatures.
Vulcanization Vulcanization is a process that applies heat and
­pressure over time to make rubber more durable. It destroys the
plastic properties of the rubber or rubber blend and makes it elastic.

Further information
Glossary

Financial glossary
Capital employed This is defined as total assets less deferred tax
assets and interest-free liabilities.

GDP Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services
produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined
for consumption.

Cash flow Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents.

Goodwill Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company. This is
measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value
of the net assets acquired.

Corporate governance Responsible corporate management
and oversight aligned with long-term value creation. It comprises
the o
­ bservance of laws, regulations, recognized standards and
recommen­dations as well as the implementation and application
of company guidelines and management and control structures.

Hedging An investment position intended to limit or offset certain
clearly identified risks such as exchange rate fluctuations or interest
rate changes.

Deferred taxes Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the
future from temporary differences between the carrying amount used
in the annual financial statements and the taxable value of ­assets and
liabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in future from unused
loss carryforwards or tax credits.
Due diligence The careful investigation and analysis of a c­ ompany,
particularly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and financial
­condition and its performance in the areas of technology and the
environment. It is undertaken especially by potential purchasers
involved in ­acquisition projects.

IAS/IFRS International Accounting Standards/International Financial
Reporting Standards. These are uniform international accounting
regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board
with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of financial statements and the publication of information of relevance to decisions.
Joint venture A contractual agreement between two or more partners
concerning an economic activity which they manage jointly.
Net financial liabilities Calculated as the sum of current and noncurrent financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest)
less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets.

EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before
deduction of interest and income taxes.

Net working capital The sum of all inventories and trade accounts
receivable less trade accounts payable.

EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorti­
zation: the operating result before deduction of interest and income
taxes plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and
equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible
assets.

Purchase price allocation Distribution of the cost of an acquisition
to the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.

EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa region
Equity method Accounting method that sets the interests in ­affiliated
companies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any
changes in the stakeholder’s interest lead to an adjustment in the
net assets of the affiliated company.
Financial covenants Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agreements and term sheets. These are contractually binding promises
by the borrower or obligor during the term of the loan agreement,
for example, that net financial liabilities will not exceed a defined
multiple of an earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals.

Rating Assessment of a debtor’s credit standing. Ratings are issued
by, for example, the world’s leading rating agencies such as Standard
& Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, but also by
banks applying their own criteria.
ROCE Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre
exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of profitability.
Sell-side analysts Sell-side analysts work for banks and b
­ rokerages.
They produce industry-specific analyses of listed companies. ­These
are used to assess the stock of the companies analyzed and to
make investment recommendations. Published in the form of
­research s­ tudies, these recommendations are targeted at external
users, ­especially institutional investors, and are intended to provide
­investment ideas.

199

200

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Index

H
High Performance Elastomers

8f, 69, 75, 77, 88, 114

High Performance Materials

69, 75, 77, 88, 93, 114

HR policy

18ff.

HSEQ targets

40

I
Income statement

83ff., 129, 168ff.

Inorganic Pigments

69, 93, 114

K
Keltan Elastomers

A
Advanced Industrial Intermediates

69, 88

Advanced Intermediates

69, 88f, 114, 183

Annual Stockholders’ Meeting

49, 57f

Awards

17, 28, 51

B
Board of Management

3, 55, 59, 102ff.

Bonds

49, 95ff.

Business conditions

80f, 112ff.

Butyl Rubber

8, 69, 88

C

8f, 69, 93

L
Leather

69, 78, 114

Liquid Purification Technologies

69, 75, 78, 93, 114

Liquidity

97, 115

M
Markets

5ff., 69, 80f, 112f

Material Protection Products

69, 89

Materiality matrix

16f

Megatrends

5f, 70

Multi-period overview

99

Capital expenditures

10, 92f, 115

Compensation

26f, 102ff.

Compliance

14f, 54f

Corporate governance

52ff.

O

Corporate responsibility

8, 12ff., 79

Offices

59f

Customer industries

69, 81, 113

Opportunities

119 ff.

D

N
Net financial liabilities

73f, 92, 98

P

Declaration of Compliance

53f

Performance Butadiene Rubbers

8f, 69, 88, 93, 114

Demography

25f

Performance Chemicals

9, 69, 75, 78, 89, 93, 114, 183

Directors’ dealings

58

Performance Polymers

8f, 69, 75, 77, 87f, 93, 114, 183

Diversity

24f

Products

5f, 30ff., 77f

Dividend

49, 115

E

R
Rating

50, 95

Earnings per share

86, 170f

Realignment

8ff.

EBITDA pre exceptionals

9f, 72, 84ff., 114

Research and development

77f

EBITDA margin

84, 88ff.

Rhein Chemie

9, 69

Education initiative

41ff.

Rhein Chemie Additives

9, 69, 114

Employees

18ff., 101f

Risk management

115ff., 174ff.

Environmental protection

28ff.

Rubber Chemicals

9, 69, 89

Equity

91, 131, 154ff.

F

S
Sales

83ff.

Financial management

95ff.

Saltigo

69, 114

Forecasts

112ff.

Segment reporting

87ff., 183ff.

Functional Chemicals

9, 69, 89

Sites

69f

Stakeholders

16ff.

Statement of cash flows

94, 132, 182

Statement of financial position

90ff., 128, 149ff.

Stock

44ff.

Strategy

4ff., 70ff., 114ff.

Subsidiaries

68, 147f

G
GRI Content Index

191ff.

Supervisory Board

55ff., 62ff.

Supervisory Board committees

57

Sustainability

5ff., 12ff.

T
Targets

5ff., 40, 114f

Tire & Specialty Rubbers

8, 69

Further Information
Index | Graphics and Tables

Graphics and Tables

Cover

Combined Management Report
68

Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG

69

Performance Polymers in Brief

69

Advanced Intermediates in Brief

69

Performance Chemicals in Brief

70

LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World

72

Value Management and Control System

74

Net Financial Liabilities

76

Selling Costs

76

Shares of Sales by Industry Sector

C2

LANXESS Group Key Data

78

Research and Development Expenses

C2

Sales by Region

78

Number of Employees in Research and Development

C2

Employees by Region

80

GDP and Chemical Production in 2014

80

Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro

81

Evolution of Major User Industries in 2014

82

Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2014

83

Key Financial Data

83

Group Sales

83

Effects on Sales

84

Sales by Segment

84

EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals

85

EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment

85

Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to EBIT

85

Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income

Strategy
6

Corporate Responsibility

7

Positioning of LANXESS Businesses

8

Three-Phase Realignment Program

9

The New Alignment of Our Business Units

10

Savings from Phase I of “Let’s LANXESS Again”

10

Capital Allocation

Corporate Responsibility
14

The Ten Principles of the Global Compact

86

Sales by Market

16

LANXESS Materiality Matrix

87

Sales by Segment

18

HR Strategies

87

Performance Polymers: Overview of Key Data

19

New Employees

88

Performance Polymers: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals

19

Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations

88

Advanced Intermediates: Overview of Key Data

19

Turnover by Region

89

Advanced Intermediates: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals

23

LANXESS Employee Structure by Segment

89

Performance Chemicals: Overview of Key Data

23

LANXESS Employee Structure by Functional Area

89

Performance Chemicals: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals

23

LANXESS Employee Structure by Employment Type

90

Reconciliation: Overview of Key Data

25

LANXESS Employee Structure by Age Group

90

Structure of the Statement of Financial Position

29

Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in
Absence from Work (LTIFR)

90

Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets

31

REACH Implementation Schedule

91

Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities

32

Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region

92

Ratios

33

Energy Consumption

92

Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization

33

Energy Consumption by Segment

93

Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment

34

Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2)

93

Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2014

34

Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment

94

Cash Flow Statement

35

VOC Emissions

95

Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2010

36

Water Consumption

96

Financing Structure

36

Wastewater

96

Maturity Profile of LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2014

36

Total Waste

97

LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index

36

Waste for Disposal

99

Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview

37

Input-Output Balance Sheet 2014

38

Environmental and Safety Performance Data

40

HSEQ Targets

42

Social Activities by Topic

42

Social Activities by Region

Investor Information

100

LANXESS AG Income Statement

100

LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position

102

Employees by Region

102

Employees by Segment

102

Employees by Functional Area

103

Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management

104

Compensation of the Board of Management

106

Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management)

46

Stock Performance since Listing

106

Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management)

46

Stock Performance 2014

107

Compensation Granted (Former Members of the Board of Management)

47

Performance Data 2014

107

Allocations (Former Members of the Board of Management)

47

Capital Market Information

109

Compensation of the Supervisory Board

48

Stockholder Profile as of January 31, 2015

113

Expected Growth in GDP and Chemical Production

48

Geographical Breakdown as of January 31, 2015

113

Expected Evolution of Major User Industries

49

Recommendations as of January 31, 2015

119

Main Sources of Risk

49

Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds

122

Financial Opportunities and Risks

125

Opportunity and Risk Profile

Corporate Governance
59

Offices Held by Serving Board of Management Members

60

LANXESS AG Supervisory Board

201

2 02

LANXESS Annual Report 2014

Financial Calendar 2015
May 7
Interim Report Q1 2015

May 13
Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, Cologne

August 6
Interim Report H1 2015

November 5
Interim Report Q3 2015

Please do not hesitate to contact us
if you have any questions or comments.
Contact Corporate Communications
Tel. +49 221 8885 2674
E-mail: mediarelations@­lanxess.com
Contact Investor Relations
Tel. +49 221 8885 3851
E-mail: ir@­lanxess.com

This Annual Report was published on March 19, 2015.

Masthead
­LANXESS AG
Kennedyplatz 1
50569 Cologne
Germany
Tel. +49 221 8885 0
www.lanxess.com
Agency
Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany
Photography (Management)
Alfred Jansen, Cologne, Germany
English edition
Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG
Language Service
Printed by
Kunst- und Werbedruck,
Bad Oeynhausen, Germany

Publisher:
lanxess AG
50569 Cologne
Germany
www.lanxess.com

