Annual Report 2016

Quality works.

2016

LANXESS Group Key Data
Q4 2015

€ million
Sales
Gross profit
Gross profit margin
EBITDA pre exceptionals1)
EBITDA margin pre exceptionals1)
EBITDA1)

Change %

2015

2016

1,806

1,915

6.0

7,902

7,699

(2.6)

365

370

1.4

1,748

1,754

0.3

20.2 %

19.3 %

22.1 %

22.8 %

Q4 2016

151

183

8.4 %

9.6 %

21.2

885

995

11.2 %

12.9 %

Change %

12.4

141

162

14.9

833

945

13.4

Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals1)

25

56

> 100

422

514

21.8

EBIT1)

71

35

(50.7)

415

464

11.8

3.9 %

1.8 %

5.3 %

6.0 %

EBIT margin1)
Net income (loss)
Earnings per share (€)
Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and
amortization of intangible assets (€)2)

15

2

(86.7)

165

192

16.4

0.16

0.02

(86.7)

1.80

2.10

16.4

(0.11)

0.24

> 100

Dividend per share (€)
ROCE3)
Cash flow from operating activities
Depreciation and amortization
Cash outflows for capital expenditures

2.03

2.69

32.5

0.60

0.707)

16.7

8.4 %

6.9 %

350

157

(55.1)

692

689

(0.4)

70

127

81.4

418

481

15.1

205

211

2.9

434

439

1.2

7,219

9,877

36.8
60.5

Total assets
Equity (including non-controlling interests)
Equity ratio4)
Net financial liabilities5)
Net financial liabilities after deduction of time deposits and
securities available for sale6)
Employees
Personnel expenses (€ million)

2,323

3,728

32.2 %

37.7 %

1,211

2,394

97.7
(77.8)

1,211

269

16,225

16,721

3.1

1,432

1,467

2.4

Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 day’s absence
(per million hours worked)

2.2

2.0

48.3

48.4

0.2

Total water consumption (in million cubic meters)

278.3

264.6

(4.9)

Emissions of greenhouse gases
(CO2 equivalents in thousand tons)

1,643

1,741

6.0

5.4

4.7

(13.0)

292.4

298.9

2.2

31.8

32.4

1.9

Energy consumption (petajoules)

Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand tons)
Total waste (in thousand tons)
Production wastewater (in million cubic meters)
1) E
 BIT: earnings before interest and taxes
EBIT pre exceptionals: EBIT disregarding exceptional charges and income
EBIT margin: EBIT in relation to sales
EBITDA: EBIT before depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortization of intangible assets
EBITDA pre exceptionals: EBITDA disregarding exceptional charges and income
EBITDA margin pre exceptionals: EBITDA pre exceptionals in relation to sales
See “Value Management and Control System” for details.
2) E
 arnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible
assets: earnings per share disregarding exceptional charges and income, amortization of intangible assets and attributable tax effects
See “Business Performance of the LANXESS Group” for details.

Sales by Region

3) R
 OCE: EBIT pre exceptionals in relation to capital employed (total assets less
deferred tax assets and interest-free liabilities); see “Value Management and Control
System” for details.
4) E
 quity ratio: equity in relation to total assets
5) N
 et financial liabilities: total of current and non-current financial liabilities (adjusted
for liabilities for accrued interest), less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets;
see “Value Management and Control System” for details.
6) S
 ee “Value Management and Control System” for details of the financial assets
deducted.
7) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017

Employees by Region

%

8.5

%

10.2
29.3
EMEA excluding Germany

17.2

8.6
Germany

Asia-Pacific

EMEA (excluding Germany)

Germany

Asia-Pacific

North America

Latin America

Latin America

45.5
18.0

North America

16.8
26.5

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

19.4

QUALITY
FIGURES, DATA
AND FACTS

SUSTAINABILITY
We consider corporate responsibility a prerequisite to being
able to operate successfully in the future and create value for all
stakeholders.

49 ISO-certified
companies with 79 sites
in 23 countries

In the Dow Jones Sustainability
Index World for the sixth time
in succession

First systematic analysis of our
product portfolio on the basis
of sustainability aspects

Reduction in energy consumption
per ton of product

43 HSE (health, safety, environment)
checks of production facilities

Around 200,000 people
reached by way of
not-for-profit projects

Occupational safety improved further:
LTIFR and RIR decrease again

Assessed suppliers account for 60 %
of relevant procurement spend

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

FIGURES

INNOVATION

DATA

We are increasing our competitiveness through the
development of innovative products and processes as
well as the ongoing optimization of existing production
processes.

FACTS

Patent portfolio with around 6,820
property rights

270 ongoing research and
development projects

2,442 suggestions for improvement
from employees in Germany

144 major research and development
alliances

IMPLEMENTATION OF
CORPORATE STRATEGY
We are pursuing a strategy that actively shapes
change, creates stability in an increasingly uncertain
environment and optimally balances the interests of all
stakeholders.

Realignment progressing faster
than planned

Acquisition improves
diversification

Capital expenditures of up to €400
million in the years ahead to increase
capacities and flexibility

FINANCIAL STABILITY
We take strategic decisions subject to the strict
application of a conservative financing policy guided
by clear criteria.

Equity ratio increased
to 37.7 %

Investment-grade ratings
confirmed
EBITDA margin pre exceptionals
substantially improved to 12.9 %

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

03

In Focus

AT LANXESS
WE LIVE QUALITY
It is at the core of our work. It is our
commitment to our customers, employees,
stockholders and partners. Quality
shapes our philosophy and our performance.
It’s what we call “Energizing Chemistry.”

Portfolio

More starting on
Page 24

More starting on
Page 38

Processes

Products

More starting on
Page 29

The front section of our Annual Report describes
key examples of our processes and products from
our portfolio.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

“We have consistently
implemented our strategy
to create a more stable
and profitable chemical
company.”
Matthias Zachert, Chairman of the Board of Management

Letter from
the ceo
PREFACE

Report
of the Supervisory
Board

06

Management

Matthias Zachert
Chairman of the Board of Management

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Letter from the CEO

Letter from the CEO

In the past year, we have decisively and successfully realigned
LANXESS. Through the extensive optimization of our organizational, business and administrative structures, we have sustainably improved not only our market and customer proximity but
also our cost situation. We have benefited from savings earlier
than we anticipated. At the same time, we have been faster than
we had planned at implementing optimizations at our production
sites. However, our most important step was the establishment
of the ARLANXEO joint venture with Saudi Aramco. As a result,
LANXESS already began growing again in 2016.
We are being as systematic in our approach to expansion as
we were in realigning the company in 2014 and 2015. At the
end of August, we closed our acquisition of the Clean and
Disinfect business of U.S. chemicals group Chemours. We have
since s­ uccessfully integrated these activities. In September, we
announced our intention to purchase U.S. company Chemtura in
what is the largest planned acquisition in our company’s history.
Prior to that, we had signed a corresponding agreement with
that company’s management. Chemtura’s shareholders have
since approved the acquisition by LANXESS. If the relevant
government agencies also give their approval, we will be able
to establish a leading global supplier of flame retardants and
lubricant additives. Chemtura’s products ideally complement and
extend our own portfolio. And we can significantly strengthen
our presence in the growing U.S. market.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

07

08

Management

With the acquisition of Chemtura, we will also be gaining some
2,500 highly qualified new colleagues. They will provide further
important impulses for the development of our value-based
performance culture – a culture centered on quality and sustainability that is increasingly evident in the way we think and work. In
order to outwardly communicate quality and all its many facets at
LANXESS, we initiated the “Quality Works” campaign, which has
been positively received.
The same applies to our commitment to sustainability, for which
we again received a number of significant awards in 2016. For
the sixth time in succession, we were included in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index World. The Carbon Disclosure Project honored us as the “Best Improver Germany,” proving that our claim
“Good for business, good for society” is not just a nice-sounding
slogan but represents the daily aspiration and motivation of each
and every one of us at LANXESS. This approach is reflected in
our reaffirmation in 2016 of our commitment to the U.N. Global
Compact.
On behalf of my colleagues on the Board of Management, I would
like to thank all our employees for their tremendous efforts that
made LANXESS so successful in 2016. I would also like to thank
our customers, business partners and you, our esteemed shareholders, for the trust and constructive criticism you have shown
us. Together, we can focus on tackling the challenges that lie
ahead with confidence, at a fast pace and with a clear objective
in sight.

Matthias Zachert
Chairman of the Board of Management

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

09

Letter from the CEO

Dr. Rainier van Roessel
Member of the Board
and Labor Relations Director
Performance Chemicals ·
Human Resources

Matthias Zachert
Chairman of the Board of Management
ARLANXEO ·
Corporate Communications ·
Corporate Development · Legal &
Compliance

Michael Pontzen
Chief Financial Officer
Accounting · Corporate Controlling ·
Mergers & Acquisitions · Tax &
Trade Compliance · Information Technology ·
Treasury & Investor Relations

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Dr. Hubert Fink
Member of the Board
Advanced Intermediates ·
High Performance Materials · Global
Procurement & Logistics · Production,
Technology, Safety & Environment

10

Management

Dr. Rolf Stomberg
Chairman of the Supervisory Board

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report of the Supervisory Board

Report of the
Supervisory Board
Dear Stockholders,
We can once again look back on an extremely successful fiscal
year. LANXESS not only substantially improved its operating
business, but impressively continued its strategic transformation
and optimization.
EBITDA pre exceptionals amounted to €995 million, marking the
third consecutive year of growth. The businesses of the “New
LANXESS,” comprising the Advanced Intermediates, Performance Chemicals and High Performance Materials segments,
more than compensated the ongoing weakness in the rubber
business.
The establishment of the joint venture ARLANXEO on April 1,
2016, marked a strategically important step. LANXESS operates the joint venture, to which it transferred its entire rubber
business, together with its strategic partner Saudi Aramco. The
liquidity acquired in establishing the joint venture was used to
pay down debt and support strategic development. LANXESS
was thus able to already close the acquisition of the Chemours
Clean and Disinfect business in fall 2016. Furthermore, the
acquisition of publicly traded U.S. company Chemtura Corporation was announced in September 2016.
Despite the ongoing challenges in the rubber business, 2017
again proved to be a year of growth. We plan to close the acquisition of Chemtura in mid-2017 and subsequently focus our efforts
on integrating the new business into our operations.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

11

12

Management

The Supervisory Board has supported the company in these
developments. During 2016, as in earlier years, the Supervisory
Board duly and fully performed the tasks and duties incumbent
upon it under the law, the articles of association and the rules
of procedure for the Supervisory Board. It advised the Board of
Management regularly on the management of the company and
monitored its work. In particular, it dealt with matters relating to
the company’s realignment, its strategic development and mea­
sures to increase competitiveness.
The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions of
fundamental importance for the company. The Board of Management informed us regularly in written and oral reports about
business performance, the situation of the Group, including the
risk situation, strategic development and current issues. On the
basis of these reports, we discussed significant business transactions in detail. We thoroughly examined the reports and the
resolutions proposed by the Board of Management and discussed
them at length in meetings of the full Supervisory Board and its
committees. If the law, articles of association or other provisions
required the Supervisory Board to approve the actions of the
Board of Management, we discussed these actions and adopted
resolutions on them.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Board of
Management were in regular contact outside of the Supervisory
Board’s meetings. We regularly discussed the present state of the
company, matters of strategy, planning, business performance,
risks, risk management, management development, compliance
and material events.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report of the Supervisory Board

Principal topics discussed by the
Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board met a total of seven times in 2016. It
passed one resolution outside of a meeting, voting by way of a
written procedure.
We regularly discussed the sales and earnings performance of
the company and its segments, as well as the financial position.
Additionally, the Board of Management kept us updated about
the overall state of the economy, the situation in the chemical
industry, the performance of LANXESS stock, and investment
and acquisition plans. Other important issues addressed by the
Supervisory Board are presented below.
The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held on March 15,
2016, was the review of the annual financial statements and
consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2015 and the proposal for use of the distributable profit. The Supervisory Board
also discussed and passed motions for resolution by the Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting and reviewed corporate governance
matters. In addition, the Board of Management outlined the key
aspects relating to an acquisition of the Chemours Clean and
Disinfect business. After careful deliberation, the Supervisory
Board approved LANXESS’s acquisition of this business. Moreover, we resolved to expand the framework for the company’s
bond program. Lastly, the Supervisory Board defined the variable
compensation for the members of the Board of Management on
the basis of target attainment in fiscal 2015.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

13

14

Management

At the meeting held on May 10, 2016, we discussed with the
Board of Management the company’s pension obligations, the
development of raw material costs and the economic environment in the rubber sector. The Board of Management additionally
made a full report on environmental protection and occupational
and plant safety, which was subsequently discussed by the full
Supervisory Board. Subject to the election of the auditor by the
Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, we also resolved on awarding
the audit contracts for the audit of the consolidated financial
statements for fiscal 2016 and for the review of the condensed
consolidated financial statements included in the half-year financial report. Lastly, we received an update on the business units
and on the economic performance of Currenta, a joint venture
between LANXESS and Bayer AG.
The meeting that took place immediately prior to the Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting on May 20, 2016, served to prepare that
meeting.
At the meeting held on August 9, 2016, the Board of Management reported on occupational safety measures and results.
Due to personnel changes on the Supervisory Board, we also
elected new committee members. We discussed the findings of
the efficiency review conducted with support from an external
HR consultancy, which confirmed the very good and constructive
cooperation within the Supervisory Board and with the Board of
Management. Suggestions were addressed. Lastly, the Supervisory Board reviewed the compensation of the members of the
Board of Management on the basis of updated benchmarks.
At an extraordinary meeting on September 25, 2016, the Board
of Management reported on the advanced status of negotiations
in connection with the acquisition of Chemtura. The opportunities
and risks relating to the acquisition were discussed in detail.
As a result, we resolved to approve the acquisition of Chemtura,
as proposed by the Board of Management, while making use of
a bridge loan and the issuance of bonds.
At the meeting held on November 9, 2016, the Board of Management gave us an initial report on the acquisition of Chemtura. We
also reviewed the corporate audit and compliance management
at the company.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report of the Supervisory Board

At its meeting on December 9, 2016, the Supervisory Board
reviewed in full and approved the budget for 2017 proposed by
the Board of Management. It also discussed the company’s
strategic alignment – including sustainability aspects – and
capital expenditure policy. As in previous years, current developments in corporate governance were a topic on the agenda
of the December meeting. After reviewing compliance with the
recommendations and suggestions of the Corporate Governance
Code, we resolved to issue a declaration of compliance. We also
addressed the tender procedure for appointing the auditor for
fiscal 2017, a process carried out under the leadership of the
Audit Committee. Lastly, the Supervisory Board defined the
conditions for the Board of Management’s variable compensation
components for fiscal 2017.
In a document circulation procedure at the end of December
2016, the Supervisory Board approved a two-year extension of
the exercise periods for the 2012 and 2013 tranches of the LongTerm Stock Performance Plan for the members of the Board of
Management, alongside granting additional rights, in a move
designed to increase the incentive effect. The declaration of
compliance was amended in accordance with Section 161 of the
German Stock Corporation Act.
All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees
performed their duties diligently and conscientiously. The
average attendance at meetings of the Supervisory Board and
its committees was 93 %. No member of the Supervisory Board
attended half or less than half of the meetings of the Supervisory
Board and the committees of which he or she is a member. The
stockholder representatives and employee representatives to the
Supervisory Board worked together in a spirit of trust. They regularly held separate meetings at which they prepared the meetings
of the full Supervisory Board. The members of the Board of
Management attended the Supervisory Board meetings unless
the Chairman of the Supervisory Board determined otherwise.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

15

16

Management

Work of the committees
The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit Com­
mittee, the Presidial Committee, the Nominations Committee
and the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3
of the German Codetermination Act. The committees are
tasked with preparing the topics and resolutions to be discussed
at meetings of the full Supervisory Board. They also, at times,
exercise decision-making powers conferred on them by the
Supervisory Board.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt
in particular with the annual financial statements of LANXESS
AG for fiscal 2015, the consolidated financial statements and
combined management report for fiscal 2015, the quarterly statements issued during fiscal 2016, and the condensed consolidated financial statements and interim management report included
in the 2016 half-year financial report. It also reviewed the company’s risk management and internal control systems. Another focus
of the committee’s work was conducting a tender and selection
procedure for the audit of the 2017 consolidated financial statements pursuant to Article 16, Paragraph 3 of Regulation (EU)
No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 16 April 2014 (Audit Regulation). The Audit Committee also
dealt with the concept for approving non-audit services. Other
topics discussed were the significant findings by the internal audit
department, corporate planning, compliance and the determination
of the principal areas of focus for the audit of the 2016 financial
statements. In addition, the committee reviewed the development
of international accounting standards, the situation concerning
the company’s rating and the audit of OTC derivative contracts
pursuant to Section 20 of the German Securities Trading Act.
The external auditor reported on the auditing activities at two of
the four Audit Committee meetings.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report of the Supervisory Board

The Presidial Committee convened five times during 2016 to
prepare the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the decisions to be reached by the full Supervisory Board at its meetings
concerning human resources measures in the company’s Board
of Management.
The Nominations Committee convened twice in 2016. The
Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the
German Codetermination Act did not need to convene.
The chairmen of the committees each reported on the meetings
and the work of the committees at the meetings of the full Supervisory Board.

Corporate governance and
declaration of compliance
In the year under review, the Supervisory Board discussed the
German Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The joint
declarations of compliance made by the Board of Management
and Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 161 of the German
Stock Corporation Act can be viewed by stockholders at any
time on the company’s website. As expressed in the declarations,
LANXESS AG complies with the Code’s recommendations and
suggestions except in a few justified cases. No conflicts of interest
on the part of Supervisory Board members became known last
year. Further information about corporate governance can be
found in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Board
of Management’s declaration pursuant to Section 289a of the
German Commercial Code.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

17

18

Management

Financial statements of LANXESS
AG and consolidated financial
statements of the LANXESS Group
The Board of Management of LANXESS AG prepared the financial statements for the 2016 fiscal year in accordance with the
rules of the German Commercial Code, the consolidated financial
statements for fiscal 2016 in accordance with the International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the combined management report for 2016. These were all audited by Pricewaterhouse­
Coopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, the auditor
appointed by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and engaged by
the Supervisory Board. The auditor issued an unquali­fied opinion
in each case.
The Supervisory Board convinced itself of the independence of
the auditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf.
The audit reports and the documents relating to the financial
statements were discussed at length with the Board of Management and the auditor at the Audit Committee meeting held on
March 13, 2017. They were also discussed in detail on the basis
of the required documents and notes at the Supervisory Board’s
financial statements meeting held on March 14, 2017. The responsible auditor was present for the discussions concerning the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial
statements of the LANXESS Group. He reported on the material
results of the audits. He was also available to the Audit Committee
and full Supervisory Board to provide additional information.
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well
as on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial
statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, the combined management report
and the proposal for appropriation of the profit, the Supervisory
Board endorsed the auditor’s conclusions and had no objections
to raise. The Supervisory Board has approved the annual financial
statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial
statements of the LANXESS Group, which were prepared by the

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report of the Supervisory Board

Board of Management. The Supervisory Board endorsed the
Board of Management’s proposal for use of the distributable profit
after close examination and extensive deliberations that carefully
weighed the best interests of the company and the stockholders.

Composition of the
Supervisory Board
The composition of the Supervisory Board changed in fiscal
2016. At midnight on May 31, 2016, Gisela Seidel resigned as a
representative of the LANXESS workforce prior to her retirement.
She was succeeded as a member of the Supervisory Board by
Ifraim Tairi, who was her elected substitute member. In addition,
Claudia Nemat resigned as a stockholder representative on the
Supervisory Board at midnight on June 30, 2016. The Local
Court of Cologne appointed Dr. Heike Hanagarth to replace her
as a stockholder representative and member of the Supervisory
Board of LANXESS AG effective July 1, 2016. Dr Hanagarth will
be standing for election by the stockholders at the 2017 Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting.
The Supervisory Board thanks the members of the Board of
Management, all of the Group’s employees around the world and
the employee representatives for their commitment and work in
fiscal 2016.

Cologne, March 14, 2017
The Supervisory Board

Dr. Rolf Stomberg
Chairman

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

19

THANKS

THE SUPERVISORY BOARD
thanks the Board of
Management, all of the Group’s
employees and the employee
representatives.

Contents
Lanxess Annual Report 2016

05 To our Stockholders
06 Letter from the CEO
10 Report of the Supervisory Board
24 In Focus: At LANXESS We Live Quality
46 Review 2016
50 Strategy
58 Corporate Responsibility
60 CR Management
68 Employees
74	Health, Safety, Environment and Climate
Protection in the Value Creation Chain
86 Society
88 LANXESS on the Capital Market
94 Corporate Governance
96 Corporate Governance Report
104 Financial Information
106 Combined Management Report
166 Consolidated Financial Statements
229 Responsibility Statement
230 Auditor’s Report
231 Further Information
231 About this Report
234 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report
236 GRI Content Index
243 Glossary
246 Index
247 Graphics and Tables
248 Financial Calendar/Contacts

24

In focus

READY FOR
The Next LEVEL
With the biggest acquisition in company history,
LANXESS will more than double its additives
business in one go.

T
€100
million

The anticipated
synergy effects
should be realized
by 2020.

hey are the unsung stars of the
industry. Though often used in
negligible amounts, additives play
a major part in determining the properties –
and ultimately the quality – of chemical
products. They increase the efficiency of
fuels, extend the shelf life of foods and reliably suppress unwanted product properties, such as combustibility. From a development perspective, additives are the most
demanding discipline; from a sales perspective, they deliver guaranteed growth.
Expected annual market growth in the
mid-term is between 3 % and 4 %. Under
these circumstances, it is easy to understand why LANXESS began in 2014 to lay
the organizational groundwork for the
value-adding advancement of this segment,
by pooling all additives activities in the
Rhein Chemie Additives business unit. Two
years would then go by in relative calm,
until the night of September 26, 2016.
A complete surprise
To everyone’s surprise, the message,
“LANXESS planning to acquire Chemtura,”
scrolled across news agency screens
shortly after 12.30 a.m. Unnoticed by usually well-informed market participants, the
LANXESS and Chemtura management
teams had spent months negotiating
an acceptable takeover agreement that
was beneficial to both parties. Under the
agreement, shareholders of the publicly
traded Chemtura Corporation will receive US$ 33.50 per share in cash for
each outstanding share of common stock

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

held, which represents a 18.9 % premium
to the stock’s closing share price on September 23, 2016. The transaction thus has
an enterprise value of around €2.4 billion,
making it the largest acquisition in the
history of LANXESS.
But what is this company, for which
LANXESS is prepared to pay billions?
With headquarters in Philadelphia and administrative offices in Middlebury, U.S.A.,
Chemtura is one of the largest global
suppliers of flame retardant and lubricant
additives. Thanks to their high-level effectiveness, brominated flame retardants like
those marketed by Chemtura are primarily
used in insulation materials for buildings
and in the electronics industry. Lubricant
additives and synthetic lubricants are used
in industrial applications, for instance in
power generation and aviation. Although
Chemtura generates half of its sales in North
America, the company can legitimately be
called a global player: 2,500 employees
at 20 locations in 11 countries generated
sales of around €1.5 billion in 2016.
A perfect match
The question as to what makes the
move a “strategic fit” is consistently answered with the term: “integrated value
chain.” “Chemtura has a competitive global
position in industrial lubricant additives
and additionally manufactures the associated precursors and intermediates. By
combining its products with our own additives, we would advance to become one
of the largest suppliers in the industrial

25

Portfolio

A Further Milestone on our Growth Path
LANXESS's new additives business – a true champion

One of the major players

Sales: €2 billion

A strong pillar
of the enterprise

Competitive
positioning

New segment:
Performance Additives
LANXESS
additives business
High
profitability
Significantly
above-average
EBITDA margin

Chemtura
additives business

Stable market
growth
3–4 % p. a.

Global
sales distribution

North America 45 % Europe 30 %
Asia 22 %		
Latin America 3 %

Highly integrated lubricants value chain
LANXESS

Chemtura

Synthetic base oils

Strong backward
integration

Chemical intermediates

Additives

Complementary
product groups

Greases

Packages1)

Optimal platfom
for growth

Lubricants

1) Packages: technical term for formulations/mixtures of different additive components

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

26

In focus

LANXESS
Chemtura

“With this acquisition, we
are creating a champion
in the additives segment
and strengthening our
profitable portfolio.”
Anno Borkowsky,
head of Rhein Chemie Additives

lubricants segment, and further strengthen our competitiveness with an integrated
value chain,” explains Anno
Borkowsky, head of Rhein
Chemie Additives. The
same applies to the flame
retardant additives segment:
“With the acquisition, we would also become one of the world’s largest suppliers
of high-performance flame retardant additives. In the future, we could offer our
customers both bromine- and phosphorusbased products from a single supplier.”
Rhein Chemie Additives already has a
competitive position in the phosphorusbased flame retardants business and a
backward-integrated value chain.
After completion of the transaction,
Chemtura’s two additives divisions will be
combined with Rhein Chemie Additives
to form the new Performance Additives
segment – LANXESS’s additives business
will have more than doubled in size.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Attractive dowry
The additives business makes up
around 75 % of sales, meaning it contributes greatly to shaping the face of
Chemtura. But a closer examination of the
remaining 25 % is important, because behind this seemingly marginal business are
other activities that would be a meaningful
addition to the LANXESS portfolio.
The Urethanes business unit is a major
supplier of hot-cast prepolymers, specialty
aqueous urethane dispersions and polyester polyols. These are components of
specialty polyurethanes, used primarily in
the construction, mining, oil, gas, athletic
equipment and electronics industries. For
example, rollers for conveyor belts or inline
skates are manufactured from these polyurethanes. The Urethanes business is to
be integrated into the High Performance
Materials segment, which is home to
LANXESS’s performance plastics business.
Furthermore, Chemtura is among the
world’s major suppliers of organome-

27

Portfolio

An interview with Matthias Zachert

“The acquisition of
Chemtura represents a
major strategic step.”
Matthias Zachert,
CEO

Mr. Zachert, hundreds of
potential acquisition targets exist
in the chemical industry for a
company like LANXESS.
Why did you choose Chemtura?
Very simply: Chemtura meets all
the criteria we had defined for
an acquisition candidate in the
context of our new strategy.
The company is very well positioned in a high-growth, mid-sized
market. Moreover, it has a strong
presence in North America,
a region in which we want to
grow, as you know. Our product
portfolios and value chains ideally
complement one another and
offer significant synergy effects.
And not least, with Chemtura we
could acquire a very profitable
company at reasonable terms –
remember we are talking here
about a current EBITDA margin
of over 17 %.
What exactly are
“reasonable terms”?
In view of the anticipated synergies, we would expect an EV/
EBITDA multiple of about seven,

which is very good in an international comparison.
LANXESS has never undertaken an
integration process of this magnitude before. Where do you begin?
We are moving forward very rapidly with planning the integration
process. Shortly after the intended
acquisition was announced, my
colleagues on the Board of Management and I traveled around the
world to the major Chemtura sites to
personally inform employees there
of the purpose and added value of
the merger. In mid-October, about
25 members of Chemtura’s top management came to visit us in Cologne
to plan the next steps leading up to
closing. During these discussions, we
defined 16 work streams, in which
LANXESS and Chemtura employees
are working together on the integration project. A Steering Committee,
comprising my esteemed colleague
Craig A. Rogerson of Chemtura, our
Board member Rainier van Roessel
and myself, is keeping an eye on the
overall process and has the final say
in any strategic decisions.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Aren’t you taking the second step
before the first, so to speak? After
all, various approvals from government agencies, such as the antitrust authorities, are still pending.
From our own experience, we know
that successful integration has to be
done rapidly to avoid uncertainty.
This was the guiding principle for
our actions. And with regard to the
antitrust authorities: It isn’t as if we
ignore antitrust issues in our considerations prior to such transactions.
The U.S. antitrust authorities have
already signaled that they have
no objections to the acquisition.
Antitrust approval is still pending in
a few other markets, including the
European Union and China. But we
are optimistic of receiving all the
necessary approvals by mid-year.
Where will LANXESS’s additives
business be in five years?
The Performance Additives segment
should be one of the world’s leading
suppliers in its markets, generating
strong margins and thrilling customers every day with intelligent
solutions tailored to individual needs.

28

In focus

“Our corporate bonds
and our hybrid bond
were very well received
by the capital market.”
Michael Pontzen, CFO

Chemtura employs some 2,500 people worldwide
and has business operations at 20 locations in
11 countries. The company is headquartered in
Philadelphia, U.S.A.

EUROBONDS

HYBRID BOND

Successful
bond issues secure
financing for the
transaction.

tallics, which are chemical compounds
used as catalysts in polymer production
or in the synthesis of fine chemicals and
pharmaceuticals. This segment will be integrated into the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit after the closing.
What counts is the bottom line
Leading market positions, integrated
value chains, years of combined know-how:
Viewed strategically, the logic of this acquisition is not at issue. But wherever shareholders are involved – in this case on both
sides – the question of the financial consequences must not be left unanswered.
It is time now to talk about the numbers.
The acquisition of Chemtura, which
generated an EBITDA margin of 17 % in
fiscal year 2016, is already expected to be
accretive to LANXESS’s earnings per share
in 2018, the first full fiscal year after closing.
Annual synergies from the transaction of

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

approximately €100 million can be expected by 2020. The financing of the acquisition has also been secured for some time
now thanks to the successful issuing of two
eurobonds with a total volume of €1 billion
and the first LANXESS hybrid bond with a
volume of €500 million.
Alongside September 26, 2016, the
date February 1, 2017, is a milestone in
the history of this acquisition. On that day,
Chemtura shareholders voted by a large
majority to allow LANXESS to acquire their
company. With that, undoubtedly the most
important hurdle had been cleared, but
not the last. The transaction is now subject
to approval by individual antitrust authorities. The official closing of the transaction
is expected in mid-2017. If everything goes
according to plan, LANXESS’s additives
business will advance to a new level from
then on – on par with the heavyweights in
the industry.

29

Products

A sure
thing

W

hether they’re for wood coatings,
emulsion paints, other coatings or
plasters, preservatives from Material Protection Products are used worldwide to
shield a variety of materials from microbial attack. Since the end of August, the business
unit’s portfolio has been expanded to include
a number of new and highly efficient active ingredients and specialty chemicals primarily for
disinfection and hygiene solutions. They make
up the former Clean and Disinfect business

The LANXESS Material Protection
­Products business unit is dedicated
to providing protection against
microorganisms.

With the acquisition of the
Clean and Disinfect
business of U.S. chemical
company Chemours,
Material Protection Products
has expanded its portfolio
of active ingredients.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

30

In focus

of U.S. chemical company Chemours. One of
the core products is the disinfectant Virkon® S,
used in the growing veterinary disinfectants
segment. Studies show that Virkon® S is effective against 65 strains from over 19 virus families, 400 bacteria strains and over 100 yeast
strains, including leading diseases on the A-list
of the World Organisation for Animal Health
(OIE), such as avian influenza (H5N1), swine
influenza (H1N1), Newcastle disease, classical
swine fever and foot-and-mouth disease.
Effective protection
International testing laboratories have
found that Virkon® S is effective against strains
of the highly contagious influenza virus in birds.
This is true even under difficult conditions, such
as high organic load, dilution by rainwater, low
temperatures or exposure to other pathogens
that can exist on farms. Virkon® S is effective
even when diluted 1:100, and is recommended as a preventive and continuous biosafety
measure.
Prompted by the occurrence of avian influenza H5N8, which is spreading across many
European and Asian countries, European veterinary experts are advising poultry farmers to
increase their biosafety programs so as to minimize the risk of infection of millions of European
poultry by diseased, wild migratory birds. Even

if poultry flocks are housed and believed to be
safe, the virulent virus can still be introduced to
farms by adhering to motor vehicles. Workers
can then spread the virus further through contact with their clothing or shoes.
Unlike many other disinfectants, Virkon® S
remains effective even at low winter temperatures and in the presence of organic loads
across the entire pH spectrum, without having to
increase the concentration or contact time.

What helps against avian flu?
Bettina Blottko, head of the Actives & Disinfection business
line in the Material Protection Products business unit

The effectiveness of Virkon® S against members of the
orthomyxoviruses, including the H5N1 subtype of the
avian influenza, has already been verified in numerous
tests. We therefore expect that the disinfectant will
also deactivate the H5N8 subtype. The most important
factor in emergency control of the virus is heightened
awareness among all stakeholders, and by that I mean
continuous biosafety measures, such as disinfecting
shoes, tires, water supply systems and entire stalls with
a disinfectant that has a reliable effect on the highly
contagious avian influenza virus.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

31

Hier steht eine Navigation

The material is the key – hybrid
technology is trending in lightweight
vehicle construction.

A lightweight solution
With high-performance plastics like
Durethan®, Pocan® and Tepex®
and innovative solutions, LANXESS
is paving the way for the mobility
of tomorrow.

W

orldwide, growing demands are
being made of motor vehicles.
They are expected to be as light
as possible and environmentally friendly. The
reasons for this are diverse. Resources are
dwindling, while mobilization is rapidly increasing, particularly in emerging economies. At the
same time, there is a greater need to reduce
climate-damaging carbon dioxide emissions
per vehicle. Furthermore, consumers increasingly want more fuel-efficient cars that are also
safe, comfortable and easy on the environment.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

 ightweight construction is the
L
key to sustainable mobility
Meeting all of these needs presents major
challenges for motor vehicle manufacturers
and their suppliers. Lightweight construction is
one key technology for successfully mastering
these challenges. No matter how efficient a
modern combustion engine is, auto makers
can most effectively reduce fuel consumption
in both gasoline and diesel cars by cutting the
vehicle’s overall weight. High-performance
plastics from LANXESS, such as Durethan®,
Pocan® and Tepex®, can replace many of the
metal parts in cars to help reduce weight and
fuel consumption, without compromising on
vehicle safety. These modern materials are
already used to make both body and interior
components, including parts for engines and
seating, spoilers and door handles.

32

In focus

Three questions for
Dr. Tim Arping, head of Marketing in the High Performance Materials business unit

As of 2020, all newly registered passenger vehicles in
the E.U. will be subject to a CO² limit of 95 grams per
kilometer. How can this goal be achieved?
Automotive manufacturers are putting their cars on a
diet. Reducing their weight by 100 kilograms can save
up to 0.5 liters of fuel over 100 kilometers. Depending
on the engine and fuel type, that means between 8.8 and
12.5 grams less carbon dioxide per kilometer.
Vehicle weight can be reduced using hybrid components. What are their main characteristics?
A frontend system is a hybrid component made of plastic
and metal that is up to 40 percent lighter than an allmetal design. Yet when it comes to safety and stability, it
is a good match for its steel counterpart. And even more
weight can be saved using our Tepex® technology, which
incorporates continuous glass or carbon fibers
in the plastic.
How important will the use of plastic components
be in connection with electromobility?
Plastics will make a very decisive contribution to
achieving a breakthrough in electromobility as a
mass-market technology. A mid-range vehicle today
comprises only about 15 percent plastic. This share
can and will increase significantly. As a result, cars
will become lighter and the range of electric cars –
currently perceived as inadequate by many consumers – will increase significantly.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Plastics in the body
Yet Durethan®, Pocan® and Tepex® are
not only lighter than steel and aluminum; they
can also be combined with many other materials, such as metal. Thanks to LANXESS’s
innovative hybrid technology, it is possible to
manufacture high-strength, load-bearing components. Furthermore, when using LANXESS
plastics in industrial injection molding processes, numerous functions can be integrated into
hybrid components to reduce assembly costs.
Another advantage that opens up new application options: High-performance plastics from
LANXESS are resistant to aggressive biofuels.
But today’s hybrid or plastic components
are not just functional; they also offer optical
features, as illustrated by an all-plastic brake
pedal with an insert made of LANXESS’s
Tepex® dynalite. It was recently awarded first
place in the “Body Interior” category of the
Society of Plastics Engineers (SPE) Automotive
Awards, which are among the most prestigious
innovation awards for the automotive industry and its suppliers. The safety component
is used in the Porsche Panamera NF and the
Bentley Continental GT. It was developed by
BOGE Elastmetall GmbH, a global specialist
in vibration control technology and lightweight
components for the automotive industry, in collaboration with LANXESS’s High Performance
Materials business unit.
“Special recognition was given to the fact
that the brake pedal weighs about half as much
as a comparable steel design. It can also be
manufactured in large-series production using
a cost-effective one-shot process, and meets
the high load requirements thanks to the ­Tepex®
insert,” explains Ulrich Jecmeniza, a lightweight construction expert at Bond-Laminates
GmbH, the LANXESS subsidiary that develops
and manufactures Tepex® continuous fiberreinforced thermoplastic composites.

33

Products

Quality you
Can drink

With its Lewabrane® membrane elements, the
Liquid Purification Technologies business unit
offers a high-performance solution for ensuring
a reliable supply of drinking and purified water.

Water is becoming increasingly valuable.
Less than 1 % of global water resources are
available for human consumption.

F

resh, clean water is scarce in
many regions of the world, even
though 72 % of the earth’s surface is covered by water. Population
growth, pollution and climate change
frequently exacerbate the water shortage, especially in already disadvantaged countries. For example, people
in some developing countries have to
make do with just five liters of water a
day, while the average European consumes 200 liters a day. The steady rise
in per capita consumption is becoming problematic, particularly in regions
where potable water is scarce to begin
with, such as the Arabian peninsula,
northern Africa, Spain and parts of

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

34

In focus

the United States and Australia. It must be kept
in mind that not only the population, but also
farming and other industries are dependent
on a reliable water supply.
Making seawater useful
An energy-efficient solution for securing
this water supply is seawater desalination by
means of reverse osmosis. Lewabrane® membrane elements from LANXESS have proven
effective in this application. They can be used
to desalinate seawater centrally for an entire
region, or locally for smaller units, such as
hotel complexes. One example can be found
in Lazorde Bay, west of Alexandria, Egypt. A
water treatment plant there produces 900
cubic meters of drinking water each day for
a hotel complex. “48 Lewabrane® reverse osmosis membrane elements turn water from the
Mediterranean into drinking water,” explains
Alexander Scheffler, head of the membrane
business in the Liquid Purification Technologies business unit.
The process is as follows: The water is
forced under high pressure through a semipermeable membrane which acts as a filter,
holding back specific ions. In this way, salt and
other unwanted substances are removed from
the water. “Our system guarantees a steady
supply of high-quality, purified water even
under conditions of fluctuating water temperatures or pH values,” adds Scheffler. “And,
depending on the intensity of use, it keeps up
this performance for years on end.”

LANXESS manufactures membrane
filters for water treatment applications
at its site in Bitterfeld, Germany.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

35

Products

Water recycling
Alexander Scheffler, head of the membrane
business in the Liquid Purification Technologies
business unit

Lewabrane® elements consist of
spirally wound thin-film composite
membranes that were developed
specifically for water treatment
applications.

The chemical industry utilizes a great deal of
water. What solutions does it provide to facilitate
resource-saving water consumption?
Thanks to many changes in industrial production
processes and the continuous optimization of water
treatment, consumption has been steadily reduced
over the years. Innovative products from the chemical
industry itself have made a major contribution to this
progress. In a state-of-the-art production plant, water
is now recycled an average of 28 times before being
discharged into a downstream treatment process,
purified and returned to the general water cycle.

 or people, the environment
F
and industry
Yet reverse osmosis membrane elements
from LANXESS have many more uses than just
seawater desalination. They are also used, for
instance, to treat municipal wastewater. In industry, they help to produce boiler feed water in
power plants, or the ultra-pure water required
in microchip manufacturing.
Today, thousands of Lewabrane® reverse
osmosis membrane elements from LANXESS
are used around the world to generate clean
water. “Our technology has already proven
effective in a wide variety of projects in 25
countries,” says Scheffler. “In this way, we at
LANXESS are helping to preserve one of the
most important foundations of life on earth:
clean water.”

The trend increasingly is moving toward zero liquid
discharge, which means that absolutely no waste
water from production should be discharged into
the environment. To achieve this goal, we must
carefully determine which levels of water quality can
be reused in which process step, and how highly
contaminated water can be treated and returned to
the process. We currently are working on a similar
concept for our own production facilities.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

36

In focus

Gentle protection
against bites
Mosquitoes, ticks and similar insects
can be a real nuisance. When the
weather turns warm, they often spoil
people’s enjoyment of the outdoors;
they can also transmit the pathogens
that cause dangerous diseases.

O

n vacation at the beach, at a party
in the park, on a hike in the woods
or even in your own backyard, the
great outdoors is a recreational paradise for
many people – unless, of course, there are too
many insects around. Given the right weather,
hungry mosquitoes, stable flies, ticks and horse
flies can seem to be everywhere. Worse than
the non-stop itching, however, is the risk of
contracting malaria, dengue fever, Zika virus,
borreliosis or encephalitis.
Reliable protection is provided by Saltidin,
an active ingredient that is manufactured by
LANXESS subsidiary Saltigo in Dormagen,
Germany, and used in many popular insect
repellents. “Saltidin forms a film-like layer on
the skin that stops mosquitoes from smelling
anything,” explains Beate Tombeux, who helps

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

37

Products

LANXESS subsidiary
Saltigo supplies a
product that provides
effective protection
against these tiny
bloodsuckers: Saltidin.

Saltigo’s Saltidin customers worldwide to
formulate their products. However, the insect
repellent must be applied all over because only
those areas of skin covered with Saltidin are
actually protected against blood-thirsty insects
and ticks. Tombeux knows this from her own
experience: “I always test new products on
myself,” she says with a grin. “I mix my own
formulations in my lab.”
Saltidin offers great versatility
Over 170 different products containing various Saltidin concentrations are sold
worldwide in supermarkets, drug stores and
pharmacies. They are available in the form of
sprays, gels, lotions, moist towelettes, sticks
and creams. Products for horses and dogs are
also on the market. The retail products are sold
as “repellents” because, in contrast to insecticides, they don’t actually kill the attackers, but
simply prevent them from biting or stinging. In
addition, repellents result in the much slower
development of resistance than insecticides.
Saltidin-based formulations have a pleasant
odor and do not damage plastics or textiles as
badly as other products. Moreover, Saltidin is
considered to be very skin-friendly and environmentally compatible. Products containing this
active ingredient can be used without reservation for small children and expectant mothers,
an aspect which is of particular importance
given the rapid spread of the Zika virus since
2015, especially in Brazil.
In view of these many advantages, the
use of Saltidin is recommended by health
protection agencies around the world including the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), the European Center for
Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and
Queensland Health in Australia. Germany’s
respected Stiftung Warentest, a consumer
testing company, also gave good ratings to
insect repellents containing LANXESS’s active ingredient. The World Health Organization
(WHO) even recommends Saltidin to prevent
the diseases transmitted by mosquitoes, such
as malaria, yellow fever, dengue fever and West
Nile fever.

Demand is growing
Beate Tombeux, product manager for Saltidin
at Saltigo

We have conducted extensive toxicological studies
and dermatological tests to meet the most exacting
demands of regulatory agencies. Development cost
some €10 million, but the investment has paid off.
Saltidin has convinced government institutions and
consumer organizations worldwide.
In 2016, demand for Saltidin increased by a massive
50 % year on year. To ensure our global supply
capability in the long term, we are planning to make
additional investments in expanding our capacities
in Dormagen.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

38

In focus

From a trade to a
recycling industry

500

products
supplied by LANXESS
for use in
leather production

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

39

Processes

With the Sustainable Leather Management
initiative, LANXESS has created a platform for
developing new processes with a stronger focus
on environmental protection and preserving
resources.

As a driver of innovation, LANXESS is
helping to move leather production
into the future by combining technology
with sustainability.

L

eather is a popular material: Lovers of
expensive cars swear by it, as do fashion
and furniture designers. For over 1,000
years, the tanning industry has been producing
versatile leather products from what is essentially a byproduct of the meat industry. But even a
traditional trade has to keep up with the times,
for example by using sustainable process chemicals that are easy on the environment, preserve
resources and protect people.
Eco-friendly leather production
LANXESS launched the Sustainable
Leather Management initiative with the aim of
transforming global leather production to meet
these requirements. With this platform of sustainable and ecological processes and products,
LANXESS helps tanners worldwide to produce
leather that meets both legal regulations and the
individual quality demands of brand manufacturers of everything from footwear and motor
vehicles to furniture.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Waste product to raw material
Levotan X-Biomer technology is just
one example of the intensive research work
LANXESS is investing in the development of
sustainable solutions for leather production.
Retanning agents traditionally are used to modify the softness, color, structure or elasticity of
leather. The special feature of the X-Biomer
product line: The products not only reduce
waste water contamination, they are also biodegradable and made from renewable raw
materials. Dr. Thomas Brackemeyer, head of
the Organic Leather Chemicals business line in
the LANXESS Leather business unit: “We use
the leather shavings produced when hides are
adjusted to a uniform thickness. We recycle this
waste product of the tanning industry, returning
it to the production cycle as a raw material for
retanning chemicals.” Some 600,000 tons
of leather shavings are generated each year
around the world, which have to be sent to
landfill if they cannot be put to further use.
 ur innovation hub:
O
the Technical Center
Each step in leather production has been
recreated in LANXESS’s Leather Technical
Center in Leverkusen. Fifty employees test new
processes and products in this “miniature tannery” and research and development laboratory.
LANXESS markets different system solutions
for all leather processing steps – from innovative process chemicals, mineral and synthetic
tanning agents and preservatives, to premium
finishing products for all types of leather. Formulations are developed and tested at the Technical Center in Leverkusen. The business unit
operates a second Technical Center at its

40

In focus

Changzhou site in China, which is the world’s
leading leather producer and offers unique
growth opportunities.
Thanks to this intensive research work,
LANXESS today is one of the leading manufacturers of leather chemicals in the world and
the global market leader for tanning agents.
“Our combination of novel product solutions
and applications expertise means we can offer our customers innovative and sustainable
technologies,” says Brackemeyer. “In technical
terms, the existing chemistry is outstanding.
But it’s sometimes hard to optimize and ensure
sustainability. We therefore keep rethinking the
possibilities and are determined to go in new
directions.”

Modern chemical products
today make up around 25 % of the
weight of finished leather.

Measurable benefits for customers
Dr. Kai-Silke Koeppen, head of Strategy & Business Development
for the Leather business unit

Leather production involves about 20 steps, such as unhairing of the hides,
tanning and leather finishing to achieve optical or functional features. Some 50
to 60 leather chemicals are used in the process. We aim to achieve measurable advantages in leather processing – reduced emissions, manageable
health risks, a reduced CO² footprint – without losing sight of our customers’
cost-efficiency.
Providing our customers with applications advice is increasingly important in
this connection. This year, for example, we collaborated with CADS – a cooperative venture of the German Footwear Institute that is committed to reducing
hazardous substances in footwear – to host a two-day seminar at which we
updated 50 leading companies in the leather industry about the responsible
use and scientific risk assessment of LANXESS’s phenolic preservatives in
leather production.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

41

Processes

Taking process control
to a new level
From tires to technical rubber goods: demands on the
quality of industrially manufactured rubber products are on
the rise. Representative analysis of rubber compounds
can bring a real competitive advantage.

W

ith its new Rhenowave® inline process control system, the Rhein
Chemie Additives business unit
(ADD) heralded a new era of process control
at the K 2016 trade fair. For the first time, a
technology is now available that ensures the
consistently high quality of rubber compounds
in industrial processing, minimizes scrap rates
and can therefore tangibly reduce production
costs. “With Rhenowave®, we help rubber processors to achieve an entirely new level of
quality in the extrusion process, because our
technology enables them to test rubber compounds for possible defects while they are
being produced,” says Philipp Junge, head of
the Rubber Additives business line in ADD.
The Rhenowave® system can evaluate the
quality of a compound in less than a second
after it exits the extruder. Moreover, it is possible to analyze the homogeneity and composition of the entire compound. Any areas where
compound quality is insufficient are recognized
immediately rather than later in the product, as
was previously the case.

Rhenowave® is installed on the head of
the existing extruder. Measurement is volu­
metric, non-destructive and representative.

Ultrasound analysis
Rhenowave® is installed on the head of the
existing extruder. The measuring unit consists
of two ultrasound transducers, a transmitter
and a receiver, which the rubber compound
flows between. At least ten times per second,
the transmitter emits a consistent ultrasound
signal which travels through the rubber compound to the receiver. The components in a
rubber compound muffle the ultrasound signal
to differing degrees. Different formulations

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

42

In focus

At a glance
Dr. Benjamin Bechem, Global Marketing Manager
New Technologies for the Rubber Additives business line
in the Rhein Chemie Additives business unit
What are the main advantages of Rhenowave®
compared with other analytical methods?
The data collected are representative of the whole compound. Up to now, it has been usual
to test only a small sample of the compound – about 100 grams per 100 kilograms – in
the laboratory. The results are then applied to the entire compound. This means, however,
that defective areas may go undetected. At the same time, there is also a risk of drawing
false conclusions about the entire compound based on one randomly defective sample. By
utilizing the non-destructive Rhenowave® technology, customers receive information about
several kilograms or even the entire compound. And this information is available on the
spot, not in ten minutes or even days after manufacturing, which means that customers can
immediately correct the compound and reduce scrap rates if defects are detected.

Dr. Dirk Kaempfer, head of Application Technology for
the Rubber Additives business line in the Rhein Chemie
Additives business unit
Looking ahead to the future: how important is Rhenowave®
for the rubber industry?
The rubber industry has been trying to manufacture its
compounds continuously and more cost-efficiently for the
last 30 years or so. The problem is that these continuous
processes are often a lot more more prone to failure than
conventional, discontinuous compounding. This is where
Rhenowave® comes in, because these defective factors can
now be identified right away and eliminated immediately
with inline control. This means we can guarantee that the
product has the right composition at the end of the process.
To put it another way, we are providing a tool that producers
can use to actually benefit from the theoretical advantages
of continuous compounding.

therefore display different ultrasound intensities. For this reason, a reference compound is
needed for every new application to calibrate
Rhenowave® and define a standard.
In principle, the system can analyze any
rubber compound over 100 °C. Moreover,
it can also analyze black compounds. That
might seem trivial, but it is important because

most black compounds get their color from
the addition of carbon black. This makes it
impossible to use optical inline methods, such
as infrared and UV/VIS spectroscopy.
Customers can review the data measured
by Rhenowave® on the system’s screen and
intervene in the process if necessary and without any significant delay.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

43

Processes

Unsurpassed
color spaces
LANXESS’s Inorganic Pigments
business unit is setting the industry
benchmark with a new sustainable
process for manufacturing yellowish
red Bayferrox® pigments.

W

orldwide, a growing number of
people are migrating to cities
where, faced with a sea of gray,
they seek to make their environment more attractive. Color is a versatile design element that
plays an important role here. Inorganic pigments from LANXESS’s Bayferrox ® and
Colortherm® product lines have been used
worldwide for decades to produce paints and
coatings. Applications range from emulsion

LANXESS is manufacturing a new generation of iron oxide
red pigments for high-quality paints and coatings.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

44

In focus

paints for interior and exterior walls, to trade
paints and universal industrial coatings.
These color pigments are based on iron
and chrome oxides, substances which also
occur in nature. However, the synthetic products manufactured by LANXESS’s Inorganic
Pigments business unit are far superior to their
natural counterparts. “They offer maximum
lightfastness and weather stability, high tinting
strength and chemical resistance, and excellent opacity,” explains Stephan S
­ piegelhauer,
head of the Global Competence Center Paints
& Coatings in the Inorganic Pigments business unit. As a result, colors remain virtually
unchanged for years.
The extensive portfolio of Bayferrox ®
and Colortherm® iron oxide and chrome oxide pigments ranges from yellow to red, black,
brown and green. Within these color ranges,
customers can choose between more than
100 color gradations. Since 1926, LANXESS
has manufactured over 13 million tons of iron
oxide pigments in the world’s largest iron oxide
production facility at its Krefeld-Uerdingen site
in Germany.
 nergy-efficient facility sets new
E
environmental standards
The LANXESS product portfolio was
recently extended by the addition of bright,
yellowish red pigments known as the “New
Reds.” They are produced using a new manufacturing method: the Ningbo Process. This
unique technology has been deployed for the
first time at the new LANXESS site in Ningbo,
China, where the world’s most modern iron
oxide pigment production facility was built specifically to implement the Ningbo Process and
came on stream in the first quarter of 2016.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

With the Bayferrox® New Red pigments,
LANXESS is the only company worldwide
to cover the full spectrum of yellowish
red iron oxide pigments.

A new dimension
Stephan Spiegelhauer, head of the Global
Competence Center Paints & Coatings, Inorganic
Pigments business unit

What is unique about the Bayferrox® New Reds?
They represent an entirely new generation of iron
oxide pigments. The Ningbo Process developed to
manufacture them represents a quantum leap in
innovation, as it delivers special advantages in
terms of sustainability and pigment quality. With
the New Red pigments extending our portfolio,
we are the only company worldwide that covers
the full spectrum of yellowish reds for high-quality
paints and coatings. At the same time, the new process produces red pigments in color spaces that
were previously not available on the market – and
that makes us unique.

45

Processes

“LANXESS is using the
new Ningbo Process
at its site of the same
name in China.”

Traditionally, the Penniman process has
been used in China to produce iron oxide red
pigments. However, this process has been
demonstrated to harm the environment.
LANXESS therefore developed the new
Ningbo Process for the safe and environmentally friendly production of high-quality iron
oxide pigments. The process combines an
innovative management system with virtually
total treatment of nitrogen oxides, including
nitrous oxide, which is very harmful to the
environment. Thanks to the state-of-the-art
process management system, plant technology and heat integration concept, the energy
requirement of the facility has also been reduced significantly.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

46

IN FOCUS

Review 2016

01
07

CAPACITY EXPANSION FOR
HIGH-PERFORMANCE PLASTICS
COMPLETED

04
01

Launch of
ARLANXEO

LANXESS brings on stream a second production
line for compounding high-tech plastics at its
­Gastonia facility in North Carolina, United States.
The expansion represents a capital expenditure of
around US$15 million and has doubled the facility’s annual production capacity from 20,000 to 40,000 tons.

LANXESS and Saudi Aramco complete the establishment
of ARLANXEO, their 50:50 joint venture for synthetic
rubber. On completion of the transaction, 50 % of ARLANXEO
is transferred to Saudi Aramco’s Dutch subsidiary Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A. In return, LANXESS receives a
payment of around €1.2 billion.

04
25

05
10

ACQUISITION OF CHEMOURS
SPECIALTIES BUSINESS ANNOUNCED

Pension assets
increased

The portfolio of the Material Protection Products
business unit is expanded through the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect business of U.S.
chemical company Chemours. This comprises
active ingredients and specialty chemicals used especially in disinfectant and hygiene solutions. LANXESS
pays the purchase price of around €200 million from
existing liquidity. The transaction is closed at the end
of August 2016.

LANXESS increases its pension plan assets in Germany
by €200 million, thereby reducing its pension provisions.
The funds come from the proceeds of the transaction with S
­ audi
Aramco. Among the reasons for the high pension provisions
is the low-interest environment. Pension provisions amount to
€1,375 million at the close of the first quarter of 2016. The ­funding
status of Group pension obligations rises from 45 % to 51 %.

05
11

08
10

FOLLOWING A STRONG START TO
THE YEAR, LANXESS RAISES
EARNINGS FORECAST FOR 2016

Following a good first quarter, LANXESS ­raises
its earnings forecast for fiscal 2016. The company
is now expecting EBITDA pre exceptionals ­between
€900 million and €950 million. LANXESS was
previ­ously assuming an operating result of between
€880 million and €930 million.

LANXESS AGAIN RAISES EARNINGS
FORECAST FOR 2016

LANXESS sees good business performance in the first half
of the year and raises its earnings forecast for fiscal 2016.
The company is now expecting EBITDA pre exceptionals between
€930 million and €970 million. In a strong second quarter, EBITDA
pre exceptionals rose by 8.5 % to €293 million from €270 million
in the prior-year quarter.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

47

Review

09
26

09
19

RENEWED LISTING IN DOW JONES
SUSTAINABILITY INDEX WORLD

LANXESS is included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World for the sixth time
in a row. The composition of this sustainability index,
which is recognized throughout the world, is determined once a year on the basis of financially relevant
environmental, social and governance factors. The
index applies the best-in-class principle and includes
only the top 10 % of the companies assessed in each
sector. This year, among other things, its performance
in the management of innovation processes and its
climate strategy are highlighted. The group had set
itself new climate protection targets at the beginning of the year, having achieved the climate goals
for 2015. LANXESS’s target for 2025 is to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions by 25 %.

Return to a course
of growth

LANXESS plans to acquire U.S. company Chemtura, one
of the major global providers of high-quality flame retardant and lubricant additives. With the largest acquisition in
its history, LANXESS is building on its own additives portfolio
and will become one of the world’s major actors in this growing
market.
Both companies sign an acquisition agreement. At an extra­
ordinary meeting in Philadelphia, USA, in early February 2017,
Chemtura’s shareholders approve the company’s acquisition by
LANXESS. 99.88 % of the votes cast – representing 81.77 % of
the shares outstanding in Chemtura – are in favor of the acquisition. Under the agreement between the two companies, Chemtura
shareholders will receive US$33.50 in cash for each outstanding
share on the day the transaction is closed – probably in mid-2017.
The transaction has an enterprise value of approximately
€2.4 billion that will be financed by LANXESS mainly through
corporate and hybrid bonds, as well as from existing liquidity.
The transaction is still subject to the approval of individual
antitrust authorities and to the customary conditions applying
to such transactions.

CHEMTURA
Acquisition

10
26

Probably

Mid-2017

Recognition from
Carbon Disclosure Project

LANXESS receives several accolades from the
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an international investors’ initiative. It is among 193 companies
worldwide to be included in the CDP Climate A List
and thus ranks in the top 9 % of the 2,100 companies
which participate in the initiative. LANXESS is also
named “Sector Leader” in the Energy & Materials industry and is among the top 11 % of companies in the
Germany, Austria and Switzerland region. In an index
comparison, the specialty chemicals company places
among the top 4 % of MDAX companies and is rated
an “Index Leader.”

11
10

FOLLOWING A STRONG THIRD QUARTER,
LANXESS RAISES ITS FULL-YEAR FORECAST
FOR THE THIRD TIME

LANXESS posts strong third-quarter performance and
again raises its earnings forecast for fiscal 2016. The
company is now expecting EBITDA pre exceptionals between
€960 million and €1 billion. In the third quarter of 2016, EBITDA
pre exceptionals rose by 9.4 % to €257 million from €235 million
in the prior-year quarter.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Strategy

Improved structures
Our three-phase realignment program has
progressed significantly. We aim to achieve
additional annual savings of €150 million
from 2019.

Sharper profile
As a specialty chemicals company, we aim
to achieve a strong cash flow and balanced
portfolio – building on our strengths in
mid-sized markets.

Further growth
The planned acquisition of U.S. company
Chemtura would substantially broaden our
additives portfolio.

50

STRATEGY

A Clear Course in Times of Change
Against a backdrop of challenging conditions, we have taken LANXESS forward
significantly in 2016. More quickly than was to be expected, the contours of
a stable, profitable and in many respects sustainable specialty chemicals group
are taking shape. The course is set for reliably creating value in an ever more
complex market environment.

Chemical industry faces major
challenges
With its consistent ability and readiness to change, the
chemical industry has been helping to achieve technological
and social progress for over a century. The chemical industry
remains a growing sector despite its comparative maturity. Worldwide it is achieving growth rates which are in part well above
overall global economic expansion. To share in this growth, the
ability and readiness to change are more necessary than ever,
particularly for companies with European roots, because the
chemical industry is undergoing a far-reaching and multi-layered
process of change.

1. The challenges in the chemical industry
are changing.
In the past, the main task of the chemical industry was to
discover or invent new compounds which, time and again, have
opened the door to completely new, marketable products. However, in view of the enormous scientific advances that have been
made and the high cost of registering new substances, there are
now significantly fewer opportunities for bringing commercially
viable new chemical compounds to market. The challenge today
for large parts of our industry is to provide sustainable products

based on known compounds for existing and new areas of application and to ensure that our global processes and supply chains
are sustainable, efficient, safe and fair.
Sustainability has become the driving force for the entire
industry in general. The focus of innovation is on products that will
help overcome major societal challenges such as climate change
and the ability to feed a growing world population. Now, more
than ever, the chemical industry is expected to take responsibility
for its products and production processes – from the acquisition
of raw materials to disposal. Until now, sustainability has been a
competitive advantage in certain markets and value chains. In the
future, however, it will be a fundamental requirement for global
chemical companies. LANXESS has always viewed sustainability
as an aspect of its license to operate. Renewed inclusion in the
Dow Jones Sustainability Index World and first-time inclusion in
the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Climate A List provided emphatic
confirmation in 2016 that we are living up to our claim of “Good
for business, good for society.”

2. The competitive environment in the chemical
industry is changing.
On the supplier side, particularly in the commodity segment,
the balance of power is shifting. Manufacturers in the emerging
markets, the Middle East and the United States, with good access

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

51

A Clear Course in Times of Change

to low-cost raw materials and energy, are extending their value
chains and entering the global markets with products that are
competitive in terms of both price and quality.
On the sales side, formerly traditional importers such as
China – likely to account for around 40 % of global demand for
chemicals in 2030, according to estimates from market research
company IHS – are becoming self-sufficient. In recent years, China
has built its own modern production infrastructure that is also
capable of manufacturing higher-quality products.
In addition to these shifts, increasing political instability in
important growth markets is generating considerable uncertainty
and risks in terms of both procurement and sales. Moreover, digitalization will bring major change to processes, working environments and value chains in the chemical industry and other sectors
in the years ahead. In this connection, companies that establish
a futureproof basis at an early stage will have good prospects for
improving their competitive position.

Given these challenging conditions, a company’s quality is
demonstrated by its readiness to formulate and consistently implement a forward-looking strategy which
›› actively shapes change;
›› creates stability in an increasingly uncertain environment;
›› optimally balances the interests and needs of all stakeholders.

GREAT PROGRESS WITH
REALIGNMENT
We created the foundation for such a strategy with our threephase global realignment program “Let’s LANXESS again,” which
we initiated in 2014. A new and more efficient organizational
structure and comprehensive optimization of business and administrative structures in our business units and Group functions
have not only brought us closer to our markets and customers

Three-Phase Realignment Program

01

02

03

Competitiveness of
the business and
administrative structure

Operational
competitiveness

Competitiveness
of the business portfolio
and alliances

Restructuring of Group and
administrative structures

Site-by-site analysis of production
and supply chain to identify and
leverage efficiency potential

Strategic alliances to address lack
of backward integration

Elimination of 1,000 positions
Savings realized earlier than
originally anticipated

Capacity adjustments announced
for various types of rubber

Saudi Aramco and LANXESS
establish a strategic joint venture
for synthetic rubber
Start on April 1

Annual savings of
approx. €150 million from
the end of 2015

Additional efficiency
gains of approx. €150 million
from the end of 2019

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Joint venture for synthetic
rubber business resulting in cash
inflow of approx. €1.2 billion

52

STRATEGY

but have also sustainably improved our cost position by around
€150 million. In Saudi Aramco we have found a strong partner
for our synthetic rubbers business and together we successfully
launched the new joint venture ARLANXEO in April 2016. Within the context of our program to optimize our production, sales
and supply chains, we initiated and in some cases have already
completed a number of measures aimed at achieving further cost
savings of €150 million by the end of 2019. As in the optimization
of our business and administrative structures, we are making
faster progress than planned and have already realized many cost
savings earlier than anticipated.
Successful change always has both a cultural and an organizational component. Therefore, as part of “Let’s LANXESS
again,” we have also reviewed and optimized our corporate values and our mission. Each and every employee at LANXESS is
expected to display an entrepreneurial mindset, to quickly take
solution-oriented decisions and to be open to new approaches.
We seek to promote diversity and equality of opportunity in
all their forms. And at all times we aim to live quality and sustainability in all their dimensions. These aspirations have been
translated into organizational reality through a number of measures and form the strong foundation for moving forward with
our realigned company.

GREATER STABILITY AND STRONGER
CASH FLOW
By 2020 we aim to make LANXESS a more stable specialty
chemicals group with a stronger cash flow and a more balanced
portfolio. To achieve this, we will be building especially on our
strengths in mid-sized markets. Here we can offer our customers

an attractive combination – the professionalism of a global chemicals company coupled with the customer proximity and agility of
a specialized niche provider. These advantages, along with mostly
above-average growth rates in these markets, create very good
prospects for LANXESS.
In 2016, we made significant progress in our key areas of
activity.

Achieving a more balanced portfolio
An important element of our strategy is to reduce financial
dependence on individual industries or closely correlated markets. In regional terms, too, we aim to achieve an even better
balance in our portfolio by increasing the share of our business
accounted for by the growth markets of China, North America
and Southeast Asia.
Since the launch of ARLANXEO we have significantly restricted the influence of the tire industry on our business. In addition,
the partnership with Saudi Aramco will provide us with much
better access in the long term to vital strategic raw materials for
rubber. In common with all our main rivals in this market we will
then have a largely backward-integrated value chain.
The acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business
of U.S. company Chemours, completed at the end of August,
strengthens the regional position of our Material Protection Products business unit, particularly in North America. At the same time,
the acquisition expands the business unit’s active ingredient portfolio and extends the veterinary disinfection value chain through
to the end market. We have already successfully completed the
integration process.
We aim to significantly sharpen our profile as a specialty chemicals provider through our planned acquisition of U.S.
company Chemtura, one of the major global suppliers of flame

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

53

A Clear Course in Times of Change

retardant and lubricant additives. With the largest acquisition
in our history, we are building significantly on our own additives
portfolio and will become one of the world’s major actors in this
growing market. In addition to additives, Chemtura’s portfolio
includes polyurethanes – a component of many high-tech plastics

– and organometallics, used as catalysts in polymer production
and in the synthesis of fine chemicals, for example. The products
will be integrated into LANXESS’s High Performance Materials
and Advanced Industrial Intermediates business units.

Strategic Guidelines

01
Raw material supplies

06

Our value chains originate
from liquid global raw
material markets.

Growth

02
Sustainable products
and sites

We are leveraging
long-term growth
potential in Asia and the
United States.

We manufacture our
products at competitive
and sustainable chemical
sites.

05

03

Sales markets

Competitiveness

We focus on mid-sized
markets worldwide.

Our costs are competitive
across the value chain.

04
Value chains
We strengthen efficient and
integrated value chains.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Higher resilience
in a challenging market
environment

Higher profitability
as a result of quality,
service and
competitiveness

Stable growth
in attractive markets

54

STRATEGY

We are confident of completing the acquisition of Chemtura
by mid-2017. During the subsequent integration phase, lasting
about a year, we will not be seeking any further acquisitions of this
magnitude. Nonetheless, we do not rule out taking advantage of
other smaller opportunities to strengthen our business, provided
they meet our strict criteria for acquisitions – such as a positive
effect on our earnings per share after no more than three years
and clear purchase price limits in terms of multiples.

Utilizing organic growth potential
In order to further improve the alignment of our existing businesses and leverage future growth potential, we aim to invest up
to €400 million in our organic growth. As planned, we began
with the largest single project, involving a capital investment of
around €60 million. Our Saltigo business unit is constructing
two new agrochemicals production lines at our networked site in
Leverkusen, Germany. Production is due to start at the end of 2017.
The lion’s share of our investment budget, however, will
be allocated to a number of smaller measures, which taken
together will unlock considerable potential and strengthen our
core sites in Germany and Belgium on a lasting basis. An excellent example of such “smart” investments is the new tank
storage facility for the phosphoric acid ester plant operated by
the Rhein Chemie Additives business unit in Leverkusen. The
much larger capacity enables us to respond flexibly to volatile

raw material markets, thus considerably improving our strategic
room for maneuver in procurement. Other measures will also
enable us to meet rising demand from our customers from a
competitive position. These include: optimizing and expanding
plants at the networked aromatics production site in Leverkusen;
expanding the capacity of the phthalic anhydride plant operated by our Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit in
Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany; increasing membrane element
capacities for our Liquid Purification Technologies business unit;
and adding production capacities for our Saltidin repellent in the
Saltigo business unit, which we initiated after the emergence
of the Zika virus in South America.

Safeguarding financial solidity
These capital investments, as well as future strategic measures, are subject to the strict application of a conservative
financing policy that is guided by clear criteria and focused on
maintaining our investment-grade rating.
We issued two eurobonds with a combined volume of €1 billion
and our first hybrid bond of €500 million to finance the planned
acquisition of Chemtura. In our view, their swift placement – which
was several times oversubscribed – is confirmation of our high level
of creditworthiness and our good access to the capital markets.
Never before have we raised such a high level of funding on attractive terms on the bond markets in a short space of time.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

A Clear Course in Times of Change

55

Creating reliable value
Portfolio Optimization

Continuously adapting and upgrading the portfolio is the
key to future success

Criteria for external growth

›› Strategic fit
›› Synergy potential
›› Clear financial criteria

LANXESS
realigned

(EPS increase, EV/EBITDA multiple
and ROCE)

Further business and
portfolio improvements

›› Retention of investment-grade rating
Acquisition of Chemtura*

Acquisition of Chemours
specialties business

Launch of ARLANXEO

Restructuring

*Closing expected mid-2017

Through our courage to implement profound change, our
down-to-earth mindset and a lot of hard work, we have established
a new position of strength in less than three years. LANXESS
is set to be a leading specialty chemicals company, operating
independently with efficient and agile business units in promising

mid-sized markets. Carried by a strong team and a value-based
corporate culture built on quality and sustainability, we have set
the course for reliably creating value – for our stockholders, our
customers, our employees and society.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Corporate Responsibility

Assuming responsibility
Our commitment to sustainability is aimed
at achieving the best possible balance
between the demands of the economy,
ecology and society.

Product portfolio analyzed
For the first time, we have assessed the impact
and benefits of our products on the basis
of sustainability criteria that are relevant to our
company and our stakeholders.

Increased transparency
Also for the first time, we have published our
Scope 3 emissions, thus taking a further
important step toward achieving maximum
transparency in respect of our greenhouse
gas emissions.

58

GRI
G4–18
G4–24
G4–25
G4–26
G4–27

Corporate Responsibility

Good for Business, Good for Society
Through its performance capability and innovative strength, the chemical industry is improving
the quality of life of people across the world. It is also making an important contribution to
solving societal challenges. We see it as our corporate responsibility to create lasting value for all
stakeholders and therefore to very consciously address the impact of our actions. The only
way to futureproof our company is if our strategy balances the demands of the economy, ecology
and society. This is summed up in one short sentence: “Good for business, good for society.”

The chemical industry expressly committed itself to sustainable development decades ago, one of the first industry sectors to
do so. Since then, awareness of both the necessity to act sustainably in the broader sense and of the opportunities this presents has
steadily grown and matured across industry and national borders.
Through the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) agreed
in September 2015, the international community is seeking to
foster global economic progress and social justice while recognizing the ecological limits of our planet. The 17 SDGs represent
the first time that equal consideration has been given to all three
dimensions of sustainability – society, ecology and the economy.
LANXESS, too, is committed to the SDGs. In 2016, against this
backdrop, we initiated a review of our current sustainability position and analyzed where our business activities already make
a positive contribution to achieving the SDGs. We see opportunities for LANXESS to make a positive difference in areas such
as addressing climate change, developing sustainable cities, securing the supply of food and clean water for a steadily growing
world population, and giving people around the world access to
high-quality education.
However, the SDGs make equally clear what strategic challenges the chemical industry faces: achieving consistent growth
while making responsible use of resources, avoiding harmful emissions into the air, soil and water, and ensuring the safe handling of
chemical products along the value chain. This is also reflected in
more stringent regulation – in the form of national climate protection goals, for instance – and growing public awareness.
Our portfolio includes substances that are classified as dangerous and are therefore subject to very particular requirements
in terms of product stewardship. The production processes for
some of our products are energy-intensive; they generate greenhouse gas emissions and create wastewater and solid waste. Many
of our key strategic raw materials are petroleum-based so their
availability is finite. In addition, we are required to ensure maximum
possible safety and environmental compatibility in the distribution
of our products worldwide, which sometimes involves large volumes. Lastly, we are responsible for almost 17,000 employees
around the world who are committed to our company’s success.
In this context, corporate responsibility is a prerequisite to being

able to operate successfully in the future and create value for all
stakeholders. Given this awareness, sustainability is a key success
factor that is at the heart of LANXESS’s corporate culture. For us,
actively demonstrating corporate responsibility involves knowing
and evaluating the impact of our actions – whether positive or
negative – and maintaining a dialogue with stakeholders that
enables us to satisfy their expectations to the best of our ability.

Active stakeholder dialogue
The stakeholders of relevance to LANXESS are the groups,
institutions and people with whom we are linked directly or indirectly through our business activities and who therefore have a
justified interest in what we do. Our most important stakeholder
groups are customers, employees, capital market participants,
suppliers, the media, neighbors of our sites and representatives
of politics, public authorities and non-governmental organizations
(NGOs). We conduct an intensive dialogue with all these groups
with the aim of constantly identifying the issues that they consider
to be significant in terms of our corporate responsibility. At the
same time, we seek to encourage mutual understanding and
build trust through an open and constructive exchange of views.
We participate in powerful global networks, such as the U.N.
Global Compact, where we combine our competence in sustainable development with the expertise of other partners. As well as
state institutions, NGOs in particular have a crucial role here. Trade
shows and congresses are important forums for discussion with
potential and existing business partners, competitors, scientists
and opinion leaders. In addition, we often contribute to studies
concerning socially relevant issues such as an environmentally
friendly approach to mobility.
We also conduct an open dialogue with government representatives and authorities. The focus is on an active exchange
of ideas on issues such as environmentally friendly product and
process innovations, developments on raw material and energy
markets, and issues relating to the labor market and education
policy. Another important element of our stakeholder communication is structured dialogue with residents in the immediate

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Good for Business, Good for Society

vicinity of our sites. For example, our affiliate Currenta operates
Chempunkt neighborship offices in Leverkusen, Dormagen and
Krefeld-Uerdingen to serve as a point of contact for local residents
interested in discussing issues concerning the Chempark sites.

Stakeholder

Key issues

Dialogue forums

Customers

• Product quality
• Compliance
• Human rights
• Environmental standards
• Product safety information

• Trade shows
• Customer visits
• Customer events
• Customer surveys
• Customer audits

Politicians

• Education and training
• Energy and
resource efficiency
• Occupational safety
• Sustainable procurement
(supply chain)
• Responsible handling
of chemicals

• Collaboration in
industry associations
• Site visits
• Discussions
• Workshops

NGOs

• Climate protection and
resource efficiency
• Environmental standards
• Occupational safety
• Anti-corruption

• Round table events
• Consultation processes
• Projects at our sites

Media

• Investment in sustainability
• Development of sustainable production processes
• Plant, process and occupational safety
• Emissions reduction
• Research and development

• News conferences and
briefings
• Editorial visits
• Media days
• Annual Stockholders’
Meeting

Suppliers

• Responsible handling of
chemicals
• Anti-corruption
• Environmental management
• Product quality
• Training

• Supplier meetings and
audits
• Together for Sustainability
initiative
• Collaboration in industry
associations
• Conferences and
symposiums

• Sustainability of the
business model
• Board of Management
compensation model
• Targets and target
attainment
• Anti-corruption
• Risk management
• Toxicity
• Occupational safety

• Roadshows
• Conferences
• Capital market days
• Conference calls
• Annual Stockholders’
Meeting

Capital
market representatives

59

Most external stakeholders regard LANXESS as a company
that acts sustainably and they rate us highly – in our latest stakeholder survey, for instance – for fulfilling our corporate responsibility. They see room for improving sustainability communications
through face-to-face discussions – customers in particular would
welcome a more active information policy from LANXESS regarding the sustainability characteristics of our products. One way in
which we aim to do more to meet this expectation is through our
extensive quality campaign launched in the fall of 2016, in which
sustainability is centrally positioned as an important aspect of
product quality. In our future communication with stakeholders, we
also intend to make targeted use of the findings from the portfolio
analysis based on sustainability aspects that we performed for the
first time in 2016 (see page 77).
Furthermore, we are consistently working to give the best
possible consideration to our stakeholders’ interests in our combined financial and sustainability reporting. In this Annual Report,
for example, we have expanded the information about preventing
corruption (see page 67). We have also enlarged our reporting on
the issues of health and safety, starting on page 74. In the future,
we will be integrating details about compliance management into
the Corporate Governance Report starting on page 96. We have
also again expanded the information we provide about our work
to achieve sustainability in the supply chain.

Systematically prioritizing
sustainability
Alongside our own evaluation, our stakeholders’ main interests and concerns form the second dimension of our materiality
analysis based on the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This is an important tool that enables us to systematically
prioritize the various areas of activity and thus deploy resources
as effectively as possible. The materiality analysis is based on four
principles: sustainability context, materiality, completeness and
stakeholder inclusiveness.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

GRI
G4–18
G4–24
G4–25
G4–26
G4–27

60

very high

LANXESS Materiality Matrix

Corporate governance

Responsibility toward employees

Environmental responsibility

Product and process stewardship

Responsibility in the supply chain

Social responsibility

Anti-corruption

Occupational safety

Risk management

Human rights

Compliance

Quality

Emissions reduction

Environmental standards

Plant & process safety

Responsible
resource use

Responsible handling
of chemicals

Research & development

Toxicity

Resource efficiency

Level of interest to stakeholders

Environmental
management
Energy efficiency
Product safety information

Business ethics

Occupational health

Sustainable procurement

Education & training

Water management

Stakeholder relations

Climate protection

Transparency

Globalization

Talent management
high

GRI
G4–18
G4–19
G4–26
G4–27

Corporate Responsibility

Fair remuneration

Transportation

Demographic change

Work-life balance

high

Importance for LANXESS

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

very high

Good for Business, Good for Society

We and our stakeholders consider four issues – risk management, quality, plant and process safety, and research and
development – to be very important.
We view efficient and effective opportunity and risk management as indispensable to successfully operating in the long term
in markets that are complex and increasingly difficult to predict.
The impact of risk management is reflected, for example, in our
decisions to enter into a strategic partnership for our rubber business and to improve our diversification by means of acquisitions
(see “Strategy” section on page 50 and the “Opportunity and risk
report” on page 155).
Quality is an important element of our corporate culture,
which requires all our employees to display an entrepreneurial
mindset, to quickly take solution-oriented decisions and to be
open to new approaches. Our goal is for quality to be reflected
not only in our products but also in our processes – for example,
in high levels of plant and process safety. We see clear evidence
for our comprehensive understanding of quality in the positive
feedback we receive from our customers, our industry-leading
matrix certification for quality and environmental management
(see page 64) and the constant reduction of our MAQ figures
since 2012 (see page 76).
In the area of research and development, our efforts are
systematically aligned to making our products and processes as
sustainable as possible and thereby securing the foundation for
our long-term entrepreneurial success. Examples of our successful
research and development work are presented starting on page
116 of this Annual Report.
The dialogue with our stakeholders has revealed a shift in
the importance of certain issues, primarily due to the significant
changes at our company in the past two years. Societal developments and challenges have without doubt also had a role here.
Starting in 2017, therefore, we will be performing a new materiality analysis to review and if necessary adjust our priorities in
a systematic process of dialogue with our stakeholder groups.
Customer satisfaction as a measure of success
In connection with quality, customer satisfaction and
loyalty are among the main measures of success.
Our central inquiry management system provides
customers with information about our products, their
applications and potential risks, and with product certificates. Critical feedback from customers gives us
valuable pointers for further improving our products
and processes. Based on a central CRM system and
a uniform complaints management platform, each of
our business units has its own complaints management process aligned to its markets and customers.
Regular customer surveys conducted by an external
service provider using recognized opinion research
methods deliver vital information about the loyalty
of our customers, their expectations and how they
perceive our products and services compared with

61

those of our competitors. Over a two-year cycle,
each business unit carries out an anonymous
online survey. In the 2015/2016 cycle that has
just been completed, a total of 787 customers
used the opportunity to give us feedback. The
customer satisfaction index measured for the
Lanxess Group is 76 %. Positive ratings were
received for our technical expertise, process
efficiency and delivery reliability in particular. On
the other hand, the customers surveyed still saw
room for improvement in terms of pricing and
delivery flexibility.
Our daily commitment to high quality and customer satisfaction is regularly recognized and
honored with awards and prizes. For example,
our subsidiary Bond-Laminates GmbH, in
conjunction with the Fraunhofer Institute for
Production Technology and HBW-Gubesch
Thermoforming GmbH, received the JEC
Innovation Award in the process category for
the combination of our Tepex continuous-fiberreinforced thermoplastic composite with local
tape reinforcements, which optimizes mechanical
performance, material thickness and weight. In
addition, an all-plastic brake pedal with an insert
made from our Tepex dynalite high-tech plastic
was awarded first place in the “Body Interior”
category of the Society of Plastics Engineers
(SPE) Automotive Awards, which are among
the most prestigious innovation awards for the
automotive industry and its suppliers.

Sustainability targets
As part of our strategy and aligned to the areas of activity
in our materiality matrix, we have formulated specific targets for
sustainable development at LANXESS. Their common aim is to
generate added value for our stakeholders and, at the same time,
to improve the quality of life for present and future generations.
One element of the variable compensation for senior management
is the extent to which certain sustainability targets are attained.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

GRI
G4–18
G4–26
G4–27

62

Corporate Responsibility

LANXESS Sustainability Targets
Clusters and
Subject Areas in the
Materiality Matrix

Target

Target
Date

Status 2016 and
Target Attainment

Page

2016

The Operational Eco Efficiency project is dedicated to the
issues of resources and eco-efficiency and focused in the
first phase solely on energy efficiency. It will be continued
in 2017.

81

Responsibility for the Environment
Resource management

Improved eco-efficiency within the LANXESS
Group by consolidating existing efficiency
measures in a global resource efficiency
program with the following goals:

In 2016, a comprehensive risk analysis was performed for
each of our sites on the basis of the WWF Water Risk Filter
and the WBCSD Global Water Tool.

• Development of an integrated business
strategy/operational eco-efficiency
• Further development of the LANXESS
Climate Strategy (see climate protection
targets)
• Establishment of a water management
system at all sites in water-scarce areas
Climate protection

Reduction in specific Scope 1 CO²e
emissions by 25 % for the LANXESS Group
(base date: December 31, 2015)

End of
2025

Despite higher absolute values, specific Scope 1 emissions
were kept at roughly the prior-year level.

79

Reduction in specific Scope 2 CO²e
emissions by 25 % for the LANXESS Group
(base date: December 31, 2015)

End of
2025

Despite higher absolute values, specific Scope 2 emissions
were slightly below the prior-year level.

79

Reduction in specific energy consumption
by 25 % for the LANXESS Group (base date:
December 31, 2015)

End of
2025

Despite an increase in absolute values, specific energy
consumption was reduced in 2016.

80

Reduction in emissions of volatile organic
compounds (NMVOC) by 25 % (base date:
December 31, 2015)

End of
2025

Emissions were further substantially reduced in 2016.

80

2020

A standardized on-site third-party audit process for partners
and suppliers was developed and rolled out under the
auspices of TfS.

114

Responsibility in the supply chain
Development and establishment of a new sustainability
standard for our suppliers

Work on advancing the development of the
sustainability standard for our suppliers in
tandem with relevant industry initiatives, with
the aim of further expanding a sustainable
supply chain

Significant progress was made:
Suppliers assessed by TfS account for 60 % (2015: 57 %) of
LANXESS’s relevant procurement spend.

Support for the Together for Sustainability
initiative, which aims to standardize and
share sustainability assessments of suppliers
in the same industry
Sustainability of LANXESS
as a supplier

Neutral assessment of LANXESS’s sustainability performance by the EcoVadis rating
agency and possibly audits

Continuous In the online assessment by the EcoVadis rating agency,
LANXESS achieved an improved CSR Performance Score
of 72 % worldwide and thus again attained Advanced Level
in 2016/2017. As a result, the company’s Gold Status – first
obtained in 2013 – was confirmed.

115

In November 2016, LANXESS itself underwent a TfS audit at
its Leverkusen site to assess its CSR practices as a supplier.
The site received the best possible assessment.
Responsibility toward employees
Development and introduction of a global HSEQ risk
identification and evaluation
process

Strengthen awareness of occupational safety

2020

Foster continuous improvements in support
of LANXESS’s “Xact” global safety program

Up to and including 2016, a total of 13 global HSE standards 74
were rolled out. They describe technical activities with
increased risk potential and culture elements such as
accident investigations as binding elements of our conduct
and daily workflows. Also, three “Xact” focus projects were
established in 2016.
The LTIFR and RIR were reduced to 2.0 and 0.7,
respectively.

Diversity

Increase proportion of women in senior and
middle management to 20 %

2020

Training

Fulfill social responsibility through the
provision of training

Continuous The number of people in vocational training increased by
23 % in 2016.

Hire rate of at least 80 % on completion of
vocational training

The proportion of women as of December 31, 2016,
was 16.29 %.

81 % of those who completed their vocational training
were hired.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

70
69

63

Good for Business, Good for Society

Clusters and
Subject Areas in the
Materiality Matrix

Target

Target
Date

Status 2016 and
Target Attainment

Page

Responsibility toward employees
Demography initiative

Flexibilize worktime models

Continuous The “Flexi 95” pilot project for managerial employees was
launched.

Make life easier for employees with families
and for older employees

72

50 demography positions were created.

Product and process stewardship
Product stewardship

Sustainability assessment of the LANXESS
product portfolio

2016

In 2016, the entire product portfolio was systematically
analyzed on the basis of sustainability aspects.

77

Development and introduction of a global HSEQ risk
identification and evaluation
process

Reduction and prevention of
• Incidents relating to plant and process
safety
• Environmental incidents and their impact
• Transport incidents

2020

238
In the course of preparations for the upcoming standard
revision (ISO 9001/14001 Revision 2015), risk-related
requirements were identified and transfered to HSEQ-related
areas of activity.
Transportation safety: In 2016, LANXESS India focused on
transportation safety and held a large number of workshops
and training sessions for transport service providers and
their drivers. The technical requirements for trucks were
greatly tightened.

Corporate responsibility
Social activities

Global support for science education
Enhancing awareness of climate change and
water scarcity – for drinking and industrial use

Continuous 87 projects worldwide were implemented, benefiting around
200,000 mainly young people.

86

A total of €1.5 million was made available.

Cultural commitment
Corporate governance
Anti-corruption

Avoidance of all cases of active and passive
corruption

Continuous Special corruption training was carried out for exposed
professional groups and countries.

67

The number of cases of passive corruption is in the
single-digit range.
Human rights

No human rights violations

Continuous A risk assessment that specifically addressed human
rights issues was performed in five countries (Brazil, China,
Germany, South Africa and the United States).

66

Individual cases of misconduct were reported by employees
in respect of colleagues or third parties.
There were no reports or other indications of human rights
violations by suppliers.

Well structured

Committees and functions

We regard acting and thinking sustainably as the responsibility
of each and every employee at LANXESS. However, appropriate
organizational structures, strategies, operational guidelines and
goals are needed to enable our employees to act sustainably in
their day-to-day work and to translate the abstract concept of
corporate responsibility into a specific factor of entrepreneurial
success.
LANXESS combines corporate governance, sustainability
and corporate citizenship under the umbrella of corporate responsibility (CR).

We have established various committees and functions to
ensure compliance with and the ongoing optimization of our CR
strategy and our rules and standards.
CR Committee
Representatives from selected group functions develop our
CR strategy and ensure that all LANXESS’s CR activities are in line
with this strategy. As an interdisciplinary competence center, the
committee advises both the Board of Management and the business
units on all matters relating to sustainability. It is also responsible for
collecting and maintaining reliable data that comply with current

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

64

Corporate Responsibility

market standards for use in our external CR communications. The
Board of Management is represented on the CR Committee by
Dr. van Roessel.
HSEQ Committee
LANXESS’s senior executives, under the direction of Board of
Management member Dr. Hubert Fink, ensure worldwide compliance with uniformly high quality management, safety, environmental, energy and climate protection standards. The committee has
responsibility for initiating and monitoring the global implementation of all necessary HSEQ guidelines, strategies and programs,
as well as for defining our HSEQ objectives and monitoring their
achievement. It also defines the global strategy for our integrated
quality and environmental management system and our energy
management system.
Compliance organization
The global compliance organization – which is made up of
the Group Compliance Officer and a network of local compliance
officers – is the central point of contact for all employees on compliance-related issues. It also works with the relevant organizational
units to develop measures intended to counter illegal or unethical
conduct by LANXESS employees at an early stage and to prevent
improprieties. Our compliance management system is described
in detail in the Corporate Governance Report starting on page
96 of this Annual Report.

In addition, in 2016, an interdisciplinary team headed by Board
of Management member Dr. Hubert Fink examined certain aspects of sustainability management and corporate responsibility
at LANXESS, focusing on product stewardship, climate protection
and environmental efficiency. The results have been included in the
relevant sections of this Annual Report. For example, the methodology used in our portfolio analysis based on sustainability aspects
is described on page 77, while we give a first-time report of our
Scope 3 emissions on page 80.

Integrated management system creates
transparency
At LANXESS, a central management system provides the necessary global structures in all business processes to ensure responsible commercial practices. Worldwide, we apply the ISO 9001 and
ISO 14001 international standards for quality and environmental
management and ISO 50001 for energy management.

Confirmation of our compliance with ISO 9001 and
ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. This certificate brings with it a number of advantages:

›› A high degree of process standardization
›› Uniform company directives and operating procedures
›› Transparent, efficient and effective procedures and controls
›› Substantially reduced external effort for maintaining and optimizing the management system, for integrating other management systems (e.g. ISO 50001, sustainability standards)
and for integrating new locations or business entities

External, independent experts regularly audit the progress
of integrating new sites into our management system and the
performance of our management system worldwide. In 2016,
we successfully completed a follow-up audit and obtained global
certification for new company ARLANXEO. The certificate now
covers Bond-Laminates GmbH as well. In 2017, we intend to
integrate our production sites at Neville Island, United States, and
Joo Koon, Singapore, into the certificate. As of August 31, 2016,
we gained three production sites – in Memphis and Kingstown,
United States, and Sudbury, United Kingdom – through the
acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect business of U.S. chemical
company Chemours. All these sites already have ISO 9001 and/or
ISO 14001 certification. Inclusion in the LANXESS management
system and thus in our matrix certificate is part of the integration
process. Our Rustenburg site in South Africa, which is a chrome
ore mine, cannot be assigned to LANXESS’s other chemical industry businesses in the matrix certificate. We are therefore seeking
separate ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certification for this site.
As of December 31, 2016, our matrix certificate covered 49
certifiable companies (companies with employees and in which
LANXESS has a holding of more than 50 %, as well as ARLANXEO
companies) with 79 sites in 23 countries. In relation to employee
headcount, this equates to coverage of 98 %. Despite many
changes in our company’s portfolio, we have consistently maintained coverage at above 90% since 2011, thanks to what has
become a highly efficient integration process.
In addition, since 2012, we have successively obtained certification to ISO 50001 for energy management for LANXESS
AG and all its subsidiaries (companies in which it has a holding of
more than 50 %, as well as ARLANXEO companies) in Germany.
As of December 31, 2016, our certification coverage for energy
management in Germany stood at 100 % in relation to employee
headcount. Outside Germany, the energy management system of
ARLANXEO Belgium N.V. was certified according to ISO 50001.
At the distribution site in Bratislava, Slovakia, an energy audit was
successfully completed by the national authority.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

65

Good for Business, Good for Society

Additionally, LANXESS operates other specific management
systems and has further certifications, such as EMAS, RC14001
(RC = Responsible Care®), OHSAS 18001 and KTA 1401 (German
Nuclear Safety Standards Commission). The status of our certificates can be viewed at any time in the Corporate Responsibility
section of our website.

Alignment to international standards
and frameworks
The U.N. Global Compact is the world’s biggest and most important initiative for responsible corporate governance. On the basis
of ten universal principles, it pursues the vision of an inclusive and
sustainable global economy that benefits all people, communities
and markets. As a signatory, we acknowledge these principles to
be an inalienable right. We again renewed our commitment to the
U.N. Global Compact for the 2016 reporting year.

Responsible Care® is the name of the chemical industry’s
initiative to achieve progress in safety and environmental protection
independently of legal requirements. By signing the Responsible
Care® Global Charter, we have documented our commitment
to the visions and ethical principles of this initiative launched by
the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Our
corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter are
integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy.
Among the internationally recognized principles of business
activity to which we are committed are the employment standards
of the International Labour Organization, an agency of the United
Nations. These are aimed at ensuring compliance with globally
recognized social standards and thereby improving the employment and living conditions of all people.
We also believe that the Sustainable Development Goals
explained earlier in this section provide important impetus for
corporate responsibility which will guide us in the future.

Area

The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact

Human rights

Principle

1 Businesses should support
and respect the protection
of internationally proclaimed
human rights.
2 Businesses should make
sure they are not complicit
in human rights abuses.

Environment

Labor

3 Businesses should uphold
the freedom of association
and the effective recognition of the right to collective
bargaining.
4 Businesses should uphold
the elimination of all forms
of forced and compulsory
labor.
5 Businesses should uphold
the effective abolition of
child labor.

7 Businesses should support
a precautionary approach to
environmental challenges.
8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote
greater environmental
responsibility.
9 Businesses should encourage the development and
diffusion of environmentally
friendly technologies.

6 Businesses should uphold
the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Anti-corruption

10 Businesses should work
against corruption in all its
forms, including extortion
and bribery.

66

Corporate Responsibility

Company Guidelines and Regulations
Clear Rules Provide Guidance

Compliance
Code

Code of conduct applicable throughout the
Group requiring compliance with valid laws and
international principles

Group directives

Detailed Group-wide regulations concerning
specific areas of compliance

Regulations defined at
operational level

Standard operating procedures,
process instructions

The “Code of conduct – Code for integrity and compliance
at LANXESS,” which is applicable throughout the Group, is the
binding framework for our corporate culture and requires all our
employees – across all organizational units, regions and hierarchy
levels – to behave lawfully and with integrity. Through correct
and proper conduct, each employee is required to contribute
to preventing harm to LANXESS and increasing the company’s
value over the long term. The code covers issues such as anticompetitive behavior, anti-corruption, data protection, occupational, product and plant safety, and environmental protection.
It can be found on our website at www.lanxess.com under Corporate
Responsibility/Corporate Governance/Compliance at LANXESS.

Other Group directives, such as the HSE directives and
the guideline on incentives, define the specific application of
regulations in the individual areas of compliance covered by the
code and are binding on all LANXESS employees. All globally
applicable LANXESS directives and guidelines are contained in a
system that is accessible to all employees. On the basis of these
directives, more detailed regulations that also take account of
local requirements are defined at the operational level in standard
operating procedures and process instructions.
We expect our suppliers to commit to our values and rules,
especially the Global Compact, and to establish adequate systems for ensuring legally compliant and responsible behavior.
The LANXESS Supplier Code of Conduct is part of our communication with suppliers. Reviewing compliance with these
requirements is a key aspect of our collaboration in the Together
for Sustainability initiative we operate jointly with 18 other international chemical companies (see page 115).

Human rights
Respectful and fair treatment of all stakeholders is a key
pillar of our corporate culture that is reflected in our core values
of respect, ownership, trust, professionalism and integrity. As a
global enterprise, we are committed in all our markets and supply
chains to promoting respect for human rights at all times and
systematically preventing child and forced labor. At LANXESS,
human rights and ethical principles apply without restriction, even
if they are not stipulated in the legislation of individual countries.
The respective site management, supported by local compliance officers, is directly responsible for ensuring the observance
of human rights at all times. At Group level, human rights are
subject to regular evaluation as part of our risk management system. At the beginning of 2016, we performed a risk assessment
that specifically addressed human rights in five countries (Brazil,
China, Germany, South Africa and the United States). This confirmed that there is a high level of awareness for the subject and
that suitable mechanisms are in place to prevent human rights
violations. Furthermore, all organizational units at LANXESS
and their business activities are subject to regular internal and
external audits. It goes without saying that these activities also
include monitoring respect for human rights and – if necessary –
the introduction of suitable measures to guarantee this. In fiscal
2016, audits were performed at 17 country units, which equates
to around 60 % of our sites worldwide.
Human rights principles are so firmly anchored in LANXESS’s
corporate culture that we do not consider further training to be
necessary. Our Code of Conduct includes unambiguous instructions regarding the respect of human rights. The code, which
every new employee receives with their employment contract,
is also an aspect of general training measures.
We have no reports or knowledge of any systematic discrimination against LANXESS employees. This includes discrimination
on the basis of race, skin color, age, gender, sexual orientation,
origin, religion, disability, trade union membership or political
opinion. In individual cases, misconduct by employees in respect
of colleagues or third parties was reported. We will not tolerate

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Good for Business, Good for Society

verified misconduct and it will result in appropriate disciplinary
measures up to and including dismissal. Such incidents are processed decentrally at LANXESS and there is no central reporting
system.
All acquisitions of companies or interests in companies are
subject to a careful due diligence process to ensure that human
rights are also respected by the target company. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier
assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our
Supplier Code of Conduct. As well as a duty to respect human
rights, this code includes the obligation not to use child labor
or forced labor. In fiscal 2016, we received no reports or other
indications of human rights violations by our suppliers. The same
applies to child labor and forced labor.

Anti-corruption
By signing the U.N. Global Compact, we have undertaken to
actively counter all forms of corruption. A Group-wide directive
provides our employees with clear guidance regarding incentives.
LANXESS may not grant advantages of any kind to public servants
or other officials in Germany or abroad. When commissioning
service providers who have contact with officials on behalf of
LANXESS, employees must likewise ensure compliance with the
prohibition on corruption. As a basic principle, LANXESS does
not provide financial support to political associations and parties.
All donations must be approved by the Board of Management. Also
in fiscal 2016, LANXESS made no donations to political parties.
Our employees are prohibited, either directly or in connection with
their professional duties, from offering personal advantages to
the employees of other companies – in particular when initiating,
awarding or handling an order or assignment. Our employees are
likewise prohibited from accepting such advantages or requesting
them for themselves. Exceptions may be made for customary occasional or promotional gifts that are symbolic in nature and of low
value. If an employee is offered such gifts, they must immediately
notify their supervisor or the compliance organization.
To enhance our employees’ awareness of these rules of conduct, the issue of corruption is regularly covered by compliance
training. Specific corruption training targets exposed professional
groups and countries. The proportion of employees trained in
anti-corruption practices is over 15 % of the total workforce.

67

The analysis and monitoring of risks related to corruption is
the responsibility of our Corporate Audit function. Various analytical approaches and scopes are applied:
1. Assessment of the risk of exposure to corruption and general
monitoring of the internal control system: all business units
2. Transaction monitoring to ensure compliance with company
regulations with an influence on the prevention of corruption
in the standard SAP system: at least 80 % of all transactions
3. Dedicated corruption scans in seven countries which Transparency International deems to be particularly at risk: approximately 20 % of all transactions
In fiscal 2016, we received no reports or other indications of
cases of active corruption by LANXESS employees. In individual
cases of verifiable corruption of LANXESS employees (passive
corruption), we take disciplinary action (usually dismissal) and, if
the legal chances of success are high enough, initiate civil damage claims (damages and criminal litigation). In fiscal 2016, we
recorded a single-digit number of cases of passive corruption.
Awards for commitment to sustainability
Our commitment to sustainable development was
again recognized with various awards in 2016.
For instance, the North Rhine-Westphalia branch
of the German Chemical Industry Association
(VCI) selected us as the winner of its Responsible
Care competition for our nitrous oxide reduction
plant at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site in Germany.
Our site in Mannheim, Germany, was named one
of the “100 facilities for resource efficiency” by
the Ministry of the Environment, Climate Protection and the Energy Sector Baden-Württemberg.
In China and India we received several awards
in 2016 for our range of measures to achieve
resource efficiency and sustainability in the supply
chain and for our wider social commitment. More
detailed information about all the awards can be
found in the Corporate Responsibility section of
our website. On page 80, we report in detail on
the various awards we received in 2016 from the
Carbon Disclosure Project.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

68

Corporate Responsibility

Employees
LANXESS’s long-term entrepreneurial success is fundamentally based on our employees’ sense of responsibility, professionalism and focus on finding solutions. Our global HR activities
are supporting the fundamental change processes within the
Group – both organizationally and culturally – which makes them
more important to strategic success than ever before.
Following our realignment, LANXESS’s identity as an employer is based on five central values: respect, ownership, trust,
professionalism and integrity. These values apply always and everywhere – and to all employees. We seek to foster a corporate culture
in which responsible and morally irreprehensible actions and
striving for performance do not contradict each other. LANXESS
aims to be a company whose success is driven by the personal
commitment of each and every employee – fully in keeping with
our corporate claim of “Energizing Chemistry.”
Of particular importance were the significant HR strategy and
operational support for the spin-off of ARLANXEO, the integration
of employees acquired as a result of the Chemours transaction and
the preparation of the planned acquisition of Chemtura. We have
also applied a great deal of attention to expanding our “Xcare”
demographic program (see page 70).

aligned to the different strategies of our business units and their
specific demands in terms of employee qualifications.
A total of 1,294 new employees joined the company worldwide in fiscal 2016. 209 new employees were hired in Germany,
where our focus was on the recruitment of specialists from various
disciplines. In Germany, the turnover resulting from voluntary
resignations was 1.03 % in the reporting period (2015: 1.1 %).
Globally, it was 2.45 % (2015: 2.9 %).
LANXESS has a dedicated program which gives preferential
support to master’s degree students who are the ideal fit for our
company. In 2016, we also awarded more than 50 scholarships to
students at the seven German universities with which we collaborate.

Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations
%

3.4

3.29

3.2
3.0

2.92

2.86

2.8
2.6

2.51

2.45
2.40

2.4

A focus on fostering talent

2,2

As part of our sustainable, value-based corporate policy and
against the backdrop of demographic change, LANXESS is continuing to invest in well-qualified young talents – both apprentices
and university graduates – and in experienced specialists and
managers. Our global talent management activities are consistently

2.0

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations (%, Excluding Reduction Programs)
EMEA
(excluding Germany)
Age group

Female

Male

20–29

9.0

30–39

3.1

40–49
50–59

Germany

North America

Latin America

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

4.9

1.3

3.4

7.4

2.7

3.4

1.8

4.5
4.2

2.0

1.0

0.7

0.7

1.1

1.9

0.2

0.9

0.4

Asia-Pacific

Male

Female

Male

1.8

4.1

8.3

14.3

1.5

1.3

6.4

6.5

5.6

0.3

3.8

3.3

<  20

≥ 60
Total

5.9
3.1

1.7

2.2

3.0

0.4

10.3

9.2

3.3

3.5

1.4

1.0

3.0

7.4

2.2

4.1

1.3

5.8

6.8

16.1

Total Turnover (%, Including Reduction Programs)
<  20
20–29

14.3

7.9

1.3

4.0

4.5

7.2

8.1

10.8

30–39

5.7

5.7

3.7

2.3

8.0

5.4

3.9

9.0

9.6

40–49

2.6

3.5

2.0

1.4

1.8

13.0

3.3

3.8

8.4

13.4

6.5

5.6

5.1

3.7

3.7

9.0

≥ 60

50–59

22.9

38.0

19.3

29.6

12.3

17.5

Total

6.4

6.3

3.8

4.1

3.9

7.4

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

8.2

6.7

5.5

11.9

13.3

44.4

97.0

5.3

8.1

11.1

69

Good for Business, Good for Society

New Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region
EMEA
(excluding Germany)
Age group

Germany

Female

Male

1

2

20–29

27

50

30–39

19

40–49

16

50–59
≥ 60

75

211

<  20

Total

Female

North America

Male

Female

Latin America

Male

Female

Asia-Pacific

Male

Female

Male

1

5

18

31

79

16

43

6

40

17

71

12

66

8

40

15

17

27

90

51

15

34

6

29

8

14

21

148

9

33

3

19

12

28

1

3

1

113

3

4

1

3

17

163

35

154

41

52

81

436

46

A key tool for attracting young talents in Germany is our international trainee program, which in 2016 was awarded a quality
certificate by Germany’s “Initiative for career-promoting and fair
trainee programs.” Particularly highly qualified master’s degree
graduates spend 18 months being prepared for challenging specialist and managerial roles within the company

Developing our own skilled workers
We have always given priority to training young people as a
means of safeguarding the company’s future and as an element
of our social responsibility. Vocational training is the foundation of
our strategy to develop our own skilled workers for our German
sites. In 2016, 171 (2015: 139) young people (25 women and
146 men) started a vocational training or combined vocational
training and study program at LANXESS in Germany. We thus
increased the number of new training places by almost a quarter within a year. As of December 31, 2016, LANXESS had a
total of 535 young people (70 women and 465 men) training in
18 different career paths, including six combined vocational training and study programs. We hired 81 % (2015: 80 %) of those
who completed their vocational training and are targeting a hire
rate of at least 80 % in the years ahead.

Redefining leadership and performance
Successful change is primarily the result of successful leadership, which in turn is underpinned by clear, globally binding
values and standards. For that reason, we have translated our
new value model into five management principles that are applicable worldwide. A key tool for implementing these principles
is the Performance Dialogue, which we are rolling out from the
top down, starting with senior management in early 2016. The

1

purpose of the Performance Dialogue is to support our managers
and their employees in gaining a better comparative view of each
other’s expectations regarding tasks, goals and responsibilities,
giving each other continuous feedback and thus improving the
way we collaborate for the long term. By the end of 2016, around
1,300 managerial staff worldwide had attended training courses
on using the Performance Dialogue – this equates to more than
50 % of this target group and 7.77 % of the employees worldwide
who will be receiving regular feedback in this form. The plan is to
complete the global rollout in the first quarter of 2017.
Our operating and leadership principles also have a key role
in our performance management. We place great emphasis on
consultation with our employees to agree both on our business
objectives and how to achieve these objectives within the framework of our corporate culture. We use an IT tool called the Talent
Database to document targets and feedback and to manage global
talent by recording employee profiles, assessments of potential
and individual development needs. By March 2017 all management employees will have access to this tool. The information
contained in the Talent Database is also the basis for our annual
HR development conferences, another element in our succession
planning process.
We focus especially on providing our talents with the skills
they need in an extremely dynamic working environment and
challenging market conditions. Suitable candidates are identified
using our global Performance Management System and, more
recently, by Functional Communities working across the company.
There are currently three Functional Communities for Sales &
Marketing/Global Procurement, Finance and Technology & Production. These Communities actively foster suitable candidates
with development potential and prospects, for example, by rotating
them through different business units. Our LANXESS Academy

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

70

Corporate Responsibility

has an important role in providing individual support to promising
talents through tailored management and specialist programs and
individual coaching and mentoring.
Employee training in general remained an important element
of our HR development activities in 2016. Alongside formal training
sessions and seminars, which amounted to 8,137 hours in France,
for example, employees were able once again to take advantage
of many informal measures, such as mentoring and peer-to-peer
coaching, which foster continuous knowledge sharing across
the company. In Germany, we further expanded our training program in the reporting year to offer 15 training courses. A total of
145 employees (57 women and 88 men) attended these courses,
with participation averaging 82 % of capacity.
In an environment of perpetual change, internal knowledge
management is also becoming increasingly important. At the same
time, the opportunity to share their knowledge with colleagues is
a great motivation for our employees. For that reason, since 2015
we have been inviting our employees in China to develop and
lead their own in-house training sessions – with great success.
This not only reduces costs but, with an average of 4.89 out of a
maximum possible 5 points, this type of training is actually rated
more highly than training led by external providers.

Success through diversity
Our global alignment is a key strategic advantage. LANXESS
currently employs people from 70 (2015: 69) countries across
the world. Our Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) project is aimed at
enhancing diversity at LANXESS and using its positive effects
to benefit our company and our employees. This project is focused on the dimensions of age, gender and nationality. Our
D&I Dashboard provides detailed analysis of data pertaining to
these three dimensions and enables us to see what progress is
being made at country, regional and global level so we can define
appropriate strategic measures. In the reporting year, we again
extended the range of available data to include employees by
gender and hierarchy level.
An important task in 2016 was to anchor our D&I concept
within our value culture and leadership principles and to add specific details.
International assignments are a key component of our systematic HR development process. In the reporting year, we therefore
further diversified our international assignments and introduced
specific assignment guidelines for both commuters and those em-

ployees who are transferred on local contracts. At year end 2016,
a total of 76 employees (2015: 87 employees) – around 2.3 %
(2015: 2.7 %) of our specialists and managers – were working as
expatriates outside their home countries. The focus continued
to be in the EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. Assignments in the
Americas region increased compared with 2015.
In addition to achieving a focused global transfer of knowledge by sending experts and managers abroad, our goal is still
to develop local management with the necessary expertise and
international competencies at our international sites and to transfer
challenging tasks to suitable employees. At sites outside Germany,
82.2 % (2015: 81.1 %) of our management functions are currently
filled by local employees.
Our D&I activities are also making an important contribution
to reaching the goal we set ourselves in 2012, in connection with
the voluntary undertaking by the DAX 30 companies, of raising
the proportion of women in middle and upper management to
20 % worldwide by 2020. The figure currently stands at 16.29 %.
In accordance with the law on the equal representation of
women and men in management positions in the private and
public sectors, in Germany we are required to define targets for
the proportion of women on the first two management levels below the Board of Management and to specify when these targets
are to be met. Against the backdrop of LANXESS’s restructuring
program, the Board of Management of LANXESS AG resolved to
retain the existing proportion of women as the target for the first
and second management levels through June 30, 2017. At the
time this resolution was taken in 2015, the proportion of women
on the first and second management levels below the Board of
Management was 9.8 % and 20.5 %, respectively. The target for
both management levels together is 18.6 %.

Meeting demographic challenges
The regions of key economic importance for LANXESS –
Europe (especially Germany) and China – are particularly affected
by the problem of aging demographies. As a result, the competition
for qualified young talents is intensifying. This is particularly true
in the case of technical career paths, where declining applicant
numbers mean we now have to invest considerably more effort
to fill positions with suitable staff.
In order to address these challenges, we have developed
a comprehensive demographic program called “Xcare.” This
program, which applies to our German companies, aims to find

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

71

Good for Business, Good for Society

answers to the challenges posed by a steady rise in the average
age of our workforce, coupled with a shortage of skilled young
people. The measures brought together within the “Xcare” program encompass five areas of activity:

›› People and health
›› Work and training
›› Time and organization
›› Career and family life
›› Savings and retirement provision
At the end of 2015, aware that the steps already taken might
not be sufficient to adequately counter demographic risk, we
launched a range of new initiatives and thus intensified our work
in all areas of activity. All benefits with respect to work and family, health and retirement provision apply to the core workforce.
Individual benefits may vary regionally and be adjusted locally
to our employees’ needs. Our core workforce comprises all employees with a permanent full-time or part-time position. As of
December 31, 2016, they made up 93.4 % (2015: 93.3 %) of our
total workforce worldwide.

Where preventive measures in the context of health management are no longer applicable, we take other measures to ensure
that older employees in particular can stay in their posts. Since January 2017, one position in our Human Resources Group Function
has been responsible for planning the deployment of employees
with impaired working ability. This includes looking at options for
government support, particularly for severely disabled employees.
We have successfully deployed reintegration management
at all German sites for a number of years. In 2016, 39 % (2015:
more than 40 %) of the employees invited to participate accepted
the offer of an individual consultation with the respective site
workplace integration team.
We also offer employee health promotion initiatives at our
sites outside Germany. For example, all our employees in the United States have access to health check-ups paid for by their health
insurance. In Canada, our employees receive financial support
to pay for membership at a gym or other health-promoting
establishment. Our Employee Assistance Program in South Africa
offers support in a range of areas over and above health. Employees with personal, family, financial or health issues can turn in
confidence to qualified external advisory services.

LANXESS Employee Structure by Age Group, Gender and Region
EMEA
(excluding Germany)
Age group

Female

< 20

Germany

Male

Female

2

North America

Male

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

26

97

59

167

120

435
1,010

1

2

20–29

61

30–39

197

662

271

980

59

198

137

376

270

40–49

159

863

394

1,904

67

294

57

307

165

672

50–59

115

875

443

2,532

137

367

29

269

37

295

≥ 60
Total

206

166

529

12

99

38

344

51

122

1

33

2

9

544

2,707

1,311

6,289

340

1,078

283

1,152

594

2,423

People and health
Our occupational health management is based on raising all
employees’ awareness of their own health and motivating them
to act on their own initiative and adopt healthy behaviors in their
professional and private lives.
In the reporting year, for example, the occupational health
management team organized a healthy living event at all the Lower
Rhine sites and in Brunsbüttel to provide information and advice
on various health-related topics. More than 1,000 employees took
advantage of this offering. We hope to replicate this success in
2017 with similar events at other locations.

The issue of occupational safety is addressed by our “Xact”
global program (see page 74).

Work and training
In the mid-term, illness and retirement – both regular and early (mainly for non-managerial employees) – will mean that many
vacancies require filling, especially in career paths such as chemical production technician, fitter and engineer. Over the coming
three to five years, it is our aim to establish a company-wide HR
and succession planning program for the aforementioned key
positions and to review these on an annual basis. In this connection, the Board of Management has approved 45 additional
demography positions in the aforementioned career paths.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

72

Corporate Responsibility

We are also exploring new approaches to recruiting and retaining new talents. For example, we have accelerated the process
of hiring successful trainees in order to maintain a high hire rate
and expand it in line with our needs.
Some of our measures to increase the proportion of women
in our workforce are part of the “Xcare” program. They include
employer branding activities targeting women and the implementation of objective selection procedures involving systematic multiple
review. Other measures are aimed at promoting regular contact
between managers and female employees on parental leave and
discussing their plans for returning to work at an early stage. To
ensure more thorough monitoring in the future of the proportion of
women in our business units and group functions, this was made
a fixed aspect of regular reporting to the Board of Management at
the beginning of fiscal 2017. Areas with a below-average proportion of women will be supported by the development of suitable
measures including objective hiring practices.

Time and organization
We use flexible worktime models to make life easier in particular
for employees with families but also for older employees, retain their
expertise within the company and make our company more attractive
to prospective employees. In January 2017, we began piloting the
Flexi 95 model for managerial employees which facilitates intelligent part-time working at senior management levels. Managers
reduce their working time to 95 %, initially for two years, with a
corresponding adjustment in their pay. As a result, they are entitled
to 13 additional vacation days each year. These might be used, for
instance, to look after their children when schools or daycare centers
are closed. At the same time, the model aims to strengthen our
managers’ awareness of part-time options for their employees and
to increase general appreciation of this worktime model.
More flexible worktime models are becoming increasingly
important at our sites outside Germany as well. For example, we
introduced three new working time models in 2015 for our administrative employees in China, encompassing flextime, part-time and
home office working. In Brazil, meanwhile, we offer our administrative
employees a model with flexible starting times.

As of December 31, 2016, we employed a total of 146 temporary staff (7 women and 139 men) at our German companies –
LANXESS GmbH, Saltigo GmbH and IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH.

Career and family life
Balancing work and family life is important to a steadily growing number of employees. A total of 6.8 % (2015: 7.0 %) of our
employees in Germany aged between 20 and 40 made use of
the option to take parental leave. Of this figure, almost 50.3 %
(2015: 43 %) were fathers. 96 % (2015: 97 %) of the employees
who ended a parental leave period in 2016 returned to a job at
LANXESS.
Our “Xkids” daycare center in Leverkusen offers around
50 places – all of which are full – for children aged between six
months and six years in two preschool groups and one crèche
group. We also offer our employees places in daycare centers in
Cologne, emergency childcare places and a nationwide agency
service for childcare staff and provision.
Statutory maternity leave is a matter of course in Germany
and similar models are in place in other European Union countries. However, it is by no means standard practice around the
world. For that reason, we investigate whether we can introduce or expand country-specific models for our employees at
sites outside Europe. In Brazil, for example, we have reached an
agreement with the trade unions to benefit our employees by
extending maternity leave from the statutory four months to over
six months. Also in Brazil, we pay preschool fees for children up
to the age of two whose parents return to work for us after their
parental leave.
Against the backdrop of demographic change, caregiving is
an important issue in Germany. Caregiver leave is at the heart of
the LANXESS caregiving program. This allows employees to reduce their working time to a greater extent than their salary during
the care phase and to make up the shortfall when they return to
work. To date, 60 employees in Germany have taken advantage
of caregiver leave and other job release options.

LANXESS Employee Structure by Employment Type, Gender and Region (Also Including Employees on Fixed-Term Contracts)
EMEA
(excluding Germany)

Germany

North America

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

Employment type

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Permanent contract,
full-time

450

2,530

899

5,474

324

1,076

282

1,152

586

2,421

Permanent contract,
part-time

94

177

412

815

16

2

1

8

2

Temporary contract,
full-time

46

54

113

553

1

1

37

20

50

Temporary contract,
part-time
Total

64

3

2

13

25

1

2

9

6

3

593

2,763

1,437

6,867

342

1,081

329

1,222

617

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

2,473

Good for Business, Good for Society

Savings and retirement provision
In 2016, we continued the long-term account for non-managerial employees as regulated by the agreement with the
employee representatives and the collective agreement.
The participation rate remained very good at the high level
of 97 %. A total of 63.8 % (2015: 64.7 %) of our employees
worldwide benefit from unfunded company pension plans.

Rewarding performance
transparently and fairly
LANXESS offers its employees worldwide transparent,
market-rate compensation, which also includes a bonus system linked to the company’s long-term success. Overall, 91.9 %
(2015: 88.3 %) of our employees worldwide receive variable
compensation.
The fixed salaries of managerial staff – and of non-managerial
staff in most countries – are supplemented by a performance-based
variable compensation component known as the Annual Performance Payment (APP), which is paid to employees in countries
that participate in this program. The Annual Performance Payment
is linked to the attainment of the Group’s defined EBITDA target.
Additional individual targets are set for top management. In 2016,
our employees around the world shared in the company’s success
in 2015 with a payout totaling around €101 million.
During the course of the year, supervisors are also able to
reward outstanding employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically with an Individual Performance Payment (IPP). In fiscal
2016, payments of around €12 million worldwide (€8 million in
Germany) were made solely for outstanding individual performance.
Around 77.9 % of our employees around the world are currently
eligible for IPP, which also provides them with a prompt assessment
of their performance and career prospects.
Following a two-year break, we again offered an employee
stock plan in 2016. All LANXESS Group employees in Germany
were given the opportunity to buy LANXESS shares at a 30 %
discount. The shares were purchased at an average price of
€55.47 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The participation rate
was 60 %. At the reporting date, our employees and Board of
Management members held around 1 % of LANXESS shares
through stock plans.
In addition, we offer a long-term incentive program for managers in Germany and similar programs in the United States, Canada,
India and the Netherlands. The Long-Term Stock Performance Plan
(LTSP) 2014 – 2017 consists of four tranches, one commencing
each year, and compares the performance of LANXESS stock
against the MSCI World Chemicals Index over a four-year period.
Since participants make a personal investment and there is the
chance that the stock will increase in value, this program is an
attractive long-term incentive and a means of enhancing employee loyalty. The participation rate for all eligible employees in the
current program was 99.5 % in 2016 (2015: 99.8 %).

73

Recognizing, rewarding and
using good ideas
Our idea management system fosters the development and
implementation of suggestions for improvements to ensure that
we continually receive proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness,
occupational safety and environmental protection. 2016 was a
particularly successful year for idea management. Of the 2,048
ideas that were implemented, 20 have yielded annual savings of
more than €25,000, while 12 ideas have led to annual savings
above €50,000.
In the reporting year, employees at our German companies submitted a total of 2,442 (2015: 2,027) new suggestions,
a rate of 318 (2015: 274) per thousand employees. In the
same period, 902 ideas (2015: 1,077) were implemented,
yielding total savings of €2.26 million (2015: €2.56 million). 528
of these led to improvements in occupational safety and 344 concerned environmental protection (2015: 789 together). A total of
€0.795 million (2015: €0.95 million) was paid out to employees
whose ideas were put into practice.

Addressing global developments
in partnership
Close cooperation between employee representatives and
management, including trade unions and employers’ associations,
in line with the principle of active codetermination, is practiced
globally at LANXESS. This means that we also comply with International Labour Organization (ILO) standards and the U.N. Global
Compact in respecting our employees’ freedom of association and
valid collective agreements. Worldwide, 66.9 % (2015: 66.9 %) of
our employees are covered by collective agreements; in Germany
the figure is 91.7 % (2015: 90 %).
We maintain a dialogue with employee representative bodies
in Germany, Europe and around the world to discuss our corporate
goals on a regular basis and involve these bodies in organizational
changes at an early stage. In the context of the realignment and
associated global restructuring program, management and the
employee representatives in various countries collaborated during
the reporting period to develop and implement socially acceptable
solutions. As well as the annual European forum, which brings
together the works councils in Europe, there was a meeting in
2016 of the Executive Committee, which comprises employee
and employer representatives from Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Germany.
Outside Europe, too, we give high priority to fair dealings with
employee representatives and trade unions. In South Africa, for
instance, we comply with International Labour Organization (ILO)
standards with respect to our employees’ freedom of association.
This includes regular dialogue between local management and
trade union representatives as well as binding collective agreements on compensation and working conditions.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

74

GRI
G4–26
G4–27

Corporate Responsibility

Health, safety, environment
and climate protection in the
value creation chain
Today, more than ever before, sustainable conduct by the
chemical industry means taking responsibility for products and
production processes. Globally, we are seeing a convergence of
environmental and product standards at a high level. What were
once competitive advantages in the area of sustainability will soon
be fundamental requirements worldwide for companies producing
and selling chemical products.
As a supplier of important precursors, LANXESS will also
be expected by its B2B customers to exercise greater responsibility. However, we would be failing to live up to our commitment
to quality if we sought merely to fulfill standards – even if those
standards are more stringent than they were in the past. We firmly
believe that we can continue to stand out positively in the way we
embrace and exercise our responsibility going forward.
This responsibility spans the entire supply and value creation
chain – from the global procurement of raw materials and product development, through production, storage and transport, to
use and disposal. At each of these stages, the highest priority is
given to the health and safety of our stakeholders – employees,
contractors, customers, end users and the immediate neighbors
of our production sites.
Company-wide standards ensure the responsible application
of chemistry at LANXESS, defining requirements and responsibilities for health and environmental protection, the handling of
chemicals, plant safety and workplace safety precautions. Through
the ongoing training of our employees and regular auditing of our
health, safety and environmental management, we ensure that the
requirements are systematically and sustainably implemented in
our processes.

Responsibility for health and safety
Our “Xact” global safety program is aimed at encouraging
all employees to work together to improve safety throughout the
company. Six “Xact” safety regulations, the central principles
of safe working at LANXESS, address the main areas in which
every employee – whether they are employed in production or
administration and irrespective of their function or position in the
hierarchy – can actively contribute to their own safety and that
of their colleagues.

In 2016, we introduced three more technical HSE standards
within the framework of “Xact.” Like existing standards, these
incorporate stricter regulations than before for technical activities
with a higher risk potential, such as the use of tools or working on
electrical plant. After receiving extensive training from the “Xact”
regional managers, our managerial staff communicated these
standards throughout the entire organization during the reporting
year. In matters of safety, we generally attach great importance
to active and continuous communication. One key format in this
regard is the safety dialogue, which is a forum for discussing positive and critical behaviors and possible improvement measures.
Another important tool is the Pulse Check survey, which we
conduct each year among all LANXESS employees. This gives
them the opportunity to describe their personal experience of key
safety aspects at LANXESS. Among other things, the anonymous
survey seeks to establish the importance that individual employees attach to safe working practices, whether they feel involved
in safety activities – as we would like – and whether they receive
positive feedback for working safely.
We are also seeking to achieve an improved mutual understanding of occupational safety with our providers of technical
services, for example, and are therefore integrating them into our
safety culture. Here, we apply the principle of “select, train, support
and evaluate.” Among other things, our partners must provide
verification of their own safety management system and that their
employees who work for us have received certain safety training.
Independent of this, we give employees of our partner companies
individual safety briefings as a matter of course.
Thanks to our electronic Incident Reporting System (IRS),
we are able to record accidents and incidents worldwide using
standardized procedures. We document accidents involving people, transport accidents, near accidents, safety-relevant incidents,
environmental incidents and downtime caused by, for example,
bad weather or strike action. Each incident is carefully analyzed
to identify measures that can be taken to avoid comparable incidents in the future.
LANXESS uses the recordable incident rate (RIR, the number
of injuries per 200,000 working hours that are reportable as per
OSHA rules) and the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR, known
as MAQ in Germany and describing the number of injuries for
every million hours worked) as indicators for evaluating occupational safety. The LTIFR was 2.0 in 2016, lower than the level of
2.2 recorded in 2015. This positive development is due not least
to a safety project at our site in Antwerp, Belgium, which made it

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

75

Health, Safety, Environment
and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain

Input-Output Balance Sheet
lanxess reporting ceiling

Direct greenhouse gas emissions
(Scope 1) 1,741 thousand tons
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions
(Scope 2) 3,3154) thousand tons

Greenhouse gas emissions
from biomass (climateneutral) 212 thousand tons

VOC emissions
4.7 thousand tons

Electricity, steam,
refrigeration
39.7 petajoules

Sales
(€7.9 billion)
lanxess
site boundary

Approx. 18,000
suppliers

Total procurement spend:
€5.7 billion

60 % of
procurement
spend accounted for
by suppliers
assessed by
Together for
Sustainability

Total energy
costs approx.
€515 million

Employees
16,7211)

Coal, gas, oil
12.6 petajoules

Approx. 17,000
customers in
more than
150 countries

Safety
LTIFR2)
2.0

Biomass
2.0 petajoules

Material
costs
€2.2 billion

Volume sold
6,780 thousand
tons

RIR3)
0.7

43 HSE compliance checks

Waste
298.9 thousand tons

Infrastructure
54 production sites in 17
countries
5)

Strategic raw materials
~5,200 thousand tons

420 warehouses

Total water consumption
264.6 million cubic meters

Steam
5.9 petajoules

Production wastewater
32.4 million cubic meters
Cooling water
213.3 million cubic meters

1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Permanent workforce at the core companies (excluding temporary workers) as of December 31, 2016
LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites
Number of recordable work-related accidents per 200,000 hours worked in accordance with OSHA regulations
Calculated using the market-based method in accordance with the GHG Protocol
The following sites are not yet included in the environmental data on account of their recent acqisition by LANXESS: Memphis and North Kingstown, U.S.A.; Sudbury, U.K.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

76

GRI
G4–26

Corporate Responsibility

possible to significantly reduce the number of injuries at the site
within the space of a year. The RIR, which enhances international
comparability, was 0.7 in 2016, also down year on year from 0.9.
This substantial medium-term reduction shows that the measures
implemented in recent years to improve occupational safety at
LANXESS are taking effect.

Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in
Absence from Work (LTIFR)
4.0
3.5

3.4

Global product stewardship

3.1

3.0
2.5

2.3

2.2

2014

2015

2.0

2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
2012

2013

2016

Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees that are
Reportable in Accordance with OSHA Regulations (RIR)
1.5
1.1

1.1

1.0

0.8

0.9
0.7

0.5

2012

2013

12 “Xact” coordinators and 110 “Xact” ambassadors. Numerous workshops were held at which
these multipliers were able to familiarize a large
number of the site’s some 900 employees with
effective methods of safety-conscious behavior
for use at all times. The measure was a success.
Within just one year, the number of accidents fell
by more than half. The ambitious goal for 2017 is
zero accidents.

2014

2016

2015

Safely does it!
In complete contrast to the improvement in the
LANXESS Group’s occupational safety indicators, our site in Antwerp, Belgium, recorded an
LTIFR of 10.4 in 2015. This unacceptably high
value prompted us to initiate the “Xact 2.0” safety
project specially tailored to that site. The starting
point was a detailed analysis of the accidents and
near accidents that had been recorded there and
a survey of around 200 employees. In a second
step, we benchmarked the results against performance at our Leverkusen and Krefeld-Uerdingen
sites in Germany. It quickly became apparent
that the main problem was not technical but an
issue of behavior and communication. The solution was to establish an extensive safety
network made up of all the site’s managers,

LANXESS is committed to the Responsible Care® Global
Charter, a comprehensive product stewardship initiative launched
by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA)
that was the key factor in the development of the Global Product
Strategy (GPS). This aims to provide basic information and risk
assessments for substances so that the harmful impact of chemicals on human health and the environment can be minimized and
products can be manufactured and distributed in such a way as to
prevent injury to people and damage to the environment. In line
with the aforementioned commitment, our product stewardship
covers the safe handling of chemical substances and products
throughout their life cycle – from research and development,
procurement and production, through storage and transportation
to marketing, downstream processing and disposal.
The Product Safety Management at LANXESS Directive
steers the Group-wide observance of product stewardship and
secures the participation of everyone involved. This applies in
particular to those substances in our product portfolio that are
classified as hazardous. Our Central Product Surveillance Directive
systematically governs worldwide tracking of our products and
their use in respect of potential health and environmental impacts. The information acquired is used by our product developers
and product safety experts in their evaluations. In the reporting
year, we revised our Development of New or Changed Products,
Processes and Applications Directive to take account of sustainability aspects. The directive now officially defines what has long
been standard practice at LANXESS – that development ideas
themselves be analyzed systematically in terms of their potential
economic, environmental and social impact. In this way we ensure
that non-sustainable products, processes or applications do not
find their way into our development work.

Management of chemical control regulations
Compliance with global chemical control regulations is the
condition for the marketability and safe handling of our chemicals
and products along the value chain.
LANXESS has an electronic safety data system to ensure compliance with both mandatory and voluntary control requirements.
Material safety data sheets in more than 30 languages inform
our customers worldwide about substance data and the safety

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

77

Health, Safety, Environment
and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain

measures that are necessary when using the relevant chemicals.
We regularly adapt our electronic safety data system to reflect
changes to the GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals) in various countries. The GHS
is a system under the umbrella of the United Nations that aims
to harmonize existing classification and labeling systems used in
various sectors such as transportation and consumer, employee
and environmental protection. We observe regional variations in
the implementation of the GHS such as the European Union’s
CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and
Mixtures) regulation.
Before manufacturing, exporting or selling our products in
a given country, we examine their marketability in accordance
with the chemicals legislation in force there. We register our substances and products in line with local requirements and support
the substance analysis programs of the responsible authorities
by supplying all available information and collecting new data if
necessary.
We expressly support the protection goals of the E.U. REACH
regulation. We have so far pre-registered or registered all the
substances that are relevant for LANXESS with the European
Chemicals Agency (ECHA) by the stipulated deadlines. By the
third deadline on May 31, 2018, all substances we produce in or
import to Europe in amounts exceeding one ton will have been
registered in Europe. Registration involves the systematic evaluation of information concerning our substances and their uses.
In doing this, we consider the entire product life cycle. Within the
context of a voluntary commitment made by the German Chemical
Industry Association (VCI) in 1997 to record and assess substances, we go beyond the legal requirements to determine a
meaningful basic data set for our intermediates as well, in line
with the REACH regulation.
In the case of consumer applications in particular – such
as additives for use in food or animal feed, for food and drinking
water contact or for use in cosmetic, pharmaceutical or medical
products – we ensure that our products comply with national and
international laws, standards, certificates and quality hallmarks.
In this way, we actively support our customers, for example, in
the certification of their materials for drinking water contact applications or in the downstream processing of our products into
certified goods for end users.

of our product portfolio from an economic, environmental and
social perspective. The system analyzes the impact and benefits
of our products on the basis of criteria that we regard as relevant
to our company and to society as a whole.
Criteria for our Product Portfolio Analysis
Impact on
society

Support for development goals
Societal acceptance
Safety in end use

Ecological
impact

Raw material efficiency in production
Energy efficiency in production
Emissions and waste balance sheet in production
Water risks
Impact on the environment during use

Economic
impact

Registration, evaluation and approval
Profitability
Demand trend

We applied these criteria in evaluating our entire product
portfolio, with subsequent review of the results by an internal committee of experts. This process has revealed which of our products
satisfy the sustainability requirements we have defined and can
help us to deliver solutions for key sustainability challenges. It also
shows where action is still needed. This information may be used to
develop specific improvement processes or to create acceptance
for certain issues in our dialogue with stakeholders.
Evaluation Processes
Cost optimization

Evaluation of product portfolio

Review by expert committee

Products which satisfy or exceed
our sustainability requirements

Products which do not fully satisfy
our sustainability requirements

Benchmarking and
best-practice analyses

Stakeholder dialogue, specific
action plans or termination of
production

Comprehensive analysis of our product portfolio
based on sustainability criteria
Effective sustainability requires that we have as precise a
picture as possible of the impact of our business activities – both
positive and negative. For that reason, we have for the first time
performed a systematic analysis of our product portfolio based
on sustainability aspects.
The dedicated evaluation system we developed in the reporting year provides us with a strategic management tool for systematically evaluating and improving the sustainability performance

Across the LANXESS Group, we are applying the findings
of this analysis to further improve the sustainability performance
of our product portfolio. Our now deeper understanding of our
products’ properties may also provide important impetus for innovation. Going forward, the assessment of our product portfolio
will form part of our annual strategy process. We will also work to
continuously optimize the set of criteria we use.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

GRI
G4–27

78

Corporate Responsibility

Environmental responsibility
As LANXESS sees it, conserving natural resources – for example, through the most efficient possible use of raw materials and
energies – and identifying further potential for reducing emissions
and waste are an ongoing mission and an inherent part of our
ecological responsibility to which we must apply our expertise.
While taking account of local requirements, we equip all new
production sites with state-of-the-art technology that is also in
line with environmental standards. This often sets us apart from
local competitors.

Operation Clean Sweep started
The handling of plastic pellets is a good example
of how we use the findings from our product
monitoring activities in developing our own
measures to protect users and the environment.
These plastic pellets may be inadvertently
released into the marine environment at various
stages of the value chain. They themselves do
not react chemically but may have an undesired
impact on account of their small size and volume.
In previous years, as part of the No Pellets
Emission project, our most strongly affected
business unit – High Performance Materials
(HPM) – developed a self-assessment process
in Germany to identify the sources and circumstances of possible pellet emissions at our plants
and to define corresponding countermeasures.
Due to the positive results of this self-assessment
process, it will now be rolled out to all HPM sites
around the world.
Processes like this are among the central
requirements of the global Operation Clean
Sweep program established by the Society of
the Plastics Industry, a program that LANXESS
joined in 2016. By participating in this program,
we have made a commitment to train relevant
employees, to perform regular checks on the
success achieved and to require our business
partners to also take active steps to prevent pellet
emissions. Our goal is to systematically integrate
the program’s requirements into LANXESS’s
management system and to implement them
across the company.

At the start of 2016, we set new long-term targets for CO²
and VOC emissions and for energy consumption. By 2025, we
aim to cut our specific CO² and VOC emissions by 25 % (base
year: 2015). We also aim to reduce specific energy consumption
by 25 % through 2025. In the future, assessment will no longer be
based on the performance of the reporting segments, but rather
on that of LANXESS as a whole. This approach takes account of
the company’s altered organizational structures.

Reduction of climate gas emissions
With the Paris Agreement, which entered into force in
November 2016, the international community committed itself
to the goal of limiting global warming to less than two degrees
Celsius above pre-industrial levels. This goal is achievable only
if global greenhouse gas emissions are radically reduced in the
decades ahead. All the signatory nations have correspondingly
set themselves ambitious reduction targets. Germany’s Climate
Action Plan 2050, also launched in November 2016, has an interim target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 %
through 2030 compared with the base year in 1990. Industry is
expected to contribute with a reduction of between 49 % and 51 %.
Internationally, the United States, for example, aims to reduce its
emissions by between 26 % and 28 % through 2025 compared
with their level in 2005.
In common with many other European chemical companies,
LANXESS had already made an express commitment before
the Paris Conference to protect the climate and fulfill the obligations that entails. Since our company was established, we have
been working continually to reduce climate gas emissions – and
with considerable success. In the past ten years, we have cut
our Scope 1 emissions worldwide by more than half. Our sites
in Germany have already satisfied the national reduction requirement set for 2030. Nevertheless, we are continuing to work hard
across the Group to cut our CO² emissions. At our Leverkusen
and Krefeld-Uerdingen sites in Germany and the Baytown site
in the United States, for example, we have been able to return a
substantial amount of steam – equivalent to around 10 % of our
total energy requirement – to the local integrated networks by
consistently using our process heat to generate steam (waste heat).
The average CO² factor of these networks has declined as a result.
Compared with steam generated by conventional means at these
sites, the steam returned to the networks is equivalent to 650 to
800 kilotons of Scope 2 CO² emissions. In the reporting year, for
the first time, we extensively determined our Scope 3 emissions
for the past two fiscal years, thus taking a further important step
toward achieving a very high level of transparency in respect of
the greenhouse gas emissions caused by our operations.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

79

Health, Safety, Environment
and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain

Full steam ahead for climate protection
A new project at our Antwerp, Belgium, site
demonstrates that we are not only thinking about
our own footprint but also about benefiting
society when it comes to climate protection. We
and four other chemical companies share an integrated network for steam at this site. Starting in
2019, a pipeline more than five kilometers long
will supply the site with over 80 % of the process
steam required. Overall, this project will cut
CO² emissions by 100,000 tons per year. It was
awarded the first sustainability prize of the Port
of Antwerp in November 2016. We will be able
to virtually stop producing our own steam from
gas, replacing it with centrally produced steam
from the waste incinerator. This will reduce the
Scope 1 data in our emissions calculation while
increasing the data for Scope 2 emissions.
Whether the project will ultimately lead to lower
emissions by LANXESS itself will not be known
until the pipeline is in operation, but it will significantly improve the climate footprint of the Port of
Antwerp.

In Europe, 17 LANXESS facilities and/or sites are subject to
the European Emissions Trading System. Trading in CO² emission
rights – or allowances – is a cost-effective way of reducing harmful
CO² emissions. Since all our facilities that are eligible for emissions
trading are at the cutting edge of technology and compete on the
international market, we expect to receive an adequate number of
free allowances up to the end of the third trading period in 2020
to cover our anticipated CO² emissions.
The year on year increase in our absolute Scope 1 emissions
was largely due to the 4.4 % rise in volumes sold. At the same time,
reduced availability meant that we used less biomass to generate
energy. However, despite the higher absolute values, we kept our
specific Scope 1 emissions at roughly the prior-year level.
The higher absolute Scope 2 emissions were also attributable
to higher volumes sold. Here too, the specific values were level
year on year.

Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1)
thousand tons of CO² equivalents 

CO² equivalents, tons per ton of product

 cope 1 (absolute)
S
Scope 1 in relation to volumes sold

0.42

6,000

0.35

5,000
0.29

0.29

0.29

4,000

0.25

0.26

0.21

3,000
2,000

0.28

1,913

1,837

1,845

1,643

1,741

0.14
0.07

1,000
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2)
thousand tons of CO² equivalents 

CO² equivalents, tons per ton of product

 cope 2 (absolute)
S
Scope 2 in relation to volumes sold
8,000

0.56
0.47

7,000

0.501)
0.46

0.49
0.49

0.461)

6,000

0.42

5,000

0.35

4,000

3,1151)

3,000

2,9321)

2,9321)

3,2421)

3,315

0.28
0.21

2,000

0.14

1,000

0.07
2012

1) Figure restated

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

2013

2014

2015

2016

80

Corporate Responsibility

Other atmospheric emissions

Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3)
thousand tons of CO² equivalents
Scope 3 (absolute)

VOC Emissions
thousand tons VOC, kilograms per ton of product

40,000
30,000

28,276

 bsolute
A
In relation to volumes sold

27,936

12.0

1.15

1.2
1.04

20,000
10.0
10,000
8.0
2015

2016

0.90
7.6

0.69

6.6
5.7

6.0

And the winner is...
For more than a decade, we have been participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP),
each year sharing data and information on
climate protection and the reduction of emissions. 2016 was a particularly successful year for
us as far as the CDP is concerned because this
international investor initiative recognized our efforts in several categories. Firstly, LANXESS was
one of 193 companies worldwide to be included
on the CDP Climate A List, putting us in the
top 9 % of the more than 2,100 companies that
participate in the initiative. We were also named
“Sector Leader Energy & Materials,” ranking us
among the best 11 % in the Germany, Austria
and Switzerland region. In an index comparison,
LANXESS was placed as an “Index Leader”
among the top 4 % in the MDAX. Last but not
least, we achieved the most substantial year-onyear improvement of all the German companies
participating and were thus also honored as Best
Improver Germany. CDP gave special recognition to our transparency and performance in the
following areas: climate strategy, risk assessment, actual reductions achieved in greenhouse
gas emissions intensity and handling of indirect
emissions, for example through CO² emissions
in the supply chain (Scope 3 emissions). These
gratifying results gave us encouragement to
continue systematically pursuing our climate
protection strategy.

1.0
0.83
5.4

4.7

0.8
0.6

4.0

0.4

2.0

0.2
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

As far as our VOC emissions are concerned, the positive
trend seen over past years has continued since we achieved our
Group target for this indicator in 2015.

Systematic energy management
A high level of energy efficiency improves not only our emissions footprint but also our cost position and thus ultimately the
competitiveness of LANXESS. In Germany, we have established
an energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001.
Our certification was reconfirmed in 2016. Outside Germany, we
continue to pursue our strategy of regional and local certification.

Energy Consumption (Balance Sheet)
petajoules

gigajoules per ton of product

 bsolute
A
In relation to volumes sold
9.0

90
75
60

7.46

7.46

7.46

7.44

7.14

49.2

47.5

47.3

48.3

48.4

7.5
6.0

45

4.5

30

3.0

15

1.5

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

81

Health, Safety, Environment
and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain

Mirroring the development of emissions, the slight increase
in our absolute energy consumption reflected the higher volumes
sold in 2016. The energy balance produced retroactively for the
prior years for the first time in 2016 also includes the amount of
steam (waste heat) emitted by LANXESS. As far as our specific
energy consumption is concerned, we were able to continue the
positive prior-year trend in 2016.

Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region
petajoule/%

18%
24.3%

82%

75.7%

North America

34.1%

Germany

7.7 PJ

16.1 PJ

29.9%

19.7%

65.9%

45.9%

10.6%
EMEA
(excluding Germany)

24.2%
Lateinamerika

12.2 PJ

4.9 PJ

69.7%
Asia-Pacific

7.5 PJ

Direct energy sources
Direct energy sources (biomass)
Indirect energy sources

Responsible use of water resources
Access to clean water is not only crucial to the health and
nutrition of a constantly growing world population, it is also an
important economic factor. According to the United Nations World
Water Development Report 2016, 75 % of all jobs worldwide are
dependent on a reliable supply of water. Careful use of this scarce
resource is therefore securing our future – particularly at sites in
water-stressed areas where water is a scarce resource and more
than 60 % of the available supply is extracted for human use.
All wastewater and surface water discharges at our sites
are subject to legal and permitting requirements. We use both
technical (wastewater treatment) and organizational (monitoring) measures to comply with these requirements. Before the
authorities issue an operating permit, an assessment is carried
out on the potential economic, social and environmental impact
of water extraction on the surrounding area. At all LANXESS sites,

this takes place under approved conditions. The issue of water
extraction is also addressed by our environmental protection
compliance program.
In 2016, as part of our ongoing efforts to improve our water management, we conducted a comprehensive risk analysis
based on the geographical location of our sites. In addition to
water extraction, we considered other physical and regulatory
indicators as well as reputational risks. To conduct the analysis,
we used two internationally recognized risk evaluation tools – the
Water Risk Filter from the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF)
and the Global Water Tool from the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development. Analysis of LANXESS’s sites on the
basis of the WWF Water Risk Map shows that our most of sites
are located outside water-stressed areas. As a next step, we will
be carrying out individual risk evaluations at the few sites in waterstressed areas in 2017.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

82

Corporate Responsibility

Water Consumption
million cubic meters 

cubic meters per ton of product

Cooling water (absolute)
Process water (absolute)
In relation to volumes sold (total water consumption)
60

800
46.9

46.61)

600
400

256.8

200

45.8

42.81)

39

45

forms of waste can be used as secondary raw materials and are
thus a valuable resource. Sustainable waste management therefore
involves systematically avoiding waste and, if this is not possible,
using waste as a raw material or energy source. In order to minimize the amount of waste requiring disposal, we seek to continuously improve the yields achieved in our production processes.
All forms of waste are disposed of or reused in compliance with
statutory requirements.

30
243.8

52.51)

52.91)

2012

2013

236.4

225.2

54.2

53.11)

2014

2015

213.3
51.3

15

Total Waste
tons
Absolute

2016

kilograms of waste per ton of product
In relation to volumes sold

1) Figure restated

60

800
600

Production wastewater
million cubic meters 
Absolute

5.1

5.1

43.71)

283.3

278.1

298.7

45

44.1

292.4

298.9

2012

6.0

5.0

4.9

45
30
15

200

In relation to volume sold

80

2013

2014

2015

2016

1) Figure restated

4.8
4.5

60
40

400

cubic meters per ton of product

42.9

47.1

33.6

32.3

31.4

31.81)

32.4

3.0
1.5

20

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

1) Figure restated

As in past years, we reduced our water consumption in 2016.
This was due particularly to the declining volumes of cooling water used. Despite the increase in volumes sold, the proportion of
process water in our overall consumption was lower than a year
earlier. The positive trend identified in the absolute figures is also
mirrored in the specific values.
Wastewater volumes increased at a substantially lower rate
than volumes sold. As a result, the specific amount of wastewater
per ton of product sold decreased year on year.

Compared with the previous year, the total amount of waste
generated increased slightly. This was largely due to the amount
of waste sent to landfill.
A substantial increase in production at our site in Newcastle,
South Africa, which processes chrome ore, resulted in a larger
amount of waste there going to landfill. Most of this was mineral
ore waste. In 2016, we continued the positive trend in respect of
the volume of waste per ton of product sold.

Waste for Disposal
%
7.2

Landfilled waste
Incinerated waste with

37.5

17.8

energy recovery
Incinerated waste without
energy recovery

Sustainable waste management

Material recovery

The company aims to employ a consistent material flow management process – from the use of raw materials to the manufacture of the final product – so as to deploy resources as efficiently
as possible and minimize the amount of waste we produce. Some

10.4

Waste disposal by other
means

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

27.1

Health, Safety, Environment
and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain

Responsibility for the supply chain
Responsible action begins in procurement. At LANXESS, raw
and other materials, plant and services must satisfy globally uniform
safety and environmental protection requirements. Raw materials
in particular are subject to stringent monitoring to ensure safe processing in our production facilities. For example, the procurement of
any raw material is dependent on the submission by the supplier of
a current material safety data sheet. Our procurement department
clarifies which of the REACH requirements must be satisfied in the
case of raw materials from non-European suppliers. In close dialogue
with the respective producers and importers, we are actively seeking to ensure that materials procured by LANXESS that were not
previously registered will be registered by the applicable deadlines.
In order to minimize our procurement risks and enhance supply
chain transparency, we and five other international chemical companies founded the Together for Sustainability initiative in 2012
(see page 115).

Sustainable logistics
We select our transport solutions worldwide on a case-bycase basis, applying the principles of safety, punctuality and costeffectiveness. We also take into account the CO² emissions resulting
from our transports.
We are focusing especially on further expanding our use of
ships as the means of transport with the lowest emissions. In 2016,
we piloted a preloading concept for marine tank containers at our
Leverkusen site. This will enable us to use inland vessels to transport these special containers to the seaports, thereby increasing
transport safety and reducing CO² emissions. Following the successful conclusion of the pilot phase in November 2016, we are
now working to implement the concept in our regular operations.
In Germany, we continue to use the TÜV SÜD-approved Eco
Plus solution offered by logistics provider DB Schenker Rail for transporting our products by rail. The electricity required for transport is
obtained from renewable energy sources. This enables us to reduce
the CO² emissions from our German rail transport operations by
almost 75 % compared with the standard solution.
Packaging is often a critical aspect in sustainable logistics
processes. However, it is of lower significance to a chemical company like LANXESS because at least 60 % of our products are
transported in reusable containers. Nonetheless, in this area too,
we have set ourselves the goal of reducing our CO² emissions on
a lasting basis. Wherever possible we use recyclable packaging
materials.

83

Global dangerous goods and transport safety
management
Through our global dangerous goods and transport safety
management system, we ensure the avoidance of hazardous situations in the relevant processes. Safety can often be improved
just by choosing the right packaging materials. For instance, load
securing devices can be used to attach barrels to palettes more
reliably, which prevents them from slipping during transportation and thus reduces the risk of accidents. We have a dedicated
department to centrally coordinate, monitor and review the implementation of relevant dangerous goods and transport safety
regulations and internal company guidelines.
The central classification of our products ensures uniform
interpretation of international, regional and local dangerous goods
regulations, while at the same time respecting regional and local
specifics. Classification determines, among other things, the form
of encapsulation (packaging and tanks), marking and labeling,
permitted modes of transport and transport routes and the measures that emergency services must take in the event of a transport
incident. The corresponding classification data are archived in
LANXESS’s safety data system for chemicals. In recent years,
we have successively integrated various countries and LANXESS
Group companies into this system. In 2016, we transitioned dangerous goods classification for Argentine and Australian products
in line with local and international rules. Also in 2016, we assessed
the entire portfolio (raw materials, intermediates, products and
waste) of our subsidiary Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH in terms of
dangerous goods regulations and incorporated it into LANXESS’s
global safety data system.

Storage management
We have over 420 warehouses worldwide, around half of
which we operate ourselves while half are run by external service
providers. We select warehouses – both our own and those operated by external service providers – according to logistics, safety
and security, environmental protection and cost-effectiveness
aspects. We apply a globally standardized warehouse concept that
takes into account the substances stored and meets fire protection
and occupational health and safety requirements.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

84

Corporate Responsibility

Uniform standards in production
LANXESS operates at a total of 54 production sites in 17
countries (sites in which it holds an interest of more than 50 %
and ARLANXEO sites; as of December 31, 2016). The diversity
of the company’s product portfolio necessitates the use of many
different chemical and technical processes. Uniform standards for
planning, engineering and operating facilities are applied to ensure
a high level of process, plant and occupational safety. Handling
chemical substances and working with technical equipment fundamentally involve health and safety risks. Wherever in the world
we operate, we systematically identify these risks and the hazard
potential – both for existing and new facilities – and minimize them
by implementing defined preventive and protective measures.
To help us achieve this, we have established LANXESS-specific
guidelines within the context of our global management system.
These govern our procedures for all safety-critical processes and
environmental protection measures in our production facilities
and cover aspects such as the formulation and implementation of
technical and organizational protective measures and the environmentally friendly handling of raw materials, products and waste.
To ensure compliance with LANXESS directives and local
regulations for the safe operation of facilities, experts on site conduct audits based on targeted spot checks that are carried out
with a frequency appropriate to the relevant risk profile. At each
facility across the globe, compliance with the safety standards
must be certified regularly, at least at the intervals required by
local legislation. A total of 43 production facilities (2015: 45), 15
of them in Germany (2015: 19), were audited in the context of

HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) compliance checks in 2016.
The result of the audits in 2016 showed further improvements
against previous years.

Systematic recording of key
performance indicators
We use an electronic system for the systematic global recording
of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and
environmental protection. This system enables us to define a
broad range of HSE performance data for each business unit and
site worldwide. These provide a valid basis for strategic decisionmaking and for internal and external reporting. The data also map
the progress we are making toward achieving our globally applicable HSEQ targets (see table on page 62). Generally speaking,
data for all indicators except LTIFR and RIR (used to measure
occupational safety) are gathered only at those production sites in
which the company has a holding of more than 50 %. As LANXESS
has an interest of exactly 50 % in ARLANXEO, the latter continues
to be reflected in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements
and will be fully consolidated from 2016 to 2018; the environmental data pertaining to the ARLANXEO sites will continue to
be included in our key data for this period.
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft assessed our HSE indicators for 2012 to 2016 and
the necessary data recording processes in the course of a business
audit, with a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating. The
current audit certificate can be found on page 234.

Environmental and Safety Performance Data *
2014

2015

2016

Safety
Occupational injuries to LANXESS employees resulting in at least one day’s absence
(per million hours worked) (MAQ1))
Volume sold2) in thousand tons/year
Energy in petajoules (1015 joules)3)

2.3

2.2

2.0

6,343

6,496

6,780

47.3

48.3

48.4

13.1

12.2

12.6

0

0

0

32.2

33.9

33.8

2.0

2.2

2.0

Direct energy sources (EN3)
Non-renewable
Renewable
Indirect energy sources (EN4)4)
Non-renewable
Other direct energy sources
From biomass
Water in million cubic meters
Total water consumption (EN8)

290.6

278.3

264.6

Surface water

120.5

107.0

92.1

Groundwater

6.1

6.8

6.8

Rainwater

0.4

0.3

0.4

Wastewater

1.2

1.2

1.0

Other water sources

162.4

163.0

164.3

Cooling water in total water consumption5)

236.4

225.2

213.3

Process water in total water consumption

54.2

53.1a)

51.3

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

85

Health, Safety, Environment
and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain

Environmental and Safety Performance Data *
2014

2015

2016

4,777 a)

4,885 a)

5,056

1,845

1,643

1,741

2,932 a)

3,242 a)

3,315

0.00132

0.00113

0.00182

NO X8)

2.8

2.8

2.6

SO²9)

1.1

1.0

1.1

CO

2.1

2.2

2.0

Atmospheric emissions in thousand tons
Total greenhouse gas emissions CO²e
Direct (Scope 1)6)
Indirect (Scope 2)7)
Ozone-depleting substances
NOX, SOX and other emissions

NH³

0.1

0.1

0.1

NMVOC10)

5.7

5.4

4.7

Total wastewater discharge (EN21)

267.8

257.0 a)

245.7

Cooling water (uncontaminated, without treatment)5)

236.4

225.2

213.3

31.4

31.8 a)

32.4

0.52

0.54

0.59

2.2

1.9

2.2

0.0065

0.0059

0.0049

Wastewater in million cubic meters

Production wastewater (with treatment)
Emissions in wastewater (after treatment) in thousand tons
Total nitrogen
Total organic carbon (TOC)
Heavy metals11)
Waste in thousand tons
Total weight of waste (EN22)

298.7

292.4 a)

298.9

Incineration with energy recovery

82.4

84.0

81.2

Incineration without energy recovery

26.7

30.3 a)

31.1

110.9

93.4

112.1

Landfilling
Material recovery

56.7

59.7

53.1

Other forms of disposal

22.0

25.0

21.4

Hazardous

191.1

188.4 a)

196.6

Non-hazardous

107.6

104

102.3

Type of waste

Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data
*	The aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an interest of more than 50 %. As LANXESS has an interest of exactly 50 % in ARLANXEO, the
latter continues to be reflected in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements and will be fully consolidated from 2016 to 2018; the environmental data pertaining to the ARLANXEO
sites will continue to be included in our key data for this period.
		 The following sites are not yet included in the environmental data on account of their recent acqisition by LANXESS: Memphis and North Kingstown, U.S.A.; Sudbury, U.K.
		 2013/2014/2015: Some of the data are based on estimates and projections.
From this reporting period, to allow more accurate representation, the indicators are no longer displayed in 0.5 steps but are correctly rounded. Actual corrections are identified by a).
		 The indicators were assessed (limited assurance) by PwC GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the course of a business audit.
1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites
2)	Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS company or externally (excluding commercial products)
3)	The energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions and typical substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy (e.g. the energy
contained in raw materials).
4)	Indirect energy sources are shown in the form of a balance sheet. The volume of energy sold is subtracted from the volume of energy purchased.
5)	Equivalent to circulating cooling water
6)	The emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42 from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006). In
accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO²e are based on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second Assessment
Report (SAR 1995).
All Scope 1 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO²e. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the CO² emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and are not
included in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during the reporting period: 2012: 225 kt CO², 2013: 223 kt CO², 2014: 217 kt CO², 2015: 236 kt CO²,
2016: 212 kt CO².

7)	All Scope 2 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO²e. The conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009. Where these were not available, factors
from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2012 were used for fiscal year 2014, factors from 2013 were used for fiscal year 2015 and factors from 2014 were used for fiscal year
2016.
The Scope 2 CO²e emissions are calculated using the market-based method in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Using the location-based method, Scope 2 CO²e emissions for 2016
amounted to 4,451 kt.
8)	Nitrogen oxide (NO X) calculated as NO² (excluding N²O – nitrous oxide)

9)	Sulfur dioxide (SO²) + SO³ calculated as SO²
10)	Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone
11)	Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc)
a)	Values restated due to supplementary notifications

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

86

Corporate Responsibility

Society

Social Activities by Type of Investment*
%

As a company, we draw numerous benefits from the society of
which we are part – well-trained employees, satisfied customers,
legal and political stability and an excellent infrastructure. We
therefore believe it is only right that, in the context of corporate
citizenship, we take responsibility for the development of the social environment in which we operate. Our social commitment is
aligned to our corporate expertise and targets and is focused on
four areas of activity: education, climate protection, water and
culture. In this respect, we concentrate especially on ensuring that
people benefit from our projects. We also aim in the future to more
specifically monitor the measurable effect of our commitment.
Europe remained the regional focus of our activities in the
reporting period. Overall, around 200,000 (2015: more than
335,000) mainly young people benefited from our projects,
which we funded with some €1.5 million in 2016 (2015: around
€2 million).
Social Activities by Topic*
%

1

Education
Culture

5

6

8

Societal investments

8

2 2

Commercial initiatives
Not-for-profit donations
Other

88

* Number of projects: 87

In this Annual Report, for the first time we have additionally
evaluated our projects as to whether they are purely not for profit
(“Not-for-profit donations”), represent investments in the social
environment where our sites are located (“Societal investment”)
or couple corporate objectives such as image, sales and earnings
with social motives (“Commercial initiative”). Also, in the reporting
year, we began to develop performance indicators to measure
the social impact of our activities. The results of the first projects
evaluated show that a large majority of participants in our activities
regard them as having a major to very major impact. We are seeking to progressively expand and optimize the evaluation system.

Climate protection
Water

LANXESS promotes education

Other

80

* Number of projects: 87

Social Activities by Region*
%

18

EMEA
Latin America
NAFTA
Asia-Pacific

12
2
68

We endeavor to encourage young people worldwide to develop
a passion for chemistry at a young age and in this way make them
aware of the diverse career opportunities that the LANXESS Group
offers. Within the context of the LANXESS education initiative,
we have established projects at many of our sites to pursue these
objectives in varying ways.
We underscore our clear commitment to Germany as a business location and a base for the chemical industry not just through
financial assistance for schools close to our sites but also through
collaboration in the provision of scientific teaching materials. For
instance, the teaching materials we have produced on the subjects
of mobility, globalization, urbanization and water are used in around
270 German elementary schools. In the reporting year, we also provided financial support for “Your Turn 2016 – Bewege Köln!” (Your
Turn 2016 – Move Cologne) – a new program for school students
aged between 14 and 16. They spent three days looking at how
they could take responsibility in their city, make a contribution or
work as a team to achieve change.

* Number of projects: 87

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Good for Business, Good for Society

A very successful commitment initiated in 2010 is our partnership with Teach First in Germany and Teach For India (TFI). We are
one of the main sponsors of these not-for-profit organizations. Both
are national network partners of the global Teach For All initiative,
which aims to help school students who have had a difficult start
in life, fostering their individual talents and developing their career
prospects. Particularly highly qualified university graduates who also
have the requisite soft skills act as fellows for a period of two years,
helping schools in socially disadvantaged areas with education and
schooling tasks.
We have also been active for many years in supporting education initiatives in South Africa. For instance, we have funded
the construction of new classrooms at a school for physically and
mentally disabled children close to our site in Newcastle. The last
of a total of four buildings was completed in June 2016.
Since its launch, the LANXESS education initiative has reached
hundreds of thousands of children, adolescents and young adults
worldwide. Feedback from teachers, principals and school authorities shows that the initiative has significantly enhanced the
importance of the MINT subjects in school timetables.

Committed to climate and water
A further focus of our corporate responsibility is enhancing
awareness worldwide of the causes and consequences of climate
change and water scarcity – for both drinking and industrial uses.
In Brazil, we promote scientific knowledge and environmental
awareness at our various sites through the “Green Cycle” competition, which gives participants the opportunity to develop their own
environmental protection projects. LANXESS provides full funding
for implementing the winning projects. Participants receive assistance from an agency that specializes in environmental projects.
Since the competition began in 2010, we have successfully initiated
40 projects that have included raising the awareness of children,
adolescents and adults for the importance of environment- and
climate-friendly behavior, establishing recycling communities and
remediating polluted land.
In China, we organized a research competition entitled “Clean
water for a better life” for the second year running. Students from
nine universities along the river Yangtze were asked to develop
approaches for protecting water as a vital resource. Statistically,
China has one of the lowest per capita water supplies in the world.
We supported the research teams with funding, training and specialists who assisted on a voluntary basis. The competition saw
a significant increase in popularity compared with the first year.
15 projects from nine universities were included in the final selection
and twice as many people – more than 18,000 – took part in the
public vote to determine the winners. A team from Tongji University
won the most votes for its research into a cleaning agent for treating
industrial wastewater.

87

Promoting art and culture
We are convinced that successful scientific work and, ultimately, social progress can only flourish in a culture of thought,
research and critical evaluation. As part of our cultural commitment, we therefore sponsor both literary and musical talents. We
have been the main partner to lit.COLOGNE, Europe’s biggest
literature festival in Cologne, since 2010. The second mainstay
of our cultural commitment is support for musical training. The
Young Euro Classic initiative brings together talents from Germany
and LANXESS’s main markets around the world. In Japan, we
support the Ozawa International Chamber Music Academy, which
enables talented young musicians from across Asia to receive a
top-quality musical education. Furthermore, we are a partner to
the “Kölner Philharmonie.” In addition to the “Acht Brücken” (Eight
Bridges) contemporary music festival, we support initiatives such
as a discounted concert subscription for university students.
Alleviating distress, creating opportunities
Since the beginning of 2015, more than one million
refugees have come to Germany to escape war and
poverty in their countries of origin. We, like others,
wish to make a helpful contribution to alleviating the
immediate distress of these people and to providing
them with opportunities for the future. To this end,
we are participating in the Germany-wide initiative
“Unternehmen integrieren Flüchtlinge” (Companies
integrate refugees). As part of this commitment,
we are offering refugees individual assistance in
choosing a career and enabling them to participate
in specially tailored internships, training and work
shadowing programs. In addition, we have accepted two young refugees from Syria and Iran to our
one-year “XOnce” orientation program with which
we are currently helping ten young people prepare
for vocational training who were not yet ready to
take this route. In October 2015, we announced
that we would provide €400,000 to support se­
lected refugee aid projects in Cologne, Leverkusen,
Dormagen, Krefeld and Brunsbüttel. These funds
were used mainly to finance language teaching
for children at schools as part of their preparatory
classes and for adults at further education centers.
In addition, we have encouraged our employees’
personal involvement by granting them up to eight
days of paid vacation.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

LANXESS on the
Capital Market

Strong development
In 2016, LANXESS stock significantly
outperformed all benchmark indices.
The share price increased by around
46 % year on year.

Successful bond issues
We took advantage of the favorable
conditions on the capital markets to place
bonds with a total volume of €1.5 billion.

Stable ratings
The rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s confirmed LANXESS’s ratings of
BBB– and Baa3, respectively.

90

LANXESS on the Capital Market

LANXESS on the Capital Market
Our positive business performance was rewarded by the capital market in 2016.
In another eventful year on the stock market, the LANXESS share significantly
outperformed all benchmark indices. Year on year, the share price rose by around
46 %. We successfully placed some large bond issues on the markets.

After a weak start to the year, the German equity market
developed positively overall in 2016. Among the reasons for
the poor start were disappointing economic data from China at
the beginning of the year, a dip in the Chinese equity market,
relatively weak U.S. economic data, the oil price dropping below
US$30 per barrel and the terrorist attacks in Brussels. These
factors influenced trading in the first quarter and led to a highly
volatile performance on the stock markets. The German lead
index, the DAX, lost around 2,000 points in the first six weeks
of the year alone. However, it had already recovered more than
half of these losses by the end of the first quarter. By contrast,
the MDAX changed almost imperceptibly over the same period,
ending the first quarter slightly up at 20,397 points. At the end
of the second quarter – in which the DAX fluctuated as it moved
sideways and the MDAX softened slightly – the surprising British referendum vote to leave the E.U. caused significant price
declines on Europe’s equity markets. However, fears of a lasting
negative effect on the stock markets proved unfounded, with
positive influences winning through in the second half of the
year. These included the easing of monetary policy in the United
Kingdom and Japan, the European Central Bank’s announcement
that it would continue to pursue its expansionary monetary policy,
a stable oil price, an improvement in the Chinese economy and
positive economic data from the United States. Donald Trump’s
surprise victory in the U.S. presidential election in November had
relatively little impact on the capital markets.

On December 30, after a strong second half-year, the DAX
closed at 11,481 points – 6.9 % higher than the 2015 closing
price. The MDAX, which includes LANXESS, tracked parallel
with the DAX over long periods during the year to finish 6.8 %
up at a new all-time high of 22,189 points.
There was a very broad difference in performance between
LANXESS’s industry benchmark indices – the Dow Jones STOXX
600 Chemicals SM and the MSCI World Chemicals Index. While
the Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM gained only 3.5 % to
finish the year on 857 points, the broader and more international
MSCI World Chemicals Index rose 9.0 % year on year, closing
at 273 points.
Reflecting the weakness of the overall market, LANXESS
stock started 2016 by declining, reaching its low for the year
of €32.90 on February 11. Swift recovery to around €40 was
followed by several months of persistent sideways movement.
Our stock decoupled from the market when, at the end of the
September, we announced our plans to acquire U.S. additives
specialist Chemtura. The subsequent rally drove the price above
€60. The closing price on December 30, 2016, was €62.35,
near to the high for the year of €63.53 that was recorded two
days earlier. Compared with its closing price in 2015, LANXESS
stock gained 46.1 % overall in 2016, thus significantly outperforming all benchmarks.

LANXESS Stock Performance 2016
%
LANXESS
MDAX
DJ STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM
DAX
MSCI World Chemicals Index

150
140
130
120
110
100
90
80
Dec. 30, 2015

Dec. 30, 2016

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

91

LANXESS on the Capital Market

Performance Data 2016

Capital stock/no. of shares1)

€/no. of shares

Q1 2016

Q2 2016

Q3 2016

Q4 2016

Year 2016

91,522,936

91,522,936

91,522,936

91,522,936

91,522,936

€ billion

3.87

3.60

5.06

5.71

5.71

High/low for the period

€

43.27/32.90

46.79/37.72

56.38/37.28

63.53/53.64

63.53/32.90

Closing price1)

€

42.24

39.28

55.30

62.35

62.35

Earnings per share adjusted for
exceptional items and amortization of
intangible assets4)

€

0.73

0.88

0.84

0.24

2.69

–

–

–

–

8.28

Market capitalization1)

Price/cash flow ratio1), 2), 3)

1) End of quarter: Q1: March 31, 2016, Q2: June 30, 2016, Q3: September 30, 2015, Q4 and full year: December 31, 2016.
2) Earnings and cash flow data are influenced by exceptionals, which restricts the significance accordingly.
3) Reference value: operating cash flow.
4) Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets as well as attributable tax effects.

Stockholder structure

Capital Market Information
Share class

No-par shares

Listing code

LXS

WKN (German
securities
­identification
number)

547040

ISIN

DE0005470405

Reuters/Bloomberg
codes

LXSG.DE/LXS:GR

Market segment

Prime Standard

Trading venues

XETRA, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart,
Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Hannover, Berlin

Selective indices

MDAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM,
MSCI Germany Standard, MSCI Germany Mid
Cap, Dow Jones Sustainability Index World,
FTSE4Good

Investment-grade
ratings (outlook)

Standard & Poor’s: BBB– (negative)
Moody’s: Baa3 (stable)

Sustainability
In 2016, for the sixth time in succession, we were included in
the respected Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World. The
index applies the best-in-class principle and includes only the top
10 % of the companies evaluated. In 2016, we received special
recognition for our management of innovation processes and for
our climate strategy with its goals that were reformulated at the
start of the year. Our listing in the FTSE4Good Index, in which we
were first included in 2011, was also confirmed. In addition, oekom
research – one of the leading sustainability rating agencies – gave
us a corporate responsibility rating of C.
Detailed information about sustainability can be found in the
“Corporate Responsibility” section starting on page 58 of this
Annual Report and on our website.

The majority of LANXESS’s stockholders are institutional
investors whose strategy is oriented toward growth or value. As
of December 31, 2016, these investors held around 90 % of the
stock. The remaining share of around 10% of LANXESS stock
is owned by private investors, including our employees, who
hold around 1 %. Since LANXESS was first listed on the stock
exchange, most of our private investors have been located in
Germany.
In 2016, as in the past, many of our institutional investors
were based in the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany. The proportion of our stockholders in the United States
decreased slightly and as of December 31, 2016, was around
32 % (2015: 35 %). As of the same date, some 16 % (2015: 17 %)
of LANXESS stock was held in the United Kingdom. Institutional
investors from Germany represented about 17 % (2015: 15 %)
of our stock. Taking private and institutional investors together,
ownership of our shares in Germany increased slightly to around
28 % (2015: 26 %).
In other regions, LANXESS is represented in Norway, France,
the Netherlands and Switzerland, in particular. The proportion of
institutional investors from the rest of Europe increased slightly
year on year to around 15 % (2015: 12 %). Meanwhile, the proportion in the other regions decreased slightly to around 9 %
(2015: 10 %).
An overview of the institutional investors which have issued mandatory notices reporting ownership of at least 3 % of
LANXESS’s outstanding shares is published in the Investor Relations section of our website.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

92

LANXESS on the Capital Market

Recommendations

Stockholder Profile

%, as of January 31, 2017

%, as of December 31, 2016
10
Institutional investors

Buy

Private investors

Hold

54
46

90

Annual Stockholders’ Meeting

Geographical Breakdown
%, as of December 31, 2016
9

United States
Germany

32

15

United Kingdom
Other Europe
Other regions

16

28

At our Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 20, 2016,
50,275,967 shares and the same number of votes – equivalent
to 54.93 % of the voting capital – were represented. This was a
further improvement against the prior year, when representation
was already at a good level of 52.21 %. LANXESS stockholders
passed all the agenda items. Detailed voting results and additional
information about LANXESS’s Annual Stockholders’ Meeting are
available in the Investor Relations section of our website. The next
Annual Stockholders’ Meeting is scheduled for May 26, 2017.

Dividend
Analysts
We accord high priority to regular and extensive dialogue
with analysts. In fiscal 2016, around 30 analysts issued reports
detailing their estimates of our company’s current and future
development. Key themes were the successful implementation
of the realignment – particularly our strategic alliance with Saudi
Aramco in the rubber business – and LANXESS’s future strategic
direction. In this connection, the acquisition of the Chemours Clean
and Disinfect business and our announcement of the planned
acquisition of Chemtura resulted in lively dialogue. Alongside
our dialogue with share analysts, we once again maintained our
close interaction with bond analysts during the reporting year.
As of January 31, 2017, 46 % of analysts (2015: 36 %) recommended buying LANXESS stock. A further 54 % (2015: 48 %)
said to hold our stock, while none (2015: 16 %) gave a sell recommendation. In the Investor Relations section of our website we
publish consensus estimates compiled by an independent service
provider on the basis of current analyst evaluations.

LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. We aim to
increase the dividend if possible, but at least to maintain it at a
stable level. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of
LANXESS AG will therefore propose to the Annual Stockholders’
Meeting on May 26, 2017, that a dividend of €0.70 per share
be declared for fiscal 2016 (2015: €0.60 per share). The 17 %
increase in the dividend is a signal of the company’s increased
profitability and financial solidity.
Relative to the price of €62.35 at which LANXESS shares ended
2016, this equates to a dividend yield of 1.1 %. Subject to approval of
the corresponding resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting,
the dividend is expected to be paid on May 31, 2017.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

LANXESS on the Capital Market

Bonds
In fiscal 2016, we took advantage of the favorable conditions on the bond markets to place three bonds. The September
issuance of two eurobonds with a volume of €500 million each
was significantly oversubscribed. The bonds have coupons of
0.25 % and 1.0 % and terms of five and ten years, respectively. In
November, we then issued our company’s first hybrid bond. This
also had a total volume of €500 million but a term of 60 years
and a coupon of 4.5 %. The first regular redemption option can
be exercised in June 2023. As the hybrid bond is subordinate to
LANXESS’s other financial liabilities, 50 % of it is treated as equity
by the rating agencies. This issuance was likewise several times
oversubscribed – a clear signal of the great trust that LANXESS
enjoys on the capital markets. The proceeds from these three
newly issued bonds will serve to finance our planned acquisition
of Chemtura. The bonds have a special redemption option in case
it is not possible to close the transaction.
Our eurobond issued in September 2009 matured after a
seven-year term in September 2016 and was redeemed. It had
a total volume of €200 million and an annual coupon of 5.5 %.

Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds
ISIN/WKN

Volume

Term

Coupon

XS0629645531

€500 million

May 23, 2011–
May 23, 2018

4.125 %

XS0855167523

€500 million

November 21, 2012–
November 21, 2022

2.625 %

XS1501363425

€500 million

October 7, 2016–
October 7, 2021

0.250 %

XS1501367921

€500 million

October 7, 2016–
October 7, 2026

1.000 %

LANXESS Hybrid Bonds (Subordinated)1)
ISIN/WKN

Volume

Term

XS1405763019

€500
million

December 6, 2016–December 6, 2076

Coupon

Redemption options

First option on June 6, 2023, and thereafter
4.500 % until the first
redemption option; subsequent annually; additional redemption rights in
defined special circumstances
adjustment of interest rate as
described in prospectus
1) S
 implified description; see prospectus for full conditions of the bond
and the associated risks

93

All existing LANXESS eurobonds are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Their term sheets are available in the
Investor Relations section of our website. Further information
about our bonds may also be found in the combined management
report on page 135 ff.

Ratings
LANXESS’s creditworthiness is regularly evaluated by the rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. It
is our strategic corporate goal to retain an investment-grade rating.
In September 2016, Standard & Poor’s confirmed LANXESS’s
investment-grade rating at BBB– with a negative outlook. Standard & Poor’s takes a positive view of the planned acquisition of
Chemtura and the greater diversification that will result. It also
praised our strong liquidity and our clear commitment to retaining
our investment-grade rating.
In September 2016, Moody’s confirmed its investment-grade
rating of LANXESS at Baa3 with a stable outlook. This agency
likewise regards the planned Chemtura transaction as being advantageous for LANXESS’s risk profile. Moody’s also emphasized
aspects including our significantly reduced financial debt.

Investor relations activities
Maintaining an active, broad and uninterrupted dialogue with
investors and analysts is a top priority for LANXESS. Our objective is to provide a continuous and sustained flow of information
about our company. Our activities remain focused on addressing
equity-side investors. However, we also maintain a close dialogue
with fixed income investors and with institutional investors focused
on sustainability.
The high quality of our investor relations work again received
external acknowledgment in 2016. For example, the sell-side analysts surveyed each year by U.S. magazine Institutional Investor
ranked LANXESS first among European chemical companies in
the Best Investor Relations category. The Chairman of our Board
of Management Matthias Zachert was honored as “Best CEO” by
the buy and sell sides. As part of its Pan European Survey, Extel
ranked our Chief Financial Officer Michael Pontzen as best CFO
in the chemical industry. The LANXESS Investor Relations team
placed second in the annual Extel ranking of IR performance.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance

Transparent governance
Through our corporate governance standards,
we are seeking to strengthen the trust of
investors, customers, employees and the public
in LANXESS.

Binding principles
The LANXESS Code of Conduct provides
employees worldwide with guidance
on compliance.

Focus on prevention
An extensive portfolio of briefings, targeted
training and regular risk assessments are aimed
at preventing compliance violations.

96

Corporate Governance Report

Corporate Governance Report
The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are committed to the
principles of transparent and responsible corporate governance and control. They place
high value on the standards of good corporate governance with a view to strengthening
the trust of investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS.

The Board of Management and Supervisory Board herein
report on corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to Section
3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code. Further information about corporate governance can be found in the Board of
Management’s declaration pursuant to Section 289a of the German
Commercial Code, which is published together with the Corporate
Governance Report on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/
under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance.

Implementation of the German
Corporate Governance Code
As LANXESS is a stock corporation listed on the German stock
exchange, corporate governance at the company is aligned with
Germany’s securities and capital market legislation, regulations
pertaining to codetermination and the German Corporate Governance Code. The latter makes recommendations and suggestions
concerning corporate governance. There is no obligation to comply
with this code. Pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of
LANXESS make an annual declaration of compliance, in the past
and going forward, with the recommendations and suggestions
of the German Corporate Governance Code. The declaration of
compliance of March 14, 2017, and the previous declarations are
published on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under
Investor Relations/Corporate Governance. Reasons were given
for non-compliance with two of the total 102 recommendations of
the German Corporate Governance Code valid when the current
declaration of compliance was issued. In addition, two suggestions
were not fully implemented.

Other key principles of the
management practices applied
by LANXESS
As an international company, LANXESS bears global responsibility for the propriety and sustainability of its conduct. Compliance,
meaning the observance of all legal provisions that are binding on
the LANXESS Group, ethical principles and regulations defined
by the company itself, is therefore a fundamental requirement
for all entrepreneurial activities. For this reason, LANXESS has
established a company-wide compliance management system
(CMS), which is defined in the CMS directive that is applicable
throughout the company.
The goal of the CMS is to appropriately and effectively ensure
compliance throughout the LANXESS Group, so as to counter
unlawful or unethical conduct at the LANXESS Group at an early
stage and introduce suitable measures to prevent improprieties.
The CMS is supported by the compliance organization, which
is made up of the Group Compliance Officer and a network of
local compliance officers in the countries in which LANXESS
has subsidiaries. The compliance organization is in particular
the central point of contact and advisory for all employees on
compliance-related issues. The function that includes the global
compliance organization reports directly and regularly to the Board
of Management.
One of the fundamental elements of the CMS is the compliance culture based on LANXESS’s corporate values of respect,
ownership, integrity, professionalism and trust. It is shaped by
the clear commitment and dedication of the LANXESS Board of
Management and the Supervisory Board. All managerial staff at
LANXESS have a duty to embody this compliance culture and
communicate it to employees.
The goal of the LANXESS Compliance Program, which is part
of the CMS, is to prevent individual impropriety, identify misconduct
at an early stage and react with appropriate sanctions. The “Code
of Conduct – Code for integrity and compliance at LANXESS” is
the cornerstone of the Compliance Program. It defines binding
principles of conduct and provides employees with information
and guidance on compliance. Additional preventive measures
include in particular an extensive portfolio of compliance briefings
and targeted compliance training. Compliance risk assessments

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

are performed regularly to identify and evaluate company-specific
compliance risk areas, as well as to develop additional measures
and processes for reducing compliance risks. The main risk areas
identified are assigned to individual group functions as special
areas of responsibility for compliance. They are responsible for
developing and implementing individual compliance programs that
encompass in particular specific Group policies, standard operating
procedures and training concepts. The compliance organization
supports both the design and implementation phases.
An effective internal control system, appropriate monitoring
activities and preventive compliance audits performed by Internal
Auditing and those functions with special compliance responsibilities are designed to ensure observance of the regulations. If
there are indications of compliance violations, the Integrity Line
offers employees and external third parties many ways to notify
the compliance organization – also anonymously if they wish.
LANXESS considers corporate responsibility a prerequisite
to being able to operate successfully in the future and create
value for all stakeholders. Given this awareness, sustainability is
a key success factor that is at the heart of LANXESS’s corporate
culture and a component of our business strategy. For LANXESS,
actively demonstrating corporate responsibility involves knowing
and evaluating the impact of our actions – whether positive or
negative – and maintaining a dialogue with stakeholders that
enables us to satisfy their expectations to the best of our ability.
By signing the Responsible Care® Global Charter, we have documented our commitment to the visions and ethical principles of the
Responsible Care® initiative launched by the International Council
of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Our corporate directives ensure
that the principles of the charter are integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy. As a signatory to the U.N.
Global Compact, LANXESS also recognizes in its directives the
principles set forth by the world’s largest and most important
initiative for responsible corporate governance. An overview of
the implementation of corporate responsibility at LANXESS can
be downloaded from the Corporate Responsibility section of our
website at http://www.lanxess.com/.

97

Corporate governance
structure
LANXESS AG is a company established under the laws of
Germany. One of the fundamental principles of German stock
corporation law is the two-tier management system with the
governing bodies of management board and supervisory board.
This system is characterized by a clear separation between the
management board as the body that manages a company and
the supervisory board as the body that advises and oversees
management. Concurrent membership on both boards is strictly
prohibited. The management board and the supervisory board
work closely together in a relationship of mutual trust for the benefit
of the company.

Board of Management
The Board of Management of LANXESS AG currently comprises four members: Matthias Zachert (Chairman), Dr. Hubert Fink,
Michael Pontzen and Dr. Rainier van Roessel. Information about the
members of the Board of Management is available on our website
at http://www.lanxess.com/ under Investor Relations/Corporate
Governance/Board of Management.
The Board of Management is appointed to manage and represent the company. It is responsible for conducting business in the
company’s interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The
principal tasks of the Board of Management include defining the
company’s goals and strategic alignment, managing and overseeing
the operating units, setting human resources policy, arranging the
company’s financing, and establishing an effective risk management
system. The Board of Management has a duty to ensure compliance
with legislation, regulatory requirements and the company’s internal
directives. It is also responsible for preparing the quarterly and halfyear financial statements, the financial statements of LANXESS AG,
the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and
the management report for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group.
The Chairman coordinates the work of the Board of Management. As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted with
a simple majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting
vote. Resolutions of the Board of Management are generally passed
at regularly held meetings. The rules of procedure for the Board of
Management that are enacted by the Supervisory Board contain
further regulations concerning the form of cooperation within the
Board of Management, the allocation of duties and the matters
requiring resolution by the full Board of Management. In deciding
the composition of the Board of Management, the Supervisory
Board gives consideration to professional suitability, leadership
qualities and diversity. It has defined an age limit for members of
the Board of Management.
By way of implementing the law on the equal representation of women and men in management positions in the private
and public sectors, which came into force on May 1, 2015, the
Supervisory Board resolved to maintain the status quo with a target for the proportion of women on the Board of Management of

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

98

Corporate Governance Report

LANXESS AG of 0 % through June 30, 2017, in light of the fact
that the appointments and service contracts of the members of
the Board of Management serving at the time the resolution was
taken are valid beyond June 30, 2017. In the future, however, the
Supervisory Board will seek to appoint women with the appropriate
professional qualifications and personal skills as members of the
Board of Management.

Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG is composed of
twelve members, with equal numbers of stockholder representatives and employee representatives, in accordance with the
provisions of the German Codetermination Act of 1976. The stockholder representatives are elected by the Annual Stockholders
Meeting, whereas the employee representatives are elected in
accordance with the provisions of the Codetermination Act and
its electoral regulations. Supervisory Board members normally
serve for a five-year term.
Manuela Strauch, Werner Czaplik, Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets,
Thomas Meiers, Ralf Sikorski and Ifraim Tairi serve as the employee
representatives on the Supervisory Board. Dr. Heike Hanagarth,
Dr. Friedrich Janssen, Lawrence A. Rosen, Dr. Rolf Stomberg, Theo
H. Walthie and Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber serve as the stockholder
representatives. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Dr. Rolf
Stomberg. The Vice Chairman is Ralf Sikorski. Information about
the members of the Supervisory Board is available on our website
at http://www.lanxess.com/ under Investor Relations/Corporate
Governance/Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of Management in its management of the company and to monitor its
conduct of the business. The Supervisory Board discusses business performance, planning and strategy at regular intervals. Its
responsibilities also include appointing the members of the Board
of Management as well as reviewing the financial statements of
LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the
LANXESS Group. Moreover, it resolves on the Board of Management’s proposal for the appropriation of the balance sheet profit
and on the Supervisory Board’s report to the Annual Stockholders’
Meeting. The Supervisory Board reaches its decisions with a majority of the votes cast unless a different majority is stipulated by
law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board
has two votes in a second ballot on the resolution, even if this
also results in a tie. The German Codetermination Act contains
special requirements concerning resolutions. The Chairman of
the Supervisory Board coordinates the work in the Supervisory
Board, chairs its meetings and represents the concerns of the body
externally. Supervisory Board resolutions are usually adopted at
regularly held meetings.
The Supervisory Board has issued its own rules of procedure,
which, in addition to defining the tasks and responsibilities of the
Supervisory Board and the personal qualifications of its members,
establishes the processes for convening, preparing and chairing
meetings as well as the procedures for voting.

The Board of Management reports to the Supervisory Board
on a timely and comprehensive basis about the progress of business and the situation of the Group, including potential risks and
relevant issues relating to corporate planning. The Supervisory
Board has laid down the Board of Managements notification and
reporting requirements in detail in its rules of procedure. The
Chairman of the Board of Management regularly exchanges information with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in order
to discuss matters of strategy, planning, business performance,
risks, risk management and compliance. Certain transactions and
measures of major or long-term importance require the Supervisory Boards approval. Measures requiring approval include, but are
not limited to: adoption of the corporate planning; the acquisition,
sale or encumbrance of real property, shareholdings or other assets; borrowings and certain other types of financial transactions.
Thresholds have been set for some of these transactions.
The Report of the Supervisory Board details the Supervisory
Board’s work.

Goals for the composition of the
Supervisory Board
Section 5.4.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code
states that the concrete objectives of the Supervisory Board
regarding its composition and the status of the implementation of these objectives are to be published in the Corporate
Governance Report.
The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG
are expected to possess the necessary expertise, skills and
professional experience to perform their duties. The members of
the Supervisory Board autonomously undertake the necessary
training required for their tasks and are supported in their efforts
by the company. The Supervisory Board should be composed
in such a way to ensure that the Board of Management receives
qualified supervision by and advice from the Supervisory Board.
In making nominations, the Supervisory Board applies only
legally permissible and fair selection criteria, acts in the company’s best interests, and gives consideration to the nominated
candidates’ personality, integrity, commitment, professionalism
and independence. The Supervisory Board should collectively
possess all the knowledge and experience that is material to
LANXESS’s business activities.
The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG should ensure
the provision of impartial advice and supervision to the Board
of Management. All current stockholder representatives on the
Supervisory Board are independent. The Supervisory Board also
assumes the independence of the employee representatives on
the Supervisory Board and that their ability to act independently
is not affected by their status as employees of the company or
members of labor unions. No member of the Supervisory Board
has a personal or business relationship with the company, its
executive bodies, a controlling shareholder or any enterprise
affiliated with a controlling shareholder that may cause a material
and not merely temporary conflict of interest. No former member

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG is a member of
the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also aims for all
future members of the Supervisory Board to be independent
within the meaning of Section 5.4.2 of the German Corporate
Governance Code and free of conflicts of interest.
The Supervisory Board has now defined an age limit for
its members which is contained in the rules of procedure for
the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board members shall not
continue to serve after the end of the Stockholders’ Meeting
following their 80th birthday. This also takes into account the
maximum length of membership of the Supervisory Board of
generally not more than three full terms of office (15 years) that
has been specified by the Supervisory Board.
In general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the
principles of diversity in its composition. On the basis of their
various personal and professional backgrounds, the members
of the Supervisory Board contribute a broad spectrum of experience and skills. The global reach of LANXESS AG has been
reflected in the composition of the Supervisory Board thus far
and will remain a factor in selecting candidates to be proposed
to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election to the Supervisory Board. In many cases, the experience and skills of the
members of the Supervisory Board have been acquired while
working abroad for a long period or in an international field.
Three members of the Supervisory Board are not German citizens. The members of the Supervisory Board have professional
knowledge of the chemical industry and other sectors that are
important for the company’s business.
Diversity applies equally to gender. In accordance with the law
on the equal representation of women and men in management
positions in the private and public sectors, codetermined stock
corporations like LANXESS AG are required to appoint at least
30 % women and 30 % men when refilling Supervisory Board
positions that become vacant from January 1, 2016. Existing
appointments – including those of substitute members – can run
until they end regularly. Two of the twelve members currently
serving on the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board are women, which
represents a proportion of around 16 %. Future new appointments
will be made in accordance with the legal stipulations.

Composition and work of the Supervisory
Board committees
The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit
Committee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of
the German Codetermination Act and a Nominations Committee
formed from among its members.
The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares
the meetings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. It makes
decisions on transactions requiring approval that are already included in the company’s annual planning. The Presidial Committee
may also resolve on the exercise of participation rights pursuant
to Section 32 of the German Codetermination Act and on transactions requiring approval that cannot be deferred. It consults

99

regularly about long-term succession planning for the Board of
Management. Furthermore, the Committee also prepares the
personnel decisions to be made by the Supervisory Board and
resolutions of the full Supervisory Board regarding the compensation of the members of the Board of Management. In place of
the full Supervisory Board, the Presidial Committee resolves on
the conclusion and amendment of employment contracts with the
members of the Board of Management and all other contractual
matters not pertaining to compensation. The members of the
Presidial Committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Ms. Strauch,
Mr. Sikorski, Mr. Tairi, Mr. Walthie and Dr. Wolfgruber.
The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in
overseeing the conduct of the business and deals with matters
relating to the supervision of accounting, the effectiveness of the
internal control system, the risk management system and the
internal auditing system, as well as auditing, including the independence of the auditor and the work additionally performed by the
auditor, and compliance. It prepares the Supervisory Board’s resolutions concerning the annual financial statements of LANXESS
AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS
Group and recommends an auditor whom the Supervisory Board
then proposes to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for appointment. The members of the Audit Committee are Dr. Janssen
(Chairman), Mr. Czaplik, Dr. Gerriets, Mr. Meiers, Mr. Rosen and
Mr. Walthie. Dr. Janssen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee,
is an independent financial expert and has specialist knowledge
and experience in the field of accounting acquired through his
professional activities.
The Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the
German Codetermination Act performs the tasks described in
Section 31, Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act.
The members of this committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman),
Mr. Czaplik, Mr. Sikorski and Dr. Wolfgruber.
The Nominations Committee solely comprises stockholder
representatives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory
Board to nominate for election as new members of the Supervisory Board by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The members
of this committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Rosen and
Dr. Wolfgruber.
Other Supervisory Board committees established for a particular purpose perform the duties assigned to them by Supervisory
Board resolution.
The respective committee chairmen report regularly to the
Supervisory Board on the work of the committees.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

100

Corporate Governance Report

Stockholders and
stockholders’ meetings

Compensation report

The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the
Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote on the resolutions submitted. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting resolves on
all matters reserved for its decision by law, with binding effect on
the stockholders and the company. Each share confers one vote.
The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting
include appropriation of the balance sheet profit, ratification of the
actions taken by the members of the Board of Management and
the Supervisory Board, appointment of the auditors and election
of the stockholder representatives to the Supervisory Board. The
Annual Stockholders’ Meeting also resolves on amendments to the
articles of association, measures affecting the company’s capital
and the approval of intercompany agreements. Each year there
is an Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which the Board of Management and Supervisory Board give an account of the last fiscal
year. The German Stock Corporation Act requires the convening
of an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting in certain situations.
All stockholders who register in time and prove their eligibility to attend the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and exercise
their voting rights shall be allowed to participate in the Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockholders may exercise their voting
rights at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting in person, through
a proxy of their own choosing or through a company-nominated
proxy who acts according to their instructions.

The compensation report, which describes the compensation
system and the amount of compensation paid to the members of
the Board of Management and Supervisory Board for their service
in fiscal 2016, is part of the combined management report for
LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group.

Reportable securities
transactions
Members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board
and persons closely related to them are required to disclose transactions in shares or debt securities of LANXESS AG or associated
financial instruments if the total volume of such transactions in
any given calendar year equals or exceeds €5,000. Reportable
securities transactions are published on the LANXESS website.
The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of
December 31, 2016, was less than 1% of all shares issued by
the company.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

101

Offices held by Board of
Management Members
Offices held by serving Board of Management members (as of December 31, 2016)
Member of the Board
of Management

External offices

Offices within the LANXESS Group

• Member of the Presidium of the German Chemical Industry
Association (VCI)
• Member of the Asia-Pacific Committee of German Business
(APA)
• Member of the Presidium of “stiftung neue verantwortung e.V.”

• Chairman of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland
GmbH
• Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO
Holding B.V.

Matthias Zachert
Chairman of the Board
of Management

Dr. Hubert Fink
Member of the Board
of Management

• Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland
GmbH
• Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Saltigo GmbH

Michael Pontzen
Chief Financial Officer

• Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsches Aktieninstitut
(DAI)
• Member of Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft in der Unternehmensführung e.V. (GEFIU)

• Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland
GmbH
• Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp.
• Member of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO
Holding B.V.

• Member of the Supervisory Board of CURRENTA Geschäftsführungs-GmbH, Leverkusen
• Member of the Board of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) in North Rhine-Westphalia
• Chairman of the Trade Policy Committee of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI)
• Member of the German Committee on Eastern European
Economic Relations
• Member of the 1 b Experience-Exchange Group of the German
Association for Personnel Management (DGFP)
• Member of the Board of the German Chemical Industry Federation (BAVC)

• Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland
GmbH
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V.
• E xecutive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS
N.V.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp.
• Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical
(China) Co. Ltd.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private
Ltd.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Pte. Ltd.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd.

Dr. Rainier van Roessel
Member of the Board of
Management and Labor
Relations Director

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

102

Corporate Governance Report

LANXESS AG Supervisory Board
Serving members (as of December 31, 2016)
Dr. Rolf Stomberg (Chairman)
• Chairman of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG
• Former Chief Executive of the Shipping, Refining and Marketing Division of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, U.K.
• Former member of the Board of Directors of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, U.K.
Further offices:
• L ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Chairman)
• Biesterfeld AG, Hamburg*
• HOYER GmbH, Hamburg
• K EMNA Bau Andreae GmbH & Co. KG, Pinneberg
Werner Czaplik
• Chairman of the LANXESS Central Works Council and of the LANXESS Group Works Council
• Member of the LANXESS Works Council at the Leverkusen site
Further offices:
• L ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets
• Chairman of the LANXESS Group Managerial Employees’ Committee and Chairman of the LANXESS Managerial Employees’ Committee;
manager of a production facility in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
Dr. Heike Hanagarth
• Management consultant
• Former member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Bahn AG, Berlin
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• aichele GROUP GmbH & Co. KG, Bretten (Advisory Board)
Dr. Friedrich Janssen
• Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• National-Bank AG, Essen*
• Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman)
Thomas Meiers
• District Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, Cologne
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne*
• INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne*

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

Serving members (as of December 31, 2016)
Lawrence A. Rosen
• Member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Post AG, Bonn
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• Qiagen

N.V., Venlo, Netherlands
Ralf Sikorski
• Member of the Executive Committee of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, Hannover
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Vice Chairman)
• R AG AG, Herne*
• RAG Deutsche Steinkohle AG, Herne*
• RWE AG, Essen*
• RWE Power AG, Cologne and Essen* (Vice Chairman)
• RWE Generation AG, Essen*
• KSBG – Kommunale Beteiligungsgesellschaft GmbH & Co. KG, Essen* (Vice Chairman)
• KSBG – Kommunale Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH, Essen* (Vice Chairman)
Manuela Strauch
• Chairwoman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Uerdingen site
• Member of the LANXESS Central Works Council
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
Ifraim Tairi
• Chairman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Dormagen site
• Member of the LANXESS Central Works Council
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH, Dormagen*
Theo H. Walthie
• Self-employed consultant
• Former Global Business Group President for the Hydrocarbons & Energy Business of the Dow Chemical Company
Further offices:
• LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• NBE Therapeutics AG, Basle, Switzerland (President of the Board of Administration)
Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber
• S elf-employed consultant
• Former Chairman of the Management Board of ALTANA AG
Further offices:
• L ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne*
• A LTANA AG, Wesel*
• Grillo Werke AG, Duisburg*
• A RDEX GmbH, Witten (Chairman of the Advisory Committee)
•C
 abot Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, United States
* Statutory supervisory boards

The information about offices held refers to memberships of
other supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of
companies in Germany and abroad (as of December 31, 2016).

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

103

Financial Information

Profitability raised
Our key controlling parameter at Group level,
the EBITDA pre exceptionals, has improved
substantially.

Expanding our customer relationships
We increased sales volumes year on year in
all segments.

Sound financing
We have strengthened our financial position
and are well placed to finance the planned
acquisition of Chemtura.

Combined
Management Report
OF THE LANXESS GROUP AND LANXESS AG
FOR FISCAL 2016

108

Fundamentals

108

Group Structure

108

Business

111

Strategy

112

Value Management and Control System

114

Procurement and Production

115

Sales Organization and Customers

116

Research and Development

118

Corporate Responsibility

119

Economic Report

119

Legal Environment

119

Business Conditions

120

Key Events Influencing the Company’s Business

121

Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business

122

Business Performance of the Lanxess Group

126

Business Trends by Region

127

Segment Information

130

Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre Exceptionals)

130

Statement of Financial Position and Financial
Condition

137

 anagement’s Summary of Business
M
Development and the Fiscal Year

138

Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview

138

Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of
Lanxess Ag

140

Employees

142

Compensation Report

150

 eport Pursuant to Section 289,
R
Paragraph 4, and Section 315, Paragraph 4
of the German Commercial Code

152

 eport Pursuant to Section 289a of the
R
German Commercial Code

152

 eport on Risks, Opportunities and Future
R
Perspectives

152

Economic Outlook

153

Future Perspectives

155

Opportunity and Risk Report

108

Combined Management Report

Group structure

Management and control organization

Legal structure
LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS
Group and functions largely as a management holding company. LANXESS Deutschland GmbH is a wholly owned subsidiary
of LANXESS AG and in turn controls the other subsidiaries and
affiliates in Germany and elsewhere.
The following are the principal companies wholly owned by
LANXESS AG directly or indirectly:
Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of
LANXESS AG 
Company Name and Domicile

Function

Segments

Production
and sales

Advanced Intermediates/
Performance Chemicals/
High Performance Materials

LANXESS Corporation,
Pittsburgh, U.S.A.

Production
and sales

Advanced Intermediates/
Performance Chemicals/
High Performance Materials

LANXESS India Private Ltd.,
Thane, India

Production
and sales

Advanced Intermediates/
Performance Chemicals/
High Performance Materials

LANXESS N.V.,
Antwerp, Belgium

Production
and sales

Advanced Intermediates
High Performance Materials

LANXESS Chemicals S.L.,
Barcelona, Spain

Holding
company

Advanced Intermediates/
Performance Chemicals/
High Performance Materials

Saltigo GmbH,
Leverkusen, Germany

Production
and sales

Advanced Intermediates

LANXESS Deutschland GmbH,
Cologne, Germany

In the context of the strategic alliance formed with Saudi
Aramco for the synthetic rubber business, as explained under
“Business organization and Group portfolio” in this combined
management report, LANXESS AG holds a 50 % interest in
ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands. The following
are the principal companies wholly owned by this subsidiary:
Principal Direct Subsidiaries of
ARLANXEO Holding B.V.
Company Name and Domicile

Function

Segment

ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd.,
Singapore

Production
and sales

ARLANXEO

ARLANXEO Elastomères France
S.A.S., Lillebonne, France

Production
and sales

ARLANXEO

ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V.,
Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands

Production
and sales

ARLANXEO

ARLANXEO Brasil S.A.,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Production
and sales

ARLANXEO

ARLANXEO Canada Inc.,
Sarnia, Canada

Production
and sales

ARLANXEO

ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A.,
Granges-Paccot, Switzerland

Sales

ARLANXEO

LANXESS AG has a two-tier management structure consisting
of the Board of Management, which manages the company, and
the Supervisory Board, which oversees the Board of Management
with the support of an Audit Committee formed from among its
members to advise on financial matters. The Board of Management
shapes Group strategy and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and organization. As the Group management company,
LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and for communication
with the company’s key stakeholders.
For additional information, please also see the Corporate
Governance Report.

Business
Business organization and Group portfolio
As part of the “Let’s LANXESS again” realignment program,
LANXESS and Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A.,
The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, have
formed a strategic alliance for the synthetic rubber business named
ARLANXEO in which each party holds a 50 % interest. On the
basis of a preliminary purchase price calculation for its interest after
deduction of debt and other financial liabilities, Saudi Aramco paid
a cash contribution of €1.2 billion. Closing of the transaction took
place on April 1, 2016. The business continues to be included in
the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and
will be fully consolidated in the first three years because LANXESS
has the opportunity to determine key aspects of financial and
business policy. In this connection, new legal entities have been
established and existing legal entities renamed. They have been
assigned to the ARLANXEO segment. Details about the scope
of consolidation are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements as of December 31, 2016.
As a result of the transaction described above, Group structures have been reorganized. The synthetic rubber business,
formerly bundled in the Tire & Specialty Rubbers and High Performance Elastomers business units in the Performance Polymers
segment, has since been reported as the ARLANXEO segment,
while the High Performance Materials business unit, formerly also
assigned to the Performance Polymers segment, has become
a separate segment. LANXESS now reports as four segments,
comprising an unchanged total of ten business units, each of
which conducts its own operations and has global profit responsibility: Advanced Intermediates, Performance Chemicals, High
Performance Materials and ARLANXEO. Prior-year figures have
been restated accordingly.
Group functions support our business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other centralized services. Complementing
this global alignment of the business units and Group functions, the

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

109

Group Structure
Business

country organizations ensure the necessary proximity to markets
and provide the organizational infrastructure required.
On August 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of the
Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. chemical company
Chemours. This business has some 170 employees worldwide
and three production sites in Memphis and North Kingstown in
the United States and Sudbury in the United Kingdom. It has been
integrated into the Material Protection Products business unit in
the Performance Chemicals segment. The anticipated annual
EBITDA contribution is around €20 million. In addition, growth and
synergy effects are expected to gradually generate an additional
€10 million by 2020. In 2015, the acquired business generated
sales of around €100 million, roughly half of which in North America. The provisional purchase price of around €200 million was
paid from existing liquidity. This acquisition represents the first
such transaction associated with our strategic realignment. In this
connection, LANXESS acquired all shares in Antec International
Ltd., Sudbury, United Kingdom; International Dioxcide Inc., North
Kingstown, United States; and Chemours Jersey Ltd., St Helier,
Jersey, Channel Islands.
LANXESS is also preparing to acquire U.S. company Chemtura,
one of the major global providers of flame retardant and lubricant
additives. With the largest acquisition in its history, LANXESS is
building on its own additives portfolio and will become one of
the world’s major actors in this growing market. In addition to
additives, Chemtura’s portfolio includes urethanes and organ­
ometallics. According to the data published by Chemtura in its
December 31, 2016, financial report, the company generated
sales of around €1.5 billion in fiscal 2016, some 43 % of which in
North America. Adjusted EBITDA reported by Chemtura came to
about €255 million. The enterprise value (including net financial
liabilities and pension obligations) is around €2.4 billion. The
two companies have signed an acquisition agreement under the
terms of which Chemtura shareholders will receive US$33.50
per share in cash for each outstanding share of common stock
held. This amounts to an expected purchase price of around
€1.9 billion, which LANXESS will finance largely with corporate
bonds, which have already been issued, and existing liquidity.
Chemtura shareholders approved the transaction by a large majority at an extraordinary general meeting held on February 1, 2017.
Subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions customary for such a transaction, the acquisition is expected to close
around mid-2017.
In connection with the optimization of our plant networks for
rubber products, we discontinued production of ethylene propyl­
ene diene monomer (EPDM) rubber at the site in Marl, Germany,
as of the end of the first quarter of 2016. Within LANXESS’s EPDM
rubber production network, this facility was no longer competitive
due to its relatively small capacity and comparatively high energy
and raw material costs.

The segments in brief
The business activities that LANXESS combines in its Advanced Intermediates segment make it one of the world’s leading
suppliers of industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in
the custom synthesis and manufacturing of chemical precursors
and specialty active ingredients.
Advanced Intermediates 
Business Units

Advanced Industrial Intermediates
Saltigo

Sites

Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen
and Leverkusen, Germany
Antwerp, Belgium
Baytown and Bushy Park, U.S.A.
Liyang, China
Nagda and Jhagadia, India

Applications

Agrochemicals
Automotive
Construction
Aromas and flavors
Pharmaceuticals
Tire chemicals

We have combined our application-oriented process and functional
chemicals operations in the Performance Chemicals segment.

Performance Chemicals 
Business Units

Rhein Chemie Additives
Inorganic Pigments
Material Protection Products
Leather
Liquid Purification Technologies

Sites

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Bitterfeld, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen,
Leverkusen and Mannheim, Germany
Epierre, France
Branston and Sudbury, U.K.
Filago, Italy
Lipetsk, Russia
Vilassar de Mar, Spain
Merebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg,
South Africa
Burgettstown, Chardon, Greensboro,
Little Rock Memphis, North Kingstown and
Pittsburgh, U.S.A.
Porto Feliz, Brazil
Burzaco, Merlo and Zárate, Argentina
Changzhou, Qingdao, Shanghai and
Ningbo, China
Jhagadia, India
Toyohashi, Japan
Sydney, Australia
Singapore

110

Combined Management Report

LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World

Europe

Asia
North and
Central America

Africa

South America

Australia

We have combined our synthetic rubber activities in the
ARLANXEO segment.

Performance Chemicals 
Applications

Polymer additives
Disinfection
Protection and preservation of wood,
construction materials, coatings and foodstuffs

ARLANXEO 
Business Units

Color pigments

Tire & Specialty Rubbers
High Performance Elastomers

Products for leather processing and
water treatment

Sites

Leverkusen and Dormagen, Germany
Zwijndrecht, Belgium
Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands
Singapore

We have combined our engineering plastics activities in the High
Performance Materials segment.

La Wantzenau and Port-Jérôme, France
Sarnia, Canada
Orange, U.S.A.
Cabo, Duque de Caxias and Triunfo, Brazil

High Performance Materials 
Business Units

High Performance Materials

Sites

Brilon, Hamm-Uentrop and
Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany

Changzhou and Nantong, China
Applications

Automotive
Electrical/electronics and medical equipment

Antwerp, Belgium
Porto Feliz, Brazil
Wuxi, China
Jhagadia, India
Gastonia, U.S.A.
Applications

Tires

Automotive
Construction
Electrical/electronics and medical equipment

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

111

Business
Strategy

Strategy
Despite its comparative maturity, the chemical industry continues to expand. Worldwide it is achieving growth rates which
are in part well above overall global economic expansion. For
European companies in particular, sharing in this growth requires
a strong ability and willingness to adapt, as the chemical industry
is undergoing profound change.
Given the enormous scientific advances being made and the
high cost of registering new substances, there are now only few
opportunities for bringing commercially viable new chemical compounds to market. The challenge for most chemical companies is
to deliver sustainable products based on known compounds for
existing and new areas of application and to ensure that global
processes and supply chains are sustainable, efficient, safe and fair.
The competitive environment in the chemical industry is also
changing. On the supplier side, particularly in the commodity
segment, the balance of power is shifting. Manufacturers in the
emerging markets, the Middle East and the United States, with
good access to low-cost raw materials and energy, are extending
their value chains and entering the global markets with products
that are competitive in terms of both price and quality. On the
sales side, previously traditional importing nations like China are
becoming increasingly self-sufficient. In recent years, China has
built its own state-of-the-art production infrastructure that is also
capable of manufacturing higher-quality products.
In addition to these shifts, factors like increasing political instability in important growth markets are generating considerable
uncertainty and risks in both procurement and sales. Moreover,
digitalization will change processes, working conditions and value
chains in the chemical industry in the years ahead.
In the face of such challenging conditions, a company’s quality
is demonstrated by its readiness to formulate and consistently
implement a forward-looking strategy which

›› actively shapes change;
›› creates stability in an increasingly uncertain environment;
›› optimally balances the interests and needs of all
stakeholders.

Substantial progress in realignment
We have created the basis for such a strategy through our
three-phase global realignment program “Let’s LANXESS again,”
which we initiated in 2014. A new and more efficient organizational
structure and extensive optimization of our business units and
Group functions have not only brought us closer to our markets and

customers but have also sustainably improved our cost position
by around €150 million. In Saudi Aramco we have found a strong
partner for our synthetic rubbers business and together we successfully launched the new strategic alliance ARLANXEO in April
2016. As part of our program to optimize our production, sales
and supply chains, we initiated and in some cases have already
completed a number of measures aimed at achieving further cost
savings of around €150 million by the end of 2019. As with the
optimization of our business and administrative structures, we are
making progress faster than planned; we brought forward some
measures from 2017 to 2016 and thereby realized associated
cost savings sooner than anticipated.

LANXESS: enhanced stability
and improved cash flow
We aim to make LANXESS a specialty chemicals group with
enhanced stability, improved cash flow and a more balanced
portfolio. To achieve this, we will be building especially on our
strengths in both mid-sized and individual niche markets.
An important element of our strategy is to reduce economic
dependency on individual sectors or closely correlated markets.
In regional terms, too, we aim to achieve an even better balance
in our portfolio by increasing the share of our business accounted
for by the growth markets of China, North America and Southeast
Asia. With the launch of ARLANXEO, we have started to limit the
influence of the tire industry on our business. The acquisition of
the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. company
Chemours, completed at the end of August 2016, strengthens the
portfolio and regional position of our Material Protection Products
business unit, particularly in North America.
With the planned acquisition of the U.S. company Chemtura,
one of the major global providers of flame retardant and lubricant
additives, we would be building significantly on our own additives portfolio and become one of the world’s major actors in this
growing market. We are confident of completing the acquisition
of Chemtura by the middle of fiscal 2017.
In order to further improve the alignment of our existing businesses and leverage future growth potential, we aim to invest up
to €400 million in our organic growth through 2020, as decided
in 2015. Much of our investment budget will be focused on expansion measures in the Advanced Intermediates, Performance
Chemicals and High Performance Materials segments. All capital
expenditures and future strategic measures are subject to the strict
application of a conservative financing policy guided by clear criteria and focused on EBITDA pre exceptionals – our key controlling
parameter – and on maintaining our investment-grade rating.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

112

Combined Management Report

VALUE MANAGEMENT AND
CONTROL SYSTEM
To achieve our strategic goals, we need indicators that we can
use to measure the outcomes of our activities. The most important
indicator of our financial performance – and thus the company’s
key controlling parameter – is EBITDA (earnings before interest,
income taxes, depreciation and amortization) pre exceptionals.
We view other financial performance ratios such as return on
capital employed (ROCE), days of sales in inventory (DSI) and
the net financial debt ratio as company-specific lead indicators
or as a basis for monitoring.
Value Management and Control System

EBITDA
pre ­exceptionals

€ million

EBITDA margin
pre exceptionals
Capital employed

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

1,223

735

808

885

995

%

13.4

8.9

10.1

11.2

12.9

€ million

5,442

4,969

5,093

5,043

7,479

ROCE

%

15.6

5.8

7.9

8.4

6.9

Days of sales in
inventory (DSI)

Days

64.7

58.0

65.4

67.2

67.2

Days of sales
outstanding (DSO)

Days

47.4

47.8

48.0

47.6

51.1

Net financial ­
liabilities

€ million

1,483

1,731

1,336

1,211

2,394

Net financial
liabilities after
deduction of
time deposits
and securities
available for sale

€ million

1,483

1,731

1,336

1,211

269

1.2x

2.4x

1.7x

1.4x

0.3x

7.7

7.5

7.7

5.5

5.7

Net financial
debt ratio
Investment ratio

%

Our success is largely reflected by our earning power, hence
our control system is focused on steering this parameter.

Earning power
The key indicator for steering the earning power of the
LANXESS Group and the individual segments is EBITDA pre exceptionals. It is calculated from EBIT by adding back depreciation
of property, plant and equipment, amortization of intangible assets and excluding exceptional items. The latter are effects which,
because of their nature or scope, may have a particular impact
on earnings but which it would seem inappropriate to include in
the assessment of business performance over several reporting

periods. Exceptional items may include write-downs, reversals
of impairment charges or the proceeds from the sale of assets,
certain IT costs, restructuring expenses and income from the
reversal of provisions established in this connection, and reductions in earnings resulting from portfolio adjustments or purchase
price allocations. Grants and subsidies from third parties for the
acquisition and construction of property, plant and equipment
are accounted for as deferred income using the gross method. In
this respect, no adjustments other than for gross depreciation and
amortization are made when calculating EBITDA pre exceptionals.
Every operational decision or achievement is judged in the
short and long term by its sustainable impact on EBITDA pre
exceptionals. As part of the annual budget and planning process,
targets are set for this benchmark of our company’s success, which
are then taken into account in determining employees’ variable
income components.
Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the
Group’s controlling parameters because they do not permit any
direct conclusions about our profitability. Volatile raw material prices are a hallmark of our industry and their fluctuation throughout
the year impacts our selling prices. This influences sales but, other
than short-term effects, generally has no impact on the absolute
margins that are significant to our profitability. We therefore set
no sales targets, either for the short or medium term.
The earnings margins are calculated from the ratios of the
respective earnings indicators to sales. For example, the EBITDA
margin (pre exceptionals) is calculated as the ratio of EBITDA (pre
exceptionals) to sales and serves as an indicator of relative earning
power at Group level and for the individual segments.

Company-specific lead indicators
Lead indicators support the timely identification of material
changes in the company’s earnings, asset and financial position
and the initiation of appropriate measures.
Our annual budget and planning process delivers key values
for the Group’s earning power and our ability to finance operations
from our own funds as the starting point for steering the company.
This information is used, for example, to make financing and capital
expenditure decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes
in market conditions and the competitive environment, we prepare operational forecasts twice each fiscal year as the basis for
updating the full-year budget and the associated key values we
use to control the Group. In addition, regular forecasts of the key
values for our earning power are prepared.
Certain parameters used in budgets and forecasts are defined
centrally and applied uniformly as they have a major influence on
the key values. Strategic raw materials have a crucial role in forecasting. The development of procurement prices is significant to
the timely adjustment of selling prices. Even regional differences

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Value Management and Control System

in the availability of raw materials over a specific period of time
may become significant. Given the regional diversification of our
production sites and customer markets, exchange rate development also affects the earning power resulting from sales and cost
trends, with corresponding repercussions for pricing and hedging
strategies. In addition, we draw on continuously updated growth
forecasts for our customer industries and the regions where we
do business in order to prepare and review sales and capital expenditure decisions.

Profitability
Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented
as a profitability ratio at Group level which indicates how efficiently
we utilize our capital. This makes it an important criterion in capital
expenditure decisions, for example.

ROCE =

EBIT pre exceptionals
Capital employed

Capital employed = Total assets
Less deferred tax assets
Less interest-free liabilities

Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for
pensions and other post-employment benefits), income tax liabilities, trade payables and items included under “other non-financial
liabilities.” In addition, we use a simplified variant of ROCE, called
“business ROCE,” to evaluate the contribution of our business units.

Cost of capital

113

In 2016, ROCE was 6.9 % – against 8.4 % in 2015 – and thus
slightly above our weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after
adjustment for comparability. ROCE in 2016 was negatively affected by the planned acquisition of Chemtura and the associated
need to reserve the corresponding financial resources.

Capital employment
To optimize our working capital at the operational level,
we use two key performance indicators: DSO (days of sales
outstanding) and DSI (days of sales in inventory). These show
receivables and inventories in relation to sales for the previous
quarter. In the reporting year, DSI replaced DIO (days of inventory
outstanding) as a performance indicator. The latter was based on
cost of goods sold rather than on sales. The switch to DSI was
made because sales provide the basis for a more comparable
performance indicator as of the reporting dates than cost of
goods sold, which may also be influenced by inventory-related
valuation effects. In 2016, DSI was at 67.2 days (2015: 67.2
days) and DSO at 51.1 days (2015: 47.6 days). In this connection,
receivables in the reporting period were compared with a lower
base in the prior year.
Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject
to rigorous capital discipline and are systematically aligned with
the product areas that show the greatest potential for success.
We prioritize investment projects on the basis of financial indicators such as pay-off period, net present value and ROCE. The
investment rate is an indicator which describes cash outflows
for capital expenditures divided by sales. For more detailed
information about our capital expenditure guidelines, please
see “Strategy” above.

Debt

Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in
our case, from the return on a long-term German government
bond plus a risk premium for industrial companies in the same
risk category as LANXESS. The cost of equity reflects the return
expected by investors from an investment in LANXESS shares.
Equity investors demand a risk premium because of the greater risk involved in acquiring shares rather than buying risk-free
government bonds. This is known as a market risk premium and
is calculated using the long-term excess return generated by
a stock investment over an investment in risk-free government
bonds and adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk
of an investment in LANXESS stock compared with that of the
market as a whole.

Net financial liabilities are the total of current and non-current
financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest), less
cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets.
After deduction of time deposits of €1,950 million and securities available for sale, net financial liabilities as of December 31,
2016, amounted to €269 million, compared with €1,211 million
at the end of 2015.
The time deposits, which have maturities through mid-2017
at the latest, and the securities available for sale result from investing the payment of around €1.2 billion received from Saudi
Aramco for its interest in ARLANXEO and liquidity of €1,477 ­million
from the issuance of bonds. These financial resources are for
the most part earmarked to finance the acquisition of Chemtura.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

114

Combined Management Report

The net financial debt ratio, which we use solely at Group
level, is defined as net financial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre
exceptionals. On the basis of net financial liabilities after deduction
of time deposits and securities available for sale, the net financial
debt ratio as of December 31, 2016, decreased to 0.3 from 1.4
at the previous year’s reporting date.
At Group level, we also consider provisions for pensions
and other post-employment benefits to be components of debt.
Compared with the end of 2015, they increased by €34 million
to €1,249 million. Including these additional components of debt,
the total net debt ratio in relation to EBITDA pre exceptionals was
1.5, compared with 2.7 at the end of 2015.
Net Financial Liabilities 
€ million

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Non-current financial ­liabilities

2,167

1,649

1,698

1,258

2,734

167

668

182

443

78

Current financial liabilities
Less:
Liabilities for accrued interest
Cash and cash equivalents
Near-cash assets
Net financial liabilities
Time deposits and securities
available for sale
Net financial liabilities
after deduction of time
deposits and securities
available for sale

(54)

(53)

(26)

(24)

(23)

(386)

(427)

(418)

(366)

(355)

(411)

(106)

(100)

(100)

(40)

1,483

1,731

1,336

1,211

2,394

0

0

0

0

(2,125)

1,483

1,731

1,336

1,211

269

PROCUREMENT AND PRODUCTION
Procurement
LANXESS uses its centrally managed global procurement
organization – Global Procurement & Logistics – to ensure a
reliable supply of raw and other materials and services. Global
Categories closely coordinate with our business units to pool their
requirements in the raw materials, technical goods, packaging
materials, energy, services and logistics segments. Our worldwide
procurement network facilitates purchasing synergies, so that we
can move efficiently in the market and exploit price advantages.
We avoid delivery bottlenecks or reliance on individual suppliers
using strategies like multiple sourcing. As a result, we experienced
no delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks in the reporting period that
had a material effect on our business development.

Procuring chemical raw materials is a high priority at
LANXESS. Our aim is to secure our supplies on the basis of longterm contracts. The availability of raw materials has always been
a crucial factor in facility location decisions. We procure key raw
materials and utilities in the form of steam and biomass from the
immediate vicinity at several of our production sites. In this way,
we not only minimize the costs and environmental impact of our
transportation activities, but reduce the risk of delivery shortfalls
caused by transportation issues in particular.
Our biggest suppliers of chemical raw materials in 2016
included BASF, BP, Braskem, Covestro, ExxonMobil, INEOS,
LyondellBasell, Nova Chemicals, Sabic and Shell Chemicals.
Among the most important strategic raw materials by far for
our production operations in 2016 were ammonia, butadiene,
cyclohexane, ethylene, isobutylene and toluene. In all, strategic
raw materials accounted for a purchasing volume of about
€2.2 billion in fiscal 2016 (2015: about €2.5 billion), or around
76 % of our procurement spend for raw materials and goods
in 2016, which amounted to approximately €2.9 billion (2015:
about €3.1 billion). Our total procurement spend in 2016 was
about €5.7 billion (2015: around €5.9 billion).
We systematically apply best-practice processes. These
include e-procurement tools, such as e-catalogs, auctions and
electronic marketplaces, many of which are integrated into our
internal IT systems. At the end of 2016, around 80 % of all items
ordered (2015: about 70 %) were handled in e-procurement systems. In this context, we have linked in 693 new catalogs globally.
The catalog use rate was around 20 % at ARLANXEO and about
45 % in the other three segments.
Our HSEQ management process begins when raw materials
and services are procured. Across the LANXESS Group, a global
procurement directive defines how our employees should behave
toward suppliers and their employees. In the reporting year, our
procurement transactions involved around 18,000 suppliers.
Based on the principles of the U.N. Global Compact, the International Labour Organization (ILO), Responsible Care® and other
corporate responsibility codes, we expect our suppliers to comply with all applicable national and other laws and regulations in
order to safeguard the environment, ensure health and safety in
the workplace and deploy appropriate labor and hiring practices.
These provisions of our Supplier Code of Conduct are key criteria
in our selection and evaluation of suppliers. A successful sustain­
ability assessment and/or audit are a fundamental requirement
for major new suppliers seeking to be included in our portfolio. In
2016, we included a total of some 95 significant new suppliers.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Value Management and Control System
Procurement and Production
Sales Organization and Customers

Also in 2016, in order to further support the global rollout of the
assessment process, we trained employees in India in the sustainability assessment of our suppliers. In countries where this
training had already taken place in previous years, regular courses
are conducted to familiarize new employees with the process
and provide longer-serving employees with updates about any
changes made in the interim.
As a founder of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative,
we aim to enhance supply chain transparency and thus further
minimize procurement risks. This initiative, membership of which in
the reporting year rose to 19 international chemical companies with
a cumulative procurement volume of more than €180 billion, aims
to develop and implement a global audit program to assess and
continuously improve sustainability activities along the chemical
industry supply chain, focusing on human rights, the prevention of
child labor, working standards, occupational safety, environmental
protection and business integrity. As the assessment and audit
results are shared within the initiative, we once again had access
to a substantially larger number of sustainability assessments
(more than 6,500) and audit reports (around 680) at the end of
2016. Suppliers whose sustainability-related activities have been
assessed by TfS currently account for 60 % (2015: 57 %) of our
relevant procurement spend. Brazil, China and India remained the
focus of the 238 audits conducted in 2016 (2015: 179). These
identified a need for action in respect of labor and human rights and
occupational safety at around ten suppliers. However, no serious
deficiencies were identified that would have resulted in termination
of a business relationship. In the reporting year, our own production
site in Leverkusen, Germany, successfully underwent a TfS audit
and received the best-possible assessment.
In 2016, many participants attended the TfS Supplier Days
in Mumbai, India, the purpose of which was to explain to suppliers
the growing importance of a sustainable supply chain to LANXESS
and the other members of the initiative

Production
LANXESS is one of the world’s major producers of specialty
chemicals. Our production facilities make anywhere from very
small batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty and fine chemicals and polymers in quantities of several ten
thousand tons.
Our production facilities are organizationally assigned to
individual business units. The most important production sites
are in Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany;
Antwerp, Belgium; Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands; Orange, United States; Sarnia, Canada; Triunfo and Duque de Caxias, Brazil;
Jhagadia, India; Singapore; and Changzhou and Wuxi, China.
LANXESS also has other production sites in Argentina, Australia,

115

Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Russia,
South Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. For
a detailed breakdown of our production sites by segment, please
see “The segments in brief” in this combined management report.
The following significant changes occurred in our global
production network in 2016:

›› At the start of the year, our High Performance Materials

business unit began operating a second production line
for compounding high-tech plastics at its Gastonia facility in the United States, doubling the plant’s annual capacity
to 40,000 tons.
›› In Ningbo, China, the new site operated by our Inorganic
Pigments business unit started production of iron oxide
red pigments in 2016. The plant deploys state-of-theart process technology and has an initial annual capacity
of 25,000 tons. At the same site, a mixing and milling plant
with an annual capacity of 70,000 tons began producing
inorganic pigments in 2016.
›› With the acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect
specialties business at the end of August, our Material Protection Products business unit took over three production
sites in Memphis and North Kingstown, United States, and
Sudbury, United Kingdom.
›› In connection with the optimization of our global rubber
production network, we discontinued production of EPDM
rubber at the site in Marl, Germany, which was no longer
competitive, at the end of the first quarter of 2016.
Including the measures described above, cash outflows for
capital expenditures came to €439 million in fiscal 2016. Further
information about the capital expenditures can be found in the
“Statement of financial position and financial condition” section
of this combined management report.

SALES ORGANIZATION AND
CUSTOMERS
Sales organization
We sell our products all over the world, to several thousand
customers in more than 150 countries across all continents.
LANXESS’s long-standing customer base includes leaders in
each of its user industries. We have well-established customer
relationships in all sales regions. To meet our customers’ needs,
we have set up flexible marketing and sales structures. We manage
our sales throughout the world through 48 companies owned by
LANXESS itself. In countries where we do not yet have our own
company, we work with local sales partners.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

116

Combined Management Report

To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they
receive individual support, each of our business units manages its
own sales organization. Another competitive advantage is derived
from having 52 of our own production sites in 17 countries. Wher­
ever possible, customers are supplied from production sites in
the same region, yielding advantages in terms of time and costs.
In 2016, e-business activities continued to account for a significant proportion of procurement, sales and logistics transactions.
Altogether, considerably more than one million orders and the respective automated follow-up notices were handled as e-business.
This capability is provided by the “LANXESS one” internet portal
and the system-to-system connections via ELEMICA. In 2016,
the “SAP Ariba” portal was used for the first time in procurement.
We will continue to expand this process, which provides benefits
for all involved, by adding further partners and technical services.
Sales generated through e-business reached approximately
€1.4 billion (2015: €1.7 billion).
Selling costs in the reporting year came to 10.1 % of
LANXESS Group sales, compared with 9.6 % in 2015.
The table below shows selling costs by segment over the
last five years.
Selling Costs 

Selling costs (€ million)
% of sales

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

763

755

742

759

781

8.4

9.1

9.3

9.6

10.1

Breakdown by segment
Advanced Intermediates

147

146

143

152

155

Performance Chemicals

313

308

310

321

324

High Performance Materials
ARLANXEO
Reconciliation

75

81

77

83

85

209

205

200

197

208

19

15

12

6

9

Prior-year figures adjusted to reflect changed segment structure

Shares of Sales by Industry Sector 
%

2016

Tires

~ 20

Automotive

~ 20

Chemicals

~ 15

Agrochemicals

~ 10

Construction, electrical/electronics, leather/footwear

~ 15

Others (cumulative share)

~ 20

In 2016, our top ten customers accounted for about 20 %
(2015: 22 %) of total sales. None of our customers accounted
for more than 10 % of Group sales. 51 (2015: 55) customers
accounted for annual sales in excess of €20 million.
The number of customers in each segment varies widely.
The Advanced Intermediates segment had some 3,300 custom­
ers in 2016 (2015: 3,400), while Performance Chemicals,
High Performance Materials and ARLANXEO had about 9,800
(2015: 10,400), around 1,900 (2015: 1,900) and some 1,900
(2015: 1,800), respectively. This information is based on the
number of customer accounts in each segment. Each segment
includes all customer groups and sales categories. However,
one customer may do business with more than one segment.
The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance
Chemicals segment, as well as its broad customer base, reflect
the way in which its business often involves custom-tailored solutions in specialty chemicals. By contrast, the substantially lower
numbers of customers in the High Performance Materials and
ARLANXEO segments, which nonetheless generate relatively
high sales, are typical of the high-performance plastics and synthetic rubber products businesses. On account of the extensive
customer base, no segment can be considered dependent on
just a few customers.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Customers
Because of our broad offering, we have business relation­
ships with a large number of customers all over the world.
These customers need an individualized, well-focused approach,
which we are able to provide because our sales organizations
are managed through business units. We regularly review individual sales and marketing strategies on the basis of customer
satisfaction surveys.
LANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires,
automotive, plastics, chemicals, agrochemicals, construction,
electronics, leather and footwear, pharmaceuticals, food, water
treatment and furniture.

Research and development makes an important contribution
toward increasing our competitiveness and expanding our product
portfolio through the development of innovative products and
processes as well as the ongoing optimization of existing production processes. In 2016, as part of the organizational changes at
LANXESS, we also adjusted the framework for research and development. With the establishment of ARLANXEO, rubber-related
projects were transferred from the Production, Technology, Safety
& Environment Group Function to the Tire & Specialty Rubbers
and High Performance Elastomers business units, in addition to
the research activities conducted directly there.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Sales Organization and Customers
Research and Development

Organizational focus
Our research programs are aligned with the needs of customers in the end markets. We have therefore consolidated our
product innovation activities in the respective business units and
transferred those projects that were previously managed centrally
to the business units’ research departments.
The business units focus their activities on optimizing prod­
ucts and product quality, as well as on developing new products.
The Global Technology & Innovation department within our
Production, Technology, Safety & Environment Group Function
supports and complements the business units’ research and development activities, with the focus on process innovation. The
emphasis here is on planning new processes and integrating new
technologies into our existing production processes with the aim
of achieving cost and technology leadership. One focus is on
reviewing current production processes using mathematical and
experimental methods in order to pinpoint optimization potential.
In this way, we have identified potential savings on raw materials
and energy, developed process concepts to exploit these savings
and already realized them in several areas. We have also succeed­
ed in further reducing our operating costs by developing new
model-based process control concepts that we have implemented
with the incorporation of state-of-the-art online analytics. These
concepts enable us to run our plants even closer to the optimum
operating point and make them even more efficient in terms of
raw material and energy consumption. In this way, we can ensure
the full utilization of synergies and the transfer of innovations to
various business units.
Our main research and development units are at the sites in
Leverkusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen, Germany; London, Canada; and Qingdao and Wuxi, China. We also operate a
center for engineering plastics in Hong Kong. At our international
research and development sites, we test materials such as highperformance rubbers and engineering plastics for lightweight
automotive engineering applications.
LANXESS also collaborates with universities and research
institutes in many research projects. In 2016, we had a total of 144
(2015: 153) major research and development alliances, 38 (2015:
35) of which were with universities, 88 (2015: 97) with suppliers
or customers, and 18 (2015: 21) with research institutes.

Main research and development projects
In 2016, the Advanced Intermediates segment continued to
invest in its efficiency and in improving its production processes.
For the Saltigo business unit, innovative products are no
longer the sole guarantee of market success. Instead, the focus

117

is on holistic solutions for complex and swiftly evolving customer
requirements. These solutions deliver added value through tailored
combinations of technologies and services. To safeguard its future capability in this area, Saltigo is currently investing around
€60 million at the Leverkusen site to expand state-of-the-art
synthesis capacities for customer projects by about a third. The
redevel­opment and expansion work is scheduled for completion
at the end of 2017.
The Performance Chemicals segment brought important
innovations to market in 2016. For example, the Rhein Chemie
Additives business unit introduced Stabaxol P 110, a new antihydrolysis additive for plastics which extends the life of biopolymers such as polylactic acid, in particular. The same business unit
launched Rhenowave, an innovative process control system that
enables our customers to more reliably guarantee the quality of
rubber compounds during processing.
The Material Protection Products business unit introduced a
tailored product portfolio for the antimicrobial treatment of plastics,
thereby gaining access to the attractive biocide market for highvolume applications in flexible PVC, silicon-based construction
materials and polyurethanes. Sold as Biochek® 8064-8069 and
Biochek® 8071 in the core markets of the United States, China,
Taiwan and EMEA, the products are designed to satisfy the in­
creasingly stringent regulatory requirements for biocide products.
In 2016, the High Performance Materials segment devel­
oped a range of product innovations including Durethan TC
polyamides for the thermal management of components and
devices. These new thermally conductive polyamides are ideal
for manufacturing components from which heat needs to be dissipated because they are up to seven times more conductive than
the standard polyamides used in automotive engineering. They are
also a cost-effective alternative to die-cast metals. Another milestone
last year was the optimization of our high-temperature-stabilized
polyamide portfolio. In response to demands for higher long-term
service temperatures in engines, we can now offer our customers
high-performance polyamides with extreme temperature stability.
In 2016, ARLANXEO continued optimizing its portfolio of
high-quality rubber products. For instance, the Tire & Specialty
Rubbers business unit expanded its range of Buna FX function­
alized SSBR rubbers. These products were rigorously tested by
various tire customers and are to be commercialized in 2017. Our
research activities to develop a self-healing technology which
maintains the air pressure in a tire that has been punctured by an
object such as a screw or nail were transferred from our central research unit to the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit. The first
samples were provided to tire manufacturers in the reporting year.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

118

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY

Cost trend and employees
Research and development expenses in 2016 totaled
€131 million, or 1.7 % of sales (2015: €130 million or 1.6 %).
The High Performance Elastomers, Tire & Specialty Rubbers,
High Performance Materials and Saltigo business units together
accounted for the largest share of these expenses. Material Protection Products, Saltigo, Liquid Purification Technologies and
Leather were the business units most active in research in terms
of their ratios of research and development expenses to sales.
Research and Development Expenses 

Research and development
expenses (€ million)
% of sales

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

192

186

160

130

131

2.1

2.2

2.0

1.6

1.7

At the end of 2016, we employed 589 people – against 585 in
2015 – in our research and development laboratories worldwide.
Due to the transfer of projects to ARLANXEO, the number of
employees in our central research unit declined to 117 from 213
on December 31, 2015.

Integrated management system

Number of Employees in Research and Development 

Year end
% of Group employees

LANXESS considers responsible business conduct a prereq­
uisite to being able to operate successfully in the future and create
value for all stakeholders. Given this awareness, sustainability is a
key success factor that is at the heart of LANXESS’s value-based
performance culture and a component of our business strategy.
Our objective is to know the impact of our actions – whether
positive or negative – and to maintain a dialogue with our stakeholders that enables us to satisfy their expectations to the best of
our ability. In this connection, our responsibility spans the entire
supply and value creation chain – from the global procurement
of raw materials and product development, through production,
storage and transport, to use and disposal.
Our actions are guided by established international standards and frameworks, such as the U.N. Global Compact, the
Responsible Care® Global Charter, the employment standards
of the International Labour Organization and the Sustainable Development Goals. Our own corporate directives and regulations,
chief among them the “Code of conduct – Code for integrity and
compliance at LANXESS”, specify the rules for individual areas of
activity and are binding requirements on all LANXESS employees.

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

843

931

708

585

589

4.9

5.4

4.3

3.6

3.5

Fields of activity and patent strategy
Within the context of our global realignment, we are focus­
ing our research and development activities on market-driven
projects with a short- to medium-term time horizon. As a result,
the total number of projects increased from 223 to 270 in 2016,
176 (2015: 128) of which aimed to develop new products and
applications or improve existing ones. The remaining 94 projects
(2015: 95) concerned process technology issues with a view to
reducing costs, improving efficiency or increasing capacity.
The results of our activities are protected by patents, where
this is possible and expedient. In the course of 2016, we submitted
56 priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, 2016, the
full patent portfolio included approximately 1,010 patent families
covering around 6,820 property rights.

At LANXESS, a central management system provides the
necessary global structures in all business processes to ensure
responsible commercial practices. Worldwide, we apply the
ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 international standards for quality
and environmental management and ISO 50001 for energy man­
agement. Confirmation of our compliance with ISO 9001 and
ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. External,
independent experts regularly audit the progress of integrating
new sites into our management system and the performance of
our management system worldwide.
As of December 31, 2016, our matrix certificate covered 49
certifiable companies (companies with employees and in which
LANXESS holds an interest of more than 50 %) with 79 sites
in 23 countries. In relation to total headcount, this equates to
coverage of 98 %. In addition, since 2012, we have successively
obtained certification to ISO 50001 for energy management
for LANXESS AG and all its subsidiaries (in which it holds an
interest of more than 50 %) in Germany. As of December 31,
2016, our certification coverage for energy management in
Germany stood at 100 % in relation to headcount. The status
of our certificates can be viewed at any time in the Corporate
Responsibility section of our website.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

119

Research and Development
Corporate Responsibility
Legal Environment
Business Conditions

BUSINESS CONDITIONS

Environment data
We use an electronic data capture system for the systematic
global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas
of safety and environmental protection. Data for all indicators
except LTIFR and RIR (used to measure occupational safety) are
gathered only at those production sites in which the company
holds an interest of more than 50 %1). PricewaterhouseCoopers
GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (formerly PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft) assessed our
HSE indicators for 2012 to 2016 and the necessary data recording
processes in the course of a business audit (“limited assurance”).

Social commitment
We believe it is only right that, in the context of corporate
citizenship, we take responsibility for the development of the social
environment in which we operate. In this respect, we concentrate
especially on ensuring that people benefit from our projects. Our
not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science
education in schools. The LANXESS education initiative is the
Group-wide platform for these activities. Since its launch, we have
reached a great number of children, adolescents and young adults
worldwide. A further focus of our social commitment is enhancing
awareness worldwide of the causes and consequences of climate
change and water scarcity – for both drinking and industrial uses.
In addition, through our cultural commitment activities, we sponsor
both literary and musical talents.

LEGAL ENVIRONMENT
There were no changes in the legal environment in 2016
that would have had a material impact on the earnings, asset
and financial position of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG.

The economic environment
The economy was subject to various influences in the reporting year. On the one hand, growth was supported by oil prices
and the monetary policy of key central banks. On the other hand,
the discussion at the start of the year about a possible hard land­
ing for the Chinese economy increased uncertainty, as did the
ongoing economic problems in Russia and Brazil and the growing
threat of terrorism. Adverse effects included protectionist and
populist trends in politics, the difficult situation facing a number
of European banks and political uncertainty in Europe heightened
by the United Kingdom’s decision to leave the European Union.
Despite these mixed conditions, the global economy expand­
ed by 2.3 %, with regional variations in growth, as shown by the
table below.
GDP and Chemical Production in 2016
Change vs. prior year
in real terms (%)
NAFTA
Latin America

Gross domes­
tic product

Chemical
production

1.6

0.4

(2.3)

(0.8)

EMEA (incl. Germany)

1.6

1.3

Germany

1.8

(0.9)

Asia-Pacific

4.4

5.9

World

2.3

3.7

Source for 2016 growth rates: IHS Markit

One euro was worth US$1.05 at the end of 2016. The
U.S. currency thus appreciated by 3.7 % on the closing price of
US$1.09 at the end of 2015. As in 2015, the average price for the
year was US$1.11 to the euro. Due to the regional positioning of
our business, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a positive effect
on our earnings. Centralized hedging activities limit any impact
that cannot be neutralized by ensuring that production and sales
take place in the same currency area.
Compared with 2015, procurement prices for raw materials
mostly fell, though the trend was less marked overall for aromatics
and olefins than for organic and inorganic raw materials. We are
particularly affected by the prices of petrochemical raw materials
as they have a material impact on our production costs. The price
of butadiene on the procurement markets rose on average for
the year, whereas the prices of feedstocks such as benzene and
toluene moved in the opposite direction.

1) Also covered are the wholly owned subsidiaries of ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands, in which LANXESS holds a 50 % interest.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

120

Combined Management Report

The chemical industry
The chemical industry increased global production in 2016
by 3.7 %, although the picture varied regionally. Asia-Pacific was
the driving force of this development with growth of 5.9 % based
on momentum from China and India.

Evolution of major user industries
Global automobile production expanded by 3.8 % during the
reporting period. Asia-Pacific, driven by China and India, posted
the strongest growth, whereas Latin America saw a very signif­
icant decline.
Agrochemicals achieved solid global growth of 2.9 %. The
NAFTA region expanded production by a substantial 5.2 %. On
the other hand, production in Germany decreased by 5.3 %.
The construction industry recorded growth of 2.8 % world­
wide. The Asia-Pacific region was a significant factor in this growth
with an increase of 5.1 %. By contrast, Latin America saw a decline
of 3.2 %.
The global tire industry recorded strong growth in production
of 3.8 %. Asia-Pacific was the most dynamic region with growth
in production of 4.9 %. Latin America achieved growth of 3.0 %
on a low prior-year level.
Evolution of Major User Industries in 2016 
Change vs.
prior year
in real terms (%)
NAFTA

Automotive

Con­
Agro­chemi- struction
cals

Tires

1.9

5.2

2.1

0.9

(12.9)

0.1

(3.2)

3.0

EMEA (incl. Germany)

3.4

0.7

0.9

2.6

Germany

0.2

(5.3)

1.3

0.2

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

5.8

3.4

5.1

4.9

World

3.8

2.9

2.8

3.8

KEY EVENTS INFLUENCING THE
COMPANY’S BUSINESS
Business performance in 2016 was characterized by high­
er production and sales volumes and by the successful implementation of measures to improve operational competitiveness.
Falling procurement prices for raw materials and energy and the
persistently difficult competitive situation in our synthetic rubber
business resulted in adjustments to selling prices. Exchange rate
developments supported a positive result overall.
As a significant aspect of its realignment, LANXESS part­
nered with Saudi Aramco to establish a strategic alliance – named
ARLANXEO – for the synthetic rubber business in which each
partner holds a 50 % interest. We believe this alliance will give
the business units concerned – Tire & Specialty Rubbers and
High Performance Elastomers – competitive and reliable access
to strategic raw materials in the medium term. Closing of the
transaction took place on April 1, 2016. LANXESS used the cash
contribution of €1.2 billion paid by Saudi Aramco to significantly
reduce its debt.
With the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties
business of U.S. chemical company Chemours at the end of
August 2016, we made the first purchase associated with our
strategic realignment. We intend to take a further step on our
route to becoming a more stable specialty chemicals group with a
more balanced portfolio through the acquisition of U.S. company
Chemtura, closing of which is expected before mid-2017.

Source for 2016 growth rates: IHS Markit, LMC

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Business Conditions
Key Events Influencing the Company's Business
Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business

121

COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL BUSINESS
Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2016
Forecast for 2016 in Annual Report 2015

Actual 2016

Business development: Group
• Influences expected to have a largely offsetting effect on
the individual segments
• Around the prior-year level (€885 million)

• €995 million

Advanced Intermediates

• Business stable overall, especially in Advanced
Industrial Intermediates
• Slower growth in the agriculture business of our
Saltigo business unit

• EBITDA pre exceptionals virtually in line with expectations
at €326 million (2015: €339 million)

Performance Chemicals

• Stable business development overall

• EBITDA pre exceptionals significantly higher than expected
at €374 million (2015: €326 million)

High Performance Materials

• Positive development of our business with lightweight
polymers for automotive applications

• Forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals substantially exceeded
at €159 million (2015: €111 million)

ARLANXEO

• Declining business development
• Slight improvement in demand from the tire and
automotive industries
• Ongoing price pressure against the background of
additional capacities
• Impact of idle costs
• No significant positive effects from the continuing
strength of the U.S. dollar

•E
 BITDA pre exceptionals decreasing but substantially better
than expected at €373 million (2015: €391 million)

Raw material prices

• Little change to the low procurement cost level,
especially for the petrochemical raw materials used in
synthetic rubber products
• C ontinuation of the volatility in raw material prices
that is in some cases substantial

• Still volatile and substantially below the prior-year level

• Approx. €450 million

• €439 million

EBITDA pre exceptionals

Business development: segments

Financial condition: Group
Cash outflows for capital
expenditures

In the combined management report for fiscal 2015, we
predicted that EBITDA pre exceptionals for 2016 would be on a
more or less comparable level to 2015. Influences were expected
to have a largely offsetting effect on the individual segments.
We narrowed this guidance over the course of the year and,
in our interim report for the third quarter of 2016, forecast im­
proved EBITDA pre exceptionals of between €960 million and
€1 billion. The actual result of €995 million was at the upper
end of this range and exceeded 2015 earnings of €885 million
by €110 million.
The Performance Chemicals, High Performance Materials
and ARLANXEO segments contributed more or less equally to
enabling the LANXESS Group to exceed its earnings forecast.
EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Advanced Intermediates segment
was virtually in line with expectations. At minus €237 million, the
reconciliation for the LANXESS Group was more negative than
expected.

Positive exchange rate effects had an impact at Group level.
The early implementation of measures to improve operational
competitiveness, which also resulted in higher capacity utilization, was a further reason for substantially exceeding earnings
expectations. Continued support came from a slightly positive
portfolio effect following the acquisition of the Chemours Clean
and Disinfect specialties business.
As expected in 2015, the partnership with Saudi Aramco
strengthened our liquidity position. Saudi Aramco paid a cash contribution of €1.2 billion for its interest in ARLANXEO. Most of this
amount, together with proceeds from the issuance of new bonds,
was invested in time deposits and securities available for sale. We
had expected net income of LANXESS AG in the reporting year
to be substantially higher than in 2015. Mainly due to a significant
improvement in income from investments in affiliated companies,
net income in 2016 amounted to €578 million after net income
of €91 million in 2015.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

122

Combined Management Report

BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
OF THE LANXESS GROUP

›› Significant strategic evolution of the company with the

crease attributable to higher volumes (3.7 %) and the acquisition
of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect business (0.3 %). After
adjustment for currency and portfolio effects, operational sales
decreased by 2.8 %.

›› Integration of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect business

Group Sales

establishment of ARLANXEO

successfully completed
›› Persistently challenging competitive situation for synthetic
rubber
›› Sales decline by 2.6 % against prior year, largely due to
raw material prices
›› Volumes increase by 3.7 % year on year
›› EBITDA pre exceptionals up 12.4 % to €995 million
›› Substantial improvement of EBITDA margin pre exceptionals
to 12.9 % after 11.2 % in 2015
›› Net income and earnings per share improved to
€192 million and €2.10, respectively, after €165 million and
€1.80 in 2015
›› Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets increase from €2.03 to €2.69

€ million
10,000

9,094

8,300

8,006

7,902

7,699

2013

2014

2015

2016

8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000

2012

Effects on Sales
€ million/ %

Key Financial Data 
€ million

2015

2016

Change %

Sales

7,902

7,699

(2.6)

Gross profit

1,748

1,754

0.3

885

995

12.4

EBITDA pre exceptionals
EBITDA margin pre exceptionals

11.2 %

12.9 %

–

EBITDA

833

945

13.4

Operating result (EBIT)
pre exceptionals

422

514

21.8
11.8

Operating result (EBIT)

415

464

EBIT margin

5.3 %

6.0 %

–

Financial result

(127)

(125)

1.6

Income before income taxes

288

339

17.7

Net income

165

192

16.4

Earnings per share (€)

1.80

2.10

16.4

Earnings per share adjusted
for exceptional items and
amortization of intangible
assets

2.03

2.69

32.5

Sales and earnings
In 2016, LANXESS Group sales declined by 2.6 % from
€7,902 million in the prior year to €7,699 million. Lower selling prices, which resulted particularly from passing on lower
procurement prices for raw materials and from the challenging
competitive situation for synthetic rubbers, diminished sales
by 6.5 %. Changes in exchange rates had almost no impact at
minus 0.1 %. These effects were partially offset by a sales in­

7,902

(6.5 %)

2015

Price

3.7 %

(0.1 %)

+0.3 %

Volume Currency Portfolio

7,699

2016

Sales in our Advanced Intermediates segment fell by 4.6 %.
Selling price adjustments, driven primarily by raw material prices,
resulted in a decline in sales. On the other hand, solid demand
led to a positive effect from higher volumes.
Sales in our Performance Chemicals segment advanced by
2.7 %. The positive development of volumes more than compensated the negative effect of the decrease in selling prices. The
integration of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S.
chemical company Chemours into the Material Protection Products
business unit also had a positive effect on sales.
Our High Performance Materials segment recorded a decline
in sales of 2.7 %, resulting especially from passing lower procurement prices for raw materials on to customers. On the other hand,
the growth in volumes had a positive impact on sales.
ARLANXEO posted a sales decrease of 5.2 %. Lower selling
prices resulted particularly from the challenging competitive
situation in the synthetic rubber business and lower raw material
prices. Sales volumes were above the prior-year level.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

123

Business Performance of the lanxess Group

Shifts in exchange rates had almost no effect on sales in all
segments.
Sales by Segment
2015

2016

Change
%

Proportion of
Group
sales
%

€ million
Advanced Intermediates

1,826

1,742

(4.6)

22.6

Performance Chemicals

2,085

2,142

2.7

27.8

High Performance Materials

1,085

1,056

(2.7)

13.7

ARLANXEO

2,859

2,710

(5.2)

35.2

47

49

4.3

0.7

7,902

7,699

(2.6)

100.0

Reconciliation

Gross profit was €1,754 million, up by €6 million or 0.3 %
against the prior year. The gross profit margin increased from
22.1 % to 22.8 %. Selling prices were adjusted to reflect the over­
all decline in raw material costs. The expansion of volumes and
the positive effect of exchange rates on our production costs
had a positive impact on gross profit. In addition, the specialties
business acquired from Chemours made a positive contribution
to gross profit.

EBITDA pre exceptionals and operating
result (EBIT)
EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals
€ million

Prior-year figures adjusted to reflect changed segment structure

13.4 %

While sales in the Asia-Pacific region increased by a slight
1.2 %, LANXESS recorded a decline in sales in the other sales
regions.

1,250

1,223

1,000

12.9 %
8.9 %
735

750

10.1 %
808

11.2 %

995

885

500

Order book status
Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreements
on fixed volumes or prices. Instead, our business is characterized
by long-standing relationships with customers and revolving master
agreements. Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders
with relatively short lead times which do not provide a basis for longterm forward-looking statements about our capacity utilization or
volumes. The business is managed primarily on the basis of regular
Group-wide forecasts of the Group operating target. For additional
information, please see “Company-specific lead indicators.”
Any disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a given
reporting date therefore would not be indicative of the Group’s
short- or medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such
disclosure is made in this report.

Gross profit
The cost of sales showed a decline of 3.4 %, to €5,945 million,
which was disproportionately large compared with sales. Cost
relief was chiefly attributable to lower procurement prices for raw
materials and energy, a favorable shift in exchange rates (especially
for the Argentinian, Brazilian and South African currencies), lower
production costs attributable to the implementation of meas­
ures to improve operational competitiveness and higher capacity
utilization. Higher volumes and the acquisition of the Chemours
Clean and Disinfect specialties business had an opposing effect.
Capacity utilization of around 80 % was 3 percentage points above
the prior-year level.

250

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Our operating result before depreciation and amortization
(EBITDA) pre exceptionals increased by €110 million, or 12.4 %, to
€995 million in 2016, after €885 million in the prior year. A positive
overall earnings performance at Group level was particularly the
result of lower production costs attributable to the implementation of
measures to improve operational competitiveness and of increased
volumes. Advantageous exchange rate effects provided additional
support. An opposing influence came from the adjustment in selling
prices as a result of the persistently challenging competitive situation in the synthetic rubber business, which significantly exceeded
the effect of reduced raw material costs. A slightly positive effect
resulted from the acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect
business. Selling expenses rose by 2.9 % to €781 million, especially due to portfolio effects and a volume-driven increase in freight
costs. Research and development costs increased by €1 million to
€131 million. General administration expenses were up €19 million
to €303 million. The Group’s EBITDA margin pre exceptionals
in­creased from 11.2 % to 12.9 %.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

124

Combined Management Report

In the Advanced Intermediates segment, EBITDA pre exception­
als decreased by €13 million to €326 million. Lower production
costs, higher volumes and positive exchange rate effects resulted in
positive earnings development. The adjustment of selling prices, primarily due to raw material price effects, had an opposing influence.
The Performance Chemicals segment generated EBITDA pre
exceptionals of €374 million, up €48 million or 14.7 % on the prioryear level. Earnings were improved by higher volumes and favorable
currency effects on our production costs. The net effect of lower
procurement costs for raw materials and the adjustment in selling
prices was virtually zero.
EBITDA pre exceptionals in the High Performance Materials
segment advanced by €48 million to €159 million, compared with
the prior-year level of €111 million. Earnings were buoyed in particular by higher volumes in relatively profitable product groups.
Lower procurement prices for raw materials resulted in selling price
adjustments.
ARLANXEO posted EBITDA pre exceptionals of €373 million,
compared with €391 million in the prior year. The positive influence
of lower procurement prices for raw materials was significantly more
than offset by lower selling prices due to the persistently difficult
competitive situation in the synthetic rubber business. Earnings were
improved by higher volumes, lower production costs and favorable
exchange rate developments.
EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment
€ million

2015

2016

Change %

Advanced Intermediates

339

326

(3.8)

Performance Chemicals

326

374

14.7

High Performance Materials

111

159

43.2
(4.6)

ARLANXEO
Reconciliation

391

373

(282)

(237)

16.0

885

995

12.4

Prior-year figures adjusted to reflect changed segment structure

The reconciliation of EBITDA pre exceptionals to the operating
result (EBIT) was as follows:

The operating result (EBIT) of the Group increased from €415
million to €464 million in fiscal 2016. Depreciation and amortization amounted to €481 million (2015: €474 million), of which
write-downs accounted for €9 million. In 2015, depreciation and
amortization of €474 million were offset by reversals of impairment
charges of €56 million. Write-downs amounted to €25 million,
€11 million of which were exceptional items.
The other operating result, which is the balance between
other operating income and expenses, improved by €85 million
to minus €75 million. Adjusted for exceptional items, the other
operating result came to minus €25 million, which was €128
million higher than in 2015. This decline was largely due to lower
expenses for currency hedging transactions.
Net negative exceptional items of €50 million for the reporting
year resulted from negative exceptional items of €56 million and
positive exceptional items of €6 million. They were mainly in connection with the strategic realignment of LANXESS.
In 2015, net negative exceptional items of €7 million resulted
from negative exceptional items of €106 million and positive exceptional items of €99 million. The negative exceptional items, €96
million of which impacted EBITDA, resulted mainly from expenses
in connection with the planned discontinuation of EPDM rubber
production at the Marl site in Germany as of the end of the first
quarter of 2016 and from further measures associated with the
“Let’s LANXESS again” program. The negative exceptional items
which did not impact EBITDA related to write-downs recognized in
connection with the planned discontinuation of production at the
Marl site in Germany. The positive exceptional items, €44 million
of which impacted EBITDA, were mainly related to the sales of
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. The positive
exceptional items that did not impact EBITDA primarily related to
the reversal of impairment charges recognized in previous years,
amounting to €56 million. €37 million of these reversals related to
our High Performance Elastomers business unit and €19 million
to the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit. Please
see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre exceptionals)” for details
about exceptional items.

Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals
to Operating Result (EBIT)
€ million
EBITDA pre exceptionals
Depreciation and amortization
Reversals of impairment
charges

2015

2016

Change %

885

995

12.4

(474)

(481)

(1.5)
(100.0)

56

0

Exceptional items in EBITDA

(52)

(50)

3.8

Operating result (EBIT)

415

464

11.8

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

125

Business Performance of the lanxess Group

Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income 
€ million
Operating result (EBIT)
Income from investments
­accounted for using the equity
method
Net interest expense
Other financial income and
expense
Financial result
Income before income
taxes
Income taxes
Income after income taxes

2015

2016

Change %

415

464

11.8

0

0

–

(66)

(63)

4.5

(61)

(62)

(1.6)

(127)

(125)

1.6

288

339

17.7

(121)

(144)

(19.0)

167

195

16.8

2

3

50.0

165

192

16.4

of which:
attributable to non-controlling
interests
attributable to ­L ANXESS AG
stockholders (net income)

Financial result
The financial result came in at minus €125 million in fiscal
2016, compared with minus €127 million for the prior year. As in
the prior year, companies accounted for using the equity method
did not generate an earnings contribution. Our net interest position
improved by €3 million against the prior year to minus €63 million.
Other financial income and expense items were also virtually level
with the prior year at minus €62 million. The proceeds from the
sale of our financial interest in Elemica Inc., Exton, United States,
and the year-on-year decline in expenses for accrued interest for
provisions stood against a higher net exchange loss and fees in
connection with the bridge loan for the planned acquisition of
Chemtura.

Net income/earnings per share/earnings
per share adjusted for exceptional items
and amortization of intangible assets
Net income was €192 million, which was €27 million higher
than in the prior year. After €2 million in 2015, the profit attribut­
able to non-controlling interests was €3 million and resulted
almost exclusively from Saudi Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO.
Earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by
the weighted average number of LANXESS shares in circulation
during the reporting period. Earnings per share were €2.10, ahead
of the €1.80 recorded in 2015.
We also calculate earnings per share adjusted for exceptional
items and amortization of intangible assets, an indicator which is
not defined by International Financial Reporting Standards. This
value was calculated from the earnings per share adjusted for
exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets as well as
attributable tax effects. Against the backdrop of the acquisition of
the Chemours specialties business and the planned acquisition of
Chemtura, a correspondingly adjusted earnings per share figure
as defined in this way is better suited to assessing and comparing
our performance over time.
Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets were €2.69, against €2.01 the year
before.
Reconciliation to Earnings per Share Adjusted for Exceptional
Items and Amortization of Intangible Assets
€ million
Net income
Exceptional items1)
Amortization of intangible assets/
reversal of impairment charges
Attributable tax effects1)
Net income adjusted for
exceptional items and amortization
of intangible assets

Income before income taxes
Due to the improved operating result, income before income
taxes increased by €51 million to €339 million.

Income taxes
In fiscal 2016, tax expense amounted to €144 million, compared with €121 million the year before. The Group’s tax rate was
42.5 %, after 42.0 % in the previous year.

Number of shares outstanding
Earnings per share adjusted
for exceptional items and amortization
of intangible assets

2015

2016

165

192

7

47

30

31

(16)

(24)

186

246

91,522,936

91,522,936

2.03

2.69

1) Excluding exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets attributable
to non-controlling interests

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

126

Combined Management Report

BUSINESS TRENDS BY REGION

North America

Sales by Market
2016

2015

Change

€ million

%

€ million

%

EMEA (excluding
Germany)

2,325

29.4

2,254

29.3

(3.1)

Germany

1,365

17.3

1,292

16.8

(5.3)

North America

1,368

17.3

1,326

17.2

(3.1)

830

10.5

788

10.2

(5.1)

Latin America
Asia-Pacific

%

2,014

25.5

2,039

26.5

1.2

7,902

100.0

7,699

100.0

(2.6)

Sales by Market

Latin America

in %
EMEA (excluding Germany)
Germany
North America
Latin America
Asia-Pacific

Sales in this region came to €1,326 million, down €42 million,
or 3.1 %, from the previous year. However, after adjusting for positive
exchange rate effects and for portfolio effects resulting from the
acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S.
chemical company Chemours, sales declined by 4.9 %. This was
largely attributable to business performance in the ARLANXEO
and Advanced Intermediates segments, which saw decreases
by a mid-single-digit percentage and a low-double-digit percent­
age, respectively. Sales of the Performance Chemicals segment
were also down year on year. By contrast, the High Performance
Materials segment recorded sales gains in the mid-single-digit
percentage range.

25.5

26.5

10.5

10.2

17.3

17.2

17.3

16.8

29.4

29.3

2015

In the Latin America region, sales declined by €42 million,
or 5.1 %, to €788 million. After adjusting for slight exchange rate
and portfolio effects, sales were down by 5.4 %. This development
was mainly driven by the ARLANXEO segment, which posted the
largest absolute decrease in sales in the mid-single-digit percent­
age range. Sales in the other segments also declined by low- to
high single-digit percentages. Business performance in the region
was mainly attributable to the contraction of sales in Brazil, Mexico
and Argentina.

2016

EMEA (excluding Germany)
Sales in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) decreased
by €71 million, or 3.1 %, to €2,254 million. Exchange rate and
portfolio effects had no notable impact. The ARLANXEO, High
Performance Materials and Advanced Intermediates segments
recorded sales declines in the low- to mid-single-digit percentage
range. By contrast, the Performance Chemicals segment posted
a slight sales increase in the low-single-digit percentage range.
Business performance in France, Belgium and Italy contributed
to the downward development in the region. However, sales were
bolstered by positive growth in demand in other countries such
as Turkey, Switzerland, Portugal and Slovakia.

Asia-Pacific
Sales in the Asia-Pacific region increased by €25 million,
or 1.2 %, to €2,039 million in 2016. Adjusted for opposing currency effects and slight portfolio effects, sales were up by 1.7 %.
This was mainly attributable to the business performance of the
Performance Chemicals segment, which posted an increase in
sales in the high-single-digit percentage range. Sales in the other
segments were slightly lower or changes in the low-single-digit
percentage range were barely discernible. The main driver of the
region’s positive operating performance were increasing sales
in China, India and Thailand which, however, were largely offset
by declines in Singapore, South Korea, Japan and Hong Kong.

Germany
In Germany, we generated sales of €1,292 million in 2016,
down €73 million, or 5.3 %, from the previous year. There were
no material portfolio effects. While the ARLANXEO segment
posted a sales decrease in the low-double-digit percentage range,
business in the Advanced Intermediates and High Performance
Materials segments contracted by mid-single-digit percentages.
By contrast, the Performance Chemicals segment posted a slight
increase in sales.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Business Trends by Region
Segment Information

SEGMENT INFORMATION

›› Advanced Intermediates: relatively stable business perfor-

mance as a result of higher volumes, but challenging market
environment for agrochemicals
›› Performance Chemicals: realignment and higher volumes
lead to improved sales and earnings
›› High Performance Materials: clear improvement in earnings
as a result of higher volumes in more profitable product
groups
›› ARLANXEO: competitive situation in synthetic rubbers
remains challenging; lower selling prices impact sales and
earnings
Sales by Segment
%
Advanced Intermediates

0.6

0.6

Performance Chemicals

36.2

35.2

13.7

13.7

26.4

27.8

23.1

22.6

High Performance Materials
ARLANXEO
Reconciliation

2015

2016

Advanced Intermediates
Overview of Key Data 
2016

2015
€ million
Sales

Margin
%

1,826

€ million

Change
Margin
%

1,742

%

339

18.6

326

18.7

(3.8)

EBITDA

338

18.5

328

18.8

(3.0)

Operating
result (EBIT) pre
exceptionals

240

13.1

221

12.7

(7.9)

Operating result
(EBIT)

258

14,1

223

12.8

(13.6)

Cash outflows for
capital investments

87

123

41.4

Depreciation
and amortization/
reversals of
impairment charges

80

105

31.3

3,259

3,335

2.3

Employees
as of Dec. 311)

Our Advanced Intermediates segment recorded sales of
€1,742 million in 2016, 4.6 % or €84 million below the prioryear level. While selling price adjustments, driven largely by raw
material prices, resulted in a negative price effect of 6.4 %, higher
volumes added 1.9 % to sales. Exchange rate developments had
virtually no impact on sales.
Whereas selling prices in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit were below the prior-year level due to lower
raw material prices, the Saltigo business unit was able to achieve
slightly higher selling prices. With demand remaining good in
almost all end markets, the Advanced Industrial Intermediates
business unit increased volumes. The Saltigo business unit, on
the other hand, recorded a decline in volumes, particularly in the
customized production of agrochemicals. Exchange rate devel­
opment had almost no impact on either business unit. Sales in all
regions were below prior-year levels.
EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates
segment declined by €13 million, or 3.8 %, from the prior-year
level of €339 million. Lower energy and manufacturing costs as
well as slightly higher volumes had a positive impact on earnings.
Exchange rate movements had no significantly positive effect. The
adjustment in selling prices, driven largely by lower procurement
prices for raw materials, had an opposing influence. The EBITDA
margin pre exceptionals was 18.7 %, up slightly from 18.6 % in
the prior year.
In fiscal 2016, net positive exceptional items amounted to
€2 million and fully impacted EBITDA. They related to the reversal of restructuring provisions established in previous years.
In the prior year, net positive exceptional items of €18 million were
posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre e­ xceptionals)”
for details.

(4.6)

EBITDA pre
exceptionals

127

1) 2015 figure restated

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

128

Combined Management Report

Performance Chemicals
Overview of Key Data 
2016

2015
€ million
Sales

Margin
%

2,085

€ million

Change

Margin
%

2,142

%
2.7

EBITDA pre
­exceptionals

326

15.6

374

17.5

14.7

EBITDA

313

15.0

371

17.3

18.5

Operating
result (EBIT) pre
­exceptionals

238

11.4

280

13.1

17.6

Operating result
(EBIT)

225

10.8

277

12.9

23.1

Cash outflows for
capital expenditures

139

Depreciation and
amortization
Employees as of
Dec. 311)

88
5,138

118
94
5,581

The segment recorded negative exceptional items of €3 million in the reporting year, which fully impacted EBITDA. These
related mainly to effects in connection with the revaluation of inventories undertaken within the context of acquiring the Chemours
specialties business. Negative exceptional items in the prior year
amounted to €13 million and fully impacted EBITDA. These relat­
ed to, among other things, measures associated with the “Let’s
LANXESS again” program. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA
(pre exceptionals)” for details.

High Performance Materials
Overview of Key Data 

(15.1)
6.8
8.6

1) 2015 figure restated

Sales in the Performance Chemicals segment in fiscal 2016
rose by €57 million, or 2.7 %, to €2,142 million. This improvement
was the result in particular of a 3.8 % expansion in volumes, while
lower selling prices had a negative effect of 2.2 % on sales. Integration of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S.
chemical company Chemours into the Material Protection Products
business unit had a positive effect of 1.3 % on sales. Exchange
rate developments had hardly any impact on sales.
Volumes in all the segment’s business units were up on the
prior year, with the Material Protection Products business unit
increasing volumes significantly and also holding selling prices
stable. Selling prices fell in the remaining business units. Exchange
rate developments had a slightly negative impact on sales in almost
all business units. In the Latin America region, the segment’s sales
were below the prior-year level. In all other regions, the segment
posted positive business development.
EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals
segment advanced by €48 million, or 14.7 %, against the prior
year to €374 million. Earnings were improved by higher volumes
and favorable currency effects on our production costs. The
effect of reduced selling prices stood against the cost relief from
lower raw material prices. A slightly positive effect resulted from
the acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect business.
The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals increased from 15.6 %
to 17.5 %.

2016

2015
€ million
Sales

Margin
%

1,085

€ million

Change

Margin
%

1,056

%
(2.7)

EBITDA pre
­exceptionals

111

10.2

159

15.1

43.2

EBITDA

131

12.1

159

15.1

21.4

Operating
result (EBIT) pre
­exceptionals

66

6.1

114

10.8

72.7

Operating result
(EBIT)

85

7.8

114

10.8

34.1

Cash outflows for
capital expenditures

39

46

17.9

Depreciation and
amortization

46

45

(2.2)

1,546

1,583

2.4

Employees as of
Dec. 31

Sales in our High Performance Materials segment declined
by 2.7 % in 2016, to €1,056 million. Selling price adjustments,
due to cost relief from lower procurement prices for raw materials
being passed on to customers, resulted in a negative price effect
of 8.0 %. On the other hand, higher volumes added 5.6 % to sales.
Exchange rate developments had almost no impact on sales.
While business in this segment was positive in the North America
region, sales in the other regions were below the prior-year level.
EBITDA pre exceptionals in the High Performance Materials segment advanced substantially from the prior-year level of
€111 million to €159 million. Higher volumes in more profitable
product groups and high capacity utilization resulted in a positive
earnings performance. Lower raw material prices led to an adjustment in selling prices. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals
for the segment improved from 10.2 % to 15.1 %.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

129

Segment Information

No exceptional items were recorded in the segment in 2016.
In the prior year, net positive exceptional items of €19 million were
posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre exception­
als)” for details.

ARLANXEO
Overview of Key Data 

Reconciliation
2016

2015
€ million
Sales

The segment recorded positive exceptional items of €2 million in the reporting year, which fully impacted EBITDA. These
primarily related to the reversal of provisions in connection with
the discontinuation of EPDM rubber production at the Marl site
in Germany. In 2015, net positive exceptional items of €12 million were posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre
exceptionals)” for details.

Margin
%

2,859

€ million

Change

Margin
%

2,710

%
(5.2)

Overview of Key Data 
2015

2016

47

49

4.3

EBITDA pre e
­ xceptionals

(282)

(237)

16.0

EBITDA

(325)

(288)

11.4

Operating result (EBIT)
pre ­exceptionals

(305)

(254)

16.7

Operating result (EBIT)

(348)

(305)

12.4

Cash outflows for capital
expenditures

24

14

(41.7)

Depreciation and amortization

23

17

(26.1)

2,791

2,759

(1.1)

€ million

EBITDA pre
­exceptionals

391

13.7

373

13.8

(4.6)

Sales

EBITDA

376

13.2

375

13.8

(0.3)

Operating
result (EBIT) pre
­exceptionals

183

Operating result
(EBIT)

195

Cash outflows for
capital expenditures

145

Depreciation and
amortization/reversals of impairment
charges
Employees as of
Dec. 31

6.4
6.8

153
155
138

5.6
5.7

(16.4)
(20.5)
(4.8)

Employees as of Dec. 311)

Change %

1) 2015 figure restated

181

220

21.5

3,491

3,463

(0.8)

Sales in our ARLANXEO segment declined by 5.2 % year on
year in 2016, to €2,710 million. This development was primarily influenced by selling price adjustments in both business units, which
resulted in a negative price effect of 9.2 %. These adjustments
were the result in particular of the persistently difficult competitive
situation in synthetic rubbers and of lower procurement prices
for raw materials being passed on to customers. Especially due
to good demand in the Asia-Pacific region, volumes increased
in both business units and added 4.0 % to sales. Exchange rate
developments had almost no impact on sales. Sales in all regions
were below prior-year levels.
EBITDA pre exceptionals in the ARLANXEO segment declined from €391 million in the prior year to €373 million. The
reduction of selling prices in response to ongoing competitive
pressure significantly outweighed the positive impact of cost relief
resulting from lower raw material prices. Earnings were improved
by higher volumes, an improved portfolio of products sold, re­
duced production costs and favorable exchange rate effects. The
EBITDA margin pre exceptionals of 13.8 % was virtually level with
the prior-year figure of 13.7 %.

EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Reconciliation came to minus
€237 million, compared with minus €282 million in the prior year.
This change was mainly due to lower currency hedging losses.
The net negative exceptional items of €51 million reported in
the Reconciliation, which fully impacted EBITDA, mainly related
to expenses in connection with the strategic realignment of the
LANXESS Group. In the prior year, negative exceptional items of
€43 million were posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA
(pre exceptionals)” for details.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

130

Combined Management Report

NOTES ON EBIT AND EBITDA
(PRE EXCEPTIONALS)

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

In order to better assess our operational business and to steer
earning power at Group level and for the individual segments,
we additionally calculate the earnings indicators EBITDA, and
EBITDA and EBIT pre exceptionals, none of which are defined by
International Financial Reporting Standards. These indicators are
viewed as supplementary to the data prepared according to IFRS;
they are not a substitute.

Statement of financial position

›› Increase in total assets, mainly due to the financing

secured for the planned acquisition of Chemtura and to
Saudi Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO
›› Equity ratio improved to 37.7 %
›› Net financial liabilities decrease substantially from
€1,211 million to €269 million after deduction of time
deposits and securities available for sale

Reconciliation to EBIT/EBITDA 
€ million
EBIT/EBITDA pre
exceptionals
Advanced Intermediates

EBIT
2015
422

EBIT
2016
514

EBITDA
2015
885

EBITDA
2016

18

2

(1)

2

(2)

–

(2)

–

Reversals of
impairment charges

19

–

–

–

Other
Strategic realignment/
“Let’s LANXESS again”
Other
High Performance Materials

1

2

1

2

(13)

(3)

(13)

(3)

(3)

(3)1)

(3)

(3)1)

(10)

0

(10)

0

19

–

20

–

Strategic realignment/
“Let’s LANXESS again”

(1)

–

(1)

–

Sale of assets

20

–

21

–

12

2

(15)

2

(47)

2

(37)

2

22

–

22

–

ARLANXEO
Strategic realignment/
“Let’s LANXESS again”2)
Sale of assets
Reversals of
impairment charges

37

–

0

–

(43)

(51)

(43)

(51)

(34)

(42)

(34)

(42)

(9)

(9)

(9)

(9)

Total exceptional items

(7)

(50)

(52)

(50)

EBIT/EBITDA

415

464

833

945

Reconciliation
Strategic realignment/
“Let’s LANXESS again”
Other

Dec. 31, 2015

1) The exceptional items largely concerned effects associated with the revaluation of
inventories in connection with the acquisition of the Chemours specialties business.
2) The exceptional items were primarily in connection with the discontinuation of EPDM
rubber production at the Marl site in Germany.

Dec. 31, 2016
€ million

%

Change

€ million

%

Non-current assets

4,180

57.9

4,519

45.8

8.1

Current assets

3,039

42.1

5,358

54.2

76.3

Total assets

7,219

100.0

9,877

100.0

36.8

Equity (including
non-controlling
interests)

2,323

32.2

3,728

37.7

60.5

Non-current ­liabilities

2,936

40.7

4,516

45.7

53.8

Current liabilities

1,960

27.1

1,633

16.6

(16.7)

Total equity and
liabilities

7,219

100.0

9,877

100.0

36.8

995

Strategic realignment/
“Let’s LANXESS again”

Performance Chemicals

Structure of the Statement of Financial Position 

%

Assets

Equity and
­liabilities

Structure of the statement of
financial position
Total assets of the LANXESS Group amounted to €9,877 million as of December 31, 2016, an increase of €2,658 million, or
36.8 %, on the prior-year figure. This development was attributable
in particular to the placement of three eurobonds with a nominal
volume of €500 million each that will serve to finance the planned
acquisition of Chemtura. The increase in total assets also resulted
from the cash inflow of around €1.2 million from Saudi Aramco’s
interest in ARLANXEO and the corresponding increase in equity
attributable to non-controlling interests.

EBITDA is calculated from earnings (EBIT) by adding back
depreciation and impairments of property, plant and equipment
as well as amortization and impairments of intangible assets and
subtracting reversals of impairment charges on property, plant,
equipment and intangible assets.
EBIT pre exceptionals and EBITDA pre exceptionals are
EBIT and EBITDA before exceptional items.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

131

Notes on EBIT and EBITDA pre Exceptionals
Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition

Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets
€ million
Intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment

9,877

Inventories and receivables

268
466

Cash and cash equivalents

2,305

Other non-current assets

Other current assets

Non-current financial liabilities
Other non-current liabilities
 urrent financial liabilities
C
Other current liabilities

395
2,517

9,877
624

7,219
638
1,322
1,659

506

433

1,009
1,775
2,741

1,277

,
3,747

2015

€ million
 quity
E

2,446

7,219

Structure of the Statement o
 f Financial
Position – Equity and Liabilities

4,013
2,323

2016

2015

Non-current assets rose by €339 million to €4,519 million,
with intangible assets and property, plant and equipment increas­
ing by €266 million to €4,013 million. The increase in intangible
assets was the result in particular of the intangible assets identified in the context of the acquisition of the Chemours specialties
business. For further information, please see the “Companies
consolidated” section of the Notes.
Cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets amounted to €439 million, almost level with
the prior-year figure of €434 million. Depreciation and amortization
totaled €481 million, which was €7 million above the prior-year
level of €474 million. In the prior year, depreciation and amortization were mitigated by reversals of impairment charges amounting
to €56 million. The carrying amount of investments accounted for
using the equity method was €0 million, the same as in the prior
year. Deferred taxes increased by €81 million to €442 million.
The ratio of non-current assets to total assets decreased from
57.9 % to 45.8 % on December 31, 2016.
Current assets increased by €2,319 million, or 76.3 %, compared with December 31, 2015, to €5,358 million. This effect
was mainly attributable to the increase in current financial assets
and resulted primarily from the investment of liquid assets in time
deposits and securities available for sale totaling €2,125 million.
Inventories were up by €80 million, or 5.9 %, to €1,429 mil­
lion, mainly due to volume and currency effects. Days of sales
in inventory (DSI) were unchanged from the prior year at 67.2
days. Trade receivables were €132 million, or 13.8 %, higher at
€1,088 million. Days of sales outstanding (DSO) increased from
47.6 days to 51.1 days. This was primarily due to the low level of
receivables in 2015. Cash and cash equivalents decreased by
€11 million to €355 million. Near-cash assets fell to €40 million
in the reporting year (2015: €100 million). The ratio of current
assets to total assets was 54.2 %, compared with 42.1 % on
December 31, 2015.

3,728

2016

Equity amounted to €3,728 million, up by €1,405 million or
60.5 % compared with December 31, 2015. The change in the
reporting period resulted mainly from the increase in non-controlling
interest due to Saudi Aramco’s cash contribution to ARLANXEO of
€1,194 million, net of transaction costs. The ratio of equity to the
Group’s total assets was 37.7 % as of December 31, 2016, after
32.2 % as of December 31, 2015.
Non-current liabilities as of December 31, 2016, rose by
€1,580 million to €4,516 million. Provisions for pensions and other
post-employment benefits increased by just a slight €34 million
compared with the end of 2015, to €1,249 million. The decline in
discount rates for pension obligations (in Germany: from 3.0 % to
2.0 %) was largely compensated by an addition to German pen­
sion fund assets. Other non-current financial liabilities amounted to
€2,734 million, up by €1,476 million against December 31, 2016,
mainly due to the issuance of bonds.
The ratio of non-current liabilities to total assets was 45.7 %,
up from 40.7 % as of December 31, 2015.
Current liabilities came to €1,633 million, down by €327 million,
or 16.7 %, against December 31, 2015. This was largely attribut­
able to the redemption of a maturing bond of €200 million. Trade
payables increased by €110 million to €889 million, mainly as a
result of higher capacity utilization at year end 2016. Current deriv­
ative liabilities fell from €100 million to €42 million. Other current
liabilities rose by €32 million to €174 million, while other current
provisions were at the prior-year level, at €406 million. The ratio
of current liabilities to total assets was 16.6 % as of December 31,
2016, against 27.1 % at the end of 2015.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

132

Combined Management Report

At €2,394 million, net financial liabilities were substantially ­above
the figure of €1,211 million as of December 31, 2015. However, they
declined to €269 million after the deduction of time deposits and
securities available for sale.
The Group’s key ratios developed as follows:
Ratios 
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Equity1)
Total assets

31.0

27.9

29.8

32.2

37.7

Non-current asset ratio

Non-current assets
Total assets

49.8

52.7

56.6

57.9

45.8

Asset coverage I

Equity1)
Non-current assets

62.0

52.9

52.7

55.6

82.5

Asset coverage II

Equity 1) and non-current liabilities
Non-current assets

157.2

137.2

136.7

125.8

182.4

Funding structure

Current liabilities
Total liabilities

31.4

38.3

32.3

40.0

26.6

%
Equity ratio

1) Equity includes non-controlling interest.

Capital expenditures
In 2016, our capital expenditures for property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets came to €462 million, compared
with €457 million the year before, and led to cash outflows of
€439 million (2015: €434 million). Depreciation and amortization
in the same period totaled €481 million (2015: €474 million). In
the prior year, depreciation and amortization were partially offset
by reversals of impairment charges of €56 million. In addition, the
figure for depreciation and amortization in 2016 included writedowns of €9 million (2015: €25 million).
Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures
vs. Depreciation and Amortization
€ million
Cash outflows for capital expenditures

800

696

Depreciation and amortization

717
624

614

600
400

426

378

434

474

439

481

200

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

In the reporting year, capital expenditures focused on the following
areas:

›› Expansion and maintenance of existing facilities, construction
of new facilities

›› Measures to increase plant availability
›› Projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply
with environmental protection requirements

Around two-thirds of the capital expenditures in 2016 went to
maintain existing facilities, while the rest went toward expansion
or efficiency improvement measures.
In regional terms, 46 % of our capital expenditures in the
reporting period were made in Germany, 21 % in the EMEA region
(excluding Germany), 16 % in North America, 7 % in Latin Amer­
ica and 10 % in Asia-Pacific. Capital expenditures in Germany
mostly comprised our investments to increase capacities and
modernize facilities in all segments, especially investments in the
Saltigo business unit. Some of the capital expenditures made in the
EMEA region (excluding Germany) were used to further optimize
production in the context of realignment to improve operational
competitiveness. The capital expenditures made in the Asia-Pacific
region mainly related to the construction of plants for iron oxide
red pigments, which came on stream in the reporting year, and
of a mixing and milling plant for the Inorganic Pigments business
unit in Ningbo, China.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

133

Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition

Financial condition

Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment
434

€ million
Advanced Intermediates
Performance Chemicals
High Performance Materials
ARLANXEO

24
145
39

Reconciliation

›› Strong cash flow from operating activities
›› Cash flow provided by financing and investing activities

439
14

influenced by financing for the planned acquisition
of Chemtura and interim investments of liquid assets
›› Liquidity position remains solid

138
46
118

139
87

2015

The cash flow statement shows inflows and outflows of cash
and cash equivalents by type of business operation.

123

2016

2015 figures restated

Cash Flow Statement 

Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates segment
amounted to €136 million (2015: €99 million). Cash outflows
stood at €123 million (2015: €87 million), which exceeded depreciation and amortization of €105 million (2015: €80 million less
reversals of impairment charges). These included cash outflows in
connection with the construction of two multi-purpose production
lines for the Saltigo business unit at the Leverkusen site in Germany, which began in 2016. Production is due to start at the end
of 2017. In the Performance Chemicals segment, cap­ital expenditures came to €124 million (2015: €144 million), €118 million
(2015: €139 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation
and amortization stood at €94 million (2015: €88 million). The
plant for iron oxide red pigments constructed for the Inorganic
Pigments business unit in Ningbo, China, represents a substantial
investment. Equipped with state-of-the-art process technology, it
began operating in the reporting year. In the High Performance
Materials segment, capital expenditures totaled €47 million (2015:
€39 million), €46 million (2015: €39 mil­lion) of which were cash
outflows. Depreciation and amortization came to €45 million
(2015: €46 million). A share of the capital expenditures in this
segment were accounted for by capacity expansion measures at
the second production line for compounding high-tech plastics in
Gastonia, United States. This facility started operating at the beginning of 2016. Other capital expenditures made by this segment
related to production optimization measures at the Belgian sites.
In the ARLANXEO segment, capital expenditures totaled €138 million (2015: €151 million), €138 million (2015:
€145 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation and
amortization amounted to €220 million (2015: €181 million less
reversals of impairment charges). The major capital e­ xpenditures
in this segment were made in the Tire & Specialty Rubbers
business unit.

€ million
Income before income taxes
Depreciation and amortization/
reversals of impairment charges

2015

2016

Change

288

339

51

418

481

63

(107)

(84)

23

Net cash provided by ­
operating activities before
change in net working
capital

599

736

137

Change in net working capital

93

(47)

(140)

Other items

Net cash provided
by operating activities

692

689

(3)

Net cash used in
investing activities

(400)

(2,879)

(2,479)

Net cash provided by
(used in) financing activities

(333)

2,173

2,506

Change in cash and cash
equivalents from business
activities

(41)

(17)

24

Cash and cash equivalents
as of December 31

366

355

(11)

Free cash flow

258

250

(8)

Cash provided by operating activities, before changes in
net working capital, increased by €137 million to €736 million in
fiscal 2016. The starting point was income before income taxes
of €339 million, which was €51 million above the prior-year level.
At €481 million, depreciation and amortization were €63 million
higher than the prior-year figure of €418 million, from which reversals of impairment charges of €56 million had been deducted. The
other items in the reporting year included tax payments, effects
from currency hedging of intercompany loans and cash outflows
for variable compensation.
The change in net working capital against December 31,
2015, resulted in a cash outflow of €47 million compared with
a cash inflow of €93 million in the prior year. The outflow in the
reporting period resulted in particular from the increase in inventories and trade receivables, which overcompensated the rise in
trade payables. Therefore, the net cash provided by operating
activities totaled €689 million, which was on a level with the prioryear figure of €692 million.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

134

Combined Management Report

Investing activities in fiscal 2016 resulted in a cash outflow
of €2,879 million, compared with €400 million in the prior-year
period, mainly due to the investment of funds received for the
acquisition of Chemtura. Cash outflows for intangible assets and
property, plant and equipment came to €439 million, which was
about level with the prior-year figure of €434 million. The sale of
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment resulted in
a cash inflow of €7 million (2015: €45 million).
Net cash provided by financing activities came to €2,173 million, against net cash used in financing activities of €333 million
the year before. Major effects in the reporting year were the cash
inflows for Saudi Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO and a cash
inflow from the issuance of eurobonds. In the prior year, a significant effect was the net repayment of borrowings amounting to
€220 million. Interest payments and other financial disbursements
of €73 million were slightly below the previous year’s amount of
€76 million. An outflow of €55 million was accounted for by the
dividend paid to the stockholders of LANXESS AG for fiscal 2015,
after €46 million in the prior year.
The net change in cash and cash equivalents from business
activities in fiscal 2016 was minus €17 million, against minus
€41 million the previous year. After taking into account currencyrelated and other changes in cash and cash equivalents of €6 million, cash and cash equivalents at the closing date amounted to
€355 million, against €366 million at the previous year’s closing
date. Taken together with near-cash assets (short-term investment
of liquid assets in money market funds) of €40 million, which were
lower than in the prior year (€100 million), the Group retained a
solid liquidity position of €395 million as of December 31, 2016,
compared with €466 million at the end of 2015.
Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows from
operating activities and the cash used for capital expenditures for
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets – decreased
by €8 million to €250 million. The definition of this indicator was

changed compared with 2015, when it was calculated as the
difference between the cash inflows from operating activities and
the cash used in investing activities.

Principles and objectives
of financial management
LANXESS pursues a conservative financial policy charac­
terized by the forward-looking management of financial risks.
Our aim is to be able to provide sufficient liquidity to our business operations at all times, regardless of cyclical fluctuations in
the real economy or financial markets. The debt level is largely
aligned with the ratio systems of the leading rating agencies for
investment-grade companies and, along with free cash flow, is the
focus of financial management. In addition to liquidity risk, financial
management also covers other financial risks, such as interest and
foreign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to mitigate the financial
risks that arise and thereby increase planning reliability, partly by
using derivative financial instruments. Detailed information about
the management of these risks is contained in the “Opportunity
and risk report.”

LANXESS Group ratings
Access to the capital markets and good relations with German
and international commercial banks are essential for achieving our
financial management objectives. Accordingly, ongoing dialogue
and communication with banks, investors and rating agencies are
of crucial importance. In fiscal 2016, the rating agencies Standard
& Poor’s and Moody’s confirmed their ratings for LANXESS of
BBB- and Baa3, respectively. Following the announcement of the
acquisition of Chemtura in September 2016, Standard & Poor’s
lowered its outlook from “positive” to “negative,” while Moody’s
kept its outlook at “stable.” Both rating agencies regarded the
planned acquisition as positive for LANXESS’s business profile
while pointing out the associated risks.

Development of ­L ANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2012 

Standard & Poor’s
Moody’s Investors Service

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

BBB/stable
Aug. 31, 2012

BBB/negative
June 27, 2013

BBB–/stable
May 19, 2014

BBB–/positive
Sept. 24, 2015

BBB–/negative
Sept. 26, 2016

Baa2/stable
Sept. 26, 2012

Baa2/negative
Aug. 14, 2013

Baa3/stable
June 20, 2014

Baa3/stable
July 2, 2015

Baa3/stable
Sept. 26, 2016

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition

Financing analysis
In fiscal 2016, LANXESS retained a balanced financing structure and a very solid liquidity position. Full financing was already
secured for the planned acquisition of Chemtura.
In January 2016, a development bank loan of €138 million
was repaid from available cash funds. In addition, an undrawn
development bank loan was canceled in May 2016. A €200 million
eurobond that matured in September 2016 was also redeemed
from available cash funds.
To finance the planned acquisition of Chemtura, a bridge loan
of €2.0 billion was agreed in September 2016. This was followed
by stepwise refinancing on the capital market: the placement of two
eurobonds with a total volume of €1.0 billion under the LANXESS
debt issuance program in October 2016 and the issuance of a
€500 million hybrid bond with its own prospectus in December
2016. The volume of the bridge loan was gradually reduced with
the issuance of the bonds and still amounted to €500 million on
December 31, 2016.
The existing debt issuance program allows the very flexible
placement of bonds on the capital market. As of December 31,
2016, just under €2.2 billion of the €5 billion financing facility had
been utilized to issue bonds and private placements. The volume
of the debt issuance program can be adjusted flexibly in line with
future requirements so as to ensure financial headroom. Capital
market financing is a central component in LANXESS’s financing
mix, which is subject to regular review to ensure the adequate
diversification of our financing sources and our strategic alignment.
Current financial liabilities decreased from €443 million in
2015 to €78 million as of December 31, 2016.
We made only limited use of finance leases, which are reported as financial liabilities in the statement of financial position. As
of December 31, 2016, the financial liabilities from finance leases
were on a level with the prior year at €70 million. The LANXESS
Group uses operating leases mainly for operational reasons and
not as a means of financing. Minimum non-discounted future
payments relating to operating leases totaled €334 million (2015:
€341 million).

135

As of December 31, 2016, LANXESS had no material financing items off statement of financial position in the form of
factoring, asset-backed structures or project financing, for example.
LANXESS’s total financial liabilities, net of accrued interest,
increased from €1,677 million in 2015 to €2,789 million as of
December 31, 2016, as a result of the early securing of financing for
the Chemtura acquisition. Net financial liabilities – the total financial
liabilities net of cash, cash equivalents, accrued interest and nearcash assets – increased in the reporting year to €2,394 million
from €1,211 million as of December 31, 2015. After deduction of
time deposits and securities available for sale, net financial liabilities
amounted to €269 million as of December 31, 2016.
Of the total financial liabilities, almost 100 % bear a fixed
interest rate over the term of the financing, which is above the prioryear level of 90 %. This resulted especially from the repayment
of a variable-rate development bank loan. Interest rate changes
do not have a material effect on LANXESS’s financial condition
considering the current financing structure. The proportion of loans
and bonds denominated in euros averaged 98 % in the reporting
year, which was above the prior-year level of 90 %. The weighted
average interest rate for our financial liabilities was 2.7 % at year
end 2016, which was below the prior-year figure of 3.8 %.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

136

Combined Management Report

The following overview shows LANXESS’s financing structure as of December 31, 2016, in detail, including its principal
liquidity reserves.
Financing Structure 
Instrument

Amount
€ ­million

Term

Interest
rate %

Financial
covenant

Eurobond
2011/2018
(€500 million)

499

May 2018

4.125

no

Eurobond
2016/2021
(€500 million)

496

October
2021

0.250

no

Eurobond
2012/2022
(€500 million)

496

November
2022

2.625

no

Eurobond
2016/2026
(€500 million)

492

October
2026

1.000

no

Hybrid bond
2016/2076
(€500 million)

489

December
2076

4.500

no

Private placement
2012/2022
(€100 million)

100

April 2022

3.500

no

Private placement
2012/2027
(€100 million)

99

April 2027

3.950

Other loans

48

n/a

no

Finance lease

70

n/a

no

Total financial
­liabilities
Cash and
cash equivalents
Near-cash assets
Total liquidity
Net financial
liabilities

2,789
355 ≤ 3 months
40 ≤ 3 months
395
2,394

Time deposits and
securities available
for sale

2,125

Net financial
liabilities after
deduction of
time deposits
and securities
available for sale

269

no

Our financing structure has changed significantly due to the
early procurement of liquidity to finance the acquisition of Chemtura.
The issuance of two eurobonds and a hybrid bond added new
liabilities totaling €1.5 billion. The terms of the bonds were chosen
to maintain a balanced maturity profile and ensure sufficient scope
for reducing indebtedness in the future. A development bank loan
and a €200 million bond were repaid in 2016. No refinancing risks
existed at the time these financial statements were prepared.
The other loans related mainly to the use of credit facilities by
subsidiaries in China and Argentina, which are extended on a
regular basis.

Liquidity analysis
In addition to cash and cash equivalents of €355 million,
near-cash assets of €40 million and other current financial assets
of €2,130 million, LANXESS has additional liquidity reserves
in the form of undrawn credit facilities. Investments in bilateral
in­s truments at banks, money market funds and commercial
paper are undertaken by Group companies that are not subject
to restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. Around
97 % of our cash funds is held in Group companies in countries
with no restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers.
The remaining some 3 % is held in companies in regulated capital
markets where cash transfers are restricted.
Thanks to our good liquidity position, our solvency was assured at all times in fiscal 2016.
By far the most important of LANXESS’s credit lines is the
syndicated credit facility of €1.25 billion with a term until February 2020, which has not been significantly drawn upon to date.
This credit facility is designed as an operating line of credit and
to provide funds for capital investment. It corresponds to market requirements in the European syndicated loan market for
investment-grade companies with a BBB rating. The company
also has an undrawn bridge loan agreement which was concluded in September 2016 to finance the acquisition of Chemtura.
This bridge loan agreement had an initial volume of €2.0 billion,
which was gradually adjusted downward with the issuance of
two eurobonds and a hybrid bond. It amounted to €500 million
as of December 31, 2016. None of our major loan agreements
contains a financial covenant. LANXESS had unused credit lines
totaling around €1.8 billion as of December 31, 2016, compared
with €1.5 billion at the end of the previous year.
The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us
available liquidity of around €4.3 billion, which is some €2.3 billion more than in the prior year. This higher amount is related to
our preparations for the acquisition of Chemtura and serves to
secure our entrepreneurial flexibility; it is an expression of our
conservative financial policy. Our solvency is safeguarded for the
short and long term.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition
Management’s Summary of Business Development and the Fiscal Year

Bond performance – evolution of credit
spread in 2016
An important indicator for corporate bonds, apart from the absolute change in price, is the relative valuation of the risk specific to
the issuer in comparison with a reference interest rate. This credit
risk premium is expressed in what is known as the credit spread.
LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index
in the BBB range1)
Basis points
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Jan. 1, 2016

Dec. 31, 2016

LANXESS Eurobond 2018

LANXESS Eurobond 2021

LANXESS Eurobond 2022
BBB Corporates, 5 years

LANXESS Eurobond 2026

1) 
T he LANXESS hybrid bond that matures in 2076 is not included in the overview.

The development of our credit spreads underscores the fact
that we retain very competitive access to capital market financing.

MANAGEMENT’S SUMMARY
OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
AND THE FISCAL YEAR
In 2016, LANXESS Group sales declined by 2.6 % from
€7,902 million in the prior year to €7,699 million. The company’s
business performance in 2016 continued to be characterized by
reduced selling prices resulting from lower purchase prices for raw
materials. This particularly affected our ARLANXEO segment due
to the persistently difficult competitive environment for synthetic
rubbers. Our Advanced Intermediates segment saw a decline in
sales which was largely attributable to selling price adjustments driven by raw material prices. The Performance Chemicals segment
posted higher sales due to volume and portfolio effects. Higher

137

volumes in the High Performance Materials segment could not
compensate for the lower selling prices resulting from raw material
prices. At Group level, higher volumes, the successful implementation of measures to improve operational competitiveness and
favorable exchange rate effects more than offset the impact of the
challenging business environment in our ARLANXEO segment.
EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2016 increased by 12.4 % to
€995 million from €885 million. This was mainly attributable to
higher volumes and lower production costs resulting from the implementation of measures to improve operational competitiveness.
Net income and earnings per share improved in comparison
to the prior year, rising from €165 million to €192 million and
€1.80 to €2.10, respectively.
We view the development of earnings as positive overall.
We upheld our conservative accounting and financing policy
in 2016 as well. In accordance with the consistency principle, we
essentially applied the same measurement methods and exercised the same discretion as in the previous year. Our equity ratio
improved from 32.2 % to 37.7 %, mainly due to Saudi Aramco’s
interest in ARLANXEO. Total assets increased from €7,219 million to €9,877 million because of the financing secured for the
planned acquisition of Chemtura and because of Saudi Aramco’s
interest in ARLANXEO.
Our statement of financial position shows that our liquidity
position remains solid. Additional substantial liquidity reserves in
the form of undrawn credit lines are also available. Of the total
financial liabilities, almost 100 % bear a fixed interest rate over the
term of the financing, which is above the prior-year level of 90 %.
Our financial liabilities are free of financial covenants.
After consideration of time deposits with a term of more than
90 days and investments in securities, our net financial liabilities fell
by €942 million to €269 million. In fiscal 2016, the rating agencies
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s confirmed our ratings of BBB– and
Baa3, respectively. Following the announcement of the acquisition
of Chemtura, Standard & Poor’s lowered its outlook from “positive”
to “negative,” while Moody’s kept its outlook at “stable.”
We continue to regard our business situation as positive.
We are responding to the changes and challenges confronting
the European chemical industry especially with our program
for the global realignment of the LANXESS Group. Through its
strategic alignment, LANXESS aims to become a less cyclical
specialty chemicals group with a strong cash flow and a more
balanced portfolio.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

138

Combined Management Report

Key Business Data –
Multi-Period Overview
Indicators
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Sales

9,094

8,300

8,006

7,902

7,699

EBITDA pre exceptionals

1,223

735

808

885

995

13.4 %

8.9 %

10.1 %

11.2 %

12.9 %
945

€ million
Earnings performance

EBITDA margin pre exceptionals
EBITDA

1,186

624

644

833

Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals

847

288

402

422

514

Operating result (EBIT)

808

(93)

218

415

464
6.0 %

EBIT margin

8.9 %

(1.1 %)

2.7 %

5.3 %

Net income (loss)

508

(159)

47

165

192

Earnings per share (€)

6.11

(1.91)

0.53

1.80

2.10

838

641

797

692

689

Financial position
Cash flow from operating activities
Depreciation and amortization/
reversals of impairment charges

378

717

426

418

481

Cash outflows for capital expenditures

696

624

614

434

439

Net financial liabilities

1,483

1,731

1,336

1,211

2,394

Net financial liabilities after deduction of
time deposits and securities available for sale

1,483

1,731

1,336

1,211

269

9,877

Assets and liabilities
Total assets

7,519

6,811

7,250

7,219

Non-current assets

3,747

3,592

4,101

4,180

4,519

Current assets

3,772

3,219

3,149

3,039

5,358

Net working capital

1,849

1,679

1,600

1,526

1,628

Equity (including non-controlling interests)

2,330

1,900

2,161

2,323

3,728

893

943

1,290

1,215

1,249

Pension provisions
Indicators
ROCE

15.6 %

5.8 %

7.9 %

8.4 %

6.9 %

Equity ratio

31.0 %

27.9 %

29.8 %

32.2 %

37.7 %

Non-current asset ratio

49.8 %

52.7 %

56.6 %

57.9 %

45.8 %

Asset coverage I

62.2 %

52.9 %

52.7 %

55.6 %

82.5 %

Net working capital/sales

20.3 %

20.2 %

20.0 %

19.3 %

21.1 %

Employees (as of December 31)

17,177

17,343

16,584

16,225

16,721

EARNINGS, ASSET AND FINANCIAL
POSITION OF LANXESS AG
LANXESS AG serves primarily as the management holding
company for the LANXESS Group. The principal management
functions for the entire Group are performed by the Board of
Management. The Board of Management shapes Group strategy
and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and organization.
The Group management company is also responsible for financ­
ing and communication with LANXESS’s key stakeholders. The
economic performance of LANXESS AG depends principally on

the operating business entities in the LANXESS Group and on
the development of the chemical industry. The balance of income
and losses from investments in affiliated companies resulting from
profit or loss transfers and dividends from affiliated companies
is of key importance for the future ability of LANXESS AG to pay
a dividend. Therefore, especially the statements made in the
“Opportunity and risk report” in this combined management
report apply in principle to LANXESS AG as well.
The financial statements of LANXESS AG are prepared in
accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview
Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of ­L ANXESS AG

Sales and earnings of LANXESS AG
LANXESS AG Income Statement in Accordance
with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged
2015

2016

4

6

50.0

Cost of sales

(4)

(6)

(50.0)

Gross profit

–

€ million
Sales

Change %

0

0

General administration
expenses

(44)

(37)

15.9

Other operating income

32

3

(90.6)

Other operating expenses

(4)

(9)

< (100)

Operating result

(16)

(43)

< (100)

Income from investments in
affiliated companies

252

762

> 100

Income from loans held as
financial assets
Net interest expense
Other financial income and
expenses – net
Financial result
Income (loss) before
income taxes

7

8

14.3

(44)

(50)

(13.6)

(7)

(10)

(42.9)

208

710

> 100

(101)

(89)

11.9

Income taxes

91

578

> 100

Net income

91

578

> 100

7

43

> 100

0

(289)

–

98

332

> 100

Carryforward to new account
Withdrawal from other retained
earnings
Distributable profit

The earnings of LANXESS AG are largely determined by profit or
loss transfers from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH.
Sales at LANXESS AG stood at €6 million, which was above
the prior-year level of €4 million. They related mainly to services
provided to LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. A balanced result
remained after deducting the cost of sales, which consisted mostly
of personnel expenses and appropriate shares of the general
administration expenses.

139

General administration expenses decreased against the prior
year, down €7 million, or 15.9 %, to €37 million. They principally
comprised personnel and other business expenses not directly
­related to the services provided to Group companies. The de­crease
in other operating income was primarily due to lower reversals of
provisions. The operating result declined by €27 million to minus
€43 million.
The financial result, which comprises the balance of income
and losses from investments in affiliated companies, the net inter­
est position, income from other securities and loans included in
financial non-current assets, and other financial income and ex­
pense, increased by €502 million to €710 million. This change was
primarily due to the profit transfer of €762 million from LANXESS
Deutschland GmbH, which was €510 million higher than in the
prior year. Major effects came from, for example, the establishment of the strategic alliance for the synthetic rubber business, a
merger, and changes in legal provisions governing the valuation of
pension obligations. The financial result was negatively influenced
by the €6 million deterioration in the net interest position to minus
€50 million. The bundling of external financing at LANXESS AG,
initiated in 2015, had a full-year effect for the first time in 2016.
Income taxes resulted in expenses of €89 million. These were
comprised of tax expenses of €68 million for 2016 and €21 million
for previous years. Net income for 2016 was €577 million after
€91 million in the previous year.
Taking into account the addition of €289 million (2015: €0) to
other retained earnings and the profit carryforward of €43 million,
the distributable profit as of December 31, 2016, increased to
€332 million from €98 million at the end of 2015.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

140

Combined Management Report

Asset and capital structure of LANXESS AG
LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position in Accordance
with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged 
Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

Change

€ million

%

€ million

%

%

Financial assets

956

27.9

980

16.6

2.5

Non-current
assets

956

27.9

980

16.6

2.5

2,035

59.3

2,510

42.4

23.3

21

0.6

1,985

33.5

> 100

ASSETS

Receivables from
affiliated companies
Other assets
Liquid assets and
securities
Current assets
Prepaid expenses
Total assets

411

12.0

415

7.0

1.0

2,467

71.9

4,910

82.9

99.0

9

0.2

29

0.5

> 100

3,432

100.0

5,919

100.0

72.5

1,518

44.2

2,041

34.5

34.5
(10.3)

EQUITY AND
LIABILITIES
Equity
Provisions

145

4.2

130

2.2

1,400

40.8

2,700

45.6

92.9

Liabilities to banks

148

4.3

23

0.4

(84.5)

Payables to affiliated
companies

219

6.4

1,021

17.2

> 100

2

0.1

4

0.1

100.0

Bonds

Other liabilities
Liabilities

1,769

51.6

3,748

63.3

> 100

Total assets

3,432

100.0

5,919

100.0

72.5

In view of its function as a strategic holding company, the
statement of financial position of LANXESS AG is dominated
by financial assets and liabilities and by receivables from, and
payables to, subsidiaries.
LANXESS AG had total assets of €5,919 million as of December 31, 2016, which was €2,487 million, or 72.5 %, above
­­the prior-year figure. Non-current assets were €980 million and
primarily included the carrying amount of the investment in
LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, which stands at €739 million,
and loans of €198 million to subsidiaries. The share of non-current
assets in total assets decreased from 27.9 % to 16.6 %. Current
assets increased by €2,443 million, or 99.0 %, to €4,910 million
and accounted for 83.0 % of total assets, compared with 71.9 %
in 2015. Receivables from subsidiaries accounted for 42.4 % of
total assets and related principally to short-term loans, financial
transactions and claims to profit or loss transfers. Other receivables
largely consisted of non-disposable time deposits and accounted
for 33.5 % of total assets (2015: 0.6 %). The share of bank balances
and securities in total assets decreased from 12.0 % to 7.0 %.

Equity increased by €523 million to €2,041 million, largely
due to net income of €578 million. This was partly offset by the
dividend payment for 2015. The equity ratio was 34.5 %, after
44.2 % at the end of 2015.
Liabilities increased by €1,979 million to €3,748 million, mainly because of the issuance of new bonds amounting to €1,500 million and the rise in payables to affiliated companies, which were
€802 million above the prior-year figure at €1,021 million. The
redemption of a bond for €200 million had an opposing effect.
The provisions decreased by €15 million to €130 million and
related mainly to commitments to employees and to statutory
and contractual obligations.
The issuance of the bonds amounting to €1,500 million
served to secure the financing for the planned acquisition of
Chemtura. At the closing date, these financial funds were invested
in time deposits.

EMPLOYEES
As of December 31, 2016, the LANXESS Group had a total
of 16,721 employees, against 16,225 at the closing date of the
prior year. The increase was mainly attributable to amended local
legislation in South Africa and China, which requires external service providers to be recorded as Group employees after a certain
period of deployment for the company, and to the acquisition of
the Chemours specialties business.
In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of
employees as of December 31, 2016, was 3,251, up from 3,143
in the previous year. In Germany, the headcount rose from 7,523
to 7,600.
The number of employees in the North America region in­
creased to 1,418 from 1,312 as of December 31, 2015, while
Latin America saw its workforce grow from 1,412 at the end of
2015 to 1,435. At the reporting date, we employed 3,017 people
in the Asia-Pacific region, which was 182 more than a year earlier.
A total of 13,649, or 81.6 %, of our employees were men
and 3,072, or 18.4 %, were women. The number of employees
who were non-German nationals was 9,596. In addition, 1,003
employees worldwide worked on temporary contracts for the
Group. LANXESS AG had 135 employees as of the reporting
date, versus 127 the year before.
As of the end of 2016, the Group had a total of 533 trainees
in 18 different career paths and six combined vocational training
and study programs. We thus continue to train more young people
than we need to meet our own requirements. In 2016, we hired
81 % (2015: 80 %) of those who completed their vocational train­
ing with us in Germany.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

141

Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of ­L ANXESS AG
Employees

Part-time employees accounted for 7.0 % of the workforce at
our German core companies as of the reporting date. Individuals
with severe disabilities made up 5.6 % of the workforce at our
German companies. In addition, we routinely award contracts to
work centers for the disabled.
Indicators for the assessment of occupational safety at
LANXESS are the recordable incident rate (RIR) and injuries for
every million hours worked (MAQ). In 2016, the MAQ was 2.0 and
thus once again below the prior-year level. The RIR, which enables
better international comparison, improved from 0.9 in 2015 to 0.7.
Personnel expenses for the Group in fiscal 2016 totaled
€1,467 million (2015: €1,432 million). Wages and salaries, at
€1,168 million (2015: €1,124 million), accounted for the greater part of this figure. Social security contributions amounted to
€194 million (2015: €198 million), while pension plan expenses
were €92 million (2015: €97 million) and social assistance benefits
€13 million (2015: €13 million).
Personnel expenses for LANXESS AG in fiscal 2016 came to
€33 million, after €36 million in the previous year. Wages and sal­
aries accounted for the largest proportion of personnel expenses
at €31 million (2015: €26 million). Social security contributions
decreased from €10 million to €2 million. Pension plan expenses
accounted for €1 million (2015: €9 million) of this amount.

Employees by Region
%
8.5
8.6

Germany
EMEA (excluding Germany)
Asia-Pacific
Latin America

45.5

18.0

North America

19.4

Employees by Segment
%
9.5
Performance Chemicals

33.4

16.5

ARLANXEO
Advanced Intermediates
Reconciliation1)
High Performance Materials

19.9
20.7

HR strategy
LANXESS’s long-term entrepreneurial success is fundamentally based on our employees’ sense of responsibility, profession­
alism and focus on finding solutions. Our global HR activities
are supporting the fundamental change processes within the
Group – both organizationally and culturally – which makes them
more important to strategic success than ever before.
Following our realignment, LANXESS’s identity as an employ­
er is based on five central values: respect, ownership, trust, professionalism and integrity. We seek to foster a corporate culture in
which responsible and morally irreprehensible actions and striving
for performance do not contradict but complement each other.
LANXESS aims to be a company whose success is driven by the
personal commitment of each and every employee. At an organizational level, significant HR strategy and operational support was
provided in 2016 for the spin-off of ARLANXEO, the integration
of employees acquired as a result of the Chemours transaction
and the preparation of the planned acquisition of Chemtura. We
also applied a great deal of attention to expanding our “Xcare”
demographic program.
In addition to developing and implementing innovative concepts for addressing the challenges resulting from demographic
change, our top long-term strategic human resources goal is to
attract and cultivate a range of talented employees for LANXESS.
We aim to strengthen our diversity, particularly in terms of age,
national origin and gender.

1) Includes group functions,
LANXESS Distribution and HPE/TSR employees in LANXESS companies

Employees by Functional Area ( Annual Average)
%
3.5
11.0
Production
Marketing

11.3

Administration
Research

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

74.2

142

Combined Management Report

COMPENSATION REPORT

Annual base salary

Compensation of the Board of Management
The structure of the compensation system and the level of
compensation for the members of the Board of Management are
determined by the Supervisory Board. The appropriateness of the
compensation is regularly reviewed. The criteria for determining
the appropriateness of the compensation for an individual Board
of Management member include, in particular, his duties, his personal performance, the economic situation, and the success and
sustainable growth of the LANXESS Group. Consideration is also
given to compensation at comparable companies and the company’s overall compensation structure, including as well the ratio
between the compensation of the Board of Management and that
of LANXESS’s senior executives and the rest of the workforce, both
overall and in terms of time. The compensation structure is also
designed to be competitive in the international market for highly
qualified executives and provide the motivation to successfully
work toward sustainable corporate development.
The compensation system that was introduced for members
of the Board of Management in 2010 was approved by the Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 28, 2010. This
compensation system was applied when concluding the service
contracts with all Board of Management members.
The components of the compensation for members of the
Board of Management are the annual base salary; the variable components, which are the Annual Performance Payment, the LongTerm Stock Performance Plan and the Long-Term Performance
Bonus; and a retirement pension. The three variable components
are linked to LANXESS’s annual performance and, particularly,
to its corporate success over a number of years. The average
compensation mix of 31 % annual base salary and 69 % variable
compensation components, assuming 100 % target attainment, is
strongly aligned with the company’s performance and long-term
value creation. The present service contracts for members of the
Board of Management set out the annual base salary and caps on
the amounts for the variable compensation components. They do
not provide for a separate cap on total compensation, even taking
into account a possible discretionary bonus.
Compensation Mix for Members
of the Board of Management 
%
Annual base salary

31

Annual Performance Payment

35

Long Term Stock Performance Plan

20

Long Term Performance Bonus

14
100

The fixed compensation comprises the annual base salary
and compensation in kind, the latter consisting mainly of the tax
value of perquisites, such as the use of a company car. The annual
base salary of the members of the Board of Management is marketoriented and in line with that paid at other comparable companies.

Variable compensation
The annual performance-based component of the variable
compensation, known as the Annual Performance Payment (APP),
is based on corporate business targets and other conditions, such
as the attainment of certain targets for EBITDA pre exceptionals,
which are defined by the Supervisory Board before the beginning
of the respective fiscal year. In the case of 100 % target attainment,
the individual APP budget for 2016 for Mr. Zachert is 125 % and
for the other members of the Board of Management 100 % of
their respective annual base salaries. The maximum payment is
defined on an annual basis by the Supervisory Board. For fiscal
2016, it was capped at 150 % of the individual budgets for the
members of the Board of Management – assuming 100 % target
attainment. For fiscal 2017, the maximum payment is capped at
200 % of the individual budgets in line with the caps applied for
non-managerial and managerial staff. Actual payments may differ
from the amount calculated in advance.
The Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) is another
element of variable compensation. This compensation component
is based on the performance of LANXESS stock against a reference index, the Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM. The LTSP
responds to the call by legislators for a stronger focus on long-term
company performance. It is divided into four four-year tranches.
The possible payment per tranche is 30 % of the individual target
income, assuming 100 % target attainment. The condition for
participation in the LTSP is a prior personal investment each year
in LANXESS shares to a value of 5 % of the annual base salary.
These shares are subject to an average vesting period of five
years (LTSP 2010–2013) and four years (LTSP 2014–2017).
The rights granted by the LTSP may be exercised at the end of
these periods. The exercise period is three years in general, but
five years for the 2012 and 2013 tranches. The LTSP 2014–2017
program uses the MSCI World Chemicals Index as a new reference
index. There were no further material changes compared with the
LTSP 2010–2013.
For more information, particularly regarding the valuation
parameters applied, please see Note [15] to the consolidated
financial statements.
The personnel expenses in fiscal 2016 for share-based
compensation for active members of the Board of Management
were €1,966 thousand for Mr. Zachert (2015: €450 thousand),
€293 thousand for Dr. Fink (2015: €0 thousand), €293 thousand
for Mr. Pontzen (2015: €0 thousand) and €879 thousand for
Dr. van Roessel (2015: €245 thousand). The personnel expenses
for former members of the Board of Management were €0 thousand for Dr. Düttmann (2015: €755 thousand).

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

143

Compensation Report

The Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB), which is the
third variable compensation component, is likewise aligned with
long-term corporate performance. It rewards target attainment
only after two successive fiscal years. The basis for calculating the
LTPB is the individual APP target attainment for the fiscal years in
question. The exact amount of the LTPB results from the average
individual APP target attainment for the two fiscal years. Assuming
an average APP target attainment of 100 %, the LTPB amounts
to 45 % of the annual base salary. Actual payments in 2017 and
2018 may differ from the amounts calculated in advance.

Compensation of the Board of Management 
Fixed compensation

Payments
from
LTSP rights

Variable compensation

Year

Annual
base salery

Compensation in kind

Performance
bonus1)

Payment
LTPB
(multi- for previous
years2)
year)

2016

1,200

73

2,250

8104)

2015

1,200

66

2,250

8103)

Dr. Hubert Fink
(as of October 1, 2015)

2016

450

53

675

3044)

2015

113

14

169

763)

–

372

–

372

Michael Pontzen
(as of April 1, 2015)

2016

450

44

675

3044)

(20)

1,453

446

1,899

€ thousand

Total cash
compen­
sation

Fair
values

Total

(82)

4,251

1,337

5,588

–

4,326

721

5,047

(7)

1,475

446

1,921

Serving members of the
Board of Management as
of December 31, 2016
Matthias Zachert

Dr. Rainier van Roessel

2015

338

33

506

2283)

–

1,105

–

1,105

2016

650

50

975

4394)

(38)

2,076

368

2,444

2015

650

49

975

4393)

(31)

2,082

347

2,429

Former members of the
Board of Management as
of December 31, 2016
Dr. Bernhard Düttmann
(until March 31, 2015)
Total
1) Payment in 2016 and 2017, respectively

2016

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2015

163

15

187

733)

(31)

407

–

407

2016

2,750

220

4,575

1,857

(147)

9,255

2,597

11,852

2015

2,464

177

4,087

1,626

(62)

8,292

1,068

9,360

2) Payment in 2015 and 2016, respectively

The aggregate compensation of the Board of Management
was €11,852 thousand (2015: €9,360 thousand), comprising
€2,970 thousand (2015: €2,641 thousand) in non-performancerelated components, €6,285 thousand (2015: €5,651 thousand)
in performance-related components and €2,597 thousand (2015:
€1,068 thousand) in components with a long-term incentive effect.
Under the LTSP, members of the Board of Management were
granted a total of 1,740,000 rights for 2016 and an additional
1,350,000 rights for 2012 and 1,350,000 rights for 2013. A
total of 1,200,000 rights were granted in 2015.

Retirement pensions
On termination of their service contracts, the members of the
Board of Management receive benefits under the company pension
plan. These benefits are paid when the beneficiary reaches the age
of 60 or if the beneficiary is permanently unable to work. They are
paid to surviving dependents in the event of the beneficiary’s death.

3) Payment of 50 % each in 2016 and 2017

4) Payment of 50 % each in 2017 and 2018

The pension plan for the members of the Board of Management is a defined contribution plan stipulating a basic contribution
to be made by the company equal to 25 % of the annual base salary
and APP. The maximum amount taken into account for calculating
the APP contribution is that due on 100 % target attainment, irrespective of the actual target attainment. Moreover, the members
of the Board of Management must themselves pay an amount
from deferred compensation amounting to 12.5 % of the APP.
The members of the Board of Management may increase their
personal contribution to up to 25 % of the APP. From the date of
entitlement, up to 30 % of the accumulated capital – including the
interest thereon – may be converted to a pension benefit. There
are claims arising from provisions in place before 2006 that are
granted as vested rights to individual members of the Board of
Management. If the service contract ends before the beneficiary
reaches the age of 60, the company pays certain additional benefits
up to a defined ceiling.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

144

Combined Management Report

LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims
of Board of Management members. In 2016, the total service
cost recognized under IFRS accounting rules in the consolidated
financial statements for this purpose was €1,173 thousand (2015:
€1,640 thousand). The present value of the obligations for the
members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31,
2016, was €16,033 thousand (2015: €11,903 thousand). Under
IFRS accounting principles, the service cost for pension entitlements earned in 2016 and the present value of the obligations,
including acquired rights, as of December 31, 2016, amounted to,
respectively, €659 thousand and €4,522 thousand (2015: €597
thousand and €2,716 thousand) for Mr. Zachert, €142 thousand
and €3,162 thousand (2015: €43 thousand and €2,322 thousand) for Dr. Fink, €228 thousand and €1,607 thousand (2015:
€432 thousand and €1,018 thousand) for Mr. Pontzen, and
€144 thousand and €6,742 thousand (2015: €151 thousand
and €5,847 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel. The service cost for
former Board of Management member Dr. Düttmann for his service
in 2015 came to €417 thousand.
The net expense for pension entitlements recognized under
HGB accounting rules in the 2016 annual financial statements for
this purpose was €1,385 thousand (2015: €2,628 thousand). The
present value of the obligations for the members of the Board of
Management serving as of December 31, 2016, was €11,691 thousand (2015: €10,307 thousand). Under HGB accounting rules,
the present value of the obligations, including vested rights,
for the members of the Board of Management serving as of
December 31, 2016, amounted to, respectively, €3,026 thousand
for Mr. Zachert (2015: €2,237 thousand), €2,116 thousand for
Dr. Fink (2015: €1,927 thousand), €972 thousand for Mr. Pontzen
(2015: €802 thousand) and €5,577 thousand for Dr. van Roessel
(2015: €5,341 thousand).
As of December 31, 2016, obligations to former members
of the Board of Management totaled €34,497 thousand (2015:
€30,318 thousand) under IFRS accounting rules and €26,041 thousand (2015: €26,682 thousand) under HGB accounting rules.

No additional benefits have been pledged to any member
of the Board of Management in the event of termination of their
service.
Dr. Düttmann resigned from the Board of Management by
mutual agreement effective March 31, 2015, and left the company.
Up to this time, the contractually agreed benefits were granted
and paid, including the variable compensation for fiscal 2015
that had already been earned. At that time, existing LTSP rights
were evaluated at €1.00 per right and compensation paid pro
rata, depending on the length of the vesting period that had already elapsed. This resulted in an entitlement of €857 thousand.
In addition, Dr. Düttmann was granted a severance payment of
€3,380 thousand comprising two times the target income, which
was the annual base salary plus the APP and LTPB assuming
100 % target attainment.
Dr. Breuers left the company on expiration of his service contract effective May 31, 2015. He had already resigned from the
Board of Management effective August 5, 2014. The contractually
agreed terms of his compensation remained applicable until he
left the company. At that time, existing LTSP rights were evaluated
at €1.00 per right and compensation paid pro rata, depending on
the length of the vesting period that had already elapsed. This resulted in an entitlement of €729 thousand. In addition, Dr. Breuers
was granted and paid a severance payment of €1,690 thousand
comprising a target income, which was the annual base salary plus
the APP and LTPB assuming 100 % target attainment.
In 2016, compensation of former members of the Board of
Management totaled €1,244 thousand (2015: €3,673 thousand).

Other benefits
In 2016, no member of the Board of Management received
benefits or assurances of benefits from third parties in respect of
their duties as members of the Board of Management.
No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management in fiscal 2016.

Individual compensation in line with the
recommendations of the German Corporate
Governance Code

Benefits associated with and following
termination of service on the Board of
Management
The members of the Board of Management have indemnification rights should their service contracts be terminated for
defined reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event of
a material change of control over the company. The terms depend
on the respective circumstances and include severance payments
amounting to up to two times the annual base salary or, in the
event of a change of control, three times the annual base salary,
plus the APP and LTPB assuming 100 % target achievement and
compensation pro rata temporis of LTSP rights. On the basis of
agreements existing with Dr. Fink and Mr. Pontzen, the calculation
of severance payments to be made in the event of early termination
of their service contracts does not include the LTPB and LTSP
variable compensation components.

The following tables list the compensation, additional benefits
and allocations (payments) for 2015 and 2016, in line with the
recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code.
The variable compensation components differ depending on
the reference period. The amounts of compensation shown also
include the maximum and minimum attainable compensation.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

145

Compensation Report

Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016)
Dr. Hubert Fink
Member of the Board of Management
Appointed October 1, 2015

Matthias Zachert
Chairman of the Board of Management
Appointed April 1, 2014
Target
value
2015

Target
value
2016

2016
(min.)

2016
(max.)

Target
value
2015

Target
value
2016

2016
(min.)

2016
(max.)

1,200

1,200

1,200

1,200

113

450

450

450

66

73

73

73

14

53

53

53

Total

1,266

1,273

1,273

1,273

127

503

503

503

Annual Performance Payment (APP)

1,500

1,500

0

2,250

113

450

0

675

Multi-year variable compensation

1,261

1,876

0

5,670

152

649

0

1,924
–

€ thousand
Annual base salary
Compensation in kind

LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)

–

–

–

–

25

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2015–2016)

540

–

–

–

127

–

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2016–2017)

–

540

0

810

–

203

0

304

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012)

–

356

0

1,620

–

119

0

540

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013)

–

243

0

1,620

–

81

0

540

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2015)

721

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2016)

–

737

0

1,620

–

246

0

540

4,027

4,649

1,273

9,193

392

1,602

503

3,102

597

659

659

659

43

142

142

142

4,624

5,308

1,932

9,852

435

1,744

645

3,244

Total
Service cost
Total compensation

Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016)
Dr. Rainier van Roessel
Member of the Board of Management
Appointed January 1, 2007

Michael Pontzen
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed April 1, 2015
Target
value
2015

Target
value
2016

2016
(min.)

2016
(max.)

Target
value
2015

Target
value
2016

2016
(min.)

2016
(max.)

338

450

450

450

650

650

650

650

33

44

44

44

49

50

50

50

Total

371

494

494

494

699

700

700

700

Annual Performance Payment (APP)

338

450

0

675

650

650

0

975

Multi-year variable compensation

253

649

0

1,924

640

661

0

1,219
–

€ thousand
Annual base salary
Compensation in kind

LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)

76

–

–

–

–

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2015–2016)

177

–

–

–

293

–

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2016–2017)

–

203

0

304

–

293

0

439

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012)

–

119

0

540

–

3

0

0

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013)

–

81

0

540

–

10

0

0

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2015)

–

–

–

–

347

–

–

–

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2016)

–

246

0

540

–

355

0

780

Total

962

1,593

494

3,093

1,989

2,011

700

2,894

Service cost

432

228

228

228

151

144

144

144

1,394

1,821

722

3,321

2,140

2,155

844

3,038

Total compensation

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

146

Combined Management Report

Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016)
Matthias Zachert
Chairman of the Board of Management
Appointed April 1, 2014

Dr. Hubert Fink
Member of the Board of Management
Appointed October 1, 2015

€ thousand

2015

2016

2015

2016

Annual base salary

1,200

1,200

113

450

66

73

14

53

Total

1,266

1,273

127

503

Annual Performance Payment (APP)

2,250

2,190

169

670

405

788

38

188

LTPB (tranche 2013–2014)

–

–

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)

405

(11)

38

(1)

LTPB (tranche 2015–2016)

–

799

–

189

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2011)

–

–

–

–

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012)

–

–

–

–

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013)

–

–

–

–

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2014)

–

–

–

–

3,921

4,251

334

1,361

Compensation in kind

Multi-year variable compensation

Total
Service cost
Total compensation

597

659

43

142

4,518

4,910

377

1,503

Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016)
Dr. Rainier van Roessel
Member of the Board of Management
Appointed January 1, 2007

Michael Pontzen
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed April 1, 2015
€ thousand

2015

2016

2015

2016

338

450

650

650

33

44

49

50

Total

371

494

699

700

Annual Performance Payment (APP)

506

661

953

949

Multi-year variable compensation

114

260

343

427

LTPB (tranche 2013–2014)

–

–

(4)

–

LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)

114

(3)

347

(6)

Annual base salary
Compensation in kind

LTPB (tranche 2015–2016)

–

263

–

433

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2011)

–

–

–

–

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012)

–

–

–

–

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013)

–

–

–

–

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2014)

–

–

–

–

991

1,415

1,995

2,076

Total
Service cost
Total compensation

432

228

151

144

1,423

1,643

2,146

2,220

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

147

Compensation Report

Compensation Granted (Former Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016)
Dr. Bernhard Düttmann
Chief Financial Officer
Resigned March 31, 2015
€ thousand
Annual base salary

Target value
2015

Target value
2016

2016
(min.)

2016
(max.)

163

–

–

–

15

–

–

–

Total

178

–

–

–

Annual Performance Payment (APP)

187

–

–

–

37

–

–

–

Compensation in kind

Multi-year variable compensation
LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)

–

–

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2015–2016)

37

–

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2016–2017)

–

–

–

–

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012)

–

–

–

–
–

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013)

–

–

–

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2015)

–

–

–

–

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2016)

–

–

–

–

Total

402

–

–

–

Service cost

417

–

–

–

Total compensation

819

–

–

–

Allocations (Former Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016)
Dr. Werner Breuers
Member of the Board of Management
Resigned August 5, 2014

Dr. Bernhard Düttmann
Chief Financial Officer
Resigned March 31, 2015
2015

2016

2015

2016

163

–

–

–

15

–

–

–

Total

178

–

–

–

Annual Performance Payment (APP)

165

–

–

–

1,054

–

729

–
–

€ thousand
Annual base salary
Compensation in kind

Multi-year variable compensation
LTPB (tranche 2013–2014)

(4)

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)

164

–

–

–

LTPB (tranche 2015–2016)

37

–

–

–

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2011)

305

–

272

–

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012)

255

–

269

–
–

LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013)

175

–

188

LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2014)

122

–

–

–

1,397

–

729

–

417

–

–

–

1,814

–

729

–

Total
Service cost
Total compensation

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

148

Combined Management Report

Compensation of the Supervisory Board
The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by
Section 12 of the company’s articles of association. The members
of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG receive fixed compensation of €80 thousand per year. The Chairman of the Supervisory
Board receives three times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half
times, this amount. Serving as the chair or a member of Super­
visory Board committees is compensated separately in accordance
with the German Corporate Governance Code. Supervisory Board
members who belong to a committee receive one half of the
fixed compensation amount in addition. The chair of the Audit
Committee receives a further half. Supervisory Board members
who chair a committee other than the Audit Committee receive
a further quarter. However, no member may receive in total more
than three times the fixed compensation amount.
Supervisory Board members are reimbursed for their expenses in addition and also receive an attendance allowance of
€1.5 thousand for each Supervisory Board meeting and each
committee meeting they attend, with the exception of meetings
of the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3
of the German Codetermination Act and meetings of the Nominations Committee. With respect to their membership on the
supervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, the members
of the Supervisory Board are remunerated only for their service
on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH in
the amount of €5 thousand each.
The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term incentive based on the company's performance during the standard
term of an individual’s membership on the Supervisory Board (five
years). Unlike the fixed compensation component, this variable
compensation component is not paid every year, but only once
at the end of the standard term of office. If a Supervisory Board
member serves a shorter term, the amount is prorated.

Payment of the variable compensation depends on how
LANXESS’s stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX
600 Chemicals SM index during a member’s five-year term. The
average price of LANXESS stock and the average level of the
index during the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’
Meeting at which the Supervisory Board members were elected
are each compared with the respective average for the 90 trading
days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at the conclusion
of which the members’ terms end. The variable compensation is
only payable if the stock has outperformed the benchmark index.
The exact amount of the variable compensation depends on the
extent to which the stock price outperformed the benchmark index
in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock has outperformed
the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up to ten percentage
points, the variable compensation amounts to €50 thousand for
this five-year period; if it has outperformed the index by between
10 and 20 percentage points, €100 thousand is paid, and if the
degree of outperformance is greater than this, the compensation
is €150 thousand.
No variable compensation was paid out in fiscal 2016.
The expected compensation payable for the current terms of
office of Supervisory Board members was valued at €600 thousand (2015: €1,200 thousand) as of December 31, 2016, and
recognized as a provision.
None of the members of the Supervisory Board received
benefits for services provided personally during the reporting
period. No loans or advances were granted to members of the
Supervisory Board during the reporting year.
The following table breaks down the compensation received
by each member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the
Supervisory Board in fiscal 2016.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

149

Compensation Report

Compensation of the Supervisory Board 
Year

Fixed
compensation
­L ANXESS AG

Compensation
as committee
member
­L ANXESS AG

Attendance
allowance

Fixed
compensation
­L ANXESS
Deutschland GmbH

Total

Dr. Rolf Stomberg,
Chairman

2016

240,000

–

18,000

5,000

263,000

2015

240,000

–

21,000

5,000

266,000

Ralf Sikorski, Vice Chairman
(appointed May 13, 2015)

2016

103,388

40,000

18,000

5,000

166,388

2015

51,068

25,534

13,500

3,192

93,294

Gisela Seidel
(resigned May 31, 2016)

2016

49,836

16,612

7,500

2,077

76,025

2015

105,753

40,000

21,000

5,000

171,753

Ulrich Freese,
former Vice Chairman
(resigned May 13, 2015)

2016

–

–

–

–

–

2015

43,726

14,575

7,500

1,822

67,623

Axel Berndt
(resigned May 13, 2015)

2016

–

–

–

–

–

2015

29,151

14,575

7,500

1,822

53,048

Werner Czaplik
(appointed May 13, 2015)

2016

80,000

40,000

16,500

5,000

141,500

2015

51,068

25,534

10,500

3,192

90,294

2016

80,000

40,000

16,500

5,000

141,500

€1)

Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets
Dr. Heike Hanagarth
(appointed July 1, 2016)
Dr. Friedrich Janssen

2015

80,000

40,000

18,000

5,000

143,000

2016

40,219

–

6,000

2,514

48,733

2015

–

–

–

–

–

2016

80,000

80,000

16,500

5,000

181,500
200,575

2015

80,000

94,575

21,000

5,000

Robert J. Koehler
(resigned May 13, 2015)

2016

–

–

–

–

–

2015

29,151

14,575

3,000

1,822

48,548

Rainer Laufs
(resigned May 13, 2015)

2016

–

–

–

–

–

2015

29,151

14,575

7,500

1,822

53,048

2016

80,000

40,000

16,500

5,000

141,500

2015

80,000

40,000

18,000

5,000

143,000

Claudia Nemat
(resigned June 30, 2016)

2016

39,781

19,891

4,500

2,486

66,658

2015

80,000

25,534

13,500

5,000

124,034

Lawrence A. Rosen
(appointed May 13, 2015)

2016

80,000

40,000

13,500

5,000

138,500

2015

51,068

25,534

6,000

3,192

85,794

Hans-Jürgen Schicker
(resigned June 30, 2015)

2016

–

–

–

–

–

2015

39,671

19,836

9,000

2,479

70,986

Manuela Strauch
(appointed July 1, 2015)

2016

80,000

40,000

13,500

5,000

138,500

2015

40,329

20,164

13,500

2,521

76,514

Ifraim Tairi
(appointed July 1, 2016)

2016

46,776

15,847

9,000

2,924

74,547

Thomas Meiers

Theo H. Walthie
Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber
(appointed May 13, 2015)
Total

2015

–

–

–

–

–

2016

80,000

55,847

19,500

5,000

160,347

2015

80,000

40,000

21,000

5,000

146,000

2016

80,000

40,000

15,000

5,000

140,000

2015

51,068

25,534

9,000

3,192

88,794

2016

1,160,000

468,197

190,500

60,001

1,878,698

2015

1,161,204

480,545

220,500

60,056

1,922,305

1) Figures exclude value-added tax

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

150

Combined Management Report

Report Pursuant to Section 289,
Paragraph 4, and Section 315,
Paragraph 4 of the German
Commercial Code
Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 and Section 315, Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 of the German Commercial
Code, we hereby make the following declarations:
1.	The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936
as of December 31, 2016, and is composed of 91,522,936
no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and
obligations. One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. The rights and obligations arising from the
shares are governed by the German Stock Corporation Act.
2.	We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights
or the transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under
employee stock plans are subject to a lock-up period before
they may be sold.
3.	We received no reports of direct and indirect equity investments in the capital of LANXESS AG exceeding 10 % of total
voting rights.
4.	No shares carry special rights granting control authority.
5.	Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS AG
through employee stock programs. There are no restrictions
on directly exercising the control rights arising from these
shares.
6.	Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act
and Section 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply
to the appointment and dismissal of Board of Management
members. Under the provisions of these sections, Board of
Management members are appointed by the Supervisory
Board for a term not exceeding five years. Such appointment
may be renewed or the term of office may be extended, provided that the term of each such renewal or extension shall
not exceed five years. Appointments require a majority of at
least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board members’ votes.
Section 6, Paragraph 1 of the articles of association states that
the Board of Management must consist of at least two members. The number of members of the Board of Management
is determined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory
Board may appoint a chairman of the Board of Management
and a vice chairman of the Board of Management. Alternative
members of the Board of Management may be appointed. The
Supervisory Board may revoke the appointment of a member
of the Board of Management or the appointment of a member
as Chairman of the Board of Management for cause (Section
84, Paragraph 3 of the German Stock Corporation Act).

Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act provides that
a resolution of the Stockholders’ Meeting is required for any
amendment to the articles of association. Pursuant to Section
17, Paragraph 2 of the articles of association, resolutions of the
Stockholders’ Meeting require a simple majority of the votes
cast and, if a capital majority is required, a simple majority of
the capital stock, unless otherwise required by law or provided
by the articles of association. The articles of association contain
no further provisions in this regard. Section 10, Paragraph 9
of the articles of association of LANXESS AG authorizes the
Supervisory Board to resolve on amendments relating solely to
the form of the articles of association.
7. 	T he Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been
authorized to issue or repurchase shares as follows:

Own shares
The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May
20, 2016, authorized the Board of Management until May 19,
2021, to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10 %
of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted
by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of
the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its
subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such
shares may be acquired either in the market or via a public tender
offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any
purpose permitted by law, especially those purposes detailed in
the authorization. Among other things, it can retire the shares,
sell them other than via the stock exchange or an offer to the
stockholders, or transfer them against consideration in kind for
the purpose of acquiring companies, parts of companies or equity
interests in companies or in order to conclude mergers. The Board
of Management is further authorized to offer the shares acquired
for sale to persons who are or were employed by the company or
an affiliated company (employee shares).

Conditional capital
­The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May
13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management until May 22,
2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one
or more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds,
profit-participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination
of these instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as either
registered or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to
€1,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, and to grant
option rights to, or impose exercise obligations on, the holders or
creditors of warrant bonds, profit-participation rights with warrants
or income bonds with warrants, and/or to grant conversion rights
to, or impose conversion obligations on, the holders or creditors
of convertible bonds, convertible profit-participation rights or convertible income bonds in respect of bearer shares of the company
representing a total pro rata increase of up to €18,304,587 in the
company’s capital stock on the terms to be defined for these bonds.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code

Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of the articles of association,
the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased
by up to €18,304,587 (Conditional Capital).
The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to
the extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to
exercise, warrants or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued
by the company or a dependent company against cash contributions, or issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the
company or a dependent company, on or before May 22, 2018, on
the basis of the authorization granted to the Board of Management
by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 13, 2015, exercise
their warrants or conversion rights or, where they are obligated
to do so, fulfill such obligation, or to the extent that the company
elects to grant shares in the company in place of all or part of the
cash amount due for payment. The conditional capital increase
shall not be implemented if cash compensation is granted or if the
company’s own shares, shares issued out of authorized capital or
shares in another listed company are used to service the warrant
or conversion rights.
The Board of Management is authorized, with the approval
of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights in certain
cases which are detailed in the authorization.
When deciding on the exclusion of the subscription rights of
stockholders, the Board of Management will only use the authorizations granted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13,
2015, for capital measures under exclusion of the stockholders’
subscription rights in the maximum amount of 20 % of the capital
stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed. The Board of
Management will be bound by this condition until a future Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of
Management to implement capital measures under exclusion of
stockholders’ subscription rights.

Authorized Capital I and II­
Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May
23, 2013, authorized the Board of Management until May 22,
2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase
the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par
shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount
of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally
entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized.
However, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of LANXESS AG’s
articles of association and with the approval of the Supervisory
Board, the Board of Management can exclude these subscription
rights when, for example, the company’s capital stock is increased
against contributions in kind, particularly for the acquisition of
companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded if the issue
price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the stock
market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued
shares do not exceed 10 % of the company’s capital stock.
In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS
AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on

151

May 13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management until May
22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase
the company’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing
new no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a
total amount of €18,304,587 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized
Capital is utilized. However, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3
of LANXESS AG’s articles of association and with the approval
of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management can exclude
these subscription rights when, for example, the company’s capital
stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the
acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded
if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than
the stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the
issued shares do not exceed 10 % of the company’s capital stock.
When deciding on the exclusion of the subscription rights of
stockholders for shares from Authorized Capital II, the Board of
Management will use the authorizations granted by the Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, for capital measures
under exclusion of the stockholders’ subscription rights in the
maximum amount of 20 % of the capital stock that exists at the
time the resolution is passed. The shares issued from Authorized
Capital II under exclusion of subscription rights by way of capital
increases against contributions in kind shall not exceed 10 % of
the capital stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed.
The Board of Management will be bound by this condition until a
future Annual Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize
the Board of Management to implement capital measures under
exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights.
8.	The service contracts between the company and the members of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain
provisions regarding the potential departure of the members
of the Board of Management in the context of a change of
control. These are outlined in the compensation report in this
combined management report. Such agreements, albeit with
different terms, also exist between the company and members of the first level of upper management. In addition, the
terms for placing bonds under the company’s existing debt
issuance program may contain a change-of-control clause
which gives bondholders the right to redeem the bond should
certain events occur that affect its rating. This applies to the
€500 million eurobond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V.
in fiscal 2011 and the €500 million eurobond issued by
LANXESS Finance B.V. in fiscal 2012, both of which were
taken over by LANXESS AG in 2015. The terms for two private placements with a volume of €100 million each made by
LANXESS Finance B.V. under the debt issuance program in
fiscal 2012 likewise contain corresponding change-of-control
clauses. These placements have now also been taken over by
LANXESS AG. Equally, the terms of the bonds with a volume
of €500 million (maturity 2021) and €500 million (maturity
2026), respectively, issued by LANXESS AG in 2016 under

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

152

Combined Management Report

the debt issuance program contain corresponding change-ofcontrol clauses. The terms of the subordinated hybrid bond
with a volume of €500 million also issued by LANXESS AG in
2016 contain a change-of-control clause as well. According
to these terms, in the event of a change of control and in
connection with certain events that affect its rating, LANXESS
AG must pay bondholders an increased rate of interest if the
company does not make use of the right of termination that
is similarly available. The company has entered into an agreement with a syndicate of banks concerning a credit facility
with a current volume of €1,250 million. This agreement can
be terminated without notice if another company or person
takes control of more than 50 % of LANXESS AG. In addition,
a further bridge loan agreement has been concluded between
the company and a syndicate of banks in connection with
the acquisition of Chemtura Corporation; the agreed credit
line, which has since been reduced to €500 million, can no
longer be utilized if another company or person takes control
of more than 50 % of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, according
to agreements between the company and LANXESS Pension
Trust e.V., the company is obligated to make considerable
payments to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. in the event of a
change of control.
In connection with the conclusion of an agreement with
Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A. to establish
a strategic partnership for synthetic rubber in which each
party holds a 50 % interest, it was agreed in the shareholders’
agreement that, in the event of a change of control at one
of the shareholders, the other shareholder has the right to
acquire the shares of the other shareholder at a reduced price.
9.	The service contracts between the company and the members of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG as well as
between the company and members of the first and second
levels of upper management of LANXESS AG contain compensation agreements applicable in the event of a change
of control, as such change is more particularly described in
the respective contracts.

Report pursuant to Section 289a
of the German Commercial Code
The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have issued the corporate governance declaration pursuant to Section
289a of the German Commercial Code (HGB). This has been
made available to the stockholders and can be found on our website at www.lanxess.com under Investor Relations/Corporate
Governance.

Report on risks, opportunities
and future perspectives
In the economic outlook below, we describe our expectations for economic development. Following the report on future
perspectives, we discuss the opportunities and risks which may
result in deviations from our predictions.

Economic outlook
The interest rate turnaround initiated in the United States,
although it is gradual, increases the risk of volatile exchange rates.
We expect low commodity prices to dent growth in the relevant
export countries. An escalation of the crisis in the Middle East
could curb global growth in 2017, as could the still unresolved
problems in the banking sector and the countries’ tight publicsector finances. In Europe, growth may be held back by Brexit
and its as yet uncertain economic impact. In the United States,
the planned fiscal measures may additionally stimulate growth;
on the other hand, we would expect global growth to slow further
if protectionist measures were to be put in place, especially in
the United States.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code
Report Pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code
Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives

In fiscal 2017, we expect moderate growth of 2.5 % for the
global economy, supported mainly by business performance in
Asia-Pacific. China should remain the driver of economic expansion in Asia despite a slight weakening of growth there. At 1.5 %,
growth in EMEA (including Germany) will remain at a low level,
particularly in view of Brexit, which will additionally dampen the
poor outlook in Europe. In the Americas, we anticipate growth of
2.0 % based on high consumer spending.
We expect chemical industry production to expand by 3.5 %.
Expected Growth in 2017 
Change vs. prior year
in real terms (%)1)

Gross domestic
product

Chemical
production

Americas

2.0

2.0

EMEA (incl. Germany)

1.5

1.5

Asia-Pacific

4.0

5.0

World

2.5

3.5

1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5 %.
Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight

The following table shows the anticipated evolution of our
selling markets.
Expected Evolution of Major User Industries in 2017 
Tires
Change vs. prior year
in real terms (%)1)

Automotive

Agro­
chemi­cals

Construction

Americas

4.0

1.5

3.5

2.0

EMEA (incl. Germany)

1.0

3.5

2.0

2.5

Asia-Pacific

2.5

1.5

3.0

4.0

World

2.0

2.0

2.5

3.0

1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5 %
Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight

Future perspectives

153

In our Performance Chemicals segment, we anticipate a slight
improvement in business performance. We also expect a positive
contribution in 2017 from the Clean and Disinfect specialties
business acquired from Chemours at the end of August 2016.
For our High Performance Materials segment, which includes the business with plastics for lightweight construction in
the automotive industry and for applications in the electrical and
electronics industry, we are predicting 2017 performance at the
prior-year level.
We believe business will remain challenging for our ARLANXEO
segment in 2017. The ongoing price pressure in our EPDM rubber
business will persist in 2017 due to existing overcapacities, though
we expect a moderate improvement for our butyl rubber products.
Overall, we expect a slight deterioration in fiscal 2017. The U.S.
dollar is the key currency for our rubber business and we expect
its average price to be on a par with the prior year.
In the Reconciliation segment, we anticipate lower expenses
for currency hedging than in the prior year.
Against the background of the expected performance of our
segments, we predict that EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year
2017 will be slightly higher compared with the prior year. This takes
account of the anticipated cost savings from our realignment and
a contribution from the acquired Chemours Clean and Disinfect
specialties business.
For LANXESS, fiscal 2017 will be marked by integration and
the ongoing strategic realignment of the company, especially
after closing the acquisition of U.S. chemical company Chemtura,
which is expected by mid-2017 and would make an additional
contribution to the expected earnings position in 2017 described
here. Moreover, we will continue to pursue the organic growth
projects we announced back in 2015.
We anticipate moderate increases in procurement prices
especially for petrochemical raw materials compared with 2016.
We expect a continuation of the volatility in raw material prices
that has now been ongoing for several years and is in some cases
substantial.
The U.S. dollar will remain the key currency for our businesses.

Expected earnings position of the
LANXESS Group
In fiscal 2017, we expect our existing business to post a
slightly positive performance. The forecast moderate growth of
the global economy should have a corresponding effect on our
earnings performance.
For the Advanced Intermediates segment, we expect business
in 2017 to be stable overall at the prior-year level.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

154

Combined Management Report

Expected financial position of the LANXESS Group
Liquidity situation
LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking and
conservative financial policy in the current year. With around
€4.3 billion in cash and undrawn credit lines as of the end of
2016, as described under “Financial condition,” we have a very
good liquidity and financing position. We have thus secured the
liquidity needed in the short term for the planned acquisition of
Chemtura as well as the entrepreneurial flexibility required in the
long term to implement our strategy.
Capital expenditures
As in the past fiscal year, our capital expenditures will be
primarily directed toward the maintenance of existing production
facilities as well as efficiency improvements and the expansion of
existing plants. At the end of 2015, we already announced capital
expenditures of around €60 million to construct two new production lines for our Saltigo business unit at the Central Organics
Pilot Plant (ZeTO) in Leverkusen, Germany. They are scheduled
to start up at the end of 2017. In the current year, we expect total
cash outflows for capital expenditures of around €450 million to
€500 million. In this way, we are still seeking to achieve a balanced
investment cycle to ensure our financial headroom.
Financing measures
LANXESS is in a good position due to the long-term nature
of its financing. Financing for the Chemtura acquisition had already been secured in 2016. In 2017, therefore, we anticipate
that LANXESS will be able to cover the acquisition of Chemtura
and capital expenditures from liquidity and existing credit lines.
The same applies to the expected dividend payment. In 2017,
no significant financing instruments will be maturing and require
refinancing. We will continue our ongoing efforts aimed at securing long-term funding as part of a conservative financing policy.

Expected earnings position of LANXESS AG
In fiscal 2017, we expect the financial statements of LANXESS
AG to show substantially lower net income than in 2016. The prior
year was influenced by special effects resulting from the establishment of ARLANXEO, a merger and changes in commercial law
concerning the valuation of pension obligations. Other than by
the administration expenses the company incurs in performing its
tasks as a management holding company, net income is impacted
by the financial result, especially the net interest position and the
balance of income and losses from investments in affiliated companies. We expect the net interest position to decline on account
of the changed financing structure. The balance of income and
losses from investments in affiliated companies and the corresponding ability of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend will depend
in large measure on the profit transfers and dividends paid by the
other companies of the LANXESS Group. We will maintain our
consistent dividend policy and expect LANXESS AG to report a
distributable profit that will enable our stockholders to adequately
participate in the LANXESS Group’s earnings in the coming year.

Dividend policy
LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. For future dividend proposals, we intend to increase the dividend if possible but
at least to maintain it at a stable level. The Board of Management
and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG will therefore propose to
the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017, that a dividend
of €0.70 per share be declared for fiscal year 2016.

Summary of the Group’s projected performance
We anticipate slightly positive business development in the
current year.
Following the planned acquisition of U.S. chemical company
Chemtura, fiscal 2017 at LANXESS will be characterized by integration and the ongoing strategic realignment of the company
We will also drive forward organic growth projects.
We assume a slightly positive development of EBITDA pre
exceptionals for the full year 2017.
We will be continuing the strategic realignment of the Group
in 2017 with the aim of achieving a more stable and less cyclical
business profile.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives

Opportunity and risk report
Opportunity and risk management system
Our success is significantly dependent on identifying opportunities and risks in our business activities and actively managing
them. The goal of the opportunity and risk management system is
to safeguard the company’s existence for the long term and ensure
its successful ongoing development by identifying opportunities
and risks and, depending on their nature, appropriately considering these in strategic and operational decisions. Opportunities
and risks are understood as possible future developments or
events that may result in either positive or negative deviations
from business objectives.
Our management system is based both on internal organizational workflows that are managed by way of control and
monitoring mechanisms and on early warning systems that are
used to closely observe changes in external conditions and systematically implement the appropriate measures. This approach
applies equally to opportunities and risks.
Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this
system does not offer absolute protection. However, it is intended
to prevent business risks from having a material impact on the
company with a sufficient degree of certainty.
Structural basis
The principles of our opportunity and risk management system
are set forth in a Group directive. The management system, which
uses the COSO model as the enterprise risk management framework, comprises many different elements that are incorporated into
business processes through the company’s organizational structure,
its workflows, its planning, reporting and communication systems,
and a set of detailed management policies and technical standards.
The system is based on an integration concept. In other words,
the early identification of opportunities and risks is an integral part
of the management system and not the object of a separate organizational structure. The management of opportunities and risks is
therefore a primary duty of the heads of all business units, as well as
of those people in Group companies who hold process and project
responsibility. This is why our opportunity and risk management is
based on clearly defined business processes, the precise assignment
of responsibilities, and reporting systems that ensure the timely provision of the information required for decision-making for the Board
of Management or other management levels.

155

Roles of key organizational units
Our business units each conduct their own operations, for
which they have global profit responsibility. Group functions and
service companies support the business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other centralized services. Complementing this global alignment of the business units and group functions,
the country organizations ensure the required proximity to markets
and the necessary organizational infrastructure.
In line with this division of duties, we have assigned responsibility to risk owners for the following:

›› Identification and assessment of opportunities and risks
›› Implementation of control measures (measures taken to ex-

ploit or enhance opportunities and to avoid or minimize risks)

›› Monitoring the development of opportunities and risks

(e.g. on the basis of performance indicators and, perhaps
also, early warning indicators)
›› Risk mitigation (measures to minimize damage upon occurrence of a risk event)
›› Communication of the key opportunities and risks to the
management committees of the business units and Group
functions
The Corporate Controlling Group Function is responsible for
collecting and aggregating key information across the Group at
the following intervals:

›› Twice per year during the intrayear forecasting process
›› Once per year as part of the budget and planning process for
the subsequent year and the medium-term forecast horizon

The Corporate Development Group Function systematically
analyzes and measures significant and strategic opportunities and
risks with the goal of ensuring the Group’s long-term strategy.
Transactions particularly for the transfer of financial but also
operating risk (hedging transactions or insurance) are managed
centrally by the Treasury & Investor Relations Group Function. This
is explained in “Opportunities and risks of future development.”
Due to the highly integrated nature of our general business
processes, we have specialized committees composed of representatives of the business units and Group functions which deal
with issues concerning the Group’s opportunities and risks. This
enables us to react quickly and flexibly to changing situations and
their influence on the company.
In addition, a Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Financial
Officer analyzes the material risks and their development for their
potential impact on the company as a whole. The Risk Committee
brings together representatives from selected Group functions
to analyze existing measures to counter risks, initiate additional
measures, define Group-wide risk management standards and
guidelines and, if necessary, initiate further analyses of individual
opportunities and risks.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

156

Combined Management Report

The duty to report opportunities and risks to the Corporate
Controlling Group Function is based on the anticipated impact on
Group net income or EBITDA pre exceptionals. All opportunities
and risks must be reported if their anticipated impact is more than
€1 million following the implementation of countermeasures. In
addition, those risks must be reported which have an anticipated
impact that was reduced by more than €10 million through the
implementation of countermeasures. These minimum thresholds
guarantee that the information gathered about opportunities and
risks is comprehensive and that the collection of information is not
just limited to material risks or risks that could jeopardize the future
of the company as a going concern. The Corporate Controlling
Group Function centrally determines the top opportunities and
risks only after the information has been gathered.
There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on
specific risk issues such as unexpected operational events with
an impact of more than €10 million after the implementation of
countermeasures. In 2016, there was no cause for immediate
reporting of this kind.
The reported opportunities and risks are collected in a central
database and regularly analyzed for the Board of Management
and Supervisory Board. This ensures that when new opportunities
and risks arise or when existing ones change substantially, the
necessary information can be communicated in a timely manner
to the Board of Management and therefore also be specifically
integrated into the general management of the company.
Opportunity and risk assessment
Opportunity and risk management is integrated into the planning and forecasting process and identifies opportunities and
risks as potential deviations from planned or forecast EBITDA pre
exceptionals or Group net income.
Depending on the type of opportunity or risk, different calculation methods are applied in their assessment. Distribution
opportunities and risks are described by scenario-based fluctuations in planning parameters (exchange rates, raw material
prices, energy prices and economic development assumptions).
Changes in these variables may result in either positive or negative
deviations from planned or forecast figures.
Event-based opportunities and risks (such as the failure of a
supplier or the occurrence of an insured event) that would only
impact earnings if they actually occurred are evaluated on the
basis of the expected probability of their occurrence and effect
on EBITDA pre exceptionals or Group net income.

Controlling Group Function, which works closely in this regard
with the business units. Certain Board of Management meetings
are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate planning
outcomes, including the associated opportunities and risks. We
monitor, and if necessary adjust, the annual budget in any given
fiscal year by regularly updating our expectations for business
development.
Compliance as an integral component
Risk management also includes preventing illegal conduct by
our employees. To this end, we obtain extensive legal advice concerning business transactions and obligate employees by means
of our “Code of conduct – Code for integrity and compliance at
LANXESS” to observe the law and our internal directives and to
act responsibly. The compliance code is part of a comprehensive
compliance management system (CMS) that has been structured
in accordance with the principles of an internationally recognized
framework for enterprise risk management (COSO). This CMS is
supported by the compliance organization, which is made up of
the Group Compliance Officer and a network of local Compliance
Officers in the countries in which we have subsidiaries. The objective of the CMS is to ensure the observance of our compliance
principles. The Compliance function, which includes the global
compliance organization, reports directly and regularly to the
Board of Management.

(Group) accounting aspects of the internal
control and risk management system
The aspects of the internal control and risk management
system relating to the (Group) accounting process include the
principles, procedures and measures required to ensure the effectiveness, efficiency and propriety of the company’s accounting,
and compliance with applicable legal regulations. To this end,
clear organizational, control and monitoring structures have been
established. The distinctive features of the chemical industry and
the risk management tools we regularly use in this regard are
taken into account. In addition to the (Group) accounting process in its narrower sense, this also includes the aforementioned
structured budget and forecasting process, and extensive contract
management. However, the effectiveness and reliability of the
internal control and risk management system can be restricted
by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or other
circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used are
applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of (Group)
accounting issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance.

Significance of the Group-wide planning process
Corporate planning is a core element of our opportunity and
risk management. Events with a high probability of occurrence flow
directly into the planning process. The processes for corporate
planning and intrayear forecasting as well as the corresponding
analyses and suggestions for action are steered by the Corporate

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives

The Accounting Group function, which reports to the Chief
Financial Officer, is responsible for the (Group) accounting process and therefore for preparing the annual financial statements
of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the
LANXESS Group. It is also responsible for ensuring the uniform
preparation of the financial statements of the subsidiaries that are
included in the consolidated financial statements. The Board of
Management prepares the annual financial statements and the
consolidated financial statements, which are then forwarded to
the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee without delay. Upon
recommendation by the Audit Committee, the annual financial
statements and the consolidated financial statements are adopted
and approved by the Supervisory Board at its financial statements
meeting. The Supervisory Board, and especially its Audit Committee, deal with major questions relating to LANXESS’s accounting,
opportunity and risk management, the audit mandate and the areas
of focus for the auditor’s audit of the annual financial statements.
Quarterly statements are prepared for the first and third quarters. The condensed consolidated half-year financial statements
that are also prepared are reviewed, while the annual financial
statements and the consolidated financial statements are subjected to a full audit by the auditor of the company’s annual financial
statements and consolidated financial statements.
Our accounting in compliance with the German Commercial
Code is based on a structured process with appropriate organizational structures and workflows, including the related working
instructions. In addition to the segregation of duties, the dualcontrol principle and continual plausibility testing serve as fundamental monitoring tools during the financial statement preparation
process. On the IT side, the accounting process is supplemented
by an integrated IT system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected by security measures against unauthorized
access. The correctness of the automatically generated postings
and the master data required for them is regularly reviewed. Manual
postings are based on a systematic voucher system, documented
to the necessary extent and verified downstream.
The foundation for uniform and IFRS-compliant consolidated
financial reporting at LANXESS is the Group Financial Statements
Guideline. This governs the way the provisions of the International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) applicable to the Group are
applied by the subsidiaries as reporting entities. Moreover, the
guideline also defines the chart of accounts that is binding throughout the Group. On the IT side, the guideline is supplemented by
a uniform, Group-wide delivery and consolidation system that is
based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected by security
measures against unauthorized access.
By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s (Group) accounting
process, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices
in line with the applicable laws and standards are applied and guarantee reliable financial reporting. The (Group) accounting-related
internal control system we use is based on generally accepted

157

standards (COSO model). There were no material changes to
this system during the period under review. Corresponding standards also apply to the single-entity financial statements of the
subsidiaries.
Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is based
on a detailed process that includes specifying a financial statement
calendar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data.
A further component is regular reviews of the correctness and
completeness of the scope of consolidation. The principle of the
segregation of duties as expressed in structured authorization and
approval procedures and the dual-control principle as well as continual plausibility testing on data is applied end-to-end throughout
the preparation and consolidation process.
For the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries
subject to reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting
data using the above-mentioned consolidation system. Validation rules integrated into the system ensure on delivery that the
data reported by the subsidiaries are consistent. The accounting
departments of the subsidiaries are responsible for ensuring the
correctness of the reported data content, which is also tested by the
Corporate Accounting Department within the Accounting Group
Function. To this end, the department evaluates standardized
reports in which the companies explain material facts relevant to
financial reporting. After the process-based controls have been
applied, consolidation including currency translation is carried
out in the same system, without additional interfaces, utilizing
both automated and manual procedures. The correctness of the
automated consolidation steps and of the master data necessary
for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information
that must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to
the extent required and verified downstream. This is supplemented
by validation rules that are integrated into the system.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

158

Combined Management Report

Regular coordination with other financial Group functions, particularly the Treasury & Investor Relations, Tax & Trade Compliance
and Controlling Group functions, assists the financial reporting
process. A continual exchange of information with the operating
business units and other Group functions makes it possible for the
Accounting Group Function to identify and deal with issues arising
outside of accounting processes. These include litigation risks,
projections for impairment testing and special contractual agreements with suppliers or customers. In addition, third-party service
providers are consulted on special issues, particularly relating to
the valuation of pensions and other post-employment benefits.

Opportunities and risks of future development
Full identification of the LANXESS Group’s opportunities and
risks is performed on the basis of a catalog of categories, which
are summarized in the table below:
Categories 
Procurement markets
Human resources
Plant operations and hazards
Corporate strategy
Sales markets
Finance

Monitoring of risk management system and
internal control system (ICS)
LANXESS’s Corporate Audit Department within the Legal &
Compliance Group Function oversees whether the internal control
and monitoring system works and whether organizational safeguards are being observed. The planning of audits (selection of
audit subjects) and the audit methods applied are correspondingly
aligned with risks. To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an annual
self-assessment is also carried out in major Group companies,
operating units and Group functions. The Supervisory Board
exercises control functions, including regular monitoring of the
efficiency of the management systems described above by the full
Supervisory Board and by its Audit Committee. The Audit Committee reviews reports about the Compliance function’s activities
and findings, the work of the Corporate Audit Department, and
the status of the risk management and internal control system.
In addition, the early warning system is evaluated by the external
auditor as part of the audit of the consolidated and annual financial
statements.

Legal, regulatory and political environment

Subsequent reporting in respect of the main categories is
generally based on a planning horizon of one year.
Procurement markets
On the procurement side, the principal opportunities and
risks lie in the high volatility of raw material and energy prices. An
increase or decrease in the price of the materials we use directly
results in higher or lower production costs. If prices decrease,
write-downs may have to be recognized on inventories. In addition,
changes in raw material prices result in higher or lower selling
prices – either immediately or after a delay. We mitigate situations
like this by following a sensible inventory and procurement policy.
Most of the company's raw material and energy needs are met
by long-term supply contracts and contracts containing price
escalation clauses. Many agreements with customers also contain price escalation clauses. We also have the option of hedging
this risk via derivatives transactions if liquid futures markets are
available for hedging raw material and energy price risks (see also
“Financial markets”). Additionally, we are constantly looking for
ways to use our resources more efficiently so that we can offset
higher costs by raising productivity. The volatility of raw material
prices, especially for our key raw material butadiene, impacts our
ARLANXEO segment in particular.
To guard against possible supply bottlenecks due to factors
such as the failure of a supplier or of an upstream operation at a
networked site, we pursue an appropriate inventory strategy and
line up alternative sources of supply. If we were to be forced to
utilize an alternative source of supply, this could result in, for example, higher procurement prices or additional transportation costs.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives

Human resources
The risk of industrial action resulting from disputes in connection with negotiations concerning future collective pay agreements
or associated with restructuring measures cannot be ruled out. We
also face increases in our personnel expenses because of future
wage increases. Such an increase in the cost of human resources
can be just as detrimental to earnings as increases in raw material
prices, as described above, but in the case of human resources
we cannot hedge the risk in futures markets or pass it on to our
customers. We counter this risk by fostering open communication
with our employees and their representatives in a culture of active
labor relations. Particularly with regard to the challenges to the
working world from globalization and increasing digitalization, we
make continuous use of existing dialogue platforms such as the
European Forum, which brings together the works councils in
Europe. We also actively seek dialogue with the representatives
of our employees, the trade unions and other interest groups in
the other regions in which we operate, particularly concerning
corporate acquisitions and integration.
Our employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes and
issues relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor
in the efficiency of our business operations. We take various approaches to mitigating the risk of losing this expertise. We seek
to increase our employees’ loyalty to the company with attractive
compensation models, challenging jobs and international career
options. We continue to invest in the next generation of employees, either by increasing the number of training opportunities in
Germany or by offering internship programs and scholarships for
gifted students. Our Corporate Trainee Program has also proved
its worth in fostering upcoming management talents.
The growing lack particularly of skilled employees in our
markets is a problem for us in Germany especially. That applies to
specific engineering qualifications but also to individual specialist
careers. A forward-looking human resources policy will therefore
remain one focus, which is evidenced by regular HR development
conferences, for example. In line with our needs, we continue to
foster our cooperations with research institutes, universities, colleges and high schools in Germany, as well as with public-sector
entities both in Germany and all other key target markets. At many
events and conferences around the world, we have positioned our
company as an attractive employer and continue to seek early
contact with highly talented young people. In Germany, where
we have the largest headcount, we have established a LANXESS
program to provide both financial and expert support for undergraduate and postgraduate students. We are also extending our
loyalty program for particularly outstanding interns. Both these
programs focus on the natural and engineering sciences. Back
in 2011, the Board of Management established the extensive
“Xcare” demographic program to deliver a structured approach
to countering the risk presented by a lack of skilled employees.

159

At the end of 2015, aware that the steps already taken might not
be sufficient to adequately counter demographic risk, we collaborated with the businesses to launch a range of new initiatives that
were given greater focus in the reporting year and are now being
gradually implemented.
Plant operations and hazards
A lack of plant availability due to disruptions can make it impossible for us to meet production targets and adequately service
demand, resulting in a loss of marginal income. We use a comprehensive range of measures to counter this scenario. These
include proactive facility maintenance, systematic training of our
employees and regular audits to analyze weak points. Systematic
safety appraisals and risk assessments also contribute to improving plant and process safety. Implementation and application of
the various measures are subject to global compliance checks.
We also counter the risk of unplanned production stoppages by
manufacturing certain products at various sites worldwide.
Although LANXESS applies high technical and safety standards to the construction, operation and maintenance of production facilities, interruptions in operations, including those due to
external factors, such as natural disasters or terrorism, cannot be
ruled out entirely. These could lead to explosions, the release of
materials hazardous to health, or accidents in which people, property or the environment are harmed. In addition to systematically
monitoring compliance with quality standards in order to avoid
such stoppages and accidents, we are also insured against the
resulting damage to the extent usual in the industry.
Our product portfolio includes substances that are classified
as hazardous to health. In order to prevent possible harm to health,
we systematically test the properties of our products and draw our
customers’ attention to the risks associated with their use in the
context of our Responsible Care® activities. We also carry product
liability insurance that is customary in our industry.
In line with our forward-looking approach, product monitoring
enables us to identify and evaluate potential hazards associated with
our product portfolio and initiate suitable measures if applicable.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

160

Combined Management Report

Our information technology (IT) supports our business activities worldwide, including the processes from receiving an order to
receiving payment and from placing an order to paying a vendor. It
is important that the people who use the systems receive correct
and meaningful information when they need it. We support this by
developing a uniform, integrated system architecture and investing
in the expansion of IT services worldwide.
The operation and use of IT systems entails risks. For example, networks or systems may fail, or data and information may be
compromised or destroyed because of operator and programming
errors or external factors. In particular, we are observing a growing
threat to our IT infrastructure resulting from outside attack. All of
these can cause serious business interruptions. To mitigate such
risks, we invest in suitable data protection systems designed to
prevent the loss of data and information. Various security and monitoring tools and access restriction and authorization systems are
used to ensure the integrity, confidentiality and availability of data
and information and the trouble-free operation of systems. With a
view to improving the security of our IT infrastructure, we evaluate
security measures for their suitability in defending against current
attack scenarios. Where necessary, these measures are upgraded.
Additional security systems are being established worldwide and
existing ones adapted to current needs as defense against new
and specific threats. We also regularly inform the users of our
IT systems about IT risks, appropriate rules of conduct and preventive measures.
Corporate strategy
We actively pursue the strategic optimization of the enterprise.
Our efforts include ongoing efficiency enhancement, strengthening
of core businesses, active portfolio management and proactive
participation in industry consolidation through partnerships, divestments and acquisitions. Further information can be found
in the “Strategy” section of this combined management report.
The success of the decisions associated with these efforts is
naturally subject to forecasting risk in respect of predicting future
(market) developments and the feasibility of planned measures.
For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment could
be based on profitability or growth expectations that prove to
be unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and
systematically analyzing the information that is relevant to decisionmaking. During this process, the business units affected and the
Board of Management receive support from departments with the
requisite expertise and, if necessary, from external consultants.
Our product portfolio is systematically aligned with key global
trends that promise continuous growth in the coming years. With
our products, we offer innovative solutions for these trends and
generate recognizable added value for our customers. We are
successfully positioned in those markets in which our product
portfolio will enable us to particularly benefit from these trends in
the medium and long term.

When gathering information in the context of acquisitions, it
is possible that certain facts required to assess an acquisition candidate’s future performance or to determine the purchase price are
not available or are not correctly interpreted. We address this risk
by conducting well-structured due diligence analyses and, where
possible, by concluding appropriate agreements with the sellers.
Insufficient integration of acquired companies or businesses can
result in expected developments not materializing. For this reason,
we have processes in place with which full integration of acquired
businesses is assured. If assumptions concerning future developments – such as the realization of synergies – do not materialize,
this might result in a write-down on assets. We monitor this risk
by carrying out impairment testing at least once a year.
Unlocking and exploiting operational opportunities is an important aspect of our entrepreneurial activities. We are committed
to using existing products and new solutions to advance our growth
and sustainably strengthen our position in global markets. Investing
in new plants as well as expanding the capacities and increasing
the productivity of existing ones are key elements in these efforts.
The anticipated effects are taken into account in our planning or are
reported as opportunities. In principle, we expect investments to
yield benefits but they are also coupled with risks. Thus, for example, the success of our investments in Asia has been substantially
impacted by the challenging competitive situation in the synthetic
rubber businesses. The preparatory work for investments that exceed a specified significance threshold is the responsibility of the
relevant business units. After review by an Investment Committee
set up for this purpose, the information is presented to the Board
of Management for a decision. By following this procedure, we
ensure that investments are in line with our corporate strategy
and satisfy our profitability and security requirements.
Sales and earnings effects expected from our investments
and from acquisitions completed by the reporting date are already
considered in our forecasts. These targeted investments may also
generate further operational opportunities because they enable us
to unlock new potential and improve our positioning in key markets.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

161

Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives

Sales markets
Our company is inherently exposed to general economic
developments and to political and geopolitical change in the
countries and regions in which we operate. Regional differences
in economic performance and the associated demand trends
can affect the Group’s pricing and sales potential in its various
geographical markets, with corresponding positive or negative
effects on its earnings. Our global presence, which we are continuing to expand in growth markets, enables us to participate in
favorable regional developments and, at the same time, reduce
our dependence on certain regions. This approach is discussed
in further detail in the “Strategy” section of this combined management report.
The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of the global
chemical and polymer markets and their dependence on developments in customer industries harbor uncertainties for our
business. As well as the influence of general economic development, the particular dependence of the rubber business in our
ARLANXEO segment on customers in the tire and automotive
industries can result in sales volatility. Additional and unplanned
sales opportunities may arise through access to new markets or
the acquisition of new customers. In addition to being subject to
these demand-side market influences, our earning power can
be impacted by structural changes in markets, such as the exit
of existing competitors or the entry of new ones and the availability of additional capacities, regional shifts, the migration of
customers to countries with lower costs, and product substitution
or market consolidation trends in some sectors. We counter such
trends by systematically managing costs and continually adjusting our product portfolio, sharpening its focus and aligning our
offering with innovative customer segments which will enable
us to operate successfully in the long term.
In our ARLANXEO segment, the synthetic rubber businesses
continue to face intense competition, partly from new manufacturers entering the market. In some business units, this may result
in further overcapacities and stronger competition on prices. We
are pursuing a product-specific strategy in these areas based on
factors such as product and process differentiation and global
positioning. Through the partnership with Saudi Aramco we intend to achieve a strategic strengthening of our synthetic rubbers
business in this competitive environment in the medium term.

Finance
The Treasury & Investor Relations Group Function has the
task of centrally recording and managing financial opportunities
and risks. Chief among these are:

Financial Opportunities and Risks 
Price
changes

Liquidity
and
refinancing

Counter­
party risks

Capital
investments

Insurance

Currencies

Availability
of cash

Customers

Shortfall
in cover

Interest rates

Access to
multi- and
bilateral
capital
markets

Banks

Investments
in pension
assets

Raw
materials
Energies

In regular strategy meetings, the Financial Risk Committee
chaired by the Chief Financial Officer reports on the outcome of
financial risk management, the current risk and further action. The
aim of financial risk management is to identify and evaluate risks
so that their impact can be controlled and, if necessary, limited.
Price changes
Currencies
Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in various currencies, it is exposed to fluctuations in the relative value of
these currencies. Fixed exchange rates were used in our planning
for fiscal 2017. The development of the U.S. dollar against the
euro is of particular relevance. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar
compared with the exchange rate used in planning would have a
positive effect on our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals (and vice
versa). We have already entered into hedging transactions for
2017 and 2018 to mitigate the effects of currency fluctuations.
Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial
instruments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks)
arise mainly when receivables and payables are denominated in
a currency other than the company’s functional currency. These
risks and the currency risks arising on financial transactions,
including the interest component, are generally fully hedged
through forward exchange contracts. In the short term, therefore, the appreciation or depreciation of the euro against other
major currencies can have no material impact on future cash
flows. In addition, translation risks exist from converting entries
in the financial statements from local currencies into euros for
inclusion in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements.
Unlike the effects of exchange rate fluctuations in the case of
the transaction risk, the translation risk has no impact on the
company’s cash flows in local currencies. In addition, material
assets and liabilities in local currencies are subject to a longterm currency risk which is regularly estimated and evaluated.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

162

Combined Management Report

However, currency hedging is only undertaken if LANXESS is
considering withdrawal from certain businesses and intends to
repatriate the funds released as a result.
The opportunities and risks relating to operating activities are
systematically monitored and analyzed. To this end, both sales and
costs are planned in foreign currencies. In the long term, exchange
rate fluctuations could adversely affect future cash flows should
the LANXESS Group not be able to counter them, for example, by
pricing its products in the respective local currencies. This risk is
minimized by partial hedging with derivative financial instruments.
Hedging is performed in line with principles determined by the
Board of Management and is subject to continuous monitoring.
Interest rates
Market interest rate movements can cause fluctuations in
the fair value of a financial instrument. They affect both financial
assets and financial liabilities.
Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at
fixed interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years
will have only a limited impact on the LANXESS Group.
Raw materials/energies
In the course of its business operations, the LANXESS Group
is exposed to changes in the market prices for energies and raw
materials. As a rule, these changes are passed on to customers.
Where certain market-price risks for energies and raw materials
cannot be passed on to customers in their entirety, they may be
hedged on a case-by-case basis by forward commodity contracts in order to reduce the volatility of cash flows. LANXESS
had only a small number of forward commodity contracts as of
the reporting date.
Liquidity and refinancing
We ensure our access to the capital markets and our solvency
through a conservative financing policy and a target capital structure that is largely based on the ratio systems used by leading rating agencies. Our conservative financing policy takes into account
the risk of a change to our rating and the associated effects on
financial risk management, even though LANXESS has no direct
influence on the assessments by independent rating agencies.

Our main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit
facility, which remained largely undrawn on the reporting date.
In February 2015, its original term was extended by one year to
February 2020. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has shortterm liquidity reserves of €395 million in the form of cash and cash
equivalents and highly liquid investments in AAA-rated money
market funds. Furthermore, as of the reporting date, LANXESS had
bilateral investments at banks, money market funds and commercial
paper amounting to €2,125 million. Accordingly, the LANXESS
Group has a liquidity position based on a broad range of financing
instruments.
Counterparty risks
Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade relationships with customers and dealings with banks and other financial
partners, especially with regard to the investment business and
financial instrument transactions.
Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and
managed using both internal and external information sources.
Customer portfolios may be insured against credit risks, especially
where the risk profile is elevated.
The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is
to collect all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and
thus to minimize the risk of default. Continuous monitoring is
computer-assisted, based on the payment terms agreed with the
customers. These are generally based on the customary payment
terms for the business or country. Reminders are sent out at regular
intervals if payments are overdue. The maximum risk of default
on receivables, cash and cash equivalents, near-cash assets,
derivatives and other financial assets is reflected in their carrying
amounts in the statement of financial position (disregarding netting
arrangements not reflected in the statement of financial position).
Credit risk relating to receivables from customers is covered
by opening letters of credit in favor of the LANXESS Group for
some customers and by agreeing prepayment with contractual
partners. In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title
to goods until the contractual partner has paid the full purchase
price. The vast majority of receivables relate to customers with
very high credit standing.
The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in
the financial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS
Group, especially in the selection of banks and financial partners
for capital investments and transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS therefore endeavors to undertake transactions
with banks and other financial counterparties that have at least an
investment-grade rating.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives

Credit risk management also includes global management
of the counterparty risk relating to all existing relationships with
banks and financial partners. The LANXESS Group pays particular
attention to risk diversification to prevent any cluster risks that could
jeopardize its continued existence. Through master agreements,
the market values of open trading positions can be netted if a
partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks.
Capital investments
Opportunities and risks associated with the investment of
pension assets are monitored by the Pension Committee, which
is made up of the Chief Financial Officer and representatives
from the Treasury & Investor Relations, Accounting and Human
Resources Group functions.
Insurance
The LANXESS Group carries insurance cover against material risks such as those arising from property damage, business
interruption and product liability. If a loss event occurs, LANXESS
must therefore pay only those damages in excess of the deductible.
However, there is a residual risk of events that are not covered by
the insurance or which result in damages in excess of the cover
guaranteed by the insurer.
Legal, regulatory and political environment
Companies in the LANXESS Group are subject to legal risks
and are parties to various litigations. The outcome of individual
proceedings cannot be predicted with assurance due to the uncertainties always associated with legal disputes. To the extent
necessary in light of the known circumstances in each case, we
have set up risk provisions for the event that the outcome of such
proceedings is unfavorable to LANXESS. Taking into account
existing provisions and insurance, as well as agreements reached
with third parties in respect of liability risks arising from legal disputes, it is currently estimated that none of these proceedings will
materially affect our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals.
As an approach to avoiding legal risks, LANXESS has established an extensive compliance management system (CMS)
incorporating a range of preventive organizational measures.
Among the main risks LANXESS has identified are those relating
to antitrust legislation, plant safety and environmental protection,
foreign trade legislation and corruption. Within the framework of
the CMS these issues are assigned as specific responsibilities
to different Group functions that have established relevant compliance programs. In connection with risks relating to antitrust
legislation, for example, LANXESS has developed a program that
combines classroom training and e-learning to ensure compliance
with competition law. In this way, our employees and managers are
schooled in the particular risks pertaining to their areas of business
and made aware of their significance. This training is performed
and documented at regular intervals. Our employees can also
contact designated experts in the Legal & Compliance Group
Function if they have any specific questions. Further information

163

about compliance can be found in the Corporate Governance
Report and in the “Compliance as an integral component” section
of this opportunity and risk report.
Regulatory measures may lead to the tightening of safety,
quality and environmental regulations and standards in different
areas. These may result in additional costs, production bans and
liability risks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the implementation of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration,
Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).
As well as direct costs that could arise due to additional measures
necessary to comply with these standards, market structures could
change to our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and
customers to regions outside Europe. Additional requirements
imposed by energy and environmental policy, such as the new
emissions trading regulations, new environmental taxes and the
redistribution of costs associated with the German Renewable
Energy Act, could result in higher costs and in part substantial
disadvantages in international competition. With a view to mitigating this risk, we engage in active energy management to reduce
the consumption of energy. We are also discussing the economic
consequences of increasing energy prices with the authorities
and government – either directly or in cooperation with other
energy-intensive companies via industry organizations.
LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at which
chemicals have been produced for periods that in some cases exceed 140 years. This responsibility also extends to waste disposal
facilities. The possibility cannot be ruled out that ground pollution
occurred during these periods that has not been identified to date.
We are committed to the Responsible Care® initiative and pursue
active environmental management and proactive environmental
protection management. This includes constant monitoring and
testing of the soil, groundwater and air and of various emissions.
We have set up sufficient provisions for necessary containment
or remediation measures in areas with identified contamination.
Additional information on our environmental provisions can be
found in Note [15], “Other non-current and current provisions,”
to the consolidated financial statements.
Any violations of foreign trade regulations may result in prohibitions and restrictions on LANXESS’s export activities and the
loss of its privileges in respect of export procedures. In individual
cases, this may also result in fines, trade sanctions and loss of
reputation. The LANXESS Group ensures compliance in foreign
trade and export control through the global implementation and
optimization of appropriate and stable control instruments and
automated screening processes. By proactively monitoring trade
policy developments, timely information is provided to both the

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

164

Combined Management Report

operating units and the management organs concerning changes
to foreign trade and the associated opportunities and risks, and
appropriate recommendations for action are made.
Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms
of their assessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other
countries. Even if we believe that all circumstances have been
reported correctly and in compliance with the law, the possibility
cannot be ruled out that the tax authorities may come to a different
conclusion in individual cases.

Significance of opportunities and risks and
result of opportunity and risk assessment
The opportunities and risks of future development that we
identify are categorized and grouped, as described above. Their
significance lies in their potential impact on planned EBITDA pre
exceptionals. Individual categories in which the opportunity or
risk may produce a deviation of more than 5 % from our projected
EBITDA pre exceptionals in the planning year are considered to
be of medium to high significance. This also applies to groups in
which this threshold is exceeded only on a cumulative basis across
all the categories assigned to each group.
Within the context of opportunity and risk management for
the planning year, the economic developments, raw material
prices and currency categories as well as the legal, regulatory and
political environment group were considered to be of medium to
high significance. Based on the scenarios applied or the assumed
probability of occurrence, these categories and this group could
produce a positive or negative deviation of up to 10 % from our
projected EBITDA pre exceptionals, which is our key controlling
parameter. The legal, regulatory and political environment group
was particularly influenced by opportunities and risks in the energy
and environmental policy category. Opportunities and risks in other
categories – such as legal risks – are of very little significance.

There were no changes to the categories for the 2017 planning year.
Opportunity and Risk Profile1)
%

+15 %

Economic
development

Raw material
prices

Currencies

Legal,
regulatory and
political
environment

+10 %
+5 %
Forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals
–5 %
–10 %
–15 %

Opportunities
Risks
1) E
 vent- and distribution-based opportunities and risks in line with assumed
scenarios; on account of the interactions between the various categories,
the effects of the opportunities and risks may not be added.

In light of its extensive global activities and its dependence on
raw materials characterized by volatile price trends, ARLANXEO
especially may be vulnerable to these risks, which we seek to
mitigate by means of suitable countermeasures.

Summary of overall opportunities and risks
The chemical industry worldwide remains in a phase of radical
change, which naturally entails economic opportunities and risks.
However, the three-phase “Let’s LANXESS again” program for
the global realignment of the LANXESS Group initiated in 2014
gives us the headroom which will enable us to remain effective
and competitive even in the evolving operating environment (see
the “Strategy” section in this combined management report). In
addition, the realignment will allow us to leverage strategic and
operational opportunities and to make maximum use of growth
potential.
Despite mixed economic developments across regions and
sectors, our risk exposure during the reporting year was not fundamentally or materially different from our risk exposure during the
previous year due to our broadly diversified product and customer
portfolios. However, with the acquisition of the Chemours Clean
and Disinfect specialties business completed in the reporting year,
we further expanded our position in mid-sized and less cyclical
markets with a high margin and good growth prospects. With the
planned acquisition of U.S. chemical company Chemtura we are

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives

seeking to build on our additives business and become one of
the world’s major actors in the growing market for flame retardant
and lubricant additives.
We point to the intense competitive pressure still facing our
synthetic rubber businesses. Within the context of our realignment,
we have found a strong partner for this in Saudi Aramco and together we have successfully launched the ARLANXEO operation.
All planning is subject to a certain degree of forecasting risk,
which could necessitate flexible adjustments to rapidly changing
business conditions over the course of the year. This is particularly true in view of the fact that planning and forecasts in general
have become somewhat less reliable due to the changes in our
procurement and customer markets.
The economic ramifications of Brexit and future U.S. economic policy represent uncertainties that are difficult to assess.
In light of our present financing structures, our sound liquidity
position and the headroom created by our realignment and in
particular by the changes to our Group portfolio implemented or
agreed in the reporting year, we are confident of mastering risks
that arise in the future.
Based on an overall evaluation of risk management information, the Board of Management at the present time cannot
identify any sufficiently likely risks or risk combinations that would
jeopardize the continued existence of LANXESS.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

165

Consolidated
Financial Statements
168

Statement of Financial Position

209 (16) O ther Non-Current and Current Financial Liabilities

169

Income Statement

210 (17) Non-Current and Current Income Tax Liabilities

170

Statement of Comprehensive Income

210 (18) O ther Non-Current and Current Liabilities

171

Statement of Changes in Equity

210 (19) Trade Payables

172

Statement of Cash Flows

210 (20) Further Information on Liabilities

173

Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

211

173

General Information

211 (22) Cost of Sales

173

Structure and Components of the
Consolidated Financial Statements

211 (23) Selling Expenses

173

Financial Reporting Standards and
Interpretations Applied

211 (25) General Administration Expenses

173

Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations
Issued but not yet Mandatory

176

Change of Presentation

212 (28) Financial Result

176

Consolidation

212 (29) Income Taxes

177

Currency Translation

214 (30) Earnings and Dividend per Share

177

Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles

214 (31) Personnel Expenses

184

Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise
of Discretion

215

187

Companies Consolidated

215 (32) Employees

191

Notes to the Statement of Financial Position

 ontingent Liabilities and Other Financial
215 (33) C
Commitments

191 (1)

Intangible Assets

216 (34) Related Parties

192 (2)

Property, Plant and Equipment

193 (3)

Investments Accounted for Using the
Equity Method

 ompensation of the Board of Management
216 (35) C
and the Supervisory Board

193 (4)

Investments in Other Affiliated Companies

224 (37) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows

194 (5)

Derivative Financial Instruments

225 (38) Segment Reporting

194 (6)

O ther Non-Current and Current Financial Assets

228 (39) Audit Fees

195 (7)

Non-Current and Current Income Tax Receivables

195 (8)

Other Non-Current Assets

 eclaration of Compliance Pursuant to Section
228 (40) D
161 of the Stock Corporation Act

195 (9)

Inventories

195 (10) Trade Receivables
196 (11)

Near-Cash Assets

196 (12)

Other Current Assets

196 (13)

Equity

198 (14)

 rovisions for Pensions and Other
P
Post-Employment Benefits

205 (15) O ther Non-Current and Current Provisions

Notes to the Income Statement

211 (21) Sales

211 (24) Research and Development Expenses
211 (26) Other Operating Income
212 (27) Other Operating Expenses

Other Information

217 (36) Financial Instruments

228 (41)

Utilization of Disclosure Exemptions

228 (42) Events after the Reporting Period
229

Responsibility Statement

230

Auditor’s Report

168

Consolidated Financial Statements

Statement of Financial Position
LANXESS Group
Note

€ million

Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

Assets
Intangible assets

(1)

300

494

Property, plant and equipment

(2)

3,447

3,519

Investments accounted for using the equity method

(3)

0

0

Investments in other affiliated companies

(4)

12

12

Non-current derivative assets

(5)

1

1

Other non-current financial assets

(6)

21

19

Non-current income tax receivables
Deferred taxes
Other non-current assets

(7)

11

7

(29)

361

442

(8)

Non-current assets
Inventories
Trade receivables

Current derivative assets

25
4,519

(9)

1,349

1,429

(10)

956

1,088

366

355

Cash and cash equivalents
Near-cash assets

27
4,180

(11)

100

40

(5)

14

65
2,130

Other current financial assets

(6)

4

Current income tax receivables

(7)

44

67

(12)

206

184

Current assets

3,039

5,358

Total assets

7,219

9,877

Other current assets

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital stock and capital reserves

1,317

1,317

Other reserves

1,313

1,257

Net income
Other equity components
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests

165

192

(485)

(214)

13

1,176

(13)

2,323

3,728

Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits

(14)

1,215

1,249

Other non-current provisions

(15)

271

319

(5)

19

7

(16)

1,258

2,734

Equity

Non-current derivative liabilities
Other non-current financial liabilities
Non-current income tax liabilities

(17)

19

31

Other non-current liabilities

(18)

108

93

Deferred taxes

(29)

Non-current liabilities

46

83

2,936

4,516

Other current provisions

(15)

411

406

Trade payables

(19)

779

889

Current derivative liabilities
Other current financial liabilities

(5)

100

42

(16)

443

78

Current income tax liabilities

(17)

85

44

Other current liabilities

(18)

142

174

Current liabilities

1,960

1,633

Total equity and liabilities

7,219

9,877

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

169

Statement of Financial Position
Income Statement

Income Statement
LANXESS Group
€ million

Note

2015

2016

Sales

(21)

7,902

7,699

Cost of sales

(22)

(6,154)

(5,945)

1,748

1,754
(781)

Gross profit
Selling expenses

(23)

(759)

Research and development expenses

(24)

(130)

(131)

General administration expenses

(25)

(284)

(303)

Other operating income

(26)

207

147

Other operating expenses

(27)

(367)

(222)

415

464

Income from investments accounted for using the equity method

0

0

Interest income

4

9

(70)

(72)

Operating result (EBIT)

Interest expense
Other financial income and expense
Financial result

(28)

Income before income taxes
Income taxes

(29)

Income after income taxes
of which attributable to non-controlling interests
of which attributable to ­L ANXESS AG stockholders [net income]
Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€)

(30)

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

(61)

(62)

(127)

(125)

288

339

(121)

(144)

167

195

2

3

165

192

1.80

2.10

170

Consolidated Financial Statements

Statement of Comprehensive Income
LANXESS Group
€ million
Income after income taxes

2015

2016

167

195

83

(233)

Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans
Income taxes

(24)

75

59

(158)

Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone

(15)

179

Financial instruments

(17)

68

5

(20)

(27)

227

32

69

199

264

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss if specific conditions are met

Income taxes

Other comprehensive income, net of income tax
Total comprehensive income
of which attributable to non-controlling interests
of which attributable to L
­ ANXESS AG stockholders

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

2

56

197

208

171

Statement of Comprehensive Income
Statement of Changes in Equity

Statement of Changes in Equity
LANXESS Group
Capital
stock

Capital
­reserves

Other
reserves

Net
income
(loss)

€ million
Dec. 31, 2014

91

1,226

Allocations to retained earnings

1,253

47

47

(47)

Other equity
­components
Currency
translation
adjustment

Financial
instruments

(407)

(51)

(46)

Total comprehensive income

59

Income after income taxes

165

(15)

(12)

165

Other comprehensive income,
net of income tax

59

Remeasurements of the
net defined benefit
liability for post-employment
benefit plans

(15)

(12)

83

2,161

9

9

(46)

0

(46)

197

2

199

165

2

167

32

0

32

(15)

Financial instruments

(15)
(17)

Income taxes on other
comprehensive income

(24)
91

1,226

1,313

165

Allocations to retained earnings

165

(165)

Transactions with owners

(15)

Dividend payments

(151)

Income after income taxes

5

(19)

(63)

2,310

102

2

89

121

46

192

(151)

Remeasurements of the
net defined benefit
liability for post-employment
benefit plans

121

46

(222)

Exchange differences on
­translation of operations
outside the eurozone

121

Financial instruments

65

Income taxes on other
comprehensive income

71
91

1,226

1,257

192

0

(199)

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

(15)
(17)
(19)

13

2,323

1,107

1,196

(55)

0

(55)

208

56

264

192

3

195

16

53

69

(222)

(11)

(233)

121

58

179

65

3

68

0

192

Other comprehensive income,
net of income tax

83

(17)

(422)

(55)

Total comprehensive income

0

83

Exchange differences on
translation of operations
outside the eurozone

Equity

2

0

Dividend payments

Dec. 31, 2016

2,159
0

Transactions with owners

Dec. 31, 2015

Equity
Equity
attributable attributable
to nonto
LANXESS AG controlling
interests
stock­holders

0

(19)

52

3

55

(15)

2,552

1,176

3,728

172

Consolidated Financial Statements

Statement of Cash Flows
LANXESS Group
Note

€ million
Income before income taxes

2015

2016

288

339

Amortization, depreciation, write-downs and reversals of
impairment charges of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment

418

481

Gains on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

(42)

0

Income from investments accounted for using the equity method
Financial losses
Income taxes paid

0

0

66

56

(98)

(184)

Changes in inventories

55

(45)

Changes in trade receivables

64

(96)

Changes in trade payables

(26)

94

Changes in other assets and liabilities

(33)

44

692

689

Net cash provided by operating activities

(37)

Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

(434)

(439)

Cash outflows for financial assets

(11)

(2,125)

Cash inflows from financial assets

–

66

–

(198)

Cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses,
less acquired cash and cash equivalents
Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
Interest and dividends received
Cash outflows for external funding of pension obligations (CTAs)
Net cash used in investing activities

(37)

Cash inflows from non-controlling interests

45

7

–

10

–

(200)

(400)

(2,879)

9

1,194

Proceeds from borrowings

78

1,529

Repayments of borrowings

(298)

(422)

Interest paid and other financial disbursements

(76)

(73)

Dividend payments

(46)

(55)

(333)

2,173

Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities

(41)

(17)

Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1

418

366

Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents

(11)

6

366

355

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

(37)

Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31

(37)

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Statement of Cash Flows
General Information
Structure and Components of the Consolidated financial Statements
Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Applied
Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory

173

Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements
General information

FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS
AND INTERPRETATIONS APPLIED

LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652.
Its registered office is at Kennedyplatz 1, 50569 Cologne, Germany.
The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the
consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS AG, to which
the auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschafts­
prüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, have issued unqualified
auditor’s reports, are published in the German Federal Gazette
(Bundesanzeiger).
The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group
for fiscal 2016 were prepared by the Board of Management of
LANXESS AG and authorized for submission to the Supervisory
Board on March 1, 2017. It is the responsibility of the Supervisory
Board to examine the consolidated financial statements and declare
whether or not it approves them.

STRUCTURE AND COMPONENTS
OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
The consolidated financial statements comprise the statement of financial position, the income statement and statement
of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity,
the statement of cash flows and the notes, which include the
segment information.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros
(€). Amounts are stated in millions of euros (€ million) except
where otherwise indicated. Assets and liabilities are classified
in the statement of financial position as current or non-current.
Further details of their maturities are provided in these Notes in
certain cases.
The consolidated financial statements were prepared on the
basis of historical acquisition, construction or production costs of
the assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed,
these are used. They are explained in the section on accounting
policies and valuation principles.
The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales
method.
The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements
is the calendar year.

The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group
as of December 31, 2016, were prepared in accordance with the
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed
by the European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretations, together with the additional requirements of Section 315a,
Paragraph 1 of the German Commercial Code (HGB).
The mandatory first-time application of the following financial
reporting standards and interpretations in 2016 currently has no
impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group:

Standard/Interpretation
IAS 19

Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions –
Amendments to IAS 19

Various IAS and IFRS

Annual Improvements to the International Financial
Reporting Standards, 2010–2012 Cycle

IFRS 11

Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint
Operations – Amendments to IFRS 11

IAS 16, IAS 38

Clarification of Acceptable Methods of
Depreciation and Amortisation – A
­ mendments
to IAS 16 and IAS 38

IAS 16, IAS 41

Agriculture: Bearer Plants – Amendments to
IAS 16 and IAS 41

Various IAS and IFRS

Annual Improvements to the International Financial
Reporting Standards, 2012–2014 Cycle

IFRS 10, IFRS 12, IAS 28 Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation
Exception – Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12
and IAS 28
IAS 1

Disclosure Initiative – Amendments to IAS 1

FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS
AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT
NOT YET MANDATORY
In 2016, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)
and the IFRS Interpretations Committee issued financial reporting
standards and interpretations, whose application was not yet mandatory for that year and which the LANXESS Group thus did not
yet apply. The application of these standards and interpretations
is in some cases contingent upon their endorsement by the E.U.
It is therefore possible that the dates for mandatory application
may ultimately be later than indicated below.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

174

Consolidated Financial Statements

Financial instruments
In July 2014, the IASB published the final version of IFRS 9.
This contains revised regulations for classifying and measuring
financial assets and rules on the impairment of financial instruments. Beside already incurred losses, the expected loss model
is used to anticipate and recognize expected future losses and to
set up provision for them. Further, the standard introduces new
rules on hedge accounting. The new standard was endorsed by
the E.U. in November 2016 and is to be applied for annual periods
beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted. The LANXESS Group will apply this standard prospectively
from January 1, 2018.
In 2016, the LANXESS Group set up a project on the introduction of IFRS 9. Based on the present status of this project, the
following effects are expected:

›› The analysis of the classification and measurement of financial assets is at the finalization stage. Neither the new classification of financial assets nor the fair value measurement of
equity instruments is expected to have a material impact on
accounting.
›› Implementation of the new rules on the impairment of financial instruments requires the development of an expected
loss model based on historical losses and future loss expectations. The concept for the expected loss model is still at
the development stage. A reliable estimate of the expected
impact can only be made following technical implementation
of the concept.
›› Implementation of the new requirements for hedge accounting mainly relates to currency hedges. The concept to implement the new principles is still at the development stage.
Consequently, a reliable estimate of the expected impact
can only be made following technical impact of the concept.
In general, separate designation and measurement of individual components of forward rates and the exclusion of
individual components is expected to lead to higher levels
of ineffectiveness.

Revenue from contracts with customers
The IASB published the new standard IFRS 15 on May 28,
2014. It supersedes IAS 11 and IAS 18 and introduces a fivestep model containing basic principles for revenue recognition.
These basic principles relate, in particular, to the identification
of performance obligations and the associated revenues and
rules on the timing of revenue recognition. The standard also
introduces contract assets and contract liabilities as line items
in the statement of financial position for differences between the
revenue recognized in accordance with IFRS 15 and amounts
invoiced. The standard also contains further rules on specific
issues and requires additional disclosures in the notes on the
type, level, timing and uncertainties relating to revenues from
contracts with customers. As a result of the amendment to

IFRS 15 published in September 2015, the date of initial application has been postponed from January 1, 2017, to annual periods
beginning on or after January 1, 2018. In April 2016, the IASB
published further clarifications relating to the identification of performance obligations, the definition of principal versus agent, and
recognition of license revenues. The E.U. endorsed the standard
in September 2016 but has not yet endorsed the clarifications
issued in April 2016.
In 2015, the LANXESS Group set up a project on the introduction of IFRS 15. This analyzed which business models and areas of
the company are affected by the new requirements of IFRS 15. A
more detailed analysis was then performed of contracts and data
for these areas and a concept for implementation was developed.
This is currently being finalized. Practical implementation and any
necessary IT adjustments will be undertaken in fiscal 2017. The
standard will initially be applied as of January 1, 2018, using the
simplified retrospective approach.
Based on the analyses performed, the following principal
effects are expected compared with the present method of revenue recognition:

›› One business model used by the LANXESS Group is the

manufacture of products on the basis of long-term sales
contracts with a contractually defined minimum purchase
requirement. Based on current contractual terms, under
IFRS 15 in future the expected total revenue from sale of the
minimum amount must be estimated for the full term of the
contract and allocated among the individual deliveries. The
changes may result in a shift in the timing of revenues, which
would be reflected as contract liabilities. By contrast, under
the present method, revenue is recognized on the basis of the
agreed selling price. Based on the present status of the project, this will affect some consolidated sales in the Advanced
Intermediates, ARLANXEO and Performance Chemicals
segments.
›› Another business model used by the LANXESS Group is the
manufacture of customer-specific products on the basis
of long-term supply agreements with a contractually defined minimum purchase requirement. Based on the rules
of IFRS 15, the LANXESS Group has no alternative use for
the products created under these contracts. Moreover, it has
a contractually enforceable right to payment for the minimum
amount under the purchase requirement. Under the present
contractual terms, in the future the revenue from the sale
of the minimum amount will have to be recognized over the
production period and thus earlier than at present. Contract
assets will be recognized for the corresponding receivables
until the products are delivered. At present, revenue is recognized as of the delivery date. Based on the present status
of the project, this will affect some consolidated sales in the
Advanced Intermediates segment.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

175

Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory

Reliable quantification of the shift in the timing of revenue
recognition for these two business models will only be possible
once technical implementation of the concept has been completed.

›› All segments use a business model where the sale of prod-

ucts includes organizing freight services. Under IFRS 15,
the timing of revenue recognition is based on the transfer of
control to the customer. Based on the present status of the
analysis of the defined criteria, this will probably shift revenue
recognition to completion of the freight service, which means
the freight service would not be treated as a distinct performance obligation. This is expected to have a one-time effect
as of the date of initial application, i. e. January 1, 2018,
because the impact on subsequent periods would be of the
same order of magnitude.

Leasing
On January 13, 2016, the IASB published the new standard
IFRS 16, which supersedes IAS 17. Under IFRS 16, lessees will
recognize all leases as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability
in the statement of financial position on the basis of the present
value of the lease payments. Depreciation and amortization on the
capitalized right-of-use asset and interest expense for compound-

ing the lease liabilities are recorded in the income statement. For
lessees, the distinction between operating and finance leases
is abolished. The new standard also contains options for the
treatment of short-term leases and leases of low value. If these
options are applied, the costs of these leases are recognized as
current expenses. There are no significant changes for lessors.
The new standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning
on or after January 1, 2019. Earlier application is permitted if
IFRS 15 is applied. It has not yet been endorsed by the E.U.
The LANXESS Group will probably apply the new standard from
January 1, 2019.
In 2016, the LANXESS Group set up a project on the introduction of IFRS 16. Initial analyses of the impact have been
performed at Group level and possible technical solutions have
been evaluated. If IFRS 16 had been applicable as of January 1,
2017, it would have been necessary to present the future lease
payments relating to operating leases contained in Note [33] as
discounted financial lease payments in the statement of financial
position. No decisions have yet been taken on whether to apply
the options. The analysis of contracts and implementation of the
technical solutions are scheduled to start in 2017.
The following financial reporting standards and interpretations currently have no impact, or no material impact, on the
LANXESS Group:

Standard/Interpretation

Date of
publication

Mandatory for
LANXESS as of
fiscal year

Endorsed
by the E.U.

IFRS 14

Regulatory Deferral Accounts

Jan. 30, 2014

−

no

IFRS 10, IAS 28

Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or
Joint Venture – Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28

Sept. 11, 2014

−

no

IAS 12

Income Taxes – Amendments to IAS 12 – Recognition of
Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses

Jan. 19, 2016

2017

no

IAS 7

Statement of Cash Flows – Amendments to IAS 7 – Disclosure Initiative

Jan. 29, 2016

2017

no

IFRS 2

Share-based Payment – Amendments to IFRS 2 –
Classification and Measurement

June 20, 2016

2018

no

IFRS 4

Insurance Contracts – Applying IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” with IFRS
4 “Insurance Contracts”

Sept. 12, 2016

−

no

Various IAS and IFRS

Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards,
2014–2016 Cycle

Dec. 8, 2016

2017/2018

no

IFRIC 22

Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration

Dec. 8, 2016

2018

no

IAS 40

Investment Property – Amendments to IAS 40 –
Transfers of Investment Property

Dec. 8, 2016

2018

no

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

176

Consolidated Financial Statements

CHANGE OF PRESENTATION

Fully consolidated companies

To enhance transparency and allow more appropriate allocation to the individual categories of the statement of cash flows,
from 2016 cash outflows for external funding of pension liabilities through contractual trust arrangements (CTA) are no longer
allocated to cash flows for operating activities. Instead, they are
allocated to cash flows for investing activities in line with their
nature as reinsurance and thus investing activities.

CONSOLIDATION
The financial statements of the consolidated companies
were prepared using uniform accounting policies and valuation
principles.
If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not end on
December 31, interim financial statements are prepared for the
purpose of consolidation.
Intra-Group profits, losses, sales, income and expenses as
well as receivables and payables between consolidated companies
are eliminated.

Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of a business combination is stated as
the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the
assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity
instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. It also
contains the fair value of assets and liabilities resulting from contingent consideration contracts.
For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and
contingent liabilities identified in the course of the acquisition are
measured at fair value as of the acquisition date.
For each business combination, there is an option to include
any shares not acquired either at their fair value or at the pro rata
share of the fair value of the acquiree’s net assets. They are reported in the statement of financial position as equity attributable to
non-controlling interests.
Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt
or equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss.
Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess
of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling
interests and the fair value of any previously held equity interest
over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is
immediately recognized in profit or loss after the purchase price
allocation has been re-examined.

Scope of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group
include LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the control of
LANXESS AG. Control exists if LANXESS AG is exposed to variable
returns from the relationship with a company and has power over
the company. Power means that LANXESS AG has existing rights
that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the
company and thus exert a significant influence over the variable
returns. The ability to control another company generally derives
from direct or indirect ownership of a majority of the voting rights.
In the case of structured entities, control normally derives from
contractual agreements. A company is consolidated as of the
date from which LANXESS AG is able to exercise control and
deconsolidated when this is no longer the case.
Interests in associates in which the LANXESS Group exerts
a significant influence, generally through an ownership interest
between 20 % and 50 %, and interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Entities that are in aggregate immaterial to the Group’s
earnings, asset and financial position are not consolidated, but
are included in the consolidated financial statements at cost of
acquisition.
Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the section
headed “Companies consolidated,” which also contains a list of
companies.

Investments accounted for using
the equity method
The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the equity method is adjusted annually by the percentage of any change
in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s percentage interest in
the entity. If any decline in value exceeds the carrying amount of
the entity, write-downs are recognized on the associated noncurrent assets. If the carrying amount of the entity and the associated assets are reduced to zero, liabilities would be recognized
if the owner has entered into a legal or substantive obligation,
e.g. to offset pro rata losses, or has made payments for the entity.
Differences arising from the first-time accounting for investments using the equity method are determined according to the
same principles as for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is
included in the carrying amount of the entity.

Joint operations
Joint operations are arrangements in which the parties that
exercise joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for
the liabilities relating to the arrangement. LANXESS accounts
for its share of the joint assets and joint liabilities of such joint
operations and its share of the revenues and expenses, including
its share of jointly incurred expenses.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

177

Change of Presentation
Consolidation
Currency Translation
Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles

Transactions with owners
Transactions with non-controlling interests, which do not
result in a loss of control, are treated as transactions between
shareholders of the LANXESS Group. Changes in ownership
interests are accounted for by adjusting the carrying amounts of
the controlling and non-controlling interests. Differences between
the adjustment to the carrying amount of the non-controlling
interests and the fair value of the consideration paid or received
are recognized immediately in other reserves and thus assigned
to the equity attributable to the stockholders of LANXESS AG.

Equity is translated at historical rates, while income, e­ xpenses
and other changes during the year are translated at average
rates. The differences between the resulting amounts and those
obtained by translating at closing rates are reported separately
in other comprehensive income as exchange differences on
translation of operations outside the eurozone.
If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange differences are reversed and recognized in profit or loss.
The principal exchange rates used for currency translation
in the LANXESS Group were:
Exchange Rates

CURRENCY TRANSLATION

Closing rate, Dec. 31

In the financial statements of the individual consolidated
companies that form the basis for the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, all foreign-currency assets and
liabilities are translated at closing rates, irrespective of whether
they are hedged. Forward contracts serving as economic hedges
against fluctuations in exchange rates are reflected at fair value.
Exchange differences resulting from currency translation are
reflected in profit or loss in the net exchange result within other
financial income and expense.
The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued on
the basis of the currency of the primary economic environment in
which the entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the
majority of foreign companies are financially, economically and
organizationally autonomous and their functional currencies are
therefore the respective local currencies. The assets and liabilities
of these companies are translated at closing rates, while income
and expense items are translated at average rates for the year.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recorded in the currency of the acquired entity and translated at the
closing rate, irrespective of the date on which it arose.

€1

Average rate

2015

2016

2015

2016

Argentina

ARS

14.10

16.70

10.28

16.33

Brazil

BRL

4.25

3.44

3.69

3.86

China

CNY

7.06

7.32

6.97

7.35

United Kingdom GBP

0.73

0.86

0.73

0.82

India

INR

72.02

71.60

71.19

74.34

Japan

JPY

131.07

123.40

134.31

120.29

Canada

CAD

1.51

1.42

1.42

1.47

Singapore

SGD

1.54

1.52

1.53

1.53

South Africa

ZAR

16.95

14.46

14.17

16.27

United States

USD

1.09

1.05

1.11

1.11

ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND
VALUATION PRINCIPLES
The accounting policies and valuation principles are the
same as those used in the previous fiscal year and have been
consistently applied. However, certain changes have resulted from
the mandatory first-time application in 2016 of new or amended
financial reporting standards and interpretations. These changes
are explained in the section headed “Financial reporting standards
and interpretations applied.”

Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible
assets such as software, concessions, industrial property rights,
similar rights and assets, and licenses to such rights and assets.
Acquired intangible assets with a definite useful life are recognized
at cost and amortized over their respective useful lives using the
straight-line method. The amortization for intangible assets other
than goodwill is between 3 and 20 years. Amortization in the reporting period is allocated to the respective functional areas. Any
further decline in value is recognized by means of a write-down.
Write-downs are reversed in the following year if the reasons for
them no longer exist, provided that this does not cause the carrying amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost
at which they would have been carried if the write-downs had not

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

178

Consolidated Financial Statements

been recognized or their current recoverable amount. The lower of
these two amounts is recognized. Goodwill is not amortized. It is
tested for impairment annually or more often if events or a change
in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Any impairment
charges are recognized in other operating expenses. Impairment
charges on goodwill are not reversed.
The costs incurred for in-house software development at
the application development stage are capitalized and amortized
over the expected useful life of the software from the date it is
completed.
Emissions allowances are recognized at cost. Allowances
allocated free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority
(DEHSt) or comparable authorities in other European countries
are capitalized at a value of zero.

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of acquisition or construction less usage-based depreciation. LANXESS
does not use the revaluation model. Write-downs are recognized
for any reduction in value that goes beyond normal depreciation.
In compliance with IAS 36, impairment charges are measured by
comparing the carrying amounts with the discounted cash flows
expected to be generated by the assets in the future. Where it
is not possible to allocate future cash flows to specific assets,
the impairment charge is assessed on the basis of the discounted cash flows for the cash-generating unit to which the asset
belongs. Write-downs are reversed accordingly if the reasons
for them no longer apply, provided that this does not cause the
carrying amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized
cost at which they would have been recognized if they had not
been written down or their current recoverable amount.
The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment
comprises the direct costs, as well as an appropriate share of
the necessary material and manufacturing overheads. It also
includes the shares of depreciation as well as of expenses for
company pension plans and discretionary employee benefits
that are attributable to production.
Where an obligation exists to decommission or dismantle
assets at the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its original condition, the present value of the obligation is capitalized
along with the cost of acquisition or construction and a provision
in the same amount is recognized.
If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment
extends over a long period, the directly attributable borrowing
costs incurred up to the date of completion are capitalized as
part of the cost of acquisition or construction.

Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are recognized directly in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition or
construction costs are capitalized if they will result in future
economic benefits and can be reliably determined.
Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants
are recognized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of
the related assets and depreciated over the period between one
general overhaul and the next using the straight-line method.
Where assets comprise material components with different purposes, different properties, or different useful lives, the
components are capitalized individually and depreciated over
their useful lives.
When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference
between the net proceeds and the carrying amount is recognized as a gain or loss in other operating income or expenses.
Assets are depreciated by the straight-line method based on
the following useful lives, which are applied uniformly throughout
the Group:
Useful Lives 
Buildings

20 to 50 years

Outdoor infrastructure

10 to 20 years

Plant installations

6 to 20 years

Machinery and equipment

6 to 12 years

Laboratory and research facilities
Storage tanks and pipelines
Vehicles

3 to 5 years
10 to 20 years
5 to 8 years

Computer equipment

3 to 5 years

Furniture and fixtures

4 to 10 years

Leasing
In accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where substantially
all risks and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred (finance leases) are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and
the present value of the minimum lease payments at the date of
addition. They are depreciated over their useful lives. If subsequent
transfer of title to the leased asset is uncertain, it is depreciated
over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the lease term.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles

The future lease payments are recorded as financial liabilities.
Liabilities under finance leases are recognized at the fair value of
the leased asset at the inception of the lease or the present value
of the minimum lease payments, whichever is lower. Thereafter
the minimum lease payments are divided into financing costs and
the portion representing repayment of the principal. In the case of
leasing contracts that do not include the transfer of substantially
all risks and rewards incidental to ownership (operating leases),
the lessee recognizes the lease payments as current expenses.
Property, plant and equipment also include assets that
LANXESS leases or rents out to third parties under agreements
other than finance leases. However, if the lessee is to be regarded
as the economic owner of the assets, a receivable is recognized
in the amount of the discounted future lease or rental payments.
Leasing arrangements may be embedded in other contracts.
Where IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing arrangement, the components of the contract are recognized and
measured separately.

Financial instruments
Financial instruments are contracts that give rise simultaneously to a financial asset for one party and a financial liability or
equity instrument for another. These include primary financial
instruments, such as trade receivables or payables and other financial assets or liabilities, as well as derivative financial instruments,
which are used to hedge risks arising from changes in currency
exchange rates, raw material prices or interest rates.
Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the
LANXESS Group becomes the contracting party to them. Financial
assets are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive
payments from them expire or the financial assets are transferred
together with all significant risks and rewards. Financial liabilities
are derecognized when the contractual obligations are met or
canceled, or when they expire.
In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement
date is the relevant date for first-time recognition or derecognition
of financial assets in the financial statements.
Trade receivables and other financial receivables are initially
recognized at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Where write-downs
are necessary as a result of impairment testing, they are recognized
using separate accounts.

179

Investments in affiliated companies and the equity instruments
included in non-current assets are classified as available-for-sale
financial assets and recognized at fair value, except where their
fair value cannot be reliably determined, in which case they are
recognized at amortized cost. Where objective evidence exists that
such assets may be impaired, an impairment charge is recognized
on the basis of an impairment test.
Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method are recognized at the amounts corresponding to
LANXESS’s shares in their equity in accordance with IAS 28.
Financial assets held for trading are recognized at fair value.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent measurement is reflected
in the income statement.
All other primary financial assets are classified as available
for sale and recognized at fair value except if they are allocable to
loans and receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subsequent
measurement, with the exception of write-downs and of gains and
losses from currency translation, is recognized in other comprehensive income until the asset is derecognized.
Primary financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value less any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, they are
measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
LANXESS does not utilize the option of designating nonderivative financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss upon initial recognition.

Derivative financial instruments and
hedging transactions
The LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial instruments as assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date.
Changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. Where foreign currency derivatives or forward commodity contracts used to
hedge future cash flows from pending business or forecast transactions qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant financial
reporting standard, changes in the value of such instruments are
recognized separately in other comprehensive income until the
underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recognized
here are subsequently reclassified to other operating income
or cost of sales, as appropriate, when the hedged transaction is
recognized in profit or loss. Any portion of the change in value
of such derivatives deemed to be ineffective with regard to the
hedged risk is recognized directly in profit or loss. Changes in
the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge long-term
liabilities with variable interest rates – provided such derivatives
qualify for cash flow hedge accounting – are recognized in other
comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit or
loss as interest income or expense at the same time as the income
from the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

180

Consolidated Financial Statements

Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivering non-financial items based on expected purchases, sales
or utilization and held for this purpose are recognized not as
financial derivatives but as pending transactions. If the contracts
contain embedded derivatives, the derivatives are accounted for
separately from the host contract, provided that the ­economic
characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not
­closely related to those of the host contract.

Determination of fair value
The principal methods and assumptions used in measuring
the fair value of financial instruments are outlined below:
Trade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivalents are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is
therefore their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are
discounted using current interest rates to determine their fair value.
The fair value of securities is determined from their market
price on the closing date, disregarding transaction costs.
The fair value of loans and liabilities to banks is calculated
from discounted future interest payments and capital repayment
amounts.
The bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair
values are the prices determined and published by the market.
If no liquid market price is available for a bond, its fair value is
determined on the basis of observable inputs, using a risk-related
discount rate.
The fair value of trade payables and other primary financial
liabilities due within one year is normally their carrying amount.
That of all other liabilities is determined by discounting them to
present value where feasible.
The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to finance
leases are the present values of the net lease payments calculated
using the market rate for comparable lease agreements.
Most of the derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS
are traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values as of the end
of the reporting period pertain principally to forward exchange
contracts and, to a small extent, to forward commodity contracts.
They are derived from their trading or listed prices using the “forward method.” Where no market price is available, values are
determined using recognized capital market pricing methods
based on observable market data. In determining the fair values,
adjustments for LANXESS’s own credit risk and counterparty
credit risk are made on the basis of the respective net positions.

Inventories
Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary
course of business (finished goods and merchandise), assets in
the process of being manufactured for sale (work in process) and
assets consumed during the production process (raw materials
and supplies). They are valued by the weighted-average method
and recognized at the lower of cost and their respective net realizable value, which is the estimated selling price in the ordinary
course of business less the estimated remaining production costs
and selling expenses.
The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials,
direct manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of fixed
and variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal
capacity utilization, where these are attributable to production.
It also includes expenses for company pension plans, corporate welfare facilities and discretionary employee benefits that
can be allocated to production. Administrative costs are included
where they are attributable to production.
Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not
included in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as
the products are not manufactured using long-term production
processes.
Given the production and distribution sequences characteristic of the LANXESS Group, work in process and finished goods
are grouped together.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise checks, cash and balances with banks. Securities with maturities of up to three months from
the date of acquisition are recognized in cash and cash equivalents
in view of their high liquidity.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles

Non-current assets and liabilities
held for sale
Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be
sold in their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such
assets may be individual non-current assets, groups of assets
(disposal groups) or complete business entities. A disposal group
may also include liabilities if these are to be divested together with
the assets as part of the transaction.
Assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated.
They are recognized at the lower of fair value less costs to sell
and the carrying amount.

Provisions
Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance with
IAS 37 and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best
estimates of the amounts of the obligations. Non-current portions
of material provisions due in more than one year are discounted
to present value if the extent and timing of the obligation can be
assessed with reasonable certainty. Where the projected obligation
alters as the time of performance approaches (interest effect), the
related expense is recognized in the other financial result.
If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change
in the estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding
amount and the effect is recognized in the income or expense
item(s) in which the provision was originally recorded.
Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits
are established for defined benefit pension plans. The provision is
measured according to the actuarial present value of the obligation,
calculated using the projected unit credit method. This takes into
account not only the known pensions and pension entitlements
as of the closing date, but also expected future salary and benefit
increases. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are
fully recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in
which they occur. They are not reclassified to profit or loss in a
subsequent period.
Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual
bonus payments, payments under multi-year compensation programs and other personnel costs.

181

The stock-based employee compensation programs (LongTerm Stock Performance Plan – LTSP) provide for cash settlement.
Provisions are established for the obligations entered into under
such programs on the basis of the proportionate fair value of the
rights allocated to employees. The fair value is determined using
the Monte Carlo method, in which future returns are simulated and
the expected payment is calculated from the value of the rights
based on a two-dimensional standard distribution of returns. The
fair value of the rights is reflected in a pro rata provision during
the vesting period.
The stock-based compensation program for members of the
Supervisory Board provides for variable cash settlement, provided
that LANXESS stock has outperformed a defined index during
their term of office. Provisions are established for the expected
obligations.
Provisions are established for restructuring if there is a legal
or constructive obligation to do so on the basis of a detailed restructuring plan adopted at the management level authorized to
decide on this, and the employees affected or their representatives
have been informed. Such provisions contain the expenses that
are directly allocable to the restructuring measures, are necessary to implement these measures and not related to the future
operating business.
The LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or
pending legal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be
reasonably estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees
and legal costs and the cost of potential settlements. However,
litigation expenses are only included if it is assumed that they will
have to be borne by LANXESS. The amounts of such provisions
are based upon information and cost estimates provided by the
Group’s legal advisers. The provisions are regularly reviewed
together with the Group’s legal advisers and adjusted if necessary.

Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties
or existing commitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably
estimated or which are unlikely to lead to an outflow of resources.
They are not recognized in the statement of financial position
unless they have been entered into in connection with a business
combination.

Liabilities
Other current liabilities are recognized at repayment or redemption amounts. Other non-current liabilities are recognized
at amortized cost.
Subsidies received from third parties for the acquisition or
construction of property, plant and equipment are reflected in
other liabilities and released to the respective functional area of
the income statement over the underlying period or expected
useful life of the assets to which they relate.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

182

Consolidated Financial Statements

Sales and other revenues
Revenues are recognized as soon as delivery has been made
or the service rendered and are reported net of sales taxes and
deductions. This is normally the case when the significant risks
and rewards associated with ownership of the goods pass to the
purchaser. It must also be sufficiently probable that the economic
benefits will be obtained and the costs incurred must be reliably
determinable.
Customer rebates are reflected in the period in which the revenues are realized. Revenues such as license fees, rental income,
interest income or dividends that are attributable to a subsequent
fiscal year are accrued.
The LANXESS Group does not have long-term production
orders. Accordingly, the percentage-of-completion method is not
applied to determine when revenues are realized.

Research and development costs
According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized,
whereas development costs must be capitalized if, and only if,
specific narrowly defined conditions are fulfilled. Development
costs must be capitalized if it is sufficiently certain that the development activity will generate future economic benefits which
will also cover the associated development costs. However, since
the development and optimization of products and processes
frequently involves uncertainty with regard to the ability to realize future economic benefits, the conditions for capitalization of
development costs are generally not met.

Income taxes
This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in
the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are
computed on the basis of local tax rates.
Income tax receivables and liabilities relate to both the respective fiscal year and previous years. They are assessed on the
basis of the applicable legislation, taking into account present legal
practice judgments and prevailing opinion. Uncertain income tax
items are recognized at their expected value provided that payment
or reimbursement is considered probable.
In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
or liabilities in the statement of financial position and the tax base
and for differences arising from consolidation measures or realizable tax loss carryforwards. The calculations are based on tax
planning calculations and customary and realizable tax strategies.
Deferred taxes are calculated at the rates which are expected to
apply in the individual countries at the time of realization, taking
into account the period for which deferred taxes may be used and
any constraints on the utilization of loss carryforwards. These are
based on the statutory regulations in force, or already enacted in
relation to future periods, as of the closing date.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at
each closing date and only the amount likely to be realizable due
to future taxable income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from
loss carryforwards are recognized if it is probable that the carryforwards can be utilized.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to
income taxes levied by the same tax authorities.

Statement of cash flows
The statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and
outflows during the year affected the cash and cash equivalents
of the LANXESS Group. Cash flows are classified by operating,
investing and financing activities in accordance with IAS 7. The
liquidity reported in the statement of cash flows comprises cash
and cash equivalents.
The cash flows from operating activities are calculated using
the indirect method. This involves eliminating the translation
effects and the effects of changes in the scope of consolidation
from the changes recognized in the items on the statement of
financial position. Therefore, the cash flows calculated by the
indirect method cannot be directly derived from the statement
of financial position.
Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and
equipment are included in the cash flows for investing activities
after deducting any third-party subsidies. Investments involving
finance leases, along with capitalized borrowing costs, are not
included. Comparison therefore should not be made between
these items and the capital expenditures shown in the schedule
of changes in property, plant and equipment.
Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash
flows from operating activities. Disbursements made under
finance leases where LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as
cash outflows for financing activities, while cash inflows under
finance leases where LANXESS is the lessor are recognized as
cash inflows from investing activities.
Cash flows relating to the financing of pension obligations
where future pension payments will be made directly out of
external plan assets are allocated to cash flows for operating
activities. Cash flows relating to the financing of pension obligations where LANXESS only has a claim to reimbursement of
future pension payments (CTA) are allocated to cash flows for
investing activities.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles

Purchase prices paid or received in connection with acquisitions or divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities
are included in the investing cash flows after deducting cash
and cash equivalents acquired or divested.
Interest and dividends received are also included in investing cash flows, while interest and dividends paid are reflected
in financing cash flows.

Global impairment testing procedure
and impact
In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-current
assets starts with an analysis to determine whether impairment
charges need to be recognized or previously recognized impairment charges reversed. If there are indications that this is the case,
the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit is compared with
its recoverable amount. In the LANXESS Group these analyses
are performed at least once a year.
As of January 1, 2015, the Butyl Rubber and Performance
Butadiene Rubbers business units were combined to form the
Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit, the High Performance
Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers business units were combined
as High Performance Elastomers, and the antioxidants and accelerators product lines of the former Rubber Chemicals business
unit were integrated into the Advanced Industrial Intermediates
business unit. For impairment testing of assets, the LANXESS
Group defines its business units as cash-generating units, with
the exception of the following cash-generating units which were
defined in connection with the reorganization of the LANXESS
Group in 2015: Butyl Rubber, Performance Butadiene Rubbers,
High Performance Elastomers, Keltan Elastomers, Advanced
Industrial Intermediates, and Antioxidants & Accelerators.
If there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current assets
below the level of the cash-generating units, impairment testing is
performed at this level and impairment charges or reversals of impairment charges are recognized in profit or loss where necessary.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are
tested annually for impairment – or more frequently if events or
changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. The
carrying amount of each cash-generating unit, including the goodwill allocated to it, is compared with its recoverable amount. For
the impairment test on goodwill in the Tire & Specialty Rubbers
business unit in 2016, as in the previous year, the Butyl Rubber
and Performance Butadiene Rubbers cash-generating units were
tested as a group of cash-generating units. Moreover, the Advanced Industrial Intermediates and Antioxidants & Accelerators
cash-generating units form a group for the purpose of the impairment test on goodwill in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates
business unit.

183

The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value
less costs of disposal and the value in use. If the carrying amount
of a cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an
impairment charge is recognized in certain circumstances. The fair
value less costs of disposal – which represents the best estimate of
the potential sale proceeds at the time of the respective impairment
test – is the amount obtainable from the sale of a cash-generating
unit in an arm’s-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing
parties, less the costs of disposal. The value in use is defined as
the present value of future cash flows based on the continuing use
of the asset and its retirement at the end of its useful life. The first
step in assessing whether to recognize or reverse an impairment
charge is to determine the fair value less costs of disposal. If this is
lower or higher than the carrying amount of the cash-generating
unit, the value in use is then determined. The fair value less costs of
disposal is generally calculated using a net present value method
which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see under
“Fair value measurement” in Note [36]).
Determination of the recoverable amount based on the fair
value less costs of disposal generally relies on a forecast of future net cash flows. This is based on the planning approved by
the management of LANXESS AG, which contains estimates of
expected market conditions and other factors such as future raw
material prices, energy costs, functional costs, exchange rates and
capital expenditures. The interactions between these factors are
reflected in the expected net cash flows. The estimates are based
on management’s past experience, taking account of internal and
external economic and industry-specific sources of information.
Capacity expansions, reorganization projects and the resulting
synergies, provided these can also be used by a third party, are
reflected in future net cash flows through estimates. Determination
of the value in use is based on a corresponding forecast of future
net cash flows. However, cash inflows and outflows relating to
expansion projects that have not yet commenced, restructuring
that is planned but has not yet been approved, and the associated
synergies are not taken into account. The forecasts used to calculate the fair value less costs of disposal and to determine the value
in use cover a five-year period. The perpetual annuity calculation
is generally based on the last year in the planning period and does
not reflect growth rates. Where necessary, adjustments are made
to reflect the so-called steady state of the perpetual annuity. Future
net cash flows are discounted using the weighted average cost of
capital, which is derived according to IAS 36 from capital market
models, taking into account the capital structure and business
risks specific to the chemical industry, and is extrapolated from
external market information.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

184

Consolidated Financial Statements

If a decline in value is determined, an impairment charge
is first recognized for any goodwill assigned to the respective
cash-generating unit. Any remaining impairment amount is allocated among the other non-current assets of the cash-generating
unit in proportion to the carrying amounts on which the impairment
test was based. The recoverable amount of any non-current assets
below the level of the cash-generating unit is assessed and the loss
is allocated, but only up to the recoverable amount of these assets.
Any further impairment charge that would have been allocated
to these assets is allocated proportionately to the other assets in
the cash-generating unit.
Impairment charges are fully recognized in the income statement under other operating expenses and reflected in the segment
reporting in the expenses of the respective segments.
If the impairment test on the cash-generating units indicates
a need to reverse impairment charges recognized on assets in
previous years because the reasons for the impairment no longer
exist or have changed, the impairment charge is reversed only up
to the amount that would have existed after depreciation or amortization if the impairment had not been recognized. Impairment
charges on goodwill are not reversed. Reversals of impairment
charges are fully recognized in the income statement under other
operating income and reflected in the segment reporting in the
income of the respective segments.
The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal 2015 and
2016 are outlined in the following section.

ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES AND THE
EXERCISE OF DISCRETION
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and
valuation principles and the use of forward-looking assumptions
and estimates that may affect the measurement of assets and
liabilities, income and expenses, and contingent liabilities.
All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated financial statements are based on management’s expectations.
Information that could alter these estimates is reviewed continually
and may result in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the
respective assets and liabilities.

Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the
measurement of the LANXESS Group’s assets and liabilities are
explained below.
At least once a year, the LANXESS Group conducts impairment tests on its individual cash-generating units or groups of
cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. Impairment tests are also conducted if the need arises (for further
information see the section headed “Global impairment testing
procedure and impact”).
Management’s assumptions and estimates used for the
impairment test conducted on assets in fiscal 2016 could differ from the actual values in subsequent periods, necessitating
subsequent valuation adjustments. Management’s expectations
of future net cash flows therefore have an indirect impact on the
valuation of goodwill and other assets. The annual impairment
tests are based on a discount rate after taxes of 5.8 % (2015:
6.6 %), while the impairment tests as of the closing date are based
on a discount rate after taxes of 6.4 %. The impairment tests of
the cash-generating units showed no need for the recognition
of impairment charges in fiscal 2015 and 2016. Compared with
the prior year, no need for reversals of impairment charges recognized for assets in previous years was identified in fiscal 2016.
In 2015, the LANXESS Group and Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of
Saudi Aramco, agreed to enter into a strategic alliance for synthetic rubber, named ARLANXEO, in which each party holds a 50 %
interest. On the basis of the agreement, the recoverable amount
of the cash-generating units that belong to ARLANXEO – Butyl
Rubber, Performance Butadiene Rubbers, High Performance
Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers – was valued at €2.75 billion
in 2015. This was allocated among the four cash-generating units
on the basis of the respective fair value less costs of disposal.
The recoverable amount of the High Performance Elastomers
cash-generating unit, which is active in the production and marketing of synthetic rubbers with special technical properties for
processing industries, especially automotive, construction and
engineering, was valued at €464 million on the basis of future
anticipated business development. In the ARLANXEO segment
(2015: Performance Polymers segment), impairment testing
resulted in a reversal of less than €1 million of the impairment
charge on intangible assets and of €37 million of the impairment
charge on property, plant and equipment. The Antioxidants &
Accelerators cash-generating unit in the Advanced Intermediates segment was formed as a result of the reorganization of
the LANXESS Group effective January 1, 2015, through the
integration of the antioxidants and accelerators product lines of
the former Rubber Chemicals business unit into the Advanced
Industrial Intermediates business unit. As a result of the reorganization, the cost structures were optimized in 2015, and a
recoverable amount of €154 million was calculated. This led to a
reversal of impairment charges recognized on assets in previous
years of €2 million pertaining to property, plant and equipment
and €17 million pertaining to intangible assets. The fair value less

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles
Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise of Discretion

costs of disposal was calculated using net present value methods
which are allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The
reversal of the impairment charges was limited to the carrying
amount that would have existed if the impairment had not been
recognized and was reflected in other operating income in the
income statement and in the respective segments in the segment
reporting for 2015.
The annual impairment test for the principal goodwill items
is performed on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal. The
goodwill items are carried in local currency.
In fiscal 2016, the LANXESS Group acquired goodwill of
€93 million through the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect
specialties business of U.S. chemical company Chemours. The
newly acquired goodwill was allocated to the Material Protection
Products business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment
and tested for impairment as of the reporting date. As a result of
the newly acquired goodwill and currency effects, the goodwill
of the Material Protection Products business unit increased to
€125 million (2015: €28 million). The fair value less costs of
disposal was calculated using a net present value method which
is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
Further significant goodwill of €76 million (2015: €62 million)
relates to the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit. The change
in goodwill compared with the previous year is attributable to
currency effects. The Rhein Chemie Additives business unit has
goodwill of €21 million (2015: €21 million) and the High Performance Materials business unit carries goodwill of €18 million
(2015: €18 million).

185

Information on calculating the net cash flows can be found
in this chapter and the previous chapter. The Material Protection
Products business unit is dependent on the development of various industries, while the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit is
dependent in large part on market developments in the tire and automotive industries, and the Rhein Chemie Additives business unit
primarily on development in various processing industries. The
High Performance Materials business unit is influenced primarily
by market development in the automotive industry. The estimates
of future market developments on which detailed planning is
based are dependent on the respective customer industries and
draw on management’s past experience, taking account of internal
and external economic and industry-specific sources of information. Bearing in mind the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect
specialties business of the U.S. chemical company Chemours,
average annual sales growth of 5 % (2015: 4 %) is assumed for
the Material Protection Products cash-generating unit. The fiveyear planning period for the group of cash-generating units that
comprises the Tire & Specialty Rubber business unit assumes
average annual sales growth of 5 % (2015: 2 %). Average annual
sales growth of 4 % (2015: 4 %) is assumed for the Rhein Chemie
Additives cash-generating unit, and 2 % (2015: 1 %) for the High
Performance Materials cash-generating unit. No growth rates are
reflected in the perpetual annuity calculation. In the current fiscal
year, lower EBITDA values than in the last planning period are
assumed for the steady state for the Leather, Keltan Elastomers
and Butyl Rubber cash-generating units in the perpetual annuity
calculation. In 2015, in view of the overcapacities for synthetic
rubbers in the detailed planning period, it was expected that the
Tire & Synthetic Rubbers business unit would achieve higher
EBITDA for the perpetual annuity in the long term than in the
last planning year due to the anticipated increase in demand,
especially for higher-quality rubber products.
The impairment test performed on goodwill items in 2015
and 2016 did not indicate any need for recognition of impairment charges. Neither a one-percentage-point increase in the
discount rate nor a 10 % reduction in expected future net cash
flows would have led to the recognition of an impairment charge
on goodwill items.
The recognition and measurement of provisions are also
affected by assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timing,
the underlying discount rate and the absolute level of risk. The
LANXESS Group performed sensitivity analyses on all provisions
existing as of December 31, 2016, as required by the IFRS. These
involved calculating the impact of isolated variations in the parameters used, especially the forecast probability of occurrence,
discount rate and absolute level of risk. The outcome of these
sensitivity analyses shows that variations in the assumptions described above would not have a material impact on the level of
other provisions reported in the consolidated financial statements
of the LANXESS Group. For further information on the sensitivity
analyses relating to provisions for pension and other post-employment benefits, see Note [14].

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

186

Consolidated Financial Statements

Defined benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial
computations and measurements. The section on provisions for
pensions and other post-employment benefits contains information on the assumptions on which the actuarial calculations and
estimates were based (see Note [14]).
Further, the LANXESS Group is affected by legal disputes. As
an international chemicals group, LANXESS is exposed to administrative or court proceedings in the normal course of business and
may be again in the future. Administrative and court proceedings
generally involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are
therefore subject to a number of imponderables. The outcomes
of any current or future proceedings cannot be predicted with
certainty. It is therefore possible that legal judgments could give
rise to expenses that are not covered, or not fully covered, by
recognized provisions or equivalent insurance and that could
materially affect the business operations, revenues, earnings or
cash flows of the LANXESS Group.
The establishment of provisions for environmental protection
and remediation measures also involves uncertainty and requires
calculations and estimates of future costs. Information about
this can be found in the section headed “Other non-current and
current provisions” (see Note [15]).

There is also uncertainty surrounding the assessment of certain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the LANXESS
Group believes it has presented all tax-relevant information correctly and in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax
authorities may occasionally reach different conclusions. Provisions have been established where changes in tax assessments
are probable. In addition, charges from tax risks from previous
years are not considered to be likely. In the event of unfavorable
developments, LANXESS could be faced with additional charges
in the low-double-digit millions of euros. The calculations are
principally based on experience of the outcome of previous tax
audits and their impact on the subsequent periods and the applicable legislation, taking into account present legal practice
and prevailing opinion.
Other significant estimates and discretion are used to assess
the useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, the capitalization of development costs, the probability of
collecting receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventories and the ability to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets
recognized for temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards.
The first-time consolidation of business operations also involves
estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion in determining the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

187

Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise of Discretion
Companies Consolidated

COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED
The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group
include the parent company LANXESS AG and all domestic and
foreign affiliates.

GRI
G4–23

EMEA (excl.
Germany)

Germany

North America

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

Total

21

10

4

5

17

57

1

6

Fully consolidated companies
(incl. parent company)
Jan. 1, 2016
Additions

2

3

Retirements

0

Mergers
Changes
Dec. 31, 2016

(1)

(1)

1
24

1
9

7

5

18

63

Consolidated associates and
jointly controlled entities
Jan. 1, 2016

2

2

Additions

0

Retirements

0

Mergers

0

Changes
Dec. 31, 2016

0
0

2

0

0

0

2

3

1

1

3

1

9

1

1

Non-consolidated companies
Jan. 1, 2016
Additions
Retirements

1

(1)

(1)

(1)

Mergers
Changes
Dec. 31, 2016

3

(1)

0
1

2

2

3

2

10

24

13

5

8

18

68

2

1

4

Total
Jan. 1, 2016
Additions
Retirements

2

(1)

Mergers

(1)

(1)

Changes
Dec. 31, 2016

9
(1)
0

25

13

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

9

8

20

75

188

GRI
G4–23

Consolidated Financial Statements

The LANXESS Group and Aramco Overseas Holdings
Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of Saudi
Aramco, have formed a strategic alliance for the synthetic rubber
business named ARLANXEO in which each party holds a 50 %
interest. Financial closing of the transaction took place on April 1,
2016. ARLANXEO is still included in the consolidated financial
statements of the LANXESS Group and is fully consolidated
because the casting vote of the chairman of the Shareholders’
Committee of ARLANXEO, who is appointed by LANXESS, gives
LANXESS the opportunity to determine key aspects of its financial
and business policy.
In connection with the structuring of the strategic alliance, legal entities were renamed and new legal entities were established.
ARLANXEO-TRSC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd.,
Nantong, China, is a producer of nitrile rubber. LANXESS’s share
in its capital is 50 %. This company is fully consolidated because
LANXESS can determine key aspects of its financial and business
policy.
Also consolidated in the EMEA (excluding Germany) region
are the structured entities Dirlem (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South
Africa, and Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust,
Modderfontein, South Africa. The purpose of these structured
entities is to ensure employee participation in the company in
accordance with South Africa’s Black Economic Empowerment
legislation. LANXESS exercises control because the principal
business activities were defined by LANXESS when the structured
entities were established. LANXESS guarantees the value of the
interests in LANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein,
South Africa, held and managed by these structured entities. This
does not entail any material risks for the LANXESS Group.
DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, is included in
the consolidated financial statements as a joint operation on a
pro rata basis in accordance with IFRS 11 because the partners
exercise joint control and purchase most of its output between
them. The interest held by LANXESS in this company’s capital is
50 %. The purpose of the company is to produce polybutylene
terephthalate base resins and blends for the joint owners and their
affiliated companies. This business relationship does not involve
any material risks.
Further, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, is
an associate accounted for in the consolidated financial statements
using the equity method (see Note [3]). LANXESS’s share in its
capital is 40 %. Given its ability to contribute to material aspects of
financial and business policy decisions, LANXESS is able to exert
a significant influence. Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG principally
provides site services in the areas of energy, infrastructure and
logistics for LANXESS’s production sites in Germany. In view of its
status as a personally liable partner, LANXESS may be required to
inject further capital in the future. Transactions with this company
are outlined in Note [34].

Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain, and Rhein Chemie
(Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China, are production companies
in which LANXESS has a stake of 52 % and 90 %, respectively.
These companies are fully consolidated because LANXESS holds
the majority of the voting rights and therefore exercises control.
The non-controlling interests in these companies have a negligible
influence on the activities and cash flows of the LANXESS Group.
In the reporting period Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim, Germany, was merged with LANXESS Deutschland GmbH,
Cologne, Germany. The non-consolidated company LANXESS
Mining (Proprietary) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa, was liquidated. Further, Sechste LXS GmbH, Cologne, Germany, LANXESS
Thai Co., Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand, and LANXESS Additives Inc.,
Wilmington, United States, were established.
Cash transfers from companies in Argentina, Brazil, China,
India, Russia, South Africa and South Korea are subject to restrictions as a result of regulated capital markets. These affect
approximately 20 % (2015: 10 %) of the LANXESS Group’s cash,
cash equivalents and near-cash assets.
Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at cost. These
companies are immaterial to the LANXESS Group’s earnings, asset
and financial position, since together they account for less than
0.1 % of Group sales and less than 0.1 % of equity.

Acquisitions
The LANXESS Group acquired the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. chemical company Chemours effective
August 31, 2016. In this connection, LANXESS acquired all shares
in Antec International Ltd., Sudbury, Suffolk, United Kingdom;
International Dioxcide Inc., North Kingstown, United States; and
Chemours Jersey Ltd., St Helier, Jersey, and a production site in
Memphis, United States. Initial consolidation took place as of this
date. The preliminary purchase price of around €200 million was
paid out of existing liquidity. The new business was allocated to
the Material Protection Products business unit in the Performance
Chemicals segment. As well as expanding this business unit’s
active ingredient portfolio, it extends the veterinary disinfection
value chain through to the end market.
The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination
in accordance with IFRS 3. For the purchase price allocation, the
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business acquired were recognized at fair value. The purchase price
allocation was performed on the basis of the information available
on and immediately after the acquisition date. IFRS permits adjustment of the purchase price allocation within one year after the
acquisition date on the basis of new knowledge and information.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Companies Consolidated

Since the acquisition date, the new business has contributed sales of €28 million and has not had a material impact on
the earnings of the LANXESS Group. The earnings contribution
was influenced by remeasurement effects in connection with the
purchase price allocation. If the business had been acquired as of
January 1, 2016, the contribution to LANXESS Group sales would
have been approximately €62 million higher compared with the
acquisition date, while the contribution to Group earnings would
have been around €5 million higher.
The goodwill of €93 million resulting from the acquisition
reflects, in particular, additional business opportunities with existing and new customers, primarily in Asia and North America.
Approximately €69 million of the goodwill of €93 million is expected to be tax-deductible. Transaction costs of approximately
€3 million in connection with the acquisition are included in other
operating expenses.
The following table shows the effects of the acquisition on
the Group’s assets:
Additions from Acquisition

€ million

Fair values at first-time
consolidation

Non-current liabilities

Germany
LANXESS AG, Cologne

–

ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH, Dormagen

100

Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon

100

IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin

100

LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne

100

LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl

100

LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne

100

LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen

100

Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen

100

EMEA (excluding Germany)

100

9

100

10

ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands

50

3
132
16
9
25

Goodwill

Fully consolidated companies

ARLANXEO Emulsion Rubber S.A.S., La Wantzenau,
France

Total liabilities
Cost of acquisition

Interest held
%

100

Current liabilities
Net acquired assets (excl. goodwill)

Company Name and Domicile

ARLANXEO Elastomères S.A.S., Lillebonne, France

16

Total assets

The following table lists the affiliated companies in accordance with Section 313, Paragraph 2 of the German Commercial
Code:

100

Property, plant and equipment

Other assets

GRI
G4–17
G4–23

ARLANXEO Belgium N.V., Zwijndrecht, Belgium

94

Trade receivables

Other information on companies
consolidated

Antec International Ltd., Sudbury, Suffolk, U.K.

Intangible assets
Inventories

189

ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V.,
Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands

100

ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A., Granges-Paccot,
Switzerland

100

Chemours Jersey Ltd., St Helier, Jersey

100

107

Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain

200

­L ANXESS (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa

100

­ ANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o.,
L
Bratislava, Slovakia

100

LANXESS CISA (Pty.) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa

100

LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain

100

­ ANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty.) Ltd.,
L
Modderfontein, South Africa

100

­L ANXESS Epierre SAS, Epierre, France

100

­L ANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Istanbul, Turkey

100

­L ANXESS Limited, Newbury, U.K.

100

­L ANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium

100

­L ANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France

100

­L ANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy

100

OOO L
­ ANXESS, Moscow, Russia

100

OOO L
­ ANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia

100

Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V.,
Ede, Netherlands

100

Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd.,
Newbury, U.K.

100

93

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

52

190

GRI
G4–17

Consolidated Financial Statements

Company Name and Domicile 

Company Name and Domicile 
Interest held
%

Fully consolidated companies

Interest held
%
Structured entities

North America

EMEA (excluding Germany)

ARLANXEO Canada Inc., Sarnia, Canada

100

Dirlem (RF) (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa

ARLANXEO USA Holdings Corp., Pittsburgh, U.S.A.

100

ARLANXEO USA LLC, Pittsburgh, U.S.A.

100

Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust,
­Modderfontein, South Africa

International Dioxcide Inc., North Kingstown, U.S.A.

100

­L ANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S.A.

100

­L ANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S.A.

100

Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A.

100

Latin America

49
0

Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries
Germany
LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Cologne

100

Sechste LXS GmbH, Cologne

100

ARLANXEO Brasil S.A., Duque de Caxias, Brazil

100

LANXESS Industria de Produtos Quimicos e Plasticos
Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil

100

­L ANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico

100

­L ANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina

100

North America

Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay

100

LANXESS Additives Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A.

100

­L ANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, U.S.A.

100

EMEA (excluding Germany)
W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, U.K.

100

Asia-Pacific
Latin America

ARLANXEO High Performance Elastomers (Changzhou)
Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China

100

Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago, Chile

100

ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore

100

Petroflex Trading S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay

100

ARLANXEO-TSRC (Nantong)
Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China

50

Asia-Pacific

­ ANXESS Elastomers Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.,
L
Shanghai, China

100

­L ANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China

100

­L ANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China

100

­ ANXESS (Ningbo) Pigments Co., Ltd.,
L
Ningbo City, China

100

­L ANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China

100

Latin America

­L ANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong

100

Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serra, Brazil

­L ANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India

100

­L ANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan

100

­L ANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, South Korea

100

­L ANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore

100

­L ANXESS PTY Ltd., Lidcombe, Australia

100

­L ANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China

100

­L ANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China

100

LANXESS (Wuxi) High Performance Composite
Materials Company Limited, Wuxi, China

100

Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China

LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand

100

PCTS Specialty Chemicals Malaysia (M) Sdn. Bhd.,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

100

Other non-consolidated immaterial companies

90

Jointly controlled entity
Germany
DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm

50

Associate accounted for using the equity method
Germany
Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen

40

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

39

191

Companies Consolidated
Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

NOTES TO THE STATEMENT
OF FINANCIAL POSITION
1 | Intangible Assets
Changes in intangible assets were as follows:
Changes in Intangible Assets in 2015

€ million

Acquired
goodwill

Other
intangible assets

Advance
payments

Total
553

164

361

28

Acquisitions

Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2014

–

–

–

0

Capital expenditures

–

6

14

20

Disposals

–

(2)

–

(2)

Reclassifications

–

6

(6)

0

Exchange differences

(16)

(3)

0

(19)

Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2015

148

368

36

552

Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2014

(13)

(220)

0

(233)

Amortization and write-downs in 2015

–

(31)

0

(31)

–

0

–

0

Reversals of impairment charges

–

2

–

2

Disposals

–

2

–

2

Reclassifications

–

0

0

0

Exchange differences

1

7

–

8

Accumulated amortization and write-downs,
Dec. 31, 2015

(12)

(240)

0

(252)

Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2015

136

128

36

300

of which write-downs

Changes in Intangible Assets in 2016 
Acquired
goodwill

Other
intangible assets

Advance
payments

Total

148

368

36

552

93

94

–

187

Capital expenditures

–

10

15

25

Disposals

–

(7)

0

(7)

–

15

(15)

0

20

7

0

27

€ million
Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2015
Acquisitions

Reclassifications
Exchange differences
Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2016

261

487

36

784

Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2015

(12)

(240)

0

(252)

Amortization and write-downs in 2016

–

(33)

0

(33)

–

0

0

0

Reversals of impairment charges

–

–

–

0

Disposals

–

4

0

4

Reclassifications

–

0

0

0

(1)

(8)

–

(9)

Accumulated amortization and write-downs,
Dec. 31, 2016

(13)

(277)

0

(290)

Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2016

248

210

36

494

of which write-downs

Exchange differences

The changes due to acquisitions in fiscal 2016 relate to the
acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S.

chemical company Chemours. In the previous year, reversals of
impairment charges on other intangible assets related to impairment charges recognized on assets of the cash-generating units
in previous years.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

192

Consolidated Financial Statements

2 | Property, Plant and Equipment
Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows:
Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2015 
Land and
buildings

Technical
equipment and
machinery

Other fixtures,
fittings and
equipment

Advance payments
and assets under
construction

Total

1,587

6,852

316

861

9,616

–

–

–

–

0

40

155

23

219

437

Disposals

(27)

(123)

(17)

(2)

(169)

Reclassifications

220

567

15

(802)

0

1

27

(1)

35

62

Cost of acquisition or
construction, Dec. 31, 2015

1,821

7,478

336

311

9,946

Accumulated depreciation and
­w rite-downs, Dec. 31, 2014

(965)

(5,041)

(231)

(46)

(6,283)

Depreciation and write-downs
in 2015

(55)

(346)

(38)

(4)

(443)

(1)

(18)

(2)

(4)

(25)

Reversals of impairment charges

21

30

1

2

54

Disposals

27

122

17

2

168

(11)

(33)

1

43

0

4

0

0

1

5

(979)

(5,268)

(250)

(2)

(6,499)

842

2,210

86

309

3,447

€ million
Cost of acquisition or construction,
Dec. 31, 2014
Acquisitions
Capital expenditures

Exchange differences

of which write-downs

Reclassifications
Exchange differences
Accumulated depreciation and
write-downs, Dec. 31, 2015
Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2015

Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2016 
Land and
buildings

Technical
equipment and
machinery

Other fixtures,
fittings and
equipment

Advance payments
and assets under
construction

Total

1,821

7,478

336

311

9,946

4

11

0

1

16

25

129

21

262

437
(170)

€ million
Cost of acquisition or construction,
Dec. 31, 2015
Acquisitions
Capital expenditures

(10)

(138)

(22)

0

Reclassifications

Disposals

30

165

16

(211)

0

Exchange differences

30

110

7

14

161

Cost of acquisition or
construction, Dec. 31, 2016

1,900

7,755

358

377

10,390

Accumulated depreciation and
­w rite-downs, Dec. 31, 2015

(979)

(5,268)

(250)

(2)

(6,499)

(61)

(353)

(34)

0

(448)

(2)

(6)

(1)

0

(9)

Reversals of impairment charges

0

0

0

–

0

Disposals

7

137

22

0

166

Depreciation and write-downs in
2016
of which write-downs

Reclassifications
Exchange differences
Accumulated depreciation and
write-downs, Dec. 31, 2016
Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2016

0

0

0

0

0

(13)

(72)

(4)

(1)

(90)

(1,046)

(5,556)

(266)

(3)

(6,871)

854

2,199

92

374

3,519

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

193

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

The changes due to acquisitions in fiscal 2016 relate to the
acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S.
chemical company Chemours.
Write-downs were recognized on land and buildings, technical
equipment and machinery, and other fixtures, fittings and equipment due to reorganization and other value-decreasing events.
The reversals of impairment charges in 2015 related to impairment charges recognized in previous years on assets of the
cash-generating units.
Capitalized property, plant and equipment includes assets
with the following gross and net values held under finance leases:

Data from the Income Statement and
Statement of Comprehensive Income 
€ million

2015

2016

Sales

1,251

1,212

Operating result (EBIT)

75

110

Income after income taxes

27

81

Other comprehensive income,
net of income tax

53

(57)

Total comprehensive income

80

24

Data from the Statement of Financial Position 
Assets Held Under Finance Leases
Dec. 31, 2015

€ million

Dec. 31, 2016

€ million

Gross
carrying
amount

Net
­c arrying
amount

Gross
carrying
amount

Net
­c arrying
amount

Buildings

3

2

4

2

Technical equipment
and machinery

91

60

88

Fittings and equipment

18

9

19

10

112

71

111

68

56

Directly attributable borrowing costs of €2 million (2015:
€6 million) were capitalized. An average cost of debt for the
LANXESS Group of 3.5 % in 2016 (2015: 3.1 %) was used for
capitalization.

3 | Investments Accounted for
Using the Equity Method
As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, was accounted for using the equity method.
The following tables show the main items of the income statements, statements of comprehensive income and statements of
financial position of that company:

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

Non-current assets

662

739

Current assets

526

582

Total assets

1,188

1,321

Non-current liabilities

1,026

1,106

Current liabilities

272

307

Total liabilities

1,298

1,413

Equity

(110)

(92)

Adjustment of LANXESS’s interest and
equity valuation

56

45

Pro rata loss not recognized in consolidated
financial statements

54

47

0

0

Investments accounted for using
the equity method

The carrying amount of the investment in Currenta GmbH &
Co. OHG was unchanged from the previous year at €0 million. As
of the reporting date, a share of the losses amounting to €47 million (2015: €54 million) was not recognized in the consolidated financial statements. This loss declined by a net amount of
€7 million in the reporting period due to income of €32 million,
which was countered primarily by a loss of €23 million that was
recognized in other comprehensive income and would not subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss. In the previous year,
the unrecognized loss declined by €32 million due to income of
€11 million and gains of €21 million recognized in other comprehensive income.

4 | Investments in Other
Affiliated Companies
This item contains interests in other affiliated companies
totaling €12 million (2015: €12 million).
As of December 31, 2016, all the other investments classified
as available-for-sale financial assets – apart from the shares in
BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States – comprised unlisted
equity instruments. Since the fair values of these instruments
at the closing date could not be reliably determined, they were
recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of
these investments.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

194

Consolidated Financial Statements

5 | Derivative Financial Instruments
The derivative financial instruments held by the LANXESS
Group comprise forward exchange contracts and forward commodity contracts. They are capitalized in the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2016 at a total fair value of €66 million
(2015: €15 million). Instruments with a negative fair value totaling
€49 million (2015: €119 million) are recognized as liabilities.
Derivative Financial Instruments 
Dec. 31, 2015
€ million
Current forward
exchange contracts

Notional
amount

Positive
fair values

Negative
fair values

2,334

14

(100)

463

1

(19)

Non-current forward
exchange contracts
Current forward commodity
contracts

–

–

–

2,797

15

(119)

Derivative Financial Instruments

The LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized losses
on currency hedges recognized in other comprehensive income
in 2016, €12 million will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss
in 2017 and €2 million in 2018 (2015: €54 million in 2016 and
€8 million in 2017).

Forward commodity contracts
The unrealized gains recognized in other comprehensive income in fiscal 2016 for forward commodity transactions that qualify
for hedge accounting amounted to €0 million. The notional amount
of the forward commodity contracts held for hedging purposes
was €4 million and they had a positive fair value of €0 million on
December 31, 2016. The contracts were due within one year and
the hedged cash flows will be realized within the next year. There
were no forward commodity contracts in the previous year.
Information on the maturity structure of derivative assets and
liabilities is given in Note [36].

6 | Other Non-Current and Current
Financial Assets
Other Financial Assets

Dec. 31, 2016
€ million
Current forward
exchange contracts
Non-current forward
exchange contracts
Current forward commodity
contracts

Notional
amount
2,725
121

Positive
fair values
65
1

Dec. 31, 2015
Negative
fair values
(42)

€ million

4

0

–

66

(49)

Current

Total

1

0

1

Other financial receivables

20

4

24

21

4

25

(7)

2,850

Non-current

Available-for-sale financial
assets

Other Financial Assets
Dec. 31, 2016

Cash flow hedges

€ million

As of December 31, 2016, the unrealized losses recognized in
other comprehensive income in 2016 or earlier periods from currency hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting amounted to €14 million (2015: €62 million). In 2016, €36 million was
reclassified from equity to profit or loss due to the realization of the
hedged transactions and recognized as a loss (2015: €102 million).
Currency hedging contracts concluded to hedge future sales in
foreign currencies had a total notional amount of €452 million
(2015: €1,268 million). As of December 31, 2016, these contracts had positive fair values of €7 million (2015: €4 million) and
negative fair values of €26 million (2015: €91 million). Contracts
with a total notional amount of €357 million (2015: €881 million)
were due within one year. The hedged cash flows will be realized
within the next two years.

Non-current

Current

Total

Available-for-sale financial
assets

1

176

177

Other financial receivables

18

1,954

1,972

19

2,130

2,149

The other non-current financial receivables mainly comprise
loans granted to site service providers. The increase in availablefor-sale financial assets and current financial receivables mainly
relates to the investment of liquid funds in connection with the
issue of bonds. Write-downs of other financial assets amounted to
€0 million, as in the previous year. They related to other financial
assets that have been written down entirely.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

195

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

7|N
 on-Current and Current Income
Tax Receivables

10 | Trade Receivables

The non-current income tax receivables amounting to €7 million (2015: €11 million) mainly comprise minimum tax payments
already made that are offsettable in the future.
The increase in current income tax receivables to €67 million
(2015: €44 million) mainly results from prepayment of taxes and
from receivables relating to disputed tax issues where reimbursement is considered probable.

All trade receivables – totaling €1,088 million (2015: €956 million) – are due within one year. Of the trade receivables, €3 million
(2015: €8 million) pertained to investments accounted for using the
equity method and €1,085 million (2015: €948 million) pertained
to other customers.
Trade receivables as of December 31, 2016, are stated after
write-downs of €17 million (2015: €16 million) on gross receivables of €19 million (2015: €17 million).
The changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as
follows:

8 | Other Non-Current Assets
Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less
any write-downs. No write-downs were made in 2015 or 2016.
The other non-current assets amounting to €25 million
(2015: €27 million) mainly include periodic accruals and other
reimbursement claims.

Write-Downs of Trade Receivables 
€ million

2015

2016

January 1

(17)

(16)

(4)

(4)

Additions charged as expenses
Reversals/utilization

4

4

Exchange differences

1

(1)

(16)

(17)

December 31

9 | Inventories
The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprised:
Inventories
€ million
Raw materials and supplies
Work in process, finished goods and
­merchandise

The maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was
as follows:
Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

257

275

1,092

1,154

1,349

1,429

€ million
Carrying amount
of which neither impaired nor past due

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

956

1,088

858

954

of which unimpaired but past due by
up to 30 days

76

109

between 31 and 60 days

11

12

between 61 and 90 days

2

4

more than 90 days

8

7

Inventories of €210 million (2015: €216 million) are reflected
at net realizable value.
The changes in write-downs of inventories were as follows:
With regard to trade receivables that were neither impaired
nor past due, there were no indications as of the closing date that
the respective debtors would not meet their payment obligations.

Write-Downs of Inventories 
€ million

2015

2016

January 1

(127)

(107)

(70)

(49)

92

53

Additions charged as expenses
Reversals/utilization
Changes in scope of consolidation
Exchange differences
December 31

0

–

(2)

(1)

(107)

(104)

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

196

Consolidated Financial Statements

11 | Near-Cash Assets
The near-cash assets of €40 million (2015: €100 million)
comprise units of money market funds that can be sold at any
time and are expected to be realized within twelve months after
the closing date.

12 | Other Current Assets
Other receivables and other assets totaling €184 million
(2015: €206 million) are stated at amortized cost less any writedowns, which amounted to €1 million in the reporting period
(2015: €0 million). They principally comprise miscellaneous claims
for tax refunds amounting to €145 million (2015: €137 million),
mainly pertaining to sales taxes, and other reimbursement claims
from goods and service transactions totaling €30 million (2015:
€50 million). The year-on-year decline is mainly attributable to
settlement of a receivable relating to site services in Germany.

13 | Equity
Capital stock
The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936
as of December 31, 2016, and is composed of 91,522,936 no-par
bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations.
One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share.

Authorized capital
As of December 31, 2016, the company’s authorized capital
comprised the following:
Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of LANXESS AG’s articles
of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2013,
authorized the Board of Management until May 22, 2018, with the
approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the capital stock on
one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares against cash
or contributions in kind up to a total amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3
of LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’
Meeting on May 13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management
until May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to
increase the company’s capital stock on one or more occasions
by issuing new no-par shares against cash or contributions in
kind up to a total amount of €18,304,587 (Authorized Capital II).
Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights when
Authorized Capital I and II are utilized. However, these rights can
be excluded in certain cases which are defined in Section 4, Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the articles of association of LANXESS AG.
When deciding to exclude stockholders’ subscription rights for
Authorized Capital II, the Board of Management will take into
consideration that the authorizations granted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, for capital measures under

exclusion of the stockholders’ subscription may only be used up
to a maximum amount of 20 % of the capital stock that exists at the
time the resolution is passed. The shares issued from Authorized
Capital II under exclusion of subscription rights by way of capital
increases against contributions in kind shall not exceed 10 % of
the capital stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed.
The Board of Management will be bound by this condition until a
future Annual Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize
the Board of Management to implement capital measures under
exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights. Authorized Capital I
and II have not yet been utilized.

Conditional capital
As of December 31, 2016, the company’s conditional capital
comprised the following:
The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on
May 13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management until May 22,
2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one
or more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds,
profit-participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination
of these instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as
either registered or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value
of up to €1,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, and
to grant option rights to, or impose exercise obligations on, the
holders or creditors of these bonds in respect of bearer shares
of the company representing a total pro rata increase of up to
€18,304,587 in the company’s capital stock on the terms to be
defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of the
articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus
conditionally increased by up to €18,304,587 (Conditional Capital).
The Board of Management is authorized, with the approval of
the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights in certain
cases, which are set out in further detail in the authorization. When
deciding on the exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights,
the Board of Management will take into consideration that the
issue of shares on the basis of other authorizations granted by
the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, for capital
measures under exclusion of the stockholders’ subscription rights
may only be used up to a maximum amount of 20 % of the capital
stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed. The Board of
Management will be bound by this condition until a future Annual
Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of
Management to implement capital measures under exclusion of
stockholders’ subscription rights. The authorization to issue bonds
has not yet been utilized.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

Share buyback and retirement

197

Data on the ARLANXEO Subgroup

The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on
May 20, 2016, authorized the Board of Management until May 19,
2021, to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10 %
of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted
by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of
the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its
subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such
shares may be acquired either on the market or via a public tender
offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any
purpose permitted by law, especially the purposes specifically
listed in the authorization. So far, no shares in the company have
been purchased on the basis of this authorization.

Interest held and Proportional Voting Rights
%
Interest held

50

Proportional voting rights

50

Data from Income Statement and Statement of
comprehensive Income
€ million

2016

Sales

2,087

Income after income taxes

Capital reserves
The capital reserves of LANXESS AG are unchanged from
the previous year at €1,225,652,280.

2016

6

Other comprehensive income, net of income tax

105

Total comprehensive income

111

Income after income taxes attributable to
non-controlling interests

3

Other reserves
The €56 million decrease in other reserves to €1,257 million
was principally attributable to the reduction in retained earnings
from €1,154 million to €1,098 million.
Retained earnings comprise prior years’ undistributed income
of companies included in the consolidated financial statements.
They also contain remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability from post-employment benefit plans and the related tax effects.

Other equity components
The other equity components mainly comprise exchange
differences from the translation of operations outside the eurozone and remeasurements of derivatives for purposes of cash
flow hedge accounting.

Data from Statement of Financial Position
€ million

Dec. 31, 2016

Non-current assets

2,070

Current assets

1,369

Total assets

3,439

Non-current liabilities

347

Current liabilities

760

Total liabilities

1,107

Equity attributable to non-controlling interests

1,170

Dividend attributable to non-controlling interests

–

Data from Statement of Cash Flows

Non-controlling interests
In connection with the establishment of the ARLANXEO strategic alliance as of April 1, 2016, the interest held by Aramco Overseas
Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary
of Saudi Aramco, in ARLANXEO is reflected in non-controlling
interests.
This global subgroup, whose parent company is ARLANXEO
Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands, is presented in full in
the following tables as the individual companies are not material
for the LANXESS Group.

€ million
Net cash provided by operating activities

2016
204

Net cash used in investing activities

(159)

Net cash used in financing activities

(19)

Change in cash and cash equivalents from
business activities

26

The other shareholder, Aramco Overseas Holding Coöperatief
U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, has protective rights in respect of,
among other things, decisions on changes in the business model,
equity, shareholder rights and the payment of a dividend.
The transaction with owners totaling €1,196 million is preliminary and may still change when the final purchase price is
determined.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

198

Consolidated Financial Statements

Capital management
The main purpose of capital management in the LANXESS
Group is to maintain the long-term viability of the business operations and achieve an attractive return on capital compared
with the chemical industry average. LANXESS’s financial policy
defines an additional condition for capital management, which is
to maintain an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the
Group has to meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most
of these are derived from the statement of financial position, the
income statement or the statement of cash flows. Details can be
found in the section headed “Value management and control
system” in the combined management report for fiscal 2016.
Capital management in the LANXESS Group entails decisions
by the relevant internal bodies on the capital structure shown
on the statement of financial position, the appropriateness of the
company’s equity, the use of the distributable profit, the amount
of the dividend, the financing of capital expenditures, and thus on
issuances or repayments of debt. The articles of association of
LANXESS AG do not contain any specific capital requirements.

14 | P
 rovisions for Pensions and Other
Post-Employment Benefits
Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to retirement benefits on the basis of contractual agreements or statutory
regulations. These are provided through defined contribution or
defined benefit plans.

Defined contribution plans
In the case of defined contribution plans, the company pays
contributions into separate pension funds. These contributions are
included in the functional cost items as expenses for the respective
year, and thus in the operating result. Once the contributions have
been paid, the company has no further payment obligations. Payments to defined contribution plans in 2016 totaled €49 million
(2015: €48 million).

Multi-employer plans
The pension plan in Germany financed through Bayer-Pensionskasse is also accounted for in the consolidated financial
statements as a defined contribution plan. The above amounts
include contributions of €26 million (2015: €26 million) to BayerPensions­kasse. Contributions of about the same amount are expected for the following fiscal year.

Bayer-Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurance company and is therefore subject to the German Insurance
Supervision Act. Since the obligations of the participating entities
are not confined to payment of the contributions for the respective
fiscal year, Bayer-Pensionskasse constitutes a defined benefit
multi-employer plan and therefore would generally have to be
accounted for pro rata as a defined benefit plan.
Bayer-Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of coverage for individual benefit entitlements, but on the actuarial equivalence principle, based on totals for the whole plan. This means
that the sum of existing plan assets and the present value of future
contributions must be at least equal to the present value of the
future benefits payable under the plan. The LANXESS Group is
therefore exposed to the actuarial risks of the other entities participating in Bayer-Pensionskasse. Thus no consistent or reliable
basis exists for allocating the benefit obligation, plan assets and
costs that would enable LANXESS to account for Bayer-Pensions­
kasse as a defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19. As
contributions are based on future coverage of the total obligation,
all participating entities pay contributions at the same rates based
on the employee income levels on which social security contributions are payable. Bayer-Pensionskasse is therefore accounted for
as a defined contribution plan and not as a defined benefit plan.
There are no minimum funding requirements, nor is there any
information that could be used to estimate the future contributions
on the basis of current under- or overfunding. The statutes do
not provide for the sharing of any surplus or shortfall in the event
that Bayer-Pensionskasse is wound up or LANXESS ceases to
participate.
LANXESS’s share of the total contributions to Bayer-Pensions­
kasse was unchanged from the previous year at approximately
16 %. Bayer-Pensionskasse has been closed to new members
since January 1, 2005.

Defined benefit plans
The global post-employment benefit obligations are calculated
at regular intervals – at least every three years – by an independent
actuary using the projected unit credit method. Comprehensive
actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for all major
post-employment benefit plans.
Contractually based defined benefit pension plans exist primarily in Germany, Canada and Brazil.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

The defined benefit pension obligations in Germany mainly
relate to lifelong benefits payable in the event of death or disability or when the employee reaches retirement age. Benefits are
determined on the basis of the total annual pension increments
earned during the period of employment and vary according to
employees’ individual salaries. Additional pension entitlements
exist that are related to salary components set aside by employees
and are payable when they reach retirement age. Alongside direct
commitments, the pension adjustment obligation assumed by
Bayer-Pensionskasse is accounted for in a separate defined benefit
plan in accordance with Section 16 of the German Occupational
Pensions Improvement Act (BetrAVG).
In Canada, the defined benefit obligations comprise, in particular, lifelong pension benefits, which are payable in the event
of disability or death or when the employee reaches retirement
age. The level of these benefits is determined from the total annual
pension increments earned during the period of employment,
depending on the employee’s individual salary and the actual
date of retirement. The existing defined benefit pension plans are
closed to new members.
In Brazil, the defined benefit obligations comprise lifelong
benefits, principally in the event of death or disability or when
the employee reaches retirement age. The benefits are calculated according to the total annual pension increments earned
during the period of employment and also depend on individual
salary, the number of years for which statutory social insurance
contributions have been paid, and comparable statutory pension
benefits. The principal defined benefit pension plans are closed
to new members.
Only limited defined benefit pension obligations exist on the
basis of statutory regulations. These principally comprise obligations to make a lump-sum payment if employment is terminated.
The amount of this payment mainly depends on years of service
and final salary.
The other post-employment benefit obligations primarily relate
to the reimbursement of retirees’ healthcare costs in North and
South America. The other post-employment benefit obligations
in Germany comprise other long-term benefits payable to employees and benefits payable upon termination of employment.
These are mainly early-retirement benefits and collectively agreed
salary components granted in the form of pension benefits. They
are included in pension provisions as they are by nature pension
entitlements.

199

Financing of the defined benefit pension obligations is
achieved both internally through provisions and externally through
legally independent pension funds. The pension obligations in
Germany are partly covered on a voluntary basis via LANXESS
Pension Trust e. V., Leverkusen, Germany. The allocation of funds
to the LANXESS Pension Trust e. V. is dependent on future decisions by the company. In Canada and Brazil, it is mandatory
to primarily finance pension obligations through pension funds.
Allocations to pension funds in these countries are determined by
the regulatory environments and the need to comply with funding
regulations. Contributions are paid mainly by the employer. The
investment strategy is determined principally by the LANXESS
Corporate Pension Committee and is designed to protect the capital, optimally manage risks, take into account changes in pension
obligations and ensure the timely availability of pension assets. At
the regional level, the strategy is generally directly coordinated
and monitored by representatives of LANXESS via the relevant
committees of the pension funds or of LANXESS Pension Trust
e. V., taking regulatory requirements into account. In Brazil, the
investment of plan assets forms an integral part of the pension
fund’s overall investment strategy and is basically managed and
supervised by the pension fund.
Minimum funding requirements may have to be met for defined benefit obligations in both Brazil and Canada. These depend
on the local regulatory framework and are reflected in additional
pension provisions. Funding surpluses from defined benefit plans
are recognized as receivables relating to pension obligations to
the extent that they can be used to reduce future contributions,
taking into account the asset ceiling. These mainly relate to defined
benefit plans in Brazil. The respective calculations are based on
actuarial valuations.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

200

Consolidated Financial Statements

In 2016, total expenses of €74 million (2015: €76 million) for
defined benefit plans were recognized in profit or loss and are split
between the operating result and the financial result as follows:

The table shows the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income rather than profit or loss in 2016:
Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income

Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans

Pension plans

Pension plans

€ million

Other
post- ­employment
benefit plans

2015

2016

2015

2016

39

35

1

6

Operating result
Current service cost
Past service cost

0

1

0

0

Gains/losses from settlements

0

–

–

–

Administration expenses/taxes

1

0

0

Actuarial gains/losses from
changes in financial ­assumptions

–

–

0

Amounts recognized in
profit or loss

31
71

28
64

4
5

Return on plan assets excluding
amounts included in interest
Actuarial gains/losses
from c­ hanges in demographic
assumptions

2015

2016

2015

2016

(56)

(5)

0

0

0

(1)

0

0

0

Actuarial gains/losses from
changes in financial ­assumptions

81

(247)

9

(5)

0

Actuarial gains/losses from
­experience adjustments

17

(17)

5

1

4

Changes in effects of the
asset ceiling

20

41

–

–

7

0

–

–

69

(229)

14

(4)

Financial result
Net interest

€ million

Other
post- ­employment
benefit plans

10

Changes in effects of minimum
funding requirements
Amounts recognized in other
comprehensive income

Administration expenses in the operating result contain
expenses from the investment of assets that are not directly attributable to the earning of income on plan assets. The costs
of managing the plan assets that are directly attributable to the
earning of income on plan assets are recognized in other comprehensive income.
The actuarial gains and losses relate to other non-current
employee benefits or termination benefits that are included in
pension provisions because they are by nature retirement benefits.
The net interest is the balance of the interest expense from
compounding the defined benefit obligation, interest expense from
changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding
requirements, and interest income from plan assets.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

201

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

The change in the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans is shown in the following table:

The defined benefit obligation developed as follows:
Changes in Defined Benefit Obligation

Changes in Net Defined Benefit Liability

Pension plans

Pension plans

Other
post- ­employment
benefit plans

€ million

2015

2016

2015

2016

Net defined benefit liability,
January 1

1,130

1,091

160

124

Amounts recognized in
profit or loss

71

64

5

10

(69)

229

(14)

4

Employer contributions

(14)

(234)

(1)

0

Benefits paid

(24)

(27)

(23)

(23)

Business combinations

0

1

0

0

Exchange differences

(3)

5

(3)

5

Amounts recognized in other
comprehensive income

Net defined benefit liability,
December 31

1,091

1,129

124

120

Amounts recognized in
the statement of financial
position
Receivables from pension
obligations

€ million

0

–

–

Provisions for pensions and other
post-employment benefits

1,091

1,129

124

120

Net defined benefit liability,
December 31

1,091

1,129

124

120

Defined benefit obligation,
January 1

2016

2015

2016

131

2,178

2,017

166

Current service cost

39

35

1

6

Interest expense

88

90

4

4

Actuarial gains/losses from
changes in demographic
assumptions

0

1

0

0

Actuarial gains/losses from
changes in financial assumptions

(81)

247

(9)

5

Actuarial gains/losses from
experience adjustments

(17)

17

(5)

(1)

0

1

0

0

Gains from settlements

(1)

–

–

–

Employee contributions

2

2

–

–
(23)

Past service cost

(85)

(82)

(23)

Disbursements for settlements

–

–

0

–

Business combinations

0

2

0

0

Other additions

The expected cash outflows for employer contributions and
benefit payments in 2017 are €26 million and €51 million, respectively, based on year-end 2016 exchange rates. In the previous year,
the expected cash outflows for employer contributions and benefit
payments in 2015 were €15 billion and €48 million, respectively,
based on exchange rates at year end 2015.
The components of the reconciliation of the net recognized
liability are explained in the following tables, which show the
development of the defined benefit obligation, the external plan
assets and the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding
requirements and explain the major changes.

2015

Defined benefit obligation

Benefits paid
0

Other
post- ­employment
benefit plans

Administration expenses/taxes
Exchange differences
Defined benefit obligation,
December 31

1

0

–

–

(1)

(1)

0

0

(106)

93

(3)

5

2,017

2,422

131

127

Of the defined benefit obligation for pensions, Germany accounts for 60 % (2015: 61 %), Canada for 20 % (2015: 22 %) and
Brazil for 15 % (2015: 11 %).
The other post-employment benefit obligations comprise
€67 million (2015: €58 million) for the reimbursement of health
care costs and €60 million (2015: €73 million) for miscellaneous
other benefit commitments. The actuarial gains and losses from
changes in demographic assumptions in 2016 mainly resulted
from chan­ges in the law on early retirement in Belgium. Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability due to changes in actuarial
gains and losses resulting from changes in financial assumptions
are mainly attributable to changes in the discount rates for defined benefit obligations in the main countries of relevance for
LANXESS.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

202

Consolidated Financial Statements

In 2016, the past service cost for pension obligations related to early-retirement agreements, to improvements to existing
benefit entitlements for employees taking early retirement, and
to severance agreements.
Gains from settlements in the previous year resulted from
the closure of defined benefit pension plans in Spain as a result
of their conversion into defined contribution plans.
The effects shown under business combinations in 2016
relate to the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties
business of the U.S. chemical company Chemours, which was
closed on August 31, 2016, and contain benefit obligations for
employees in India and Switzerland.
The exchange differences pertaining to defined benefit obligations mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates for
the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real.
The change in external plan assets is shown in the following
table:
Changes in External Plan Assets
Pension plans

€ million

Other
post- ­employment
benefit plans

2015

2016

2015

2016

1,125

970

6

7

64

67

0

0

Plan assets at fair value
Plan assets, January 1
Interest income
Return on plan assets excluding
amounts included in interest

(56)

(5)

0

0

Losses from settlements

(1)

–

–

–

Employer contributions

14

234

1

0

Employee contributions

2

2

–

–

(61)

(55)

0

0

Benefits paid
Disbursements for settlements

–

–

–

–

Business combinations

0

1

0

0

1

–

–

–

Other additions
Costs of managing plan assets/
taxes
Exchange differences
Plan assets, December 31

Of the plan assets, Canada accounts for 34 % (2015: 42 %),
Brazil for 26 % (2015: 27 %) and Germany for 33 % (2015: 23 %).
Employer contributions are used both for external funding
of pension obligations where LANXESS is eligible for reimbursements of pension payments and for external funding of pension
obligations where subsequent pension payments will be made
directly out of external plan assets.
The latter type of obligations totaled €34 million in 2016
(2015: €14 million). External funding where LANXESS can assert reimbursement claims mainly pertains to LANXESS Pension
Trust e. V. Additional funding of €200 million was provided to
LANXESS Pension Trust e.V in 2016. No additional funding was
provided in the previous year.
Losses from settlements in the previous year resulted from
the closure of defined benefit pension plans in Spain as a result
of their conversion into defined contribution plans.
The effects shown under business combinations in 2016
relate to the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties
business of the U.S. chemical company Chemours, which was
closed on August 31, 2016, and contain benefit obligations for
employees in India and Switzerland.
The exchange differences pertaining to plan assets mainly
resulted from changes in the exchange rates for the Canadian
dollar and the Brazilian real.
Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum
funding requirements are shown in the following table:
Changes in Effects of Asset Ceilings and Minimum Funding
Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans
Effects of the
asset ceiling

Minimum funding
requirements

€ million

2015

2016

2015

2016

January 1

59

33

18

11

6

5

1

0

(7)

0

Interest expense
(1)

0

0

Additions (deductions)

(20)

(41)

(116)

91

0

0

Exchange differences

(12)

3

(1)

0

970

1,304

7

7

December 31

33

0

11

11

(2)

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

203

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling mainly relate to the
Brazilian defined benefit pension plans, while changes in minimum
funding requirements relate to the Canadian plans.
The fair value of plan assets comprises:

The following weighted valuation assumptions were used for
the other parameters:
Valuation Assumptions as of December 31
Pension plans

Breakdown of Plan Assets as of December 31
€ million
Cash and cash equivalents
of which quoted in an active market
Equity instruments
of which quoted in an active market
Government bonds
of which quoted in an active market
Corporate bonds
of which quoted in an active market
Investment funds
of which quoted in an active market
Real estate
of which quoted in an active market
Insurance contracts
of which quoted in an active market
Other
of which quoted in an active market

2015

2016

8

17

%

Discount rate
Germany
Canada
Brazil

2016

2015

2016

8

17

Expected salary increases

3.2

3.3

4.5

3.5

190

Expected benefit increases

2.2

2.0

–

–

105

131

Expected increases
in medical costs

–

–

6.6

6.6

Expected long-term increases
in medical costs

–

–

5.1

5.2

370

393

370

393

230

232

186

197

122

375

101

329

26

32

0

0

61

68

2

1

4

4

3

4

977

1,311

The assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined
benefit obligation at year end. The discount rates used for Germany
and Canada are derived from high-quality fixed-interest corporate
bonds with the same maturities. In Brazil, however, there is no
liquid market for such bonds so the discount rate is based on those
for government bonds with the same maturities. This method of
deriving the discount rates is unchanged from the previous year
in the principal countries.
The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to
take place within 15 years (2015: 16 years).
The Heubeck mortality tables 2005 G form the biometric
basis for the computation of pension obligations in Germany.
Current national biometric assumptions are used to compute
benefit obligations at other Group companies.

Discount Rates as of December 31

%

2015

156

The plan assets do not include any real estate used by the
company. Financial instruments owned by the company account
for approximately 3 % (2015: 0 %) of the plan assets. Index products
could conceivably include LANXESS securities.
The following weighted discount rates were used to calculate
the defined benefit obligation and determine the pension expense:

Pension plans

Other
post- ­employment
benefit plans

Other
post- ­employment
benefit plans

2015

2016

2015

4.40

3.78

3.09

2016
3.22

3.00

2.00

0.41

0.20

3.75

3.50

4.00

3.50

14.25

12.25

14.25

12.25

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

204

Consolidated Financial Statements

A change in the principal valuation parameters would result in
the following percentage changes in the defined benefit obligation:
Sensitivities of Defined Benefit Obligations as of December 31
Pension plans

Other
post- ­employment
benefit plans

2015

2016

2015

2016

+0.5 %-pt.

(7.6)

(7.9)

(2.9)

(3.5)

– 0.5 %-pt.

8.8

9.0

3.1

3.8

%
Discount rate

The weighted average duration of defined benefit pension
obligations was 17 years (2015: 17 years). This figure was based
on weighted average durations of 21 years (2015: 20 years) for
Germany, 13 years (2015: 13 years) for Canada and 9 years (2015:
9 years) for Brazil. The weighted average duration of the defined
benefit obligations for other post-employment benefits was 9 years
(2015: 7 years).
The funded status is reported in the following table as the
underfunding or overfunding of the defined benefit obligation after
deduction of plan assets, without taking into account changes in
the effects of the asset ceiling or minimum funding requirements.

Expected salary increases
+0.25 %-pt.

0.5

0.5

0.2

0.3

– 0.25 %-pt.

(0.4)

(0.5)

(0.2)

(0.2)

+0.25 %-pt.

4.0

4.5

–

–

– 0.25 %-pt.

(3.8)

(4.3)

–

–

2.6

2.7

0.6

0.8

Funded Status as of December 31 
Pension plans

Expected benefit increases

€ million

Mortality
– 10 %
Expected increases in
medical costs
+1 %-pt.

–

–

2.9

3.7

– 1 %-pt.

–

–

(2.7)

(3.5)

2016

2015

2016

Funded status
Defined benefit obligation for
funded plans

1,643

1,949

12

11

External plan assets

(970)

(1,304)

(7)

(7)

673

645

5

4

Underfunding of funded plans
Defined benefit obligation for
unfunded plans

The sensitivity of the mortality rates was calculated for the
countries with significant pension obligations. A reduction in mortality increases the individual life expectancy of insurees. A 10 %
reduction would increase the average life expectancy of employees
of retirement age in the countries of importance for LANXESS
by about one year.
Sensitivity is calculated by altering one parameter while leaving all the others unchanged. The method used is the same as for
the actuarial valuation of benefit obligations. However, sensitivity calculations depend on interest rate effects and the absolute
change in the parameter. Moreover, it is unlikely in practice that
only one parameter would change, so the change in a parameter
could correlate with other assumptions. Where the expected
development of the parameter used in the sensitivity calculation
was based on a different variation in the parameter, the stated
change in the benefit obligation was approximated using the
straight-line method.

2015

Other
post- ­employment
benefit plans

Funded status, December 31

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

374

473

119

116

1,047

1,118

124

120

205

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

15 | Other Non-Current and Current
Provisions
As of December 31, 2016, the LANXESS Group had other
current provisions of €406 million (2015: €411 million) and other
non-current provisions of €319 million (2015: €271 million). The
maturity structure of other provisions is shown in the following
table:
Other Provisions
Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

€ million

Up to 1 year

1–5 years

Over 5 years

Total

Up to 1 year

1–5 years

Over 5 years

Personnel

177

48

36

261

197

76

41

Total
314

Environmental protection

18

29

66

113

22

30

76

128

Trade-related commitments

83

7

–

90

90

9

–

99

Restructuring

42

13

9

64

15

12

4

31

Miscellaneous

91

45

18

154

82

35

36

153

411

142

129

682

406

162

157

725

The total of other provisions increased from €682 million
to €725 million in 2016. The changes in other provisions were
as follows:
Changes in Other Provisions in 2016
Jan. 1,
2016

Additions

€ million

Interest
effect

Utilization

Reversals

Exchange
differences

Personnel

261

Environmental protection

113

Dec. 31,
2016

221

2

(168)

(12)

10

314

15

2

(6)

(5)

9

128
99

Trade-related commitments

90

57

2

(42)

(9)

1

Restructuring

64

5

0

(29)

(10)

1

31

Miscellaneous

154

74

2

(28)

(58)

9

153

682

372

8

(273)

(94)

30

725

Personnel-related provisions
Personnel-related provisions include particularly provisions
established for annual performance-related compensation and
multi-year compensation programs.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

206

Consolidated Financial Statements

Multi-year compensation programs

Obligations arising from the stock-based compensation are
valued on the basis of the following principal parameters:

Stock-based compensation
LANXESS AG offers a stock-based compensation program to
members of the Management Board and top-level managers. The
program provides for cash settlement. The two present Long-Term
Stock Performance Plans (LTSP) were introduced in 2010 and
2014. Under the LTSP 2010–2013 program introduced in 2010,
rights were granted for the years 2010–2013. Awards are based
on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the Dow Jones
STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index. The LTSP 2014–2017 program
introduced in 2014 is largely identical with the LTSP 2010–2013.
The main difference is that awards are based on the performance of
LANXESS stock relative to the MSCI World Chemicals Index. The
total term of all tranches in both programs is generally seven years.
In 2016, the exercise periods for the 2012 and 2013 tranches of
the LTSP 2010–2013 compensation program were extended by
two years each, so the full term of these two tranches is now nine
years. The base price of the stock and the benchmark index for the
LTSP programs are calculated using a volume-weighted average
of the closing prices on the first ten trading days in January of
the year of issue of the tranche. The date of issue of the rights
granted and still outstanding and the rights from the outstanding
tranches is February 1 each year. Participation in the programs is
conditional upon each manager making a personal investment in
LANXESS stock, depending on his/her base salary.
If LANXESS stock outperforms the index, a payment of at
least €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage point by which
the stock outperforms the index, €0.125 is paid in addition. The
maximum possible payment per right, however, is €2.00.

Principal Parameters as of December 31
2015

2016

31.0

29.0

2.0

2.0

Expected volatility of
Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM

18.0

18.0

Correlation between LANXESS stock and
Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM

64.0

65.0

Expected volatility of
MSCI World Chemicals Index

13.0

13.0

Correlation between LANXESS stock and
MSCI World Chemicals Index

56.0

57.0

%
Expected share price volatility
Expected dividend payment

The relevant risk-free interest rate in 2016 was minus 0.65 %
(2015: 0.01 %).
The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility
of LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM
Index or the MSCI World Chemicals in the past four years.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

207

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

The following table provides information on the tranches
outstanding as of December 31, 2016:
Long Term Stock Performance Plan 
LTSP 2010 – 2013
Tranche 2010

LTSP 2014 – 2017

Tranche 2011 Tranche 2012 Tranche 2013

Tranche 2014 Tranche 2015

Tranche 2016

Duration

7 years

7 years

9 years

9 years

7 years

7 years

7 years

Vesting period

4 years

4 years

4 years

4 years

4 years

4 years

4 years

Lock-up period for personal
investment shares

Jan. 31, 2017

Jan. 31, 2017

Jan. 31, 2017

Jan. 31, 2017

Jan. 31, 2018

Jan. 31, 2019

Jan. 31, 2020

Initial L
­ ANXESS share price

€27.28

€55.60

€44.54

€63.25

€47.41

€35.04

€38.39

432.44 points

564.17 points

533.45 points

665.98 points

−

−

−

Initial Dow Jones
STOXX 600 Chemicals SM price
Initial MSCI World Chemicals
Index price

−

−

−

−

238.07 points

254.06 points

233.45 points

Fair value per right as of
December 31, 2015

€0.27

€0.03

€0.12

€0.10

€0.80

€1.29

−

Fair value per right as of
December 31, 2016

−

€0.10

€0.44

€0.30

€1.55

€1.86

€1.53

10,979

6,358,816

7,093,999

8,025,905

9,925,833

10,892,535

−

−

−

1,350,0001)

1,350,0002)

0

0

11,682,506

Change in number of
outstanding rights
Outstanding rights as of
January 1, 2016
Rights granted
Rights exercised

10,979

−

−

−

−

−

−

Rights compensated

−

197,099

208,622

219,511

280,437

281,011

102,343

Rights forfeited

−

187,472

402,213

425,590

257,590

415,422

172,291

Outstanding rights as of
December 31, 2016

0

5,974,245

7,833,164

8,730,804

9,387,806

10,196,102

11,407,872

1) Lock-up period for personal investment shares for newly granted rights until January 31, 2021
2) Lock-up period for personal investment shares for newly granted rights until January 31, 2022

LANXESS shares were trading at €62.35 at year end 2016.
The Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM benchmark index stood
at 857.41 points, while the MSCI World Chemicals Index was
272.85 points.
Due to the performance of the LANXESS share relative to
the benchmark and to the granting, settlement and forfeiture of
rights, net expense in fiscal 2016 was €22 million (2015: €9 million). The extension of the exercise period for the 2012 and 2013
tranches of the LTSP 2010–2013 compensation program did not
have any material effect on expenses or the level of provisions. A
provision of €30 million existed as of December 31, 2016 (2015:
€8 million). In 2016, as in the prior year, the rights exercisable as
of the closing date had no intrinsic value.

Environmental provisions
The Group’s activities are subject to extensive legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which it does business. Compliance
with environmental laws may require LANXESS to remove or mitigate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical substances
at various sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous
site owner or plant operator may be held liable for the costs of
removing hazardous substances from the soil or groundwater
on its property or neighboring areas, or rendering them harmless, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or
caused the presence of the contaminants, and often regardless
of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were
legal at the time they occurred. As many of LANXESS’s production
sites have a long history of industrial use, it is not always possible
to accurately predict the effects such situations may have on the
LANXESS Group in the future.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

208

Consolidated Financial Statements

Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility therefore cannot be excluded that soil or groundwater contamination
may have occurred at its locations in the past. Claims in this regard
could be brought by government agencies, private organizations
or individuals. Such claims would then relate to the remediation
of sites or areas of land owned by the LANXESS Group where
products were manufactured by third parties under contract manufacturing agreements or where waste from production facilities operated by the LANXESS Group was treated, stored or disposed of.
Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under
legislation such as the U.S. environment law commonly known
as “Superfund.” At locations in the United States, numerous companies, including LANXESS, have been notified that the U.S.
authorities or private individuals consider such companies to be
potentially responsible parties under Superfund or related laws.
At some sites, LANXESS may be the sole responsible party. Remediation measures have already been initiated at most of the
sites concerned.
The existing provisions for environmental remediation costs
relate primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, recultivation of landfills, and redevelopment and water protection
measures. The provisions for environmental remediation costs are
stated at the present value of the expected commitments where
environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable, the costs
can be reasonably estimated and no future economic benefit
is expected to arise from these measures. Costs are estimated
based on significant factors such as previous experience in similar cases, environmental assessments, current cost levels and
new circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of current
environmental laws and regulations, the number of other potentially responsible parties at each site and the identity and financial
position of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of
the liability, and the remediation methods likely to be employed.

It is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental
protection and remediation because of many uncertainties concerning the legal requirements and the information available about
conditions in the various countries and at specific sites. Subject to
these factors, but taking into consideration experience gained to
date with matters of a similar nature, we believe our provisions to
be adequate based upon currently available information. However,
the possibility that additional costs could be incurred beyond the
amounts accrued cannot be excluded. LANXESS nevertheless
estimates that such additional costs, should they occur, would not
materially impact the Group’s earnings, asset and financial position.

Trade-related commitments
Provisions for trade-related commitments mainly relate to
energy and waste disposal services that have not been billed.
They also comprise provisions for impending losses and onerous
contracts, rebates, customer discounts and product returns.

Provisions for restructuring
Provisions for restructuring totaled €31 million on
December 31, 2016 (2015: €64 million), comprising €12 million
(2015: €29 million) for human resources measures, €14 million
(2015: €17 million) for environmental protection measures and
€5 million (2015: €18 million) for other expenses.

Sundry provisions
The sundry provisions principally comprise provisions for
onerous contracts and for other obligations.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

209

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position

16 | Other Non-Current and Current
Financial Liabilities
The following tables show the structure and maturities of
other financial liabilities:
Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2015 
Current

Non-current

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

> 2020

Total

Bonds

200

–

499

–

–

693

1,192

Liabilities to banks

208

–

–

–

–

–

0

10

8

7

6

6

34

61

€ million

Liabilities under finance leases
Other primary financial liabilities

25

3

0

0

0

2

5

443

11

506

6

6

729

1,258

Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2016 
Current
€ million
Bonds
Liabilities to banks
Liabilities under finance leases
Other primary financial liabilities

Non-current

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

> 2021

Total

–

499

–

–

496

1,676

2,671

44

–

–

–

–

–

0

9

8

7

6

6

34

61

25

0

0

0

0

2

2

78

507

7

6

502

1,712

2,734

The following bonds were outstanding on December 31, 2016:
Bonds
Issuance

Nominal
amount
€ million

Carrying
amount
€ million

Interest
rate
%

Maturity

May 2011

500

499

4.125

May 2018

April 2012

100

100

3.500

April 2022

April 2012

100

99

3.950

April 2027

November
2012

500

496

2.625

November
2022

October
2016

500

496

0.250

October
2021

October
2016

500

492

1.000

October
2026

December
2016

500

489

4.500

December
2076

The €200 million bond issued in 2009 was redeemed in
September 2016. In addition, bonds with a total nominal value
of €1.5 billion were issued in fiscal 2016.
The weighted average interest rate for the LANXESS Group’s
financial liabilities denominated in euros and other currencies at
year end was 2.7 % (2015: 3.8 %).
Liabilities under lease agreements are recognized if the leased
assets are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as the
economic property of the Group (finance leases). Lease payments
totaling €92 million (2015: €95 million), including €22 million
(2015: €24 million) in interest, are to be made to the respective
lessors in future years.
Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest
of €23 million (2015: €24 million) on financial liabilities. Of this
amount, €23 million (2015: €22 million) relates to the abovementioned bonds.
Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and the
contractually agreed payments, especially interest payments, is
given in Note [36].

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

210

Consolidated Financial Statements

17 | Non-Current and Current Income
Tax Liabilities

Other Current Liabilities

The non-current and current income tax liabilities comprised:
Income Tax Liabilities

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

Payroll liabilities

25

38

Other tax liabilities

42

38

Social security liabilities

21

26

Miscellaneous liabilities

54

72

142

174

€ million

Dec. 31, 2015
€ million

Non-current

Current

Total

Provisions

19

72

91

–

13

13

19

85

104

Payables

Income Tax Liabilities
Dec. 31, 2016
€ million

Non-current

Current

Total

Provisions

31

39

70

–

5

5

31

44

75

Payables

The decrease in provisions for income tax liabilities was mainly
due to tax payments in Germany for previous years.

At year end the other non-current liabilities comprised:
Other Non-Current Liabilities
Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

96

81

Social security liabilities

5

5

Payroll liabilities

3

1

Miscellaneous liabilities

4

6

108

93

Asset subsidies granted by third parties

19 | Trade Payables
Trade accounts are payable mainly to third parties. As in the
previous year, the entire amount totaling €889 million (2015:
€779 million) is due within one year.
Trade payables of €131 million (2015: €120 million) relate
to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is
accounted for using the equity method, and its affiliated companies, while trade payables of €758 million (2015: €659 million)
relate to other suppliers.

18 | O
 ther Non-Current and Current
Liabilities

€ million

Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ own
tax liabilities, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities
on behalf of third parties.
Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance
contributions that had not been paid by the closing date.
The miscellaneous liabilities principally comprise accruals for
outstanding invoices relating to the reporting period. The liabilities
to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, were less
than €1 million as of December 31, 2016. There were no liabilities
to this company in the previous year.

20 | Further Information on Liabilities
Of the total liabilities, €1,716 million (2015: €733 million)
have maturities of more than five years.

The asset subsidies granted by third parties include, to a small
extent, government grants that are contingent upon the maintenance of employment or the use of assets for the company’s own
production purposes over defined periods of time.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

211

Notes to the Statements of Financial Position
Notes to the Income Statement

NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT
21 | Sales
Sales, which amounted to €7,699 million (2015: €7,902 million), mainly comprise goods sold less discounts and rebates.
A breakdown of sales and the change in sales by segment
and region is given in the segment information (see Note [38]).

24 | R
 esearch and Development Expenses
The research and development expenses of €131 million
(2015: €130 million) mainly include the costs incurred to gain
new scientific and technical knowledge, expenses relating to the
search for alternative products and production processes, and
costs for applying the results of research.

25 | General Administration Expenses
22 | Cost of Sales

The general administration expenses, amounting to
€303 million (2015: €284 million), comprise costs not directly
related to operational business processes and the costs for the
country organizations.

Cost of Sales
€ million

2015

2016

Expenses for raw materials
and merchandise

3,451

3,325

Direct manufacturing and other
production costs

2,703

2,620

6,154

5,945

26 | Other Operating Income
Other Operating Income 
€ million

The manufacturing costs include, among other costs, those
for personnel, depreciation, amortization, write-downs, energies,
and goods and services procured. The other production costs
mainly comprise inventory valuation effects and inventory discrepancies.

Income from non-core business
Income from the reversal of provisions
Exceptional items
Income from reversals of write-downs
of r­ eceivables and other assets
Gains from the disposal of
non-current assets
Miscellaneous operating income

23 | Selling Expenses
Selling Expenses 
2015

2016

Marketing costs

459

481

Outward freight charges and
other selling expenses

300

300

759

781

€ million

The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal
and external marketing and sales organization, freight charges,
warehousing, packaging and the provision of advice to customers.

2015

2016

78

73

3

31

99

6

3

4

1

2

23

31

207

147

The exceptional items contain income from the reversal of
provisions for restructuring established as exceptional items in
previous years. Based on economic relevance, they comprise
€5 million allocated to the cost of sales and €1 million allocated
to other operating expenses.
In the previous year, the exceptional items contained income
of €56 million from the reversal of impairment charges recognized
on cash-generating units in previous years and related to the
former Performance Polymers segment and to the Advanced
Intermediates segment. They were principally allocated to the cost
of sales. In addition, the exceptional items included gains from the
disposal of assets totaling €43 million. In line with their economic
relevance, these were allocated to other operating income.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

212

Consolidated Financial Statements

27 | Other Operating Expenses

28 | Financial Result
The financial result is comprised as follows:

Other Operating Expenses
€ million
Expenses for non-core business
Exceptional items
Expenses for hedging with
derivative financial instruments

2015

2016

70

67

106

56

€ million

2015

2016

50

Income from investments accounted
for u
­ sing the equity method

0

0

Interest income

4

9

Interest expense

(70)

(72)

Net interest expense

(66)

(63)

Interest expense from compounding
interest-bearing provisions

(46)

(40)

Net exchange loss

(16)

(24)

0

(5)

143

Write-downs of trade receivables
and other current assets

4

4

Losses from the disposal of
non-current assets

0

1

Miscellaneous operating expenses

44

44

367

222

Financial Result

Miscellaneous financial expense and income
Dividends and income from
other affiliated companies

Of the exceptional items of €56 million (2015: €106 million),
€7 million (2015: €65 million) was allocable to the cost of sales
in line with its economic relevance, while €3 million (2015:
€7 million) was allocable to selling expenses, €2 million (2015:
€2 million) to research and development expenses, €10 million
(2015: €10 million) to general administration expenses and
€34 million (2015: €22 million) to miscellaneous operating
expenses.
In both 2016 and 2015, the exceptional items mainly related
to the strategic realignment of the LANXESS Group.

Other financial income and expense
Financial result

1

7

(61)

(62)

(127)

(125)

Interest expense includes in particular payments of bond
interest. The amount recognized has been adjusted for capitalized
borrowing costs of €2 million (2015: €6 million). The interest
portion of the lease payments under finance leases, amounting
to €4 million (2015: €4 million), is included in interest expense.

29 | Income Taxes
This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in
the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are
computed on the basis of local tax rates.
The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows:
Income Taxes by Origin 
€ million

2015

2016

Current taxes

(109)

(141)

21

2

Deferred taxes resulting from
temporary differences
statutory changes in tax rates
loss carryforwards
Income taxes

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

0

0

(33)

(5)

(121)

(144)

213

Notes to the Income Statement

The actual tax expense for 2016 was €144 million (2015:
€121 million). This was €35 million (2015: €29 million) more than
the expected tax expense of €109 million (2015: €92 million).
In calculating the expected tax expense for the LANXESS
Group, the aggregated income tax rate of 32.3 % (2015: 32.1 %)
for the German tax entity was applied. This comprises a corporation
tax rate of 15.0 %, plus a solidarity surcharge (5.5 % of corporation
tax) and trade tax. The increase in the aggregated income tax rate
was mainly due to changes in trade tax multipliers.
The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax
result is as follows:

Income before income taxes
Aggregated income tax rate of
­L ANXESS AG
Expected tax result
Tax difference due to differences between
local tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate

Deferred Taxes

€ million

2015

2016

288

339

32.1 %

32.3 %

(92)

(109)
(17)

tax-free income and reduction
of tax bases

4

5

utilization of unrecognized loss
­carryforwards

1

–

Dec. 31, 2016

DeDeferred
ferred
tax
tax
assets ­liabilities

DeDeferred
ferred
tax
tax
assets ­liabilities

15

37

26

63

Property, plant and equipment

18

139

19

134

Inventories

35

5

33

3

9

21

15

20

Pension provisions

220

0

292

0

Other provisions

105

11

104

8

Liabilities

58

0

32

1

Loss carryforwards

68

–

67

–

528

213

588

229

of which non-current
Set-off

8

Dec. 31, 2015

Intangible assets

Receivables and other assets

Reconciliation to Actual Tax Result
€ million

The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the
various items of the statement of financial position as follows:

321

176

404

197

(167)

(167)

(146)

(146)

361

46

442

83

Reduction in taxes due to

Increase in taxes due to non-tax-deductible
expenses
Other tax effects
Actual tax result
Effective tax rate

The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows:
(5)

(6)

(37)

(17)

(121)

(144)

42.0 %

42.5 %

As in the previous year, the other tax effects of minus €17 million (2015: minus €37 million) mainly comprise income taxes for
previous years and unrecognized deferred taxes on tax losses.

Changes in Deferred Taxes 
2015

2016

Deferred taxes, January 1

359

315

Tax income/expense recognized in
the income statement

(12)

(3)

Changes in scope of consolidation

–

(15)

Deferred taxes recognized in other
comprehensive income

(18)

53

Exchange differences

(14)

9

Deferred taxes, December 31

315

359

€ million

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

214

Consolidated Financial Statements

The deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive
income comprised €72 million (2015: minus €23 million) relating to remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for
post-employment benefit plans and minus €19 million (2015:
€5 million) relating to financial instruments. In addition, other
comprehensive income contains current taxes of €2 million
(2015: minus €1 million).
Deferred tax assets of €156 million (2015: €324 million),
which exceed the reversal of taxable temporary differences, relate
to tax jurisdictions in which losses were recorded in 2016 or
2015. In 2015, they included deferred tax assets of €224 million
for the German tax entity, which reported a loss in 2014, primarily
due to the exceptional items in connection with the “Advance”
and “Let’s LANXESS again” realignment programs. LANXESS
assumes that it will generate sufficient taxable income in the
future to realize the deferred tax assets.
Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred
tax assets of €67 million (2015: €68 million) were recognized on
the €237 million (2015: €231 million) in tax loss carryforwards
that represent income likely to be realized in the future. This
amount included deferred taxes of €35 million (2015: €45 million)
on loss carryforwards with an unlimited carryforward period.
Deferred taxes were not recognized for €255 million (2015:
€226 million) of tax loss carryforwards. Of this amount, €130 million (2015: €105 million) can theoretically be used over more
than five years. Further, deferred tax assets were not recognized
in 2016 for tax-deductible temporary differences of €44 million
(2015: €49 million). Accordingly, deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of €67 million (2015: €57 million) and deferred tax
assets on tax-deductible temporary differences of €16 million
(2015: €18 million) were not recognized.

30 | Earnings and Dividend per Share
The calculation of earnings per share for 2016 includes
only earnings from continuing operations and is based on the
weighted average number of shares outstanding in the reporting
period. As of December 31, 2016, 91,522,936 shares were
outstanding. Since there are currently no equity instruments
in issue that could dilute earnings per share, basic and diluted
earnings per share are identical. Further information on equity
instruments that could dilute earnings per share in the future is
contained in Note [13].
Earnings per Share

Net income (€ million)
Number of shares
­outstanding
Earnings per share in €
(­undiluted/diluted)

2015

2016

Change %

165

192

16.4

91,522,936

91,522,936

–

1.80

2.10

16.4

LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €332 million
for fiscal 2016 (2015: €98 million). The dividend payment made
to stockholders of LANXESS AG during fiscal 2016 amounted to
€0.60 per share (2015: €0.50 per share).

31 | Personnel Expenses
The breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows:
Personnel Expenses 
€ million

2015

2016

Wages and salaries

1,124

1,168

Social security contributions

198

194

Retirement benefit expenses

97

92

Social assistance benefits

13

13

1,432

1,467

Total personnel expenses grew in 2016, mainly as a result
of the increase in the headcount and salary adjustments in 2016.
The personnel expenses shown here do not contain the interest
expenses for compounding personnel-related provisions, especially pension provisions, which is reflected in the financial result
(see Note [28]).

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

215

Notes to the Income Statement
Other Information

OTHER INFORMATION
32 | Employees
The average number of employees in the LANXESS Group
in 2016 was 16,643 (2015: 16,310). The increase compared
with the previous year was mainly attributable to amended local
legislation in South Africa and China, which requires external
service providers to be recorded as Group employees after a
certain period of deployment for the company.

As explained in the section on accounting policies and valuation principles, operating leases are those which – unlike finance
leases – do not transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the leased assets to the lessee. In the
LANXESS Group, operating leases are mainly used for operational
reasons and not as a means of financing.
The minimum non-discounted future lease and rental payments relating to operating leases totaled €334 million (2015:
€341 million).
The respective payment obligations mature as follows:
Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments 

Employees by Function

Production

€ million

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

2015

2016

12,123

12,407

Up to 1 year

56

57

47

50

Marketing

1,814

1,837

1 to 2 years

Administration

1,770

1,809

2 to 3 years

41

43

603

590

3 to 4 years

37

38

16,310

16,643

4 to 5 years

Research

More than 5 years

33

35

127

111

341

334

33 | C
 ontingent Liabilities and Other
Financial Commitments
Contingent liabilities result from guarantees and similar instruments assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent
potential future commitments in cases where the occurrence of
certain events would create an obligation that was uncertain as of
the closing date. An obligation to perform under such contingent
liabilities arises in the event of delayed settlement or insolvency
of the debtor.
Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2016, amounted to
€1 million (2015: €1 million). There are no contingent liabilities
relating to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany,
which is accounted for using the equity method. As a p
­ ersonally
liable partner in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen,
Germany, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital into
this company in the future.
Apart from provisions, liabilities and contingent liabilities,
financial commitments also exist under operating leases.

Payments under operating leases in 2016 amounted to
€61 million (2015: €65 million). Future lease and rental payments include agreements relating to the Group’s headquarters
in Cologne, to which it relocated in 2013, and to the production
site in Singapore.
Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed
under purchase agreements relating to planned or ongoing
capital expenditure projects in the area of property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets totaled €110 million (2015:
€90 million). All of these payments are due in fiscal 2017.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

216

Consolidated Financial Statements

Description of the master agreement
Under the master agreement that was concluded between
Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with the Spin-Off and Takeover Agreement, Bayer AG and LANXESS AG agreed, among
other things, on commitments regarding mutual indemnification
for liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on
special arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims
in the areas of product liability, environmental contamination and
antitrust violations. The master agreement also contains arrangements for the allocation of tax effects relating to the spin-off and
to the preceding measures to create the subgroup that was subsequently spun off.

34 | Related Parties
In the course of its operations, the LANXESS Group sources
materials, inventories and services from a large number of business
partners around the world. These include companies in which
LANXESS AG has a direct or indirect interest. Transactions with
these companies are carried out on an arm’s-length basis.
Transactions with Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen,
Germany, which is accounted for in the consolidated financial
statements using the equity method, and its subsidiaries mainly
comprised the purchase of site services in the fields of utilities, infrastructure and logistics totaling €420 million (2015: €436 million). As of December 31, 2016, payables of €131 million (2015:
€120 million) and receivables of €3 million (2015: €38 million)
existed as a result of these transactions. There were also payment
obligations to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG amounting to €8 million (2015: €9 million) under operating leases and obligations
of €6 million (2015: €4 million) under purchase agreements.
Contingent liabilities relating to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG are
outlined in the previous section.
Information on the compensation of the Board of Management
and Supervisory Board can be found in the next section.

35 | Compensation of the Board
of Management and
the Supervisory Board
For fiscal 2016, total compensation of €11,852 thousand
(2015: €9,360 thousand) was paid to the members of the Board
of Management of LANXESS AG, comprising €7,545 thousand
(2015: €6,728 thousand) in short-term compensation (fixed
compensation, annual bonus, benefits in kind and other), minus
€147 thousand (2015: minus €62 thousand) in adjustments for
previous years, and other long-term compensation components
totaling €1,857 thousand (2015: €1,626 thousand) as part of the
Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB). The total also includes
compensation paid under the stock-based Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP). In 2016, 1,740,000 compensation rights
were granted to the members of the Board of Management for
the 2016 tranche, and an additional 1,350,000 compensation
rights were granted for the 2012 tranche and 1,350,000 compensation rights for the 2013 tranche. In the previous year, a total
of 1,200,000 compensation rights were granted. The fair value
of these rights at the grant date was €2,597 thousand (2015:
€1,068 thousand). Personnel expenses for the stock-based compensation programs amounted to €3,430 thousand in fiscal 2016
(2015: €1,450 thousand).
Details of the compensation system for members of the Board
of Management and an individual breakdown of the compensation
are given in the “Compensation report” section of the combined
management report for fiscal 2016.
In addition, service costs of €1,173 thousand (2015:
€1,640 thousand) relating to defined benefit pension plans were
incurred in 2016 for members of the Board of Management as part
of their compensation package. The present value of the defined
benefit obligation as of December 31, 2016, was €16,033 thousand (2015: €11,903 thousand).

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Other Information

The total net expense for the compensation of the members
of the Board of Management in 2016 was €13,858 thousand
(2015: €14,762 thousand). In the previous year, this item included
expense of €3,380 thousand for the severance payment made
to Dr. Düttmann. Together with settlement of his LTSP rights
amounting to €857 thousand, benefits promised in 2015 to a
former member of the Board of Management who stepped down
during that fiscal year totaled €4,237 thousand and were granted
during fiscal 2015.
The balances outstanding to members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016, totaled €11,514 thousand
(2015: €6,477 thousand), comprising provisions of €4,575 thousand (2015: €3,900 thousand) for annual bonuses, €2,612 thousand (2015: €1,680 thousand) for the LTPB and €4,327 thousand
(2015: €897 thousand) for the LTSP.
Pension benefits of €1,244 thousand (2015: €293 thousand)
were paid to former members of the Board of Management. The
total obligation toward former members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016, was €34,497 thousand (2015:
€30,318 thousand). Payments totaling €1,244 thousand were
made to former members of the Board of Management in fiscal
2016 (2015: €3,673 thousand).
The members of the Supervisory Board received total compensation of €1,879 thousand in 2016 (2015: €3,122 thousand).
This compensation is generally paid at the start of the following
year. The provisions established for stock-based compensation for
Supervisory Board members as of December 31, 2016, amounted
to €600 thousand (2015: €1,200 thousand).
In addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory
Board who are on LANXESS’s payroll received remuneration
under their employment contracts. The amounts of these salaries represented appropriate compensation for the employees’
functions and tasks within the Group.
Details of the compensation system for members of the Supervisory Board and an individual breakdown of the amounts paid
are contained in the section headed “Compensation report” in
the combined management report for fiscal 2016.
No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board in fiscal 2016 or 2015.

217

36 | Financial Instruments
The “Opportunity and risk report” in the combined management report outlines the LANXESS Group’s risk management
system, including its objectives, methods and processes, and the
material financial risks such as currency, interest rate, counterparty,
liquidity and raw material price risks.
The risk that the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial
instrument could change due to fluctuations in market prices is
described below for the three market risks:
Currency risks
A hypothetical appreciation of 5 % in the exchange rate of the
euro against the hedged currencies as of the reporting date would
have altered the fair value of derivatives by €14 million (2015:
€33 million). This would mainly have affected other comprehensive
income by reducing the reported loss correspondingly. This effect
mainly relates to the U.S. dollar. A corresponding depreciation of
the euro would have had basically the opposite effect.
Interest rate risks
Financial liabilities with variable interest rates are covered
by investments with short-term fixed interest rates from available
liquidity so the LANXESS Group will incur only slightly higher
interest costs if interest rates rise. A general change of one percentage point in interest rates as of December 31, 2016, would
have altered Group net income by €3 million (2015: €0 million).
Raw material price risks
A hypothetical increase or reduction in the hedged commodity prices of 10 % as of the reporting date would have increased
or decreased other operating income by €0 million as a result of
changes in the fair value of hedging instruments. There were no
financial forward commodity contracts on December 31, 2015.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

218

Consolidated Financial Statements

The following table shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash flows for primary financial liabilities, the interest
components thereof and derivative financial instruments:
December 31, 2015 
€ million

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

>2020

Bonds

(230)

(41)

(541)

(21)

(21)

(761)

(30)

(41)

(41)

(21)

(21)

(61)

(208)

–

–

–

–

–

0

–

–

–

–

–

(779)

–

–

–

–

–

of which interest
Liabilities to banks
of which interest
Trade payables
of which interest
Liabilities under finance leases
of which interest
Other primary financial liabilities
of which interest

–

–

–

–

–

–

(14)

(12)

(10)

(9)

(8)

(42)

(4)

(4)

(3)

(3)

(2)

(8)

(25)

(3)

0

0

0

(2)

(24)

0

–

–

–

–

(667)

(203)

–

–

–

–

586

187

–

–

–

–

(918)

(53)

0

(13)

–

–

896

49

0

10

–

–

(163)

(135)

(44)

–

–

–

166

133

43

–

–

–

(436)

(1)

–

–

–

–

446

1

0

–

–

–

Derivative liabilities
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Disbursements
Receipts
Other hedging instruments
Disbursements
Receipts
Derivative assets
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Disbursements
Receipts
Other hedging instruments
Disbursements
Receipts

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

219

Other Information

December 31, 2016 
2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

>2021

(47)

(570)

(49)

(49)

(549)

(3,003)

of which interest

(47)

(70)

(49)

(49)

(49)

(1,303)

Liabilities to banks

(44)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

€ million
Bonds

of which interest
Trade payables

(889)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(13)

(12)

(10)

(9)

(8)

(40)

(4)

(4)

(3)

(3)

(2)

(6)

(25)

0

0

0

0

(2)

(23)

–

–

–

–

–

(348)

(89)

–

–

–

–

321

83

–

–

–

–

(964)

0

(14)

–

–

–

941

0

10

–

–

–

(11)

(11)

–

–

–

–

18

12

–

–

–

–

of which interest
Liabilities under finance leases
of which interest
Other primary financial liabilities
of which interest
Derivative liabilities
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Disbursements
Receipts
Other hedging instruments
Disbursements
Receipts
Derivative assets
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Disbursements
Receipts
Other hedging instruments
Disbursements

(1,358)

–

–

–

–

–

1,420

–

–

–

–

–

Receipts

The contractually agreed payments for other primary financial
liabilities due within one year from the reporting date included
accrued interest of €23 million (2015: €24 million) that mainly
related to bonds.

Carrying amounts, measurement and fair value
of financial instruments
The following tables show the carrying amounts of the individual classes of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values.
The basis of measurement is also shown:

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

220

Consolidated Financial Statements

Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2015 
IAS 39 measurement
­c ategory

Carrying amount
Dec. 31, 2015

Trade receivables

LaR

956

Other financial receivables

LaR

24

Cash and cash equivalents

LaR

366

Near-cash assets

AfS

100

Other available-for-sale financial assets

AfS

13

€ million
Financial assets

Available-for-sale financial assets

Derivative assets
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting

–

4

FAHfT

11

Bonds

FLAC

(1,392)

Liabilities to banks

FLAC

(208)

Trade payables

FLAC

(779)

Other hedging instruments
Financial liabilities

Liabilities under finance leases
Other primary financial liabilities

–

(71)

FLAC

(30)

Derivative liabilities
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Other hedging instruments

–

(91)

FLHfT

(28)

Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2016 
IAS 39 measurement
­c ategory

Carrying amount
Dec. 31, 2016

Trade receivables

LaR

1,088

Other financial receivables

LaR

1,972

Cash and cash equivalents

LaR

355

€ million
Financial assets

Available-for-sale financial assets
Near-cash assets

AfS

40

Other available-for-sale financial assets

AfS

189

Derivative assets
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting

–

8

FAHfT

58

Bonds

FLAC

(2,671)

Liabilities to banks

FLAC

(44)

Trade payables

FLAC

(889)

Other hedging instruments
Financial liabilities

Liabilities under finance leases
Other primary financial liabilities

–

(70)

FLAC

(27)

Derivative liabilities
Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting
Other hedging instruments
LaR
AfS
FAHfT
FLAC
FLHfT

Loans and receivables
Available-for-sale financial assets
Financial assets held for trading
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Financial liabilities held for trading

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

–

(26)

FLHfT

(23)

221

Other Information

Measurement according to IAS 39
Amortized cost

Acquisition cost

Measurement
­according to IAS 17

Fair value (other
comprehensive income)

Fair value
Dec. 31, 2015

Fair value
(profit or loss)

956

956

24

24

366

366

10

100

100

3

13

4

4
11

11

(1,392)

(1,531)

(208)

(208)

(779)

(779)
( 71)

(30)
(91)

(91)
(28)

Measurement according to IAS 39
Amortized cost

(76)
(30)

Acquisition cost

(28)

Measurement
­according to IAS 17

Fair value (other
comprehensive income)

Fair value
Dec. 31, 2016

Fair value
(profit or loss)

1,088

1,088

1,972

1,972

355

355

10

40

40

179

189

8

8
58

58

(2,671)

(2,827)

(44)

(44)

(889)

(889)
(70)

(27)

(74)
(27)

(26)

(26)
(23)

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

(23)

222

Consolidated Financial Statements

Fair value measurement of the bonds is allocated to Level 1
of the hierarchy outlined in the section “Fair value measurement.”
However, two bonds with a fair value of €244 million (2015:
€240 million) are allocated to Level 2 of the hierarchy. The fair
value of liabilities allocated to Level 2 is calculated using discounted
cash flows and taking account of observed market interest rates.
Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Category
€ million
Loans and receivables

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

1,346

3,415

Available-for-sale financial assets

113

229

Financial assets held for trading

11

58

1,470

3,702

(2,409)

(3,631)

(28)

(23)

(2,437)

(3,654)

Financial liabilities measured at
amortized cost
Financial liabilities held for trading

Fair value measurement
The measurement of fair value is based on a hierarchy reflecting the significance of the measurement inputs. The fair value measurement hierarchy for an asset or liability comprises three levels:

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value 
Dec. 31, 2015
€ million

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Investments in other
affiliated companies

2

–

–

Non-current derivative
assets

–

1

–

Other non-current
financial assets

–

1

–

Non-current assets

Current assets
Near-cash assets

100

–

–

Current derivative assets

–

14

–

Other current financial
assets

0

–

–

–

19

–

–

100

–

Non-current liabilities
Non-current derivative
liabilities
Current liabilities
Current derivative liabilities

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value
Dec. 31, 2016
€ million

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Investments in other
affiliated companies

2

–

–

Non-current derivative
assets

–

1

–

Other non-current financial
assets

–

1

–

40

–

–

–

65

–

176

–

–

–

7

–

–

42

–

Non-current assets

Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities on the measurement date
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly
or indirectly
Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability

Current assets
Near-cash assets
Current derivative assets

The following table shows the volumes of assets and liabilities
that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of the end
of the reporting period and the levels of the fair value hierarchy into
which the measurement inputs were categorized. Reclassification
between the levels is reviewed as of each reporting date. There
were no reclassifications in 2015 or 2016.

Other current financial
assets
Non-current liabilities
Non-current derivative
liabilities
Current liabilities
Current derivative liabilities

The investments in other affiliated companies measured at
fair value pertain to shares in the listed company BioAmber Inc.,
Minneapolis, United States. In the previous year the investments
in other affiliated companies also included shares in the listed
company Gevo, Inc., Englewood, United States, which were sold
in 2016. The line item “Investments in other affiliated companies”
in the statement of financial position also includes €10 million in
non-listed equity instruments, the fair values of which at the end
of the reporting period could not be reliably measured and which
are therefore recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to
dispose of these investments.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

223

Other Information

Offsetting of financial assets and
financial liabilities
Offsetting was not used for the financial assets and financial
liabilities recognized in the statement of financial position. The
following table shows how legally enforceable master netting
arrangements or similar agreements impact, or could impact, the
Group’s financial position:
Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2015 

€ million

Carrying amount
of financial
instruments

Net amount

Related amounts not offset in the
statement of financial position
Financial instruments

Financial collateral

956

(11)

0

945

15

(11)

0

4

Trade payables

(779)

11

0

(768)

Derivative liabilities

(119)

11

0

(108)

Financial assets
Trade receivables
Derivative assets
Financial liabilities

Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2016 
Carrying amount
of financial
instruments

Related amounts not offset in the
statement of financial position
Financial instruments

Net amount

Financial collateral

€ million
Financial assets
Trade receivables
Derivative assets

1,088

(12)

0

1,076

66

(13)

0

53

(889)

12

0

(877)

(49)

13

0

(36)

Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Derivative liabilities

Either contracting party may offset on a net basis the positive
and negative fair values arising from past-due derivative asset or
liability contracts with the same counterparty.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

224

Consolidated Financial Statements

Net result by category

Net cash used in investing activities

The following table provides an overview of the net results
based on the measurement categories defined in IAS 39:
Net Results by IAS 39 Category
€ million
Loans and receivables
Available-for-sale financial assets
Assets and liabilities held for trading
Financial liabilities measured at
amortized cost

2015

2016

19

(34)

1

7

(111)

27

17

(76)

(74)

(76)

Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and
expense and realized and unrealized exchange gains and losses.
In addition, fees of €13 million were incurred in fiscal 2016
(2015: €8 million) in connection with financial instruments.

Collateralization of financial liabilities
There were no financial liabilities collateralized by mortgages
or other property claims in 2016 or 2015.

Purchases of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment
led to cash outflows of €439 million in 2016 (2015: €434 million).
Cash inflows from investment grants reduced cash outflows for
capital expenditures by €7 million (2015: €8 million). The cash
outflows for financial assets in 2016 mainly comprised €1,950 million (2015: €0 million) for mid-term money market investments
and €175 million (2015: €0 million) for investments in securities.
Further, there were inflows from money market funds of €60 million (2015: €0 million) and inflows of €6 million from the sale of
financial assets (2015: outflows of 11 million). The inflows in fiscal
2016 mainly related to the sale of shares in Elemica Inc., Exton,
United States. In the previous year there were cash outflows in
connection with loans to a site service provider in the Netherlands.
The acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business
of U.S. chemical company Chemours resulted in cash outflows
of €198 million in 2016 (2015: €0 million). Cash inflows from
interest and dividends received amounted to €10 million (2015:
€0 million) and mainly comprised interest income from shortterm investments in Brazil. Further, there were cash outflows of
€200 million (2015: €0 million) for external funding of pension
obligations (CTA). The net cash outflow for investing activities was
€2,879 million (2015: €400 million).

Mezzanine financing
Mezzanine instruments such as profit participation rights, convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued. Information
on the possible issuance of such instruments is given in Note [13].

37 | Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows
Explanation of the method used to calculate and
present cash flows
For a general explanation, please see the comments on the
statement of cash flows in the section headed “Accounting policies
and valuation principles.”

Net cash provided by operating activities
The net cash flows from operating activities are determined
by deducting the financial result, depreciation, amortization, writedowns, reversals of impairment charges and non-cash items from
income before income taxes. A further adjustment is then made for
the change in other assets and liabilities. Income before income
taxes, which is the starting point for the statement of cash flows,
amounted to €339 million (2015: €288 million) after depreciation,
amortization and write-downs of €481 million (2015: €418 million). Income taxes paid in 2016 amounted to €184 million (2015:
€98 million). The change in net working capital resulted in cash
outflows of €47 million (2015: inflows of €93 million). Taking into
account the increase in other assets and liabilities of €44 million
(2015: reduction of €33 million), the cash inflows provided by
operating activities amounted to €689 million in 2016 (2015:
€692 million).

Net cash used in financing activities
The cash inflows from non-controlling interests of €1,194 million relate to the payment received from Aramco Overseas
­Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary
of Saudi Aramco, for the interest in ARLANXEO. In the previous
year, the cash inflows from non-controlling interests of €9 million
related to the capital increase at the subsidiary ARLANXEO-TSRC
(Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd. In 2016, there was a cash
outflow of €1,107 million for net borrowing (2015: €220 million for
net repayments). The borrowing mainly related to the issue of three
new bonds with a total nominal value of €1,500 million. Repayment
of borrowings mainly comprised an outflow of €200 million for
the redemption of a bond and €138 million for the repayment of
the remainder of the U.S. dollar loan from the European Investment Bank. Interest payments and other financial disbursements
accounted for cash outflows of €73 million (2015: €76 million).
In fiscal 2016, cash outflows for dividend payments amounted to
€55 million (2015: €46 million), principally to the stockholders
of LANXESS AG. A net cash inflow of €2,173 million (2015: net
cash outflow of €333 million) was recorded for financing activities.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

225

Other Information

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents, which comprise cash, checks and
bank balances, amounted to €355 million (2015: €366 million).
In accordance with IAS 7, this item also includes securities with
maturities of up to three months from the date of acquisition.

38 | Segment Reporting
Key Data by Segment
Advanced
Intermediates

Performance
Chemicals

High Performance
Materials

ARLANXEO

Reconciliation

LANXESS

€ million

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

External sales

1,826

1,742

2,085

2,142

1,085

1,056

2,859

2,710

47

49

7,902

7,699

Inter-segment sales
Segment/Group sales
Segment result/EBITDA pre
exceptionals
Exceptional items affecting
EBITDA
Segment assets
Segment acquisitions

51

57

11

10

2

1

0

0

(64)

(68)

0

0

1,877

1,799

2,096

2,152

1,087

1,057

2,859

2,710

(17)

(19)

7,902

7,699

339

326

326

374

111

159

391

373

(282)

(237)

885

995

(1)

2

(13)

(3)

20

–

(15)

2

(43)

(51)

(52)

(50)

1,120

1,149

1,427

1,752

721

710

2,883

3,016

146

124

6,297

6,751

–

–

–

200

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

200

Segment capital expenditures

99

136

144

124

39

47

151

138

24

17

457

462

Depreciation and amortization

94

102

85

92

43

45

204

216

23

17

449

472

5

3

3

2

3

0

14

4

–

0

25

9

19

0

–

–

–

–

37

0

–

0

56

0

Write-downs
Reversals of impairment charges

555

741

770

827

250

274

706

712

645

576

2,926

3,130

Employees (December 31)

Segment liabilities

3,259

3,335

5,138

5,581

1,546

1,583

3,491

3,463

2,791

2,759

16,225

16,721

Employees (average for the year)

3,282

3,349

5,141

5,490

1,539

1,574

3,535

3,521

2,813

2,708

16,310

16,642

2015 figures restated

Key Data by Region
EMEA (exclud­
ing Germany)

Germany

North America

Latin America

Asia-Pacific

LANXESS

€ million

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

External sales by market

2,325

2,254

1,365

1,292

1,368

1,326

830

788

2,014

2,039

7,902

7,699

655

783

1,035

1,067

446

572

244

304

1,394

1,313

3,774

4,039

–

102

–

2

–

95

–

–

–

1

–

200

91

96

163

212

79

74

24

31

100

49

457

462

3,143

3,251

7,523

7,600

1,312

1,418

1,412

1,435

2,835

3,017

16,225

16,721

Non-current region assets
Acquisitions
Capital expenditures
Employees (December 31)

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

226

Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the segment reporting
The valuation principles applied in segment reporting correspond to the uniform accounting policies and valuation principles used for the consolidated financial statements prepared in
accordance with IFRS.
As a consequence of the strategic alliance with Aramco
Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A, The Hague, Netherlands, a
subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, for the synthetic rubber business, the
corporate structure was altered in fiscal 2016. The synthetic rubber business, formerly bundled in the Tire & Specialty Rubbers and
High Performance Elastomers business units in the Performance
Polymers segment, is now reported as the ARLANXEO segment,
while the High Performance Materials business unit, formerly also
assigned to the Performance Polymers segment, is now a segment
in its own right. In addition, organizational adjustments resulted in
a shift in headcount between the segments. The prior-year figures
have been restated accordingly.

On December 31, 2016, the LANXESS Group comprised
the following reporting segments:

Segments

Activities

Advanced Intermediates

The Advanced Intermediates segment comprises
operational business units that manufacture basic
and fine chemicals using primarily continuous
production processes. The business units also
manufacture precursors and intermediates
for each other. The product portfolio includes
high-grade intermediates for use by the agrochemicals and coatings industries, for example;
fine chemicals as precursors and intermediates
for the pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and
specialty chemicals industries; customer-specific
specialties; and tire chemicals.

Performance Chemicals

The Performance Chemicals segment comprises
operational business units that manufacture process and functional chemicals as well as specialty
products using chemical production processes.
The product portfolio includes material protection
products; inorganic pigments for the coloring of
concrete, emulsion paints and other coatings;
finishing agents for the leather industry; rubber
additives; reverse osmosis membrane elements
and ion exchange resins for water treatment;
plastics additives such as flame retardants and
plasticizers; disinfectant and hygiene solutions.

High Performance
Materials

The High Performance Materials segment manufactures high-tech plastics and high-performance
composites using mainly continuous production
processes. The product portfolio covers applications in the automotive and electrical/electronics
industries, the construction industry, medicine,
and the sports and leisure sectors.

ARLANXEO

The ARLANXEO segment comprises operational
business units that manufacture synthetic rubbers
primarily in continuous production processes.
The segment is centrally managed by ARLANXEO
Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands. The
product portfolio includes specialty rubbers for
high-quality rubber products for use in automotive engineering, tires and construction.

The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and reflects assets and liabilities not allocable to the core segments
including, in particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center.
The reconciliation also includes Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG,
Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity
method (see note [3]).
The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transactions are calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been
agreed upon between independent third parties in comparable
circumstances (arm’s-length principle).
The majority of employees reflected in the reconciliation
provide services for more than one segment. They include technical service staff.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

227

Other Information

The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s activities are organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle
East, Africa), Germany, North America, Latin America and Asia-­
Pacific. Regional sales are calculated according to the recipient’s
place of business. In fiscal 2016, no individual customer of the
LANXESS Group accounted for more than 10 % of Group sales.
The earnings indicator used for internal management purposes in the LANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals (see the
section headed “Value management and control system” in the
combined management report for 2016). This is disclosed as
the “segment result.” The starting point for calculating EBITDA
pre exceptionals is the operating result (EBIT), which comprises
gross profit, selling expenses, general administration expenses,
research and development expenses and other operating income
and expenses. EBITDA pre exceptionals is calculated from EBIT
by adding back depreciation and impairments of property, plant
and equipment, amortization and impairments of intangible assets,
disregarding exceptional items. The latter are effects that by nature
or extent have a significant impact on the earnings position, but
for which inclusion in the evaluation of business performance
over several reporting periods does not seem to be appropriate.
They may include write-downs, reversals of impairment charges,
proceeds from the disposal of non-current assets, certain IT expenses, restructuring expenses, and income from the reversal of
provisions for restructuring, and the impact on earnings of portfolio
adjustments and purchase price allocations.
In view of the Group’s central financial management, interest
income and expense and income tax income and expense are not
reported at segment level.
The exceptional items that affected EBITDA in 2016 and the
previous year principally related to the strategic realignment of
the LANXESS Group.
Capital expenditures made by the segments comprise additions to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment.
All depreciation, amortization and write-downs in fiscal 2015
and 2016 were recognized directly in profit or loss. In fiscal 2015,
impairment charges recognized in previous years on assets in
the cash-generating units were reversed. Further information
is provided in the section headed “Estimation uncertainties and
exercise of discretion.”

Reconciliation of Segment Sales
€ million

2015

2016

Total segment sales

7,919

7,718

Other/Consolidation
Group sales

(17)

(19)

7,902

7,699

Reconciliation of Segment Results
€ million

2015

2016

Total segment results

1,167

1,232

(474)

(481)

Depreciation and amortization
Reversals of impairment charges
Exceptional items affecting EBITDA

56

0

(52)

(50)

Other financial income and expense

(61)

(62)

Net interest expense

(66)

(63)

Income from investments accounted
for using the equity method
Other/Consolidation
Income before income taxes

0

0

(282)

(237)

288

339

The reconciliation of segment results to income before income
taxes contains total exceptional items comprising net charges of
€50 million (2015: charges of €7 million) (see Notes [26] and
[27]). These include exceptional items of minus €50 million (2015:
minus €52 million) that affect EBITDA, write-downs of €0 million
(2015: minus €11 million), and reversals of impairment charges
of €0 million (2015: €56 million).
The change in segment results in the reconciliation is mainly
due to lower expenses for currency hedges.
Information on equity-method income is contained in Note [3].
This mainly arises from the provision of site services by Currenta
GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is not allocated
among the segments.
Reconciliation of Segment Assets
€ million
Total segment assets

Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

6,151

6,627

Cash and cash equivalents

366

355

Deferred tax assets

361

442

Near-cash assets

100

40

Income tax receivables

55

74

Derivative assets

15

66

Other financial assets

25

2,149

Other/Consolidation

146

124

7,219

9,877

Group assets

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

228

Consolidated Financial Statements

Segment assets principally comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. In
particular, segment assets do not include cash and cash equivalents, deferred taxes and other financial assets.
Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities
Dec. 31,
2015

Dec. 31,
2016

Total segment liabilities

2,281

2,554

Other financial liabilities

1,701

2,812

Derivative liabilities

119

49

Income tax liabilities

104

75

46

83

€ million

Deferred tax liabilities
Other/Consolidation
Group liabilities

645

576

4,896

6,149

Segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade payables and other liabilities. In particular, segment liabilities do not
include income tax liabilities, liabilities from derivatives, or other
financial liabilities.

39 | Audit Fees
In 2016, total audit fees of €4,110 thousand (2015:
€3,346 thousand) for the auditor of the consolidated financial
statements of the LANXESS Group were recognized as ­expenses.
Due to early application of the revised opinion of the Institute
of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW RS HFA 36, new version), the
content of the reporting categories has been altered. The prioryear figures have been restated accordingly. The total amount
includes €2,969 thousand (2015: €1,820 thousand) relating to
the auditing of financial statements. The increase in the year under review is mainly due to audit services in connection with the
­establishment of the ARLANXEO strategic alliance. €245 thousand
(2015: €144 thousand) related to other audit-related services and
€896 thousand (2015: €1,382 thousand) to other services rendered to Group companies. They include services from IT service
provider PwC Cundus AG, an affiliated company of the auditor,
totaling €735 thousand (2015: €1,307 thousand). The fees for
financial statements audit services comprise all fees, including
incidental expenses, paid or to be paid for the audits of the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the financial
statements of LANXESS AG and its German subsidiaries.

40 | Declaration of Compliance
Pursuant to Section 161 of the Stock
Corporation Act
The Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate
Governance Code has been issued by the Board of Management
and Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 161 of the German
Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders
on the LANXESS website.

41 | U
 tilization of Disclosure Exemptions
In 2016, the following German subsidiaries made use of disclosure exemptions pursuant to Section 264, Paragraph 3 of the
German Commercial Code (HGB):

›› Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon
›› IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin
›› LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne
›› LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl
›› LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne
›› LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen
›› Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim
›› Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen
›› Sechste LXS GmbH, Cologne
Outside of Germany, LANXESS Limited (registration no.
03498959), Newbury, United Kingdom, utilized the exemption
from the auditing of its annual financial statements as permitted
by Section 479A of the U.K. Companies Act 2006. As required
by law, LANXESS AG, as the parent company, guaranteed all
outstanding liabilities as of December 31, 2016 with respect to
Section 479C of the U.K. Companies Act 2006.

42 | Events after the Reporting Period
In September 2016, LANXESS and U.S. company Chemtura
signed an agreement on the acquisition of Chemtura by LANXESS.
Chemtura’s shareholders approved the acquisition at an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting held on February 1, 2017. This transaction is expected to be closed by mid-2017, providing outstanding
regulatory approval is given.
No other events of particular significance took place after
December 31, 2016, that could be expected to have a material
effect on the earnings, asset and financial position of the LANXESS
Group or LANXESS AG.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Consolidated Financial Statements
Responsibility Statement

RESPONSIBILITY
STATEMENT
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the
applicable financial reporting principles, the consolidated financial
statements give a true and fair view of the earnings, asset and
financial position of the Group, and the combined management
report includes a fair review of the development and performance
of the business and the position of the LANXESS Group and
LANXESS AG, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development
of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG.
Cologne, March 1, 2017
LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft

The Board of Management

Matthias Zachert

Michael Pontzen		

Dr. Rainier van Roessel

Dr. Hubert Fink

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

229

230

Consolidated Financial Statements
Auditor’s Report

Auditor’s Report

We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by the LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, comprising
the statement of financial position, the income statement and
the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes
in equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated
financial statements, together with the group management report,
which is combined with the management report of the company,
for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the
combined management report in accordance with the IFRSs, as
adopted by the E.U., and the additional requirements of German
commercial law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1
HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) are the
responsibility of the parent company’s Board of Management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements and the combined management report based
on our audit.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted ­standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated
by the ­Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors
in ­Germany) (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting
the presen­t ation of the net assets, financial position and results
of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the ­applicable financial reporting framework and in
the combined manage­ment report are detected with reasonable
assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic
and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible
misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit
procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal
control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the

framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual
financial statements of those entities included in consolidation,
the determination of the entities to be included in consolidation,
the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant
estimates made by the company’s Board of Management, as well
as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial
statements and the combined management report. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.
In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the
­consolidated financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the E.U. and the additional requirements of German
commercial law ­pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true
and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of
operations of the Group in accordance with these provisions. The
combined management report is consistent with the consolidated
financial statements, complies with legal requirements and as a
whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the oppor­tu­nities and risks of future development.
Cologne, March 2, 2017
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Bernd Boritzki
German Public Auditor

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Carsten Manthei
German Public Auditor

Further Information
About this Report

231

About this Report

Reporting methodology and
data collection
The full report made here combines financial and sustainability reporting by the LANXESS Group. It is aligned to national and
international standards for financial and sustainability reporting,
especially the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS),
German accounting standards (DRS), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and the principles of the U.N. Global Compact.
In addition, LANXESS meets the transparency requirements of
the U.K. Modern Slavery Act in its reporting.
The reporting period is 2016. In compiling the data, we applied the principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness,
clarity and reliability. The report covers the Group companies that
are included in the consolidated financial statements.
We use a standardized global corporate information system
for reporting HR data. Employee data therefore relates to the
entire LANXESS Group.
We use an electronic data capture system for the systematic
global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas
of safety and environmental protection. The two performance
indicators we use to measure occupational safety – the lost time
injury frequency rate (LTIFR, known as MAQ in Germany) and the
recordable incident rate (RIR) – apply to all sites. Environmental
protection data are gathered only at those production sites in which
the company has a holding of more than 50 %. As LANXESS has
an interest of exactly 50 % in ARLANXEO, the latter continues to be
reflected in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements and
will be fully consolidated from 2016 to 2018; the environmental
data pertaining to the ARLANXEO sites will continue to be included in our key data for this period. With regard to the collection of
emissions data, we have taken into account the recommendations
of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) and the International Energy Agency (IEA). To ensure the quality of the data,
PricewaterhouseCoopers has audited selected indicators with
limited assurance. These are identified accordingly in the report.
In the case of other indicators which do not refer to the
LANXESS Group, the areas of scope are explicitly defined in the
report.

GRi
The report is produced according to the GRI G4 guidelines
and complies with the core option. However, in order to satisfy
the information needs of rating agencies and other stakeholders,
we go beyond these requirements in our reporting and compile
a more extensive GRI Content Index. GRI reporting is performed
annually. The last report for fiscal 2015 was published in March
2016.
The contents of the report for fiscal 2016 are based on a
materiality analysis aligned to the four principles formulated
by GRI: sustainability context, materiality, completeness and
stakeholder inclusiveness. An internal assessment conducted in
2014 forms the basis of the analysis. This was followed in 2015
by a detailed survey of our most important external stakeholder
groups. The consolidated findings of the two surveys, which
both used the same assessment methodology, are reflected in
our materiality matrix.
The following table identifies the boundaries between the
key issues and the GRI aspects they cover.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

GRI
G4–22
G4–23

232

GRI
G4–19
G4–20
G4–21

Further Information

Boundaries 
Areas of Activity/
Key Issues

Within the Organization
(G4–20)
PC

AI

Outside the Organization
(G4–21)

GRI Aspects

HPM ARLANXEO Suppliers Custom- Comers
pany

Responsibility toward
employees
Education & training

X

X

X

X

Talent management

X

X

X

X

Demographic change

X

X

X

X

Fair remuneration

X

X

X

X

Work-life balance

X

X

X

X

Occupational safety

X

X

X

X

Occupational health

X

X

X

X

X

X

Training and Education

X

Employment | Training and Education

Training and Education
X

Equal Remuneration for Women and Men
X

X

X

X

Occupational Health and Safety
Occupational Health and Safety

Product and process
stewardship
Quality

X

X

X

X

X

X

Product and Service Labeling

Product safety information

X

X

X

X

X

X

Customer Health and Safety | Product and
Service Labeling

Responsible handling of chemicals

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Plant & process safety

X

X

X

X

X

Responsible resource use

X

X

X

X

X

Research & development

X

X

X

X

X

Customer Health and Safety | Effluents and Waste |
Product and Service Labeling

Environmental
responsibility
Climate protection

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Emissions reduction

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Emissions

Energy efficiency

X

X

X

X

X

X

Energy

Resource efficiency

X

X

X

X

X

X

Environmental management

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Environmental standards

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Toxicity

X

X

X

X

Water management

X

X

X

X

Transportation

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Water

X

X

Transport

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

233

About this Report

Boundaries 
Areas of Activity/
Key Issues

Within the Organization
(G4–20)
PC

AI

X

X

Outside the Organization
(G4–21)

GRI Aspects

HPM ARLANXEO Suppliers Custom- Comers
pany

Corporate governance
Compliance

X

X

X

X

X

Compliance in the categories Environmental, Society
and Product Responsibility | Grievance Mechanisms
in Respect of Labor Practices, Human Rights, Impacts
on Society and Environmental | Customer Health and
Safety | Product and Service Labeling | Marketing
Communications | Customer Privacy | Anti-competitive Behavior
Anti-corruption

Anti-corruption

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Risk management

X

X

X

X

X

X

X
X

Transparency

X

X

X

X

X

X

Globalization

X

X

X

X

X

X

Responsibility in the
supply chain
Business ethics

X

X

X

X

X

X

Sustainable procurement

X

X

X

X

X

X

Procurement | Supplier Environmental Assessment |
Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices | Supplier
Human Rights Assessment | Supplier Assessment for
Impacts on Society

Human rights

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Investment | Non-discrimination | Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining | Child Labor | Forced
or Compulsory Labor | Security Practices | Indigenous
Rights | Assessment | Human Rights Grievance
Mechanisms

Stakeholder relations

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Social responsibility

In the GRI Content Index, we list which indicators from the
current GRI Guideline are addressed in the LANXESS Annual
Report 2016. In addition to the disclosures contained in this report, supplementary information can be found on the LANXESS
Group website.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

GRI
G4–19
G4–20
G4–21

234

Further Information

HSEQ: Independent
Assurance Report
INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S
LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT

Audit Firm’s Independence and
Quality Control

To LANXESS AG, Cologne
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the data in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table included in the “Health, safety, environment
and climate protection along the value chain” section of the
“Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2016
of LANXESS AG, Cologne (hereafter the Company) for the period
1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 (hereafter “Environmental
and Safety Performance Data” table).

Management’s Responsibility
The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance
with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter
the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the information to
be assessed.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of
appropriate methods to prepare the “Environmental and Safety
Performance Data” table as well as the use of assumptions and
estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility
includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and
processes relevant for the preparation of the “Environmental and
Safety Performance Data” table, which is free of material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors.

We have complied with the German professional provisions
regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements.
The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and
professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for
German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer”:
“BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (“Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW”): Requirements to
quality control for audit firms (“Entwurf eines IdW Qualitäts­
sicherungsstandards 1 ‘Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung
in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis’ (IdW EQS 1)”) – and accordingly
maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with
ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal
and regulatory requirements.

Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability
information in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data”
table based on our work performed.
Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform
an audit on external sources of information or expert opinions,
referred to in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data”
table.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised):
“Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard
requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to
obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our
attention that cause us to believe that the sustainability information
in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table has
not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with
the GRI-Criteria.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

235

HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report

In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering
procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance
engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained
than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. This includes the
assessment of the risks of material misstatements of the sustainability information in the “Environmental and Safety Performance
Data” table regard to the GRI-Criteria.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others
the following procedures:

›› Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation for reporting the environmental and safety performance data regarding the preparation process, the underlying internal control
system and the environmental and safety data
›› Analytical procedures on the environmental and safety data
›› Assessment of the presentation of the environmental and
safety data in the “Environmental and Safety Performance
Data” table

Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has
come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information in the “Environmental and Safety Performance
Data” table of the Company for the period 1 January 2016 to
31 December 2016 has not been prepared, in all material respects,
in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.

Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the reporting of the environmental
and safety data:

›› General annual update of process descriptions as well as

consistent performance and documentation of intended
controls;
›› Implementation of automated system interfaces in data
consolidation processes as well as obligatory comments in
the system for certain deviations;
›› Regular, systematic update of market-based CO2 emission
factors.

Restriction on Use and Distribution
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed
with the company. The review has been performed for purposes
of the Company and is solely intended to inform the Company
about the results of the review. The report is not intended for any
third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not
assume any responsibility towards third parties.

Cologne, 1 March 2017
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Bernd Boritzki
German Public Auditor

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Hendrik Fink
German Public Auditor

236

Further Information

GRI Content Index


G4 Indicators and Description

Location

Comments and Online Annexes

UNGC

Strategy and Analysis
G4-1

Foreword by the Chairman of the Board
of Management

pp. 7–8

G4-2

Key impacts, risks and opportunities

pp. 24–45, 50–55,
158–164

Organizational Profile
G4-3

Name of the organization

G4-4

Primary brands, products or services

LANXESS AG

G4-5

Location of the organization’s
headquarters

G4-6

Countries where the organization
operates

pp. 109–110

pp. 108–110

http://lanxess.com/en/corporate/products-solutions/products-solutions/
Cologne, Germany
http://lanxess.com/en/corporate/about-lanxess/sites-worldwide/

G4-7

Nature of ownership and legal form

pp. 91–92, 108

G4-8

Markets

pp. 116, 126

G4-9

Scale of the organization

Table of key data,
inside front cover;
pp. 75, 130

G4-10

Total workforce

pp. 69, 71

6

G4-11

Employees covered by collective
bargaining agreements

p. 73

3

G4-12

Description of supply chain

pp. 114–115

G4-13

Significant changes in the organization’s
size, structure or ownership

pp. 108–109,
187–189

G4-14

Explanation of how the precautionary
principle is addressed

pp. 116–118,
155–156

G4-15

Participation in and endorsement of
externally developed charters, principles
and initiatives

pp. 65–66, 76, 80,
86–87

G4-16

Important memberships

pp. 83, 114–115

Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17

All entities included in the organization’s
consolidated financial statements

pp. 189–190

G4-18

Process for defining the report content

pp. 58–61

G4-19

Material aspects identified

pp. 60, 232–233

G4-20

Material aspects within the organization

pp. 232–233

G4-21

Material aspects outside the organization

pp. 232–233

G4-22

Effects of any re-statements
of information

p. 231

G4-23

Changes in the scope, boundary or
measurement methods

pp. 187–189, 231

Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24

Overview of stakeholder groups

pp. 58–59

G4-25

Basis for identification of stakeholder
groups

pp. 58–59

G4-26

Engagement of stakeholder groups

pp. 58–61, 74, 76

G4-27

Consideration of key concerns raised
by stakeholder groups

pp. 58–61, 74, 77

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

237

GRI Content Index


G4 Indicators and Description

Location

Comments and Online Annexes

UNGC

Report Profile
G4-28

Reporting period

G4-29

Date of most recent previous report

p. 231
p. 231

G4-30

Reporting cycle

p. 231

G4-31

Contact point

Masthead

G4-32

GRI Content Index

pp. 236–242

G4-33

External assurance for the report

pp. 234–235

2016

Governance
G4-34

Governance structure of
the organizationn

pp. 97–99

Ethics and Integrity
G4-56

Values, principles and code of conduct

pp. 58, 65–66

Management approach

pp. 50–55, 86–87

1–10

Economic

Economic Performance Indicators
G4-EC1

Direct economic value generated
and distributed

pp. 86, 139, 140, 169

G4-EC3

Coverage of the organization’s
defined-benefit plan obligations

pp. 198–204

Market Presence
G4-EC5

Wages

G4-EC6

Local hiring

An employee’s individual income is based on his or her responsibilities
and performance. As well as collective agreements that are the basis for
the compensation of non-managerial staff in Germany and many other
countries, legal requirements such as minimum wage levels are also
important in ensuring fair compensation. In Germany, for example, we
obtain temporary employees only from agencies that are covered by the
collective agreement for temporary employment. In addition, the chemical industry pays industry-specific supplements.
p. 70

6

6

Indirect Economic Impacts
G4-EC7

Infrastructure investments and services
provided primarily for public benefit

pp. 86–87

Procurement Practices
G4-EC9

Selection of locally based suppliers

p. 114

Environmental
Management approach

pp. 61–65, 76–85,
114–115

G4-EN1

Materials used by weight or volume

pp. 75, 114

G4-EN2

Percentage of materials used that are
recycled input materials

Materials
7, 8
Not relevant as LANXESS cannot use any significant quantities
of recycled input materials in the manufacture of its products

8

Energy
G4-EN3

Energy consumption within the
organization

pp. 75, 84–85

7, 8

G4-EN5

Energy intensity

pp. 80–81

8

G4-EN6

Reduction of energy consumption

pp. 80–81

G4-EN7

Reduction in energy requirements
of products and services

pp. 80–81, 116–117

8, 9
http://webmagazin.lanxess.de/nimms-leicht/nimms-leicht.html
(German only)
http://lanxess.com/corporate/corporate-responsibility/innovationand-products/green-mobility/

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

8, 9

238

Further Information


G4 Indicators and Description

Location

Comments and Online Annexes

UNGC

Water
Total water withdrawal

pp. 75, 81–82,
84–85

7, 8

G4-EN15

Direct greenhouse gas emissions –
Scope 1

pp. 75, 78–79,
84–85

7, 8

G4-EN16

Indirect greenhouse gas emissions –
Scope 2

pp. 75, 78–79,
84–85

7, 8

G4-EN17

Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions
– Scope 3

pp. 78–80

7, 8

G4-EN18

Greenhouse gas emissions intensity

p. 79

8

G4-EN19

Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions

pp. 77–80, 83

8, 9

G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances

pp. 84–85

7, 8

G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air
emissions

pp. 80, 84–85

7, 8

pp. 75, 81–82,
84–85

8

G4-EN8

Emissions

Effluents and Waste
G4-EN22

Total water discharge

G4-EN23 Quantity of waste
G4-EN24

pp. 75, 82, 84–85

8
8
Following a truck accident near Bangalore, India, on March 8, 10 t of
thionyl chloride were released.
On May 14, during test operation of our new pigment plant in Ningbo,
China, waste gases containing nitrogen oxides were emitted. The affected
areas of the plant were shut down immediately.
On June 1, approx. 800 kg of methyl chloroformiate leaked at the site in
Dormagen, Germany. The leak was restricted to the immediate operational
area and was properly disposed of by the fire department. Precautionary
air measurements showed no irregularities.
On June 3, also in Dormagen, larger quantities of a feedstock mix
(including dichlorobutene, butadiene and chlorine) and some gaseous
reaction products were released. A large product cloud formed above
the plant and there was a perceptible odor. However, air measurements
showed nothing above the detection limits. A fire department employee
was slightly injured during the operation.
On September 3, a goods train that was also transporting LANXESS
products derailed near Durban, South Africa. Around 20 t of sodium
dichromate solution and 500 kg of chromium trioxide crystals were spilled.
We advised the local authorities and the rail company on the proper treatment and disposal of the spilled substances. The train driver was killed in
the accident.
On September 30, around 30 kg of ammonia were released at the site
in Leverkusen, Germany. The fire department used a water curtain to bind
the substance released. The release was restricted to the immediate operational area. Precautionary air measurements showed no irregularities.
On October 28, a tanker left the road and turned over around 150
km from our site at Nagda, India. As a result, around 27 t of toluene were
released.

Total number and volume of
signifcant spills

Products and Services
G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental
impacts

pp. 31–35, 38–40,
43–45, 77–83

G4-EN28 Reclaiming of packaging materials

p. 83

http://lanxess.com/corporate/about-lanxess/megatrends/water/

7, 8, 9
8

Compliance
G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with
environmental laws and regulations

Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported in the
audited financial statements.

8

Transport
G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of
transporting products and other goods
and materials, and transporting members
of the workforce

p. 83

8

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

239

GRI Content Index


G4 Indicators and Description

Location

Comments and Online Annexes

UNGC

Supplier Environmental Assessment
pp. 114–115

8

pp. 114–115
G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative
environmental impacts in the supply chain

8

G4-EN32 New suppliers screened using
environmental criteria

Environmental Grievance Mechanisms
G4-EN34 Formal grievances about
environmental impacts

Any such grievances would be recorded decentrally by LANXESS.
However, there is currently no system for recording these grievances in a
statistically relevant way.

8

Labor practices and decent work
Management approach

pp. 61–65, 68–76,
114–115

Employment
G4-LA1

Employee turnover

pp. 68–69

G4-LA2

Benefits provided to full-time employees

pp. 70–73

G4-LA3

Parental leave

p. 72

6
6

Labor/Management Relations
G4-LA4

Minimum notice periods regarding
significant operational changes

In accordance with the German Works Constitution Act, LANXESS is
obliged to inform the Works Council fully and in good time of any planned
operational changes which could result in material disadvantage to all
or substantial parts of the workforce. The Economics Committee is also
informed on a regular basis about the company's economic affairs. We
fully comply with our legal obligations with respect to the responsible
bodies. Notification periods are defined in the collective agreements in
Germany and other countries. In Germany, for instance, it is four weeks.
Similar periods in other countries are also always complied with.

3

Occupational Health and Safety
G4-LA5

Workforce representation in health
and safety committees

G4-LA6

Injuries, occupational diseases
and work-related accidents

G4-LA8

Health and safety topics covered in
formal agreements with trade unions

Protecting the health and safety of our employees is a regular aspect
of the dialogue between employee and employer representatives in all
countries where collective agreements apply.
In Germany, our occupational health management and workplace reintegration programs are based on agreements with employee representatives. The operational teams are managed by steering committees made
up equally of employer and employee representatives.
pp. 74–76, 84, 141
Protecting the health and safety of our employees is a regular aspect
of the dialogue between employee and employer representatives in all
countries where collective agreements apply.
In Germany, our occupational health management and workplace reintegration programs are based on agreements with employee representatives. The operational teams are managed by steering committees made
up equally of employer and employee representatives.

Training and Education
G4-LA9

(Vocational) training

pp. 69–70

G4-LA10

Programs for skills management and
lifelong learning

pp. 69–73

G4-LA11

Regular performance and career
development reviews

pp. 69, 73

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

6

6

240

Further Information


G4 Indicators and Description

Location

Comments and Online Annexes

UNGC

Diversity and Equal Opportunity
G4-LA12

Composition of governance bodies

pp. 70, 71, 101–103,
140–141

6

Equal Remuneration for Women and Men
G4-LA13

Pay differentials by gender

For non-managerial employees, collective agreements mean there are no
notable differences between the salaries of female and male employees.
Managers’ compensation is based on their responsibilities and performance and also on aspects such as industry and managerial experience.

6

Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices
G4-LA14

New suppliers screened using labor
practices criteria

pp. 114–115

G4-LA15

Significant actual and potential negative
impacts for labor practices in the supply
chain

pp. 114–115

Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms
G4-LA16

Formal grievances about labor practices

Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to
report grievances concerning labor practices. No material grievances
concerning labor practices were filed in fiscal 2016.

Human rights
Management approach

pp. 63–67, 114–115

Investment
G4-HR1

Investment agreements and contracts
that have undergone human rights
screening

pp. 66–67

2

G4-HR2

Training on human rights aspects

pp. 66–67

1

pp. 66–67

6

p. 73

3

pp. 66–67

5

pp. 66–67

4

Non-Discrimination
G4-HR3

Incidents of discrimination
and actions taken

Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
G4-HR4

Violation of the right to exercise freedom
of association or collective bargaining

Child Labor
G4-HR5

Principles and measures to eliminate
child labor

Forced or Compulsory Labor
G4-HR6

Principles and measures to eliminate
forced or compulsory labor

Security Practices
G4-HR7

Security personnel training

LANXESS does not employ its own security personnel at its sites but
procures security services from specialized external providers. They, like
all our suppliers, are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also
covers human rights. In addition, professional security providers contracted by LANXESS are subject to the relevant security legislation in each
country. In South Africa, for example, security personnel undergo regular
training which is documented and complies with the requirements of the
Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority of South Africa (PSIRA).

1

Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to
report grievances concerning the violation of indigenous rights. In fiscal
2016, we received no reports or other indications of cases involving the
violation of indigenous rights.

1

Indigenous Rights
G4-HR8

Violations involving rights of indigenous
people

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

241

GRI Content Index


G4 Indicators and Description

Location

Comments and Online Annexes

UNGC

Assessment
G4-HR9

Operations that have been subject to
human rights reviews and/or impact
assessments

pp. 66–67

1

Supplier Human Rights Assessment
G4-HR10

Suppliers and contractors that have
undergone human rights screening

pp. 114–115

2

G4-HR11

Significant actual and potential negative
human rights impacts in the supply chain

pp. 114–115

2

Formal grievances related to human
rights

pp. 66–67

1

Management approach

pp. 61–67, 86–87

Significant Actual and Potential Negative
Human Rights Impacts in the Supply Chain
and Actions Taken
G4-HR12

Society

Local Communities
G4-SO1

Operations with implemented local
community engagement, impact assessments and development programs

pp. 86–87

1

G4-SO2

Operations with significant potential
or actual negative impacts on local
communities

pp. 75, 77–85

1

Anti-Corruption
G4-SO3

Business units analyzed for risks related
to corruption

p. 67

10

G4-SO4

Percentage of employees trained in
anti-corruption policies and procedures

p. 67

10

G4-SO5

Incidents of corruption and actions taken

p. 67

10

Anti-Competitive Behavior
G4-SO7

Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices

The company is not involved in any legal actions regarding anticompetitive behavior or violations of antitrust law.

Compliance
G4-SO8

Penalties for non-compliance with laws
and regulations

Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported in the
audited financial statements.

Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society
G4-SO9

New suppliers screened using criteria
for impacts on society

G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative
impacts on society in the supply chain

pp. 114–115
pp. 114–115

Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society
G4-SO11

Formal grievances about impacts
on society

Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to
report grievances concerning impacts on society. No formal grievances
concerning material impacts on society were filed in fiscal 2016.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

242

Further Information


G4 Indicators and Description

Location

Comments and Online Annexes

Product responsibility
Management approach

pp. 58, 61–65,
76–78

Customer Health and Safety
G4-PR1

Significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts
are assessed

G4-PR2

Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the
health and safety impacts of products and
services during their life cycle

pp. 74–78, 83–84,
114–115
Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line
to report grievances concerning the non-compliance with regulations
concerning health and safety. In fiscal 2016, we received no indications
of non-compliance with pertinent regulations.

Product and Service Labeling
G4-PR3

Type of product and service information
required by legislation

G4-PR4

Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning
product and service information

G4-PR5

Customer satisfaction including results of
surveys measuring customer satisfaction

pp. 76–78
LANXESS currently does not yet have a system for recording such
cases. We met the labeling and reporting deadlines resulting from the
REACH and GHS regulations for all affected substances in our portfolio.
p. 61

Marketing Communications
G4-PR6

Sale of banned or disputed products

p. 78

Customer Privacy
G4-PR8

Complaints regarding customer data
privacy

Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to
report complaints regarding customer data privacy. In fiscal 2016,
we received no reports or other indications of complaints regarding
breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.

Compliance
G4-PR9

Fines for non-compliance with laws and
regulations concerning the provision and
use of products and services

Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported in the
audited financial statements.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

UNGC

GRI Content Index
Glossary

243

Glossary

ISO 9001
International standard which defines minimum requirements
for quality management systems.

Industry-specific terms

Networked site
Production site where many different production processes
and value chains are integrated as a highly efficient network; for
example, the by-products from one production plant are used by
another facility are the same site to manufacture another product.
The network principle results in lower energy and raw material
consumption while ensuring high production output. It is thus
resource-friendly and reduces logistics costs at the same time.

Additives
Additive are substances that are added in small quantities to
products in order to improve or actually create certain properties.
The positive effects aimed for may relate to manufacturing, storage
and processing, or they may be product characteristics that exist
during and after a product’s service life. In contrast to fillers, additives are very highly dispersed in the material and almost always
comprise just a few percent of the overall volume.
CLP and GHS
CLP is the abbreviation for classification, labeling and packaging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains provisions for the classification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures.
It is based on the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which ensures
that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world. The
use of internationally agreed classification criteria and labeling
elements is aimed at making things easier for distributors and
at protecting people and the environment worldwide from the
hazards that may be caused by chemicals.
Commodities
This is the collective term for economic goods such as fuels,
agricultural products, precious metals and chemical products, the
quality of which can be identified on the basis of unambiguous
criteria and does not differ from one supplier to the next. In virtually
transparent markets for these goods, price and volume are the
only differentiators that sellers can use.
Compounding facility
A facility for processing and finishing ­engineering plastics to
enhance their functional properties.
ISO 14001
International standard which supports organizations in introducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental
targets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental
management system.

OSHA
Occupational Safety and Health Administration: an a­ gency
of the United States Department of Labor that is authorized to
adopt occupational safety standards. OSHA also enforces these
standards with the aim of reducing the number of work-related
accidents and their consequences.
Polyamide
A synthetic polymer with very good mechanical and electrical
properties and high resistance to chemicals and wear.
REACH
Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization
and Restriction of Chemicals; the E.U. REACH Regulation stipulates
the registration, assessment and approval of chemicals before
marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers
to determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and
estimate their impact on health and the environment.
Synthesis
In chemistry, a synthesis is a process used to manufacture a
compound from several elements or a complex new substance
from a number of simple compounds. A synthesis therefore goes
beyond the purely physical mixing of two or more substances. A
synthesized compound cannot be split back into its base products
by physical means.
VOC emissions
Volatile organic compounds is the collective term for organic carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become
gaseous at low temperatures.

ISO 50001
International standard which defines requirements for systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy
costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

244

Further Information

Financial glossary

EMEA
Europe, Middle East, Africa region.

Analysts
Analysts work for banks and broker­ages. They produce
industry-specific analyses of listed companies. These are used
to assess the stock of the companies analyzed and to make investment recommendations. Published in the form of research
studies, these recommendations are targeted at ­external users,
especially institutional investors, and are intended to provide
investment ideas.
Capital employed
This is defined as total assets less deferred tax assets and
interest-free liabilities.
Cash flow
Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents.
Corporate governance
Responsible corporate management and oversight aligned
with long-term value creation; it comprises the observance of laws,
regulations, recognized standards and ­recommendations as well
as the implementation and application of company guidelines and
management and control structures.
Deferred taxes
Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the future
from temporary differences between the carrying amount used
in the annual financial statements and the taxable value of assets
and liabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in the future
from unused loss carryforwards or tax credits.
Due diligence
The careful investigation and analysis of a ­company, particularly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and financial condition
and its performance in the areas of technology and the environment; it is undertaken especially by potential purchasers involved
in acquisition projects.
EBIT
Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before
deduction of interest and income taxes.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorti­zation:
the operating result before deduction of interest and income taxes
plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and
equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible
assets.

Equity method
Accounting method that sets the interests in ­affiliated companies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any changes
in the stakeholder’s interest lead to an adjustment in the net assets
of the affiliated company.
Financial covenants
Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agreements and term
sheets; these are contractually binding promises by the borrower
or the obligor during the term of the loan agreement, for example
that net financial liabilities will not exceed a defined multiple of an
earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals.
GDP
Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services
produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined
for consumption.
Goodwill
Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company; it is measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value
of the net assets acquired.
Hedging
An investment position intended to limit or offset certain clearly
identified risks such as exchange rate fluctuations or interest rate
changes.
IAS/IFRS
International Accounting Standards/International Financial
Reporting Standards; these are uniform international accounting
regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of financial statements and the publication of information of relevance
to decisions.
Hybrid bond
A hybrid bond is a corporate bond with a very long or unlimited term. The issuing company may terminate a bond after a
previously defined date. Moreover, the agreed interest payments
may be canceled or suspended under certain conditions.
Hybrid bonds are subordinated financial instruments. In the
event of an insolvency or liquidation, they will only be serviced
after the company has fulfilled all other obligations toward third
parties. This higher risk borne by investors is compensated by
higher interest rates compared with conventional corporate bonds.
Depending on the bond conditions, at least part of a hybrid bond
is treated as equity by rating agencies and banks.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

Glossary

Joint venture
A contractual agreement between two or more partners concerning an economic activity which they manage jointly.
NAFTA
The North American Free Trade Agreement is an economic
alliance between the United States, Canada and Mexico that makes
the North American continent a free trade zone.
Net financial liabilities
Calculated as the sum of current and non-­current financial
liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) less cash,
cash equivalents and near-cash assets.
Net working capital
The sum of all inventories and trade accounts receivable less
trade accounts payable.
Purchase price allocation
Distribution of the cost of an acquisition to the acquired assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Rating
Assessment of a debtor’s credit standing; ratings are issued
by, for example, the world’s leading rating agencies such as
Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings,
but also by banks applying their own criteria.
ROCE
Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre
exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of profitability.

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

245

246

Further Information

Index
A 

I 

Advanced Industrial Intermediates

109, 127

Income statement

122 ff., 169, 211 ff.

Advanced Intermediates

53 f., 109, 127, 133, 153, 225 f.

Inorganic Pigments

43 ff., 109

Affiliated companies

108, 187 ff.

Annual Stockholders’ Meeting

92, 100

ARLANXEO

53, 108, 110, 117, 129, 133, 153,
197, 225 f.

Leather

38 ff., 109

61, 67, 80

Liquid Purification Technologies

33 ff., 109

Liquidity

136 f., 154

Awards

L 

B 

M 

Board of Management

6 ff., 97, 101, 142 ff.

Bonds

93, 135 ff.

Boundaries

232 f.

Business conditions

119 f., 152 f.

C 

Markets

50 ff., 109 f., 115 f., 119 f., 152 f.

Material Protection Products

29 f., 109, 128

Materiality matrix

59 ff.

Multi-period overview

138

N 

Capital expenditures

53 f., 132 f., 154

Chemtura

24 ff., 53, 109

Committees of the Supervisory Board

99

Compensation

73, 142 ff.

Compliance

63 ff., 96 f.

Corporate governance

96 ff.

Corporate responsibility

58 ff., 118 f.

Customer industries

50 ff., 109 f., 116, 120, 153

Net financial liabilities

O
Offices

101 ff.

Opportunities

155 ff.

P 
Performance Chemicals

53 f., 109 f., 117, 128, 133, 153,
225 f.

Procurement

114 f.

Products

24 ff., 116 ff.

D 
Declaration of Compliance

96

Demography

70 ff.

Directors’ dealings

100

Diversity

70

Dividend

92, 154

R 

E 
Earnings per share

125, 214

EBITDA margin

123, 127 ff.

EBITDA pre exceptionals

112, 121, 123 f., 127 ff., 153 f.

Education initiative

86 f.

Employees

68 ff., 140 f.

Environmental protection

74 ff.

Equity

131, 171, 196 ff.

134 ff.

Forecasts

121, 152 ff.

G 
GRI Content Index

Rating

93, 134

Realignment

51, 108 ff.

Research and development

116 ff.

Review

46 f.

Rhein Chemie Additives

24 ff., 41 f., 109

Risk management

155 ff., 217 ff.

S 

F 
Financial management

113 f., 132

236 ff.

H 
High Performance Materials

31 f., 108, 110, 117, 128 f., 133, 153,
225 f.

HR policy

68 ff.

Sales

122 ff.

Saltigo

36 f., 109, 127

Segment reporting

127 ff., 225 ff.

Sites

109 f.

Stakeholders

58 ff.

Statement of cash flows

133 f., 172, 224 f.

Statement of financial position

130 ff., 168, 191 ff.

Stock

90 ff.

Strategy

50 ff., 111, 153 f.

Supervisory Board

10 ff., 98 ff.

Sustainability

50 ff., 58 ff.

T 
Targets

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

50 ff., 61 ff., 153 f.

Index
Graphics and Tables

247

Graphics and Tables
Cover 
LANXESS Group Key Data

C2

The Segments in Brief: Advanced Intermediates

109

Sales by Region

C2

The Segments in Brief: Performance Chemicals

109

Employees by Region

C2

The Segments in Brief: High Performance Materials

110

The Segments in Brief: ARLANXEO

110

LANXESS Sites

110
112

In Focus
LANXESS’s New Additives Business

25

Value Management and Control System

Global Positioning

26

Net Financial Liabilities

114

Selling Costs

116

Sales by Industry Sector

116

Research and Development Expenses

118

Number of Employees in Research and Development

118

GDP and Chemical Production in 2016

119

Evolution of Major User Industries in 2016

120

Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2016

121

Key Financial Data

122

Group Sales

122

Effects on Sales

122

Sales by Segment

123

EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals

123

EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment

124

Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to EBIT

124

Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income

125

Reconciliation to Earnings per Share

125

Sales by Market

126

Sales by Segment

127

Advanced Intermediates: Overview of Key Data

127

Performance Chemicals: Overview of Key Data

128

High Performance Materials: Overview of Key Data

128

ARLANXEO: Overview of Key Data

129

Reconciliation: Overview of Key Data

129

Reconciliation to EBIT/EBITDA

130

Structure of the Statement of Financial Position

130

Statement of Financial Position – Assets

131

Statement of Financial Position – Equities and Liabilities

131

Ratios

132

Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization

132

Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment

133

Cash Flow Statement

133

Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2012

134

Financing Structure

136

LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index

137

Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview

138

LANXESS AG Income Statement (HGB)

139

LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position (HGB)

140

Employees by Region

141

Employees by Segment

141

Employees by Functional Area

141

Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management

142

Compensation of the Board of Management

143

Strategy
Three-Phase Realignment Program

51

Strategic Guidelines

53

Portfolio Optimization

55

Corporate Responsibility
Key Stakeholders

59

Materiality Matrix

60

Sustainability Targets

62

The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact

65

Company Guidelines and Regulations

66

Employee Turnover

68

New Employees

69

Employee Structure by Age Group

71

Employee Structure by Employment Type

72

Input-Output Balance Sheet 2016
Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in Absence
from Work (LTIFR)
Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees that are Reportable in
Accordance with OSHA Regulations (RIR)
Product Portfolio Analysis on the Basis of Sustainability Aspects

75

Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2)

79

Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3)

80

VOC Emissions

80

Energy Consumption (Balance Sheet)

80

Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region

81

Water Consumption

82

Production Wastewater

82

Total Waste

82

Waste for Disposal

82

Environmental and Safety Performance Data

84

Social Activities by Topic

86

Social Activities by Region

86

Social Activities by Type of Investment

86

76
76
77

LANXESS on the Capital Market
Stock Performance 2016

90

Performance Data 2016

91

Capital Market Information

91

Stockholder Profile

92

Geographical Breakdown

92

Recommendations

92

LANXESS’s Bonds

93

Corporate Governance
Offices held by Board of Management Members

101

LANXESS AG Supervisory Board

102

Combined Management Report
Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS

108

Principal Direct Subsidiaries of ARLANXEO Holding B.V.

108

Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management) 145
Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management)

146

Compensation Granted (Former Members of the Board of Management) 147
Allocations (Former Members of the Board of Management)

147

Compensation of the Supervisory Board

149

Expected Growth in GDP and Chemical Production in 2017

153

Expected Evolution of Major User Industries in 2017

153

Risk Categories

158

Financial Opportunities and Risks

161

Opportunity and Risk Profile

164

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

248

Further Information

FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017

May 11

August 10

Quarterly Statement
Q1 2017

Half-Year Financial Report
H1 2017

May 26

November 9

Annual Stockholders’ Meeting,
Cologne

Quarterly Statement
Q3 2017

Your direct route to the
LANXESS IR website

We support

WE SUPPORT

www.unglobalcompact.org

www.responsible-care.de

www.cdp.net/

www.tfs-initiative.com

www.chemiehochdrei.de

LANXESS Stock in Sustainability Indices

www.sustainability-indices.com

www.ftse.com/products/indices/FTSE4Good

carbon neutral
natureOffice.com | DE-149-119100

print production

LANXESS Annual Report 2016

CONTACTS

Corporate Communications
Christiane Dörr
Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 2674
E-mail: mediarelations@lanxess.com
Investor Relations
Ulrike Rockel
Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 9834
E-mail: ir@lanxess.com
Date of publication:
March 16, 2017

MASTHEAD

­L ANXESS AG
Kennedyplatz 1
50569 Cologne, Germany
Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 0
www.lanxess.com
Consultancy:
Kirchhoff Consult, Hamburg
Agency:
KD1 Designagentur, Cologne

This annual report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and forecasts made by
LANXESS AG management. Various known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material
differences between the actual future results, financial situation,
development or performance of the company and the estimates
given here. The company assumes no liability whatsoever to
update these forward-looking statements or to conform them
to future events or developments.

Photography:
Frank Reinhold, Düsseldorf (employees)
LANXESS, Chemtura, Shutterstock
English edition:
Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG
Language Service
Printed by:
Kunst- und Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen

Publisher

lanxess AG
50569 Cologne
Germany
www.lanxess.com

