Issue 2016
2015

Balance
Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group

Cover story

Changing
working
environment

Contents

/
1/

2/

3/

4/

5/

6/

1
2
4

About this report
At a glance
The Lufthansa Group

6

Cover story: Changing working environment

16	Sustainable Business Practices
18 Strategy and management
21 Stakeholder dialogue
25 Corporate governance and compliance
29 Fleet development

34
36
41
52
58
61

Climate and Environmental Responsibility
Strategy and management
Fuel consumption and emissions
Energy and resource management
Active noise protection
Commitment to climate research

62
64
65
67
70
72
74

Product Responsibility
Product responsibility at the Lufthansa Group
Customer centricity and quality focus
CO2 compensation
Flight safety and health protection
Data protection and data security
Germanwings flight 4U9525

76
78
82
88
91
92

Social Responsibility
Strategy and management
Diversity and equal opportunities
Employment policy based on partnership
Talent management
Health management and occupational safety

94
96
97
100
104

Corporate Citizenship
Lufthansa Group Social Care
Humanitarian emergency aid
Social commitment
Additional commitment

106
108
114
116

Service and Information
Glossary
Editorial information / Contact partner
Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for
calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions
Verification statement Scope 1- 3
Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet
The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group
Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices

117
118
119
121

About this report

// 1

Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, informs stakeholders and the interested public about the Group’s goals, activities
and advances in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment, product and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this
report complements and expands the information contained in the
Annual Report 2015.

Across the Lufthansa Group, Corporate
Responsibility is understood to comprise the
following dimensions:
Economic sustainability
Corporate governance and compliance
Climate and environmental responsibility
Social responsibility
Product responsibility
Corporate citizenship
Reporting follows and is oriented by the
internationally accepted G4 Sustainability
Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting
Initiative. This publication also serves as a
progress report concerning the implementation of the ten principles set out in the
UN Global Compact, which the Lufthansa
Group joined in 2002. The Group determined the significant sustainability issues
in the framework of a materiality analysis,
which are based on the results of a stakeholder survey.

ted for previous years. There are also certain differences in approach compared to
the Annual Report when calculating passenger numbers and their derivative performance indicators (see explanations relating
to the overview on page 2, At a glance).
Publication dates of this report
Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, is published once a year in
German and in English. The preceding
edition was published on July 20, 2015.
The Group has regularly reported about its
environmental performance since 1994
and has continuously expanded its reporting
to the other dimensions of entrepreneurial
responsibility.

forward-looking statements are based on
all the discernible information, facts and
expectations available at the time. It is
possible that the Group’s actual results and
development may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements implied by the
forecasts. The Lufthansa Group assumes
no obligation for and does not intend to
adapt forward-looking statements to
accommodate events or developments that
may occur at some later date. Accordingly,
it neither expressly nor conclusively
accepts liability, nor does it give any guarantee for the actuality, accuracy and completeness of this data and information.

Additional information on the Internet
In addition to this report, the Lufthansa
Group informs readers via the Internet
about its activities in the area of sustainability:
www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

Scope of consolidation
and comparability
Unless noted otherwise, the data in this
report refers to the financial year 2015. You
will find explanations concerning the scope
of consolidation and calculation methods
used to determine the absolute and specific resource consumption at the Lufthansa
Group on page 116. This report covers the
activities of the Lufthansa Group. Reporting
restricted to individual Group companies is
indicated in the copy. Due to changes in
the portfolio over recent years, the figures
for personnel and environmental performance cited in this report are only to a
limited extent comparable with those repor-

Disclaimer in respect of forwardlooking statements
The data included in this report has been
collected and processed with the utmost
care. Nevertheless, errors in transmission
cannot be ruled out entirely. Information
published in this report with regard to the
future development of the Lufthansa Group
and its subsidiaries consists purely of forecasts and assessments and not of definitive
historical facts. Its purpose is exclusively
informational, identified by the use of such
cautionary terms as believe, expect, forecast, intend, project, plan, estimate, count
on, can, could, should or endeavor. These

1 Taken from the Annual Report 2015 of the Lufthansa
Group. 2 For the reporting year 2015, the following
companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa
(including Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti and Eurowings),
Germanwings, Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss (including Edelweiss
Air) and Austrian Airlines. Excluding the services of third
parties as Lufthansa can influence neither performance
nor the equipment operated (see also table “Share of third
parties” on page 43). 3 Types of flights taken into account:
all scheduled and charter flights. 4 See also table “Fuel
consumption” on page 43. 5 Balance: segments (operational
perspective); Annual Report: distance (customer perspective).
One distance can include several segments, e.g. in the event
of stops en route. 6 Balance: on the basis of all passengers
aboard; Annual Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers.
7 Companies referred to as in 2, but including the services
of third parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results.
Types of flights as in 3, but including ferry flights, as these
represent costs.

At a glance

// 2

Business performance data 1
Revenue
of which traffic revenue
EBIT

2015

2014

Change

million €

32,056

30,011

+ 6.8 %

million €

25,322

24,388

+ 3.8 %

million €

1,676

1,000

+ 67.6 %

Adjusted EBIT

million €

1,817

1,171

+ 55.2 %

EBITDA

million €

3,395

2,530

+ 34.2 %

Net profit/loss for the period

million €

1,698

55

+ 2,987.3 %

Total assets

million €

32,462

30,474

+ 6.5 %

Cash flow from operating activities

million €

3,393

1,977

+ 71.6 %

Capital expenditure (gross)

million €

2,569

2,777

– 7.5 %

percent

18.0

13.2

+ 4.8 PP

Equity ratio

Personnel data

2015

2014

Change

120,652

118,781

+ 1.6 %

of these, in Germany

66,920

67,155

– 0.3 %

of these, outside Germany

53,732

51,626

+ 4.1 %
+ 10.1 %

Number of employees (on December 31, respectively)

million €

8,075

7,335

Revenue/employee

thousand €

268

252

+ 6.3 %

Staff costs/revenue

percent

25.2

24.4

+ 0.8 PP

Staff costs

years

42.3

42.3

± 0.0 years

Part-time ratio, absolute

percent

28.8

28.0

+ 0.8 PP

Part-time ratio, men

percent

14.9

14.3

+ 0.6 PP

Part-time ratio, women

percent

45.7

45.0

+ 0.7 PP

Share of women in management (Germany)

percent

16.2

16.0

+ 0.2 PP

Share of women in management (worldwide)

percent

14.9

14.2

+ 0.7 PP

2015

2014

Change

Average age

Environmental data 2, 3
Resource consumption
Fuel consumption 4
Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation
Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport
Emissions
Carbon dioxide emissions
Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation
Nitrogen oxide emissions
Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation
Carbon monoxide emissions
Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation
Unburned hydrocarbons
Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation

tonnes

8,947,766

8,825,744

+ 1.4 %

l /100 pkm

3.84

3.84

± 0.0 %

g / tkm

225

221

+ 1.9 %

tonnes

28,185,463

27,801,092

+ 1.4 %

kg /100 pkm

9.69

9.69

± 0.0 %

tonnes

135,447

132,257

+ 2.4 %

g /100 pkm

46.3

45.8

+ 1.1 %

tonnes

19,137

19,251

– 0.6 %

g /100 pkm

7.1

7.3

– 2.6 %

tonnes

1,858.8

1,952.5

– 4.8 %

g /100 pkm

0.7

0.7

– 5.7 %

Transport performance data

Balance 2, 3

± 2014

Annual Report 7

± 2014

931,188

– 2.4 %

1,003,660

+ 0.2 %

104,558,264

+ 0.5 %

107,679,000

+ 1.6 %

tonnes

1,861,205

– 3.1 %

1,864,078

– 3.1%

Flights 5
Passengers carried 6
Freight and mail carried

million pkm

270,803

+ 1.7 %

273,975

+ 2.2 %

Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO

million tkm

14,619

+ 2.2 %

14,971

+ 2.1 %

Tonne kilometers offered, TKO

million tkm

41,702

+ 1.9 %

42,424

+ 2.1 %

million pkm

223,761

+ 2.0 %

220,400

+ 2.7 %

Seat kilometers offered, SKO

Passenger kilometers transported, PKT 6
Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT

million tkm

9,173

– 2.5 %

9,930

– 3.1%

Tonne kilometers transported, TKT

million tkm

31,623

+ 0.7 %

31,518

+ 0.7 %

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 3

Dear Readers,
This latest issue of Balance marks our 22nd year of reporting on the wide range of activities
and initiatives that we undertake and implement every day to ensure the sustainability of
our entrepreneurial actions. More than two decades ago, we were still among the pioneers
with this kind of reporting. In the future, the disclosure of information about non-financial
measures and ratios will be legally binding in the European Union for listed companies as
well as others. The fact that Lufthansa has published this report since 1994 demonstrates
that we are innovative trailblazers in this area as well.
We maintain a particular focus on the future viability of our Company. In the strategic program “7to1 – Our Way Forward”, launched two years ago, we designated seven fields of
action and thus laid the foundations for improved results over the long-term and the successful future development of the Lufthansa Group as a whole. The issue of safety has
and will always have the top priority in all that we do. Yet our next most important corporate goal is future viability. Last year, we made a great deal of progress in this area.
Another key point on our agenda is our responsibility to protect climate and the environment. This is reflected in the diverse programs that follow the established four-pillar strategy, which comprises technological, operative, infrastructural and economic measures.
The specific consumption of our airlines in 2015 remained stable at the previous year’s
record value of 3.84 liters of kerosene per passenger and 100 kilometers. This year we are
phasing 52 new and particularly fuel-efficient aircraft into service – arithmetically, we take
delivery of one new aircraft per week. Thus we continue to pursue our long-term fleet
modernization – the largest in our Company’s history. In early 2016 we became the first
commercial airline to operate the Airbus A320neo – a particularly quiet and fuel-efficient
aircraft. With the new Bombardier CSeries at Swiss, another exceptionally fuel-efficient
aircraft will join our fleet this summer. And the third new type of aircraft, the Airbus A350,
is set to follow this coming winter in Munich.

“In this issue of Balance, the
title is dedicated neither to
our aircraft nor to our technical innovations, but to the
people who move our Company forward each day and
who make mobility possible
in the first place by fulfilling
their tasks in the air and on
the ground: our 120,000
employees worldwide.”
Carsten Spohr

In this issue of Balance, the title is dedicated neither to our aircraft nor to our technical
innovations, but to the people who move our Company forward each day and who make
mobility possible in the first place by fulfilling their tasks in the air and on the ground: our
120,000 employees worldwide. We provide you insights into the fascinating worlds of all
our Group’s business areas. We address the issue of change in the working world and
its related challenges, including for our human resources management. And we report
with no small satisfaction that last year as well 130,000 young people applied to become
part of our team.
By joining the UN Global Compact in 2002, we reinforced our voluntary commitment to
assume our responsibility in the environmental and social areas alongside that for economical aspects. This also embraces our unwavering commitment to social issues in
general.
Discover in this issue of Balance more about how we meet our social responsibility as the
world’s leading aviation group. I thank you for your interest in our work and wish you a
sustainably captivating read.

Carsten Spohr
Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

the Lufthansa Group
The Lufthansa Group is the world’s leading aviation group. Its portfolio of companies consists
of premium network airlines; the Eurowings Group, which offers point-to-point connections as
the Lufthansa Group’s complementary brand; and the aviation service companies. Deutsche
Lufthansa AG comprises about 540 subsidiaries and affiliated companies.
In 2015, the Lufthansa Group’s airlines carried 107.7 million passengers and thus established
a new passenger record.
The Group’s organization was realigned with effect from January 1, 2016. This new orientation
is accompanied by tighter interlocking between business segments and stronger functional
steering for the entire organization.
www.lufthansagroup.com

the positioning of the Lufthansa Group

Lufthansa Group
First choice for customers, employees, shareholders and partners

Hub airlines

Aviation services

The Group’s premium airlines – Lufthansa, Swiss and
Austrian Airlines – offer their customers an integrated travel
experience via their hubs along with the highest levels of
service and comfort. As members in the Star Alliance, the
world’s largest aviation alliance, they guarantee their passengers numerous advantages.
www.Lh.com
www.swiss.com
www.austrian.com

As leaders in the world market, the service companies
strengthen the Lufthansa Group’s portfolio.

Eurowings Group

Lufthansa Technik AG, with headquarters in hamburg, is
the worldwide leader in the areas of maintenance, repair
and overhaul of commercial aircraft.
www.lufthansa-technik.com

With the new Eurowings the Lufthansa Group has offered
an innovative and competitive product for price-sensitive
customers since 2015. The goal is to position eurowings
as the market leading point-to-point airline in the Lufthansa
Group’s home markets.
www.eurowings.com

Lufthansa Cargo AG, with headquarters in frankfurt, is
the Lufthansa Group’s specialist for logistics and europe’s
leading cargo airline.
www.lufthansa-cargo.com

The LSG Group is the world’s largest provider of services
in airline catering and in-flight management. The group’s
parent company, LSG Lufthansa Service holding AG, is
headquartered in Neu-Isenburg.
www.lsgskychefs.com

At a glance
Corporate headquarters
Cologne
Legal form
stock corporation
number of employees
on 31.12.2015
120,652
number of nationalities
146
number of passengers
in 2015
107,679,000

Hubs
frankfurt, Munich, zurich,
Vienna, Brussels
number of aircraft in the
Group’s fleet
600
Freight/mail carried in
2015
> 1.86 million tonnes
number of destinations
(summer timetable 2016)
316 cities in 101 countries

A day at the Lufthansa Group

295,011

passengers we carry.

1.6 million
meals we provide.

5,107

tonnes of freight we transport.

1,700

aircraft we support.

2,750

times we take off and land.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group

6 // Cover story: Changing working environment

CHAnGinG woRKinG EnviRonMEnt

The world is turning faster and faster: Social megatrends such as technological
progress and the advancing digitalization of numerous processes have a great
influence on today’s working environment. Furthermore, the upcoming generation of job-seekers demand from their employers more leeway and greater
flexibility in shaping their everyday working situation. The Lufthansa Group
is adapting to these changes in a consistent manner. It is providing modern,
virtual and flexible work structures while relying more on a self-motivated and
trust-based work culture. Even against the background of such demographic
change, the Lufthansa Group will in this way succeed to attract the right talent
and thus to secure its future viability and competitiveness.
One constant in all this change? Working at the Lufthansa Group is and will
remain fascinating and multi-facetted. Every day, 120,000 employees from
about 150 nations ensure the Company’s success with great passion. The
goal: To be first choice in aviation. Welcome to the world of the Lufthansa Group!
#lHgroUp #eMployees #aViation #spirit

2016

4,000

new hires
for the Lufthansa
Group’s future viability
and competitiveness

2015

120,000
employees

8 // Cover story: Changing working environment

Fascination Lufthansa Group
Around 130,000 applications a year – the fascination for the
Lufthansa Group is as unabated as that for aviation. That the
aviation group has been one of Germany’s most attractive
employers for many years is confirmed not only by the numerous
job applications but also by a broad range of awards and top
slots in renowned employer rankings. For example, according to
the Graduate Barometer of market research institute Trendence,
the Lufthansa Group again counted among the six most popular
employers for German economics graduates in 2015. For future
engineers, Lufthansa Technik ranked number eight. In addition,
the Lufthansa Group received the first prize in the category “Best
career website” in Trendence’s employer Branding Award. every
year, about 1.5 million interested parties and job applicants visit
www.Be-Lufthansa.com. During the reporting year, Swiss
received the quality seal “Friendly Work Space”, a recognition
for companies that have integrated corporate healthcare
management (CHM) into their strategy (see cover, Corporate
Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices).
#LHGROUP #EMPLOYERRANKING

More than 4,000 new employees
in 2016
Be it as chefs at LSG Sky Chefs, engine mechanics at Lufthansa
Technik, software developers at Lufthansa Systems, flight attendants at Swiss or pilots at Austrian Airlines: The Lufthansa Group
offers a broad scope of employment opportunities on the ground
and in the air. In 2016 alone, the Group will hire more than 4,000
new employees, including 2,800 flight attendants at various locations and about 240 pilots. While employees and managers benefit
from comprehensive continued education offers, new young
employees can choose from a large number of training-based
professions. The spectrum ranges from specialists for system gastronomy and tool mechanics to specialists for warehouse logistics,
whereby technical professions such as aircraft part mechanics or
electronics technicians for technical aviation systems traditionally
draw the largest share. Such has been the case for 60 years: On
April 3, 1956, Lufthansa Technik began training technical apprentices in Hamburg – and since then has smoothed the path into
professional life for about 9,000 young people.
#CAREER #BELUFTHANSA

Eminent visitor: Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel in
conversation with apprentices at the Lufthansa Group.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group

Job rotation: On the occasion of “60 Years of Training”,
Lufthansa Technik chief human resources officer Antonio
Schulthess changes a tire with professional guidance
from an apprentice.

Diverse development opportunities
Working at the Lufthansa Group has many facets. But people
are always at the center of the Company’s corporate culture. The
Lufthansa Group’s employees are characterized by their high level
of professional qualifications as well as by motivation, ability to
perform and flexibility. They think in innovative dimensions, make
decisions quickly and implement their tasks in consistent ways.
The Lufthansa Group places its trust in a corporate culture that
aligns the work environment more and more with the employees’
requirements. The Group gives its employees more latitude to
structure their working environment as fits them best. Work-life
integration, home office, new workspace, flexible work-time models
and job sharing are but a few examples of this approach. Equally
important is the talent management philosophy the Lufthansa
Group developed in 2014 under the maxim “Every employee
has talent!” (see page 83, Balance 2015). It also contributes to a
working environment that helps employees shape their own
development more and more independently.
#CORPORATECULTURE

Visible esteem:
Under the motto “Faces of Swiss”, the
first Boeing 777-300er operated by Swiss
has been dedicated to its employees.

Yearly

130,000
applications
via Be-Lufthansa.com

Working at the
Lufthansa Group
Be-Lufthansa.com is the gateway to
the Lufthansa Group. In place since
2002, this award-winning career portal
offers visitors the best possible service
in searching for “their” job. Potential
applicants ﬁnd information on job
vacancies and training openings as well
as details on the Group companies and
the application process. At the same
time, this Internet page gives visitors a
feel for what it means to be part of the
Lufthansa Group. Alongside this career
portal, the Group’s HR experts are present at numerous information events and
recruiting fairs to give prospective applicants an understanding of the Lufthansa
Group’s attractiveness. The Company’s
own information days and its cooperations with universities complement the
Group’s personnel marketing activities.
Via Be-Lufthansa.com, which continuously
integrates modern communications channels and thus personalizes communications, the Lufthansa Group has increasingly aligned in recent years its recruiting
strategy with the needs of young people
in order to address the “digital natives”
of generations Y and Z via their preferred
communications channels. This includes
live chats, e-books, career blogs, social
media channels and job-speciﬁc videos.
www.Be-Lufthansa.com

wE inQUiRED

Employees from different companies across the Lufthansa Group provide
insights into their professional worlds and explain what is especially important
to them, what fascinates them and which are their employer’s best points.

BArBArA hOTz
Manager Environmental Affairs
at Austrian Airlines in Vienna

“The fascinating part of my work is to find ecologically sensible and credible solutions for the aviation
industry within an economic framework. As a
mother of two small children I also place great
emphasis on the compatibility of job and family –
this is possible for me by working part-time and
being able to choose flexible work times. Also
important for me are an independent work style
and good cooperation – both within the team and
Group-wide. Daily work with my colleagues is
characterized by commitment, professionality and
loyalty, and above all by endurance, humor and
friendliness as well.”

hOLGEr frÖhLICh
Team leader at Lufthansa Technik in frankfurt

“At Lufthansa Technik, safety and professionalism
are always given the top rank, but social commitment is quite important as well. As a team leader
in aircraft maintenance, I also place great value on
team spirit, professional competency and the willingness to assume responsibility. This is an aspiration I share with my colleagues. The complex
technology of system components is a new challenge every day – in my job regular continuing
education is therefore indispensable and the
name of the game. Despite more than 40 years in
the airline business, it never fails to fascinate me
that aircraft weighing many tonnes take off and
land again safely. It’s great that I’ve been able to
make a contribution to this for many years!”

Lisa Antonopoulos
General Manager at LSG Sky Chefs
in Johannesburg

Shanel Talarico
Flight attendant at Eurowings Europe

“‘Inspired’ is the word that best describes how I feel
at LSG Sky Chefs. Our industry is challenging and
the international environment within our organization
is fascinating. This keeps me mentally stimulated
every day. I want to achieve something and the LSG
Group supports me in this. I am very passionate
about continuous improvement closely linked with
skill development and training.”

“My time at Eurowings Europe began in November
2015, about two months after I moved from Italy,
my home country, to Vienna. Dynamism, movement, contact with people, new challenges: These
are the reasons why I am so enthusiastic about
my work every day. What makes a difference at
Eurowings Europe is what every single employee
thinks. This creates the strong unity that makes it
possible to build a great European airline.”

Yifeng Wang
Sales Executive at Lufthansa Cargo
in Shanghai

Jennifer Knecht
First Officer Airbus A330/340 at Swiss

“In my daily work it’s important for me to listen
attentively and comprehend the customer’s needs,
and provide the effective airfreight solution based
on Lufthansa Cargo’s fruitful products and professional handling procedure. Lufthansa Cargo is an
open and international company, in which the various training and team spirit is in favor of personal
career development.”

“The most important consideration for me is good
cooperation and communication within the crew.
I believe this is a characteristic of Swiss – where
safety of course always has top priority. For me
this also implies actively taking responsibility. And
then there is flying itself: It is an unbelievable sensation to pilot a plane. The technical complexity, the
operational challenges and the breathtaking views
fascinate me every time anew. I am also really
enthusiastic about travelling to different countries.
Again and again I discover new destinations, cultures and people.”

12 // Cover story: Changing working environment

Think the future, meet new
challenges, live out responsibility.
Digitalization and demographic change lead to an evolution in the
working environment from the ground up. On the other hand, the
next generation of employees has its own expectations concerning
the working environment (see interview on this double page).
Under the motto “Think the future, meet new challenges, live out
responsibility” the Lufthansa Group faces these defining social
developments with measures such as concepts for open workspace models and diverse offers concerning digitalization. The
Group relies on an independent and trust-based work culture in
connection with modern information technology to create an
attractive and need-oriented working environment. This concept
helps to secure the Lufthansa Group’s future viability and its ability
to create added value. For the Company’s employees are a significant factor for its success.
#LHGROUP #CHANGE

Added value for employees
and Company alike
Diversity and equal opportunities are among the central principles of
the aviation group. The employees’ diverse talents, experiences and
competencies make an important contribution to expanding the
Lufthansa Group’s competitive position.
For this reason, HR management is always working on further
improvements in the compatibility of family and work. These
measures range from expanding child-care offers to supporting
employees who must combine professional demands with caring
for family members (see page 86, Work and family in harmony).
A balance between work and private life is also served by the
numerous flexible working hours, part-time and sabbatical models
for employees and managers. The Lufthansa Group places great
emphasis on offering their employees sustainable remuneration
and pension schemes (see page 88, Employment policy based
on partnership).
#DIVERSITY #EQUALOPPORTUNITY

Fully in line with digitalization:
an employee tests “smart glasses” with integrated displays.

EXPERT INTERVIEW
Three questions for Professor Christian Scholz on the
subject of change in the work environment and its effects
on employer attractiveness

Investments in the work place
of the future
“new Workspace” is the name for the new Lufthansa office world.
After successful completion of the pilot phase, the Group introduced
its new workspace model, which features basic components such
as mobile office and home office options, in its administrative areas.
The Lufthansa Group not only responds to the trend towards
modern, virtual and adaptable working structures. It also adapts
its working conditions to its employees’ increased mobility, their
pronounced digital and social connectedness and their individual
diversification. now teams, project groups and departments increasingly work in virtual communities across the borders of
departments and business segments.
Insight into tomorrow’s working world was also provided by the hr
Action Days at the Frankfurt location; in 2015 the focus was entirely
on digitalization. In this context, employees were able to test innovations including a 3-D printer and “smart glasses” with integrated
displays as well as a desk with integrated touch screen and other
digital features.
#DIGITALIZATION #NEWWORKSPACE

What criteria are of particular importance for today’s job
seekers when selecting an employer?
For younger Generation Z applicants in particular, the focus
is on a sense of well-being, security and structure. Naturally
money, employer image and career perspectives count as
well; however, compared with the slightly older Generation Y,
these factors tend to take more of a back seat. Generation Z
seeks reliability and wants a clear picture of what the tasks
and the work place are like.
How must companies react to these changed expectations so as to be able to attract the right talent?
... and to keep them. It is somewhat paradoxical: Younger
applicants no longer commit themselves either long-term or
emotionally to an employer. If something bothers them,
they’re gone. Yet they still seek an employer who promises
them continuity for the next 30 years. Underlying this paradox
in the case of Generation Z is a “Pippi Longstocking” romanticism. But there is also a clear turning away from the – by now
exaggerated – trend toward flexibility, agility and virtuality
along with a turning toward a stabile, productive and more
human form of sustainability. For companies, all this may be
somewhat uncomfortable and seemingly not in keeping with
the times, yet even so it is both right and important.
What sort of influence does the digitalization of many work
processes have on today’s and tomorrow’s working worlds?
Of course, digitalization implies an expansion of networking
and automation. However, progressive digitalization can
produce a multitude of different working environments. In
this case, one should not let oneself be too easily convinced
by the hype surrounding digitalization technology but rely
rather more on the competitive advantage generated by the
meaningful combination of digitalization and employee orientation. This is exactly what Generation Z will insist on
gently but firmly, and that is a good thing: for economic
success, ecology and people.

Personnel strategy sets
tomorrow’s course today
Demographic change implies that staff in Europe will get increasingly older and that there will be a scarcity of younger qualified
employees. By applying strategic personnel planning, possible
discrepancies between future staff levels and actual personnel
needs can be determined and analyzed at an early stage – and
thus the course for the future can be set early on. For this purpose,
the aviation group combines qualitative and quantitative analyses
in a dynamic model with a planning framework spanning up to
15 years. The Lufthansa Group’s personnel strategy focuses on the
overriding action areas of the program “7to1 – Our Way Forward”
so that the HR function consistently supports the strategic alignment of the entire Group.
#STRATEGY #7TO1

CHRISTIAN SCHOLZ

has been professor of Business Administration and Economic
Science at Saarland University since 1986. his controversial publications (such as his latest book “Generation Z”) are dedicated to
current trends in the world of work.

VIEWPOINTS

The Lufthansa Group reacts with a broad
range of ideas, programs and offers to
changes in the work environment. How is
this commitment received and where is a
need for optimizations?
Here are three personal views on these
issues by: Dr. Bettina Volkens, member of
the Lufthansa Group’s Executive Board
and in charge of Corporate Human
Resources and Legal Affairs since July
2013, Petra Hollmeyer, Manager Project
Management Leadership VIP & Special
Mission Aircraft Services and with Lufthansa
Technik since May 2001 and Dino
Bonvecchi, ProTeam trainee at the Lufthansa
Group since 2015.

How would you describe the Lufthansa Group’s work
environment in three adjectives?
 Highly professional, quality-conscious, diverse.
 Diverse, hierarchical, quality-conscious.
 Professional, complex, increasingly dynamic.

What makes an employer attractive for you? Is the
Lufthansa Group well placed in this respect?
 For me, the primary consideration is sufficient opportunities for development. In my opinion, the so-called “professional career” ought to be developed more consciously because
not everybody can and wants to be a manager. In this area I
see even more potential for the Lufthansa Group. As the life
working time is getting longer, the compatibility of work and
private life has great importance. The options offered, such
as part-time work and special leave, are good ones.
When it comes to women in management positions –
especially in technical areas – even though there are positive
developments, we could do even better with more female
managers, in my opinion. Against the background of the
current pension debate I appreciate the favorable employee
benefits the Company offers. Especially the Company
pension is a very important building block for me. Therefore,
I hope that it will be preserved over the long-term.
 Very much so! We are a modern and responsible
employer with unbelievably diverse employment and
development options. People make a conscious decision in
favor of the Lufthansa Group and work with commitment and
enthusiasm for the common goal. To keep it this way, we
analyze our internal and external environment regularly with
an eye on relevant influences and trends and adapt our
personnel concepts accordingly if needed. One very important aspect is to always listen to the employees’ concerns.
We make sure we do so by cultivating our trust-based and
feedback-oriented corporate culture. Numerous dialogue
and participation formats and our Group-wide employee
survey support us in this task. Every employee receives the
same appreciation from us. Whether a company is an
attractive employer depends on many factors – not just the
working environment, career opportunities, employee
benefits and possibilities to achieve balance between pro­
fessional and private lives. We know that the world around us
is not at a standstill and that is why we work increasingly on
topics such as digitalization, diversity and internationality so
as to offer an interesting job portfolio and an attractive
working environment in the future as well.

 Dr. BeTTInA VOLKenS
Chief Officer Corporate Human
Resources and Legal Affairs
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

 DINO BONVECCHI
ProTeam Trainee
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

 PETRA HOLLMEYER
Manager Project Management Leadership
VIP & Special Mission Aircraft Services
Lufthansa Technik AG

 For me it is important to be seen as a human being
and not as a resource, and to have the opportunity to get
involved. This includes being able to identify with my
employer and that I can discern an overriding shared goal.
To be successful in the future, we need even greater diversity
and a better understanding of working together in interdisciplinary teams, especially under the aspect of the Lufthansa
Group’s current realignment.

What does the Lufthansa Group offer to keep professional
and private lives in balance? What’s really good and
where do we need to catch up?
 We support our employees with tailor-made offers, which
make it possible to create harmony between work and private
life. This includes flexible work-time models, home office
and job-sharing options just as much as the expansion of
childcare offers, for example. We have accomplished a lot
already. employees and the Company benefit from it in
equal measure. In this area as well, it is important to ask for
regular feedback from employees in order to further optimize
existing offers or to expand them.
 At Lufthansa and in the central functions we are set up
well due to a number of collective agreements, part-time
offers, job sharing and the new workspace initiative, or we
are on a positive path. But that’s not the case for all subsidiaries and here harmonization would be good – also to
make job changes within the Lufthansa Group easier.
 Currently, I’m using a part-time option for the first time.
The related process is clearly structured and can be used
flexibly. For me, one of the options this has created is the
ability to pursue my activities as a volunteer. In addition, I’ve
been able to accumulate time credits for a three-month
sabbatical; a wonderful chance to realize personal dreams
and to generate fresh energy. When it comes to the topic of

home offices, I’d like to see Lufthansa Technik supporting this
option even more strongly – while taking into account operational requirements, of course.
What characterizes the Lufthansa Group’s offers concerning personal and professional development?
 There are diverse offers that are strongly oriented by
current employee needs as well as the Company’s challenges. The Lufthansa Group’s entry programs in particular
offer a high level of professional and personal potential for
development – and they show that both depend on one’s
own initiative.
 In 2007 I had the opportunity to participate in the
“Explorers” program. I experienced this international course
for junior managers as being of very high quality. It was very
interesting and a great deal of fun to meet colleagues from
many Group areas and to work together on different projects.
 The Lufthansa Group’s success substantially depends on
our highly committed and qualified employees. As a global
aviation group with different business segments, the requirements for training and continuing education are high and
diverse. Also in this area we are making continuous investments. To find one’s way in the future in a digitalized working
environment with ever-faster changes, there needs to be a
culture of “wanting to learn” as well as concrete new innovation and change competencies – we are working on that in a
consistent manner as well. The Lufthansa School of Business
is our internal competency center in this context and ensures
the high quality of our continuing education programs by
providing tailor-made offers and formats.

1
Sustainable
Business Practices
Sustainable business practices are
firmly anchored in our Company
strategy. We actively seek an open
dialogue with our stakeholder groups
to jointly shape the future.

18 // Sustainable Business Practices

Strategy and management
Entrepreneurial responsibility is a core concern for the Lufthansa Group.
The Company’s goal is to act sustainably and responsibly in all areas and
to be the first choice for customers, employees, shareholders and partners.
Over the long term, this secures the aviation group’s success and its ability
to create added value.

The Lufthansa Group has adopted a comprehensive sustainability agenda, which
ensures responsible management in all
business segments and comprises the
following dimensions:
Economic sustainability
Corporate governance and compliance
(see page 25)
Climate and environmental responsibility
(see page 34)
Social responsibility (see page 76)
Product responsibility (see page 62)
Corporate citizenship (see page 94).

Corporate
citizenship

At the beginning of 2016, the Group again
surveyed its stakeholders concerning key
aspects of these subject areas and joined
these responses together with its own
assessments in a materiality matrix. On
the basis of this materiality analysis, the
Lufthansa Group will further develop its
sustainability strategy and management
over the years ahead (see page 21, Stakeholder dialogue). Similarly, Group companies such as Lufthansa Technik or LSG
Sky Chefs rely on specific stakeholder
surveys and analyses to formulate recommended measures especially adapted to
their needs and to optimize their own
sustainability programs. In the area of

Economic
sustainability

social responsibility the Lufthansa Group
has used the Company-wide employee
survey “involve me!” since 2015 as a
central dialogue and feedback instrument
(see page 88, Employment policy based
on partnership).
The Group focuses at all times on minimizing the environmentally relevant effects of
its business activities. The aim is to make
flying as sustainable and environmentally
compatible as possible by means of technological innovations as well as new products and services, while making the most
of every opportunity that presents itself to
advance the Company’s commercial
activities. Balance, which has been published for the last 22 years, informs readers
about key areas and advances in Corporate Responsibility; this report is also the
basis for the stakeholder dialogue.

Organization
Product
responsibility

Corporate
Responsibility

Social
responsibility

Corporate
governance
and
compliance

Climate and environmental responsibility

The responsibility for the coordination and
further development of all activities and
initiatives related to sustainability within the
Lufthansa Group is in the hands of the
Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC).
This interdisciplinary and interdepartmen-

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 19

tal committee is placed at the upper
management level and has the task of
steering all topics and processes related
to sustainability within the Group in an
effective manner. The CRC comprises the
heads of the Group departments Strategy,
Political Affairs, Group Environmental
Issues, Human Resources, Legal Affairs,
Communications, Investor Relations,
Controlling and Corporate Sourcing. It
reports directly to the Lufthansa Group’s
Executive Board. In addition, a working
group whose members come from different Group departments covers current
aspects and concerns related to topics of
entrepreneurial responsibility.

Commitment to corporate responsibility is
acknowledged
Sustainability analysts and rating agencies
in 2015 again assessed the activities of the
Lufthansa Group with regard to responsible corporate governance. For example,
the US trade publication Air Transport
World honored the Group’s pioneering
role in the area of climate and environmental responsibility for the second time
in three years with the award “Eco-Airline
of the Year”. Furthermore, the Lufthansa
Group is listed in such sustainability indices
as FTSE4Good, Ethibel Sustainability
Index (ESI) Excellence Europe, ECPI and
MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series
(see cover, Corporate Responsibility:
Prizes, awards and indices).

“Consistently safeguarding the future”
is the title of the Lufthansa Group’s
Annual Report 2015, available at
www.lufthansagroup.com/investorrelations. Sustainability and responsible
management play important roles in
this context.

Strategic program
“7to1 – Our Way
Forward”
The strategic program “7to1 – Our Way
Forward”, which was launched in July
2014, reorients the Lufthansa Group for
the future. Aimed at increasing efficiency,
its measures are the basis for developing
the aviation group successfully and sustainably. The strategic program’s goal is
to increase the Group’s ability to create
added value – and to secure the
Company’s competitiveness and future
viability. “7to1 – Our Way Forward” comprises seven key areas of action that refer
to market conditions as well as to internal
structures and processes (see page 15,
Annual Report 2015):
Customer centricity and quality focus
new concepts for growth
Innovation and digitalization
Culture and leadership
Value-based steering
Constantly improving efficiency
Effective and lean organization
The topic of sustainability is present in all
seven action areas. The Lufthansa Group
will invest a total of 500 million euros in

innovations by 2020 to make the product
“flying” more efficient, more environmentally compatible and more attractive.
Simultaneously, the Group is currently
implementing the largest fleet modernization program in its history (see page 29,
Fleet development).
Furthermore, the focus on “Culture and
leadership” will help to ensure that talented job seekers see the aviation group as
an attractive employer in the future as well.
Inasmuch as a modern, feedback-oriented
leadership culture forms the basis for
motivated and autonomous employees.
In addition, the Lufthansa Group realigned
itself organizationally with effect from January 1, 2016 as part of the measures taken
in the action area “Effective and lean organization”. As a result, more functional criteria are applied in steering the entire organization. The restructuring allows the Group
to interlink commercial, operative and
administrative functions more closely
across all business segments. All efforts in
the framework of “7to1 – Our Way Forward”
serve the purpose of creating added value
for customers, employees, shareholders
and partners.

20 // Sustainable Business Practices

Three questions to AnDREAS HAGEnBRInG
Head of Investor Relations
Deutsche Lufthansa AG
The Lufthansa share has been listed
on the stock exchange for 50 years
and been included in the DAX 30, the
index of the most important German
listed companies, since its inception
in 1988 without interruption. Is this a
success story?
Very clearly, yes. Since 1966, Lufthansa
has evolved to become one of the bestknown and most popular German brands.
A company with 17,000 employees,
revenue of 1 billion DM and a profit of
50 million DM has grown into an international Group with 120,000 employees, revenue of 32 billion euros and a
profit of 1.8 billion euros. Since 1969,
we have paid dividends to our shareholders totaling more than 4.5 billion
euros. Despite all challenges – and
there are numerous ones in our industry –
we have stayed in the DAX to this day.
The so-called ESG criteria – which
refers to environment, social and
governance – continue to gain significance in deciding in favor or against
an investment. Does this also apply to
the investors in the Lufthansa Group?
Investments focused on sustainability
are continuously gaining in importance.
Today they have a place in the portfolios
of any renowned asset management
company. More and more institutional
investors have separate departments
concerned with ESG, who influence the
weighting of individual values within the

funds based on these criteria. Other
investors consult data from external
rating agencies such as the CDP and
take these into account during the
investment decision-making process.
Investors in the Lufthansa Group are not
an exception in this respect. For investors, it is above all economic sustainability and high standards in corporate
management that are as important as
ecological sustainability.
How do investors and rating agencies
assess the sustainability performance
of the Lufthansa Group and how do you
inform the capital market on topics of
entrepreneurial responsibility?
Investors and rating agencies evaluate a
number of criteria and give each one a
different weighting. A standardized
approach is still lacking in this area. For
2016 we are planning our first participation in an ESG-focused investor conference. The Lufthansa Group’s sustainability performance is seen positively
by the capital market. Information about
economic sustainability and good corporate governance have long been core
elements of annual and quarterly reports.
Incidentally, in 2015 our Group was again
confirmed with top scores in different
indices, such as FTSE4Good and the
MSCI sustainability indices, which take
into account economic as well as ecological and social criteria.

Beyond this, the principles of sustainable
business practices are an important element
in steering the Company. The Lufthansa
Group follows a value-based management
system, which is part of all processes concerning planning, steering and control. This
approach aims at creating sustainable
value across industry cycles.

Taking advantage
of opportunities,
limiting risks
The Lufthansa Group identifies significant
opportunities and risks at an early stage
and at regular intervals, and takes them
into account in steering the Company. For
this reason, the management of opportunities and risks is integrated into all business
processes. In particular, the aviation group
systematically takes advantage of its
opportunities to increase efficiency, productivity and competitiveness (see page
69, Annual Report 2015).
The opportunities and risks affecting the
Lufthansa Group are primarily shaped by
macro-economic factors and the resulting
influences on the aviation market and
competition. In this context, the Group
relies on its ability to adapt capacities and
resources flexibly to changing market
conditions. In addition to economic and
regulatory developments, the activities of
aviation companies are also highly exposed to political crises, weather events
and other natural phenomena.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 21

Stakeholder dialogue
The Lufthansa Group has a variety of stakeholders with widely varying
expectations and interests. The scope ranges from customers, employees,
investors and suppliers to legislators, municipalities, neighbors, nGOs and
scientific researchers. The Group places great value on a continuous and
trusting dialogue with its internal and external stakeholder groups, and
actively seeks exchange with them via various formats.

This dialogue allows the Lufthansa Group
to understand better its stakeholders’
needs and wishes and to integrate these
into its business practices. The varying
demands of different interest groups are
likewise important for the further development of the Group’s sustainability agenda
and its annual reporting on important
topics in the area of entrepreneurial responsibility. In the reporting year, the spectrum of stakeholder dialogue activities
ranged from the restructuring of internal
employee communication to road shows,
investor conferences and dialogue events
with representatives from politics, science
and research (see page 24, The most
important stakeholder activities 2015/16 at
a glance).

Suppliers
Contractual
partners

Employees
Employee
representatives

Science
Research
Education

Customers
Consumers
LOHAS (Lifestyle
of Health and
Sustainability)

Lufthansa
Group

Nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs)
Organizations
Consortia

Capital market
Investors
Shareholders
Analysts
Rating agencies

Governments
Legislators
Politicians
Authorities

Neighbors
Local communities
Society
Publicity
Social networks

The diverse stakeholders of the Lufthansa Group

The materiality matrix 2016
of the Lufthansa Group

Very important for stakeholders

Climate protection

Energy and resource
management

Service and
customer orientation

Sustainable innovation,
research & development

Important for stakeholders

Sustainability in
the supply chain

Employer attractiveness

Employee awareness
about sustainability

Active noise protection
Local value creation
Job safety and
health protection

Corporate
citizenship

Transparent political
commitment

internal

effect

external

Important for the Lufthansa Group
The materiality matrix 2016 will serve the Lufthansa Group in the years ahead
as a basis for the further strategic development of Corporate Responsibility
Management and to ensure a lawful form of reporting. The topics of safety

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group

internal

effect

external

Very important for the Lufthansa Group
and adherence to legal requirements were not included in the stakeholder
assessment, as the Lufthansa Group considers these to be basic prerequisites for its business activities.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 23

Presentation and discussion of the stakeholder
survey results within the Lufthansa Group’s
Corporate Responsibility Council.

Materiality analysis
In 2016, the Group again conducted a
stakeholder survey which built upon previous editions. For this purpose, experts at
the Lufthansa Group identified 12 relevant
topics in a first step while focussing on
those fields of action:
upon which the Lufthansa Group’s business activities have a significant social
impact
which influence stakeholders substantially in their evaluation of the Company
which are demanded by sustainability
standards and regulations
which have significant influence on the
Lufthansa Group’s ability to generate
financial or non-financial value over the
medium or long term.
Safety and adherence to legal requirements
were not included as topics in the survey,
as the Lufthansa Group considers these to
be basic prerequisites for its business
activities.
Among the groups surveyed were passengers, business customers, partners, financial analysts, investors, nGOs, representatives from politics and regulatory bodies,
media representatives, sustainability experts,
and employees. More than 1,000 questionnaires were fully completed in an online
survey. Internal and external stakeholders
were more or less equally represented with
respective shares of 48 and 52 percent.
The Lufthansa Group donated 1 euro for
each questionnaire fully completed by an
external stakeholder. These participants
could determine themselves whether
“their” donation was to go to the charitable
Swiss foundation myclimate (see page 67,
CO2 compensation) or to the Lufthansa
Group’s aid organization Help Alliance (see
page 100).

Materiality matrix
Following the survey, the Lufthansa Group’s
Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC)
analyzed the results and then used this
analysis to prioritize central fields of action
from the Group’s perspective. The assessments by the stakeholders and the CRC of
12 central fields of action were summarized
in a materiality matrix. It visualizes the
prioritization of these action fields from both
stakeholder and Company perspectives
and shows whether these fields have an
effect inside or outside the Lufthansa Group
(see page 22).
In the years ahead, the matrix will serve the
Lufthansa Group as a basis for the further
strategic development of its Corporate
Responsibility Management and for ensuring a lawful form of reporting, which will be
mandatory for larger companies within the
European Union from 2017. Another part of
the materiality analysis was the determination or adaptation of contents for the
Group’s sustainability reporting.
The Lufthansa Group plans to further integrate those fields of action that have been
defined as very important along with the
related central aspects into its business
processes and to further develop the relevant management approaches. In this way,

the Lufthansa Group will assess the strategic environmental program it initiated in
2008 by the end of 2016 and adjust it as
needed. This applies in particular to the two
fields of action “Climate protection” and
“Energy and resource management”, considered as highly relevant by both stakeholders and the Company, as well as the
topic of “Active noise protection”, to which
the Group also gives highest priority.
Furthermore, based on the results of this
materiality analysis, the Lufthansa Group
has expanded its reporting on the likewise
very important action fields “Attractive
employer” and “Service and customer
orientation”, which have been consistently
covered thus far through the strategic
program “7to1 – Our Way Forward” (see
page 19). The cover topic preceding this
Sustainability Report addresses the changing world of work and the resulting challenges for HR management (see page 6). In
the chapter “Product Responsibility” the
coverage of the topics “customer centricity” and “quality focus” has been expanded. It also includes a particularly clear
overview of the diverse activities and measures of the Lufthansa Group, all of which
share a single goal: To make the travel
experience as sustainable and comfortable as possible for our passengers (see
page 68).

The most important
stakeholder activities 2015/16 at a glance
Customers
Customer surveys worldwide
Regular ascertainment of Net Promoter Score (NPS®, see page 65)
Monthly customer in-flight magazines and regular newsletters
InTouch Service Center at seven locations on four continents ensure
24-hour reachability concerning all questions on flight reservations
Visitor service “Discover Lufthansa” assumes important function of
customer care at largest location, Frankfurt. Made-to-measure programs
for German and international top customers as well as airport neighbors,
associations, research institutions and partner universities of the
Lufthansa Group
Visitor services also at Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss and Austrian Airlines
Communications in the social media channels further expanded

Employees
First Group-wide employee survey “involve me!” (see page 90)
2nd HR Action Days (see page 15)
Realignment of internal Group media: With the product group “One”
a new media architecture was developed for the Lufthansa Group and
implemented at the beginning of 2016. This includes the monthly magazine “One”, the news app “One”, “eBase One” (news portal on the intranet)
and “Connection One” (community on social intranet)
Access to internal communications media for flying personnel was further
optimized
Continuation of the dialogue series “Speaking openly ...” with the Lufthansa
Group’s CEO at varying Company locations and live transmission on the
intranet
Continuation of the event series “Airline Dialogue”
Continuation of the dialogue series “Breakfast with the Executive Board” in
different business segments
Live chats and dialogue events for different employee groups and
managers
New event format “Market conferences” established; three dialogue events
with managers and the Lufthansa Group’s CEO in the Asia/Pacific, Middle
East and North/South America regions

Shareholders, investors and analysts
Continuous and intensive shareholder dialogue
Four quarterly conferences and 30 road shows
Participation in 18 conferences for institutional investors and in three
forums particularly aimed at private investors
Two issues of “Aktionärsinfo” (“Shareholder Info”) again published for
private investors
In addition to annual and interim reports, the capital markets are informed
monthly about the latest traffic developments at the flying companies
All publications, financial reports, presentations, background information
and speeches as well as current news and relevant dates can be consulted
at www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations

Lawmakers and public administrations
Continuous and intensive exchanges with representatives from politics
and administrations as well as participation in numerous events and panel
discussions
“Policy Brief” and “Aeropolitics” are published by the Lufthansa Group
and Swiss respectively to inform decision-makers in politics, media and
business about developments in the aviation industry and topics related to
aviation policy

Science and research
Numerous cooperations with scientific research institutions
Expanded support for climate research in the IAGOS project
Participation of Lufthansa Cargo in “Green Logistics” research project from
2010 to 2015 to assess ecological effects of logistical systems (final report
has been published)
Measuring flights in Cochstedt in cooperation with German Aerospace
Center (DLR) (active noise protection)
Participation of Swiss in the two-year study conducted by ETH Zürich and
St. Gallen University (HSG) on the development of air, ground and land
transport up to 2050
Participation in the broadly-designed study on noise effects, NORAH,
whose final report was published in 2015
4th Cargo Climate Care Conference in Frankfurt (dialogue event with about
150 representatives from the logistics industry, science and politics),
during which customers and employees were honored with the Cargo
­Climate Care Awards
Participation in aviation cluster “Hamburg Aviation” to promote business
location and interlinked research as well as development of high-quality
products and services
Center for Applied Aviation Research was opened in March 2016 with
­participation of Lufthansa Technik
Participation in discussion forums on the topic of alternative fuels

NGOs
Active dialogue
Support for different aid projects
Participation in the dialogue forum #CSRhumanitär

Neighbors and local communities
Regular discussions with representatives of state governments, mayors
and neighboring municipalities at the Lufthansa Group’s hubs
Participation in the forum “Airport and Region” in Frankfurt and in “Dialogforum Wien” in Vienna
Since May 2015 LSG Sky Chefs has been a member of “LEEN 100”
(Learning Energy Efficiency Network) initiated by the city of Frankfurt for
improved CO2 values in the Rhein-Main area
Since September 2015 Lufthansa CityLine has been a member of the fifth
“Environmental Pact Bavaria”. Its goal is to give incentives to sustainable
development and continuous improvement of corporate environmental protection in Bavaria
Participation of Lufthansa Technik and LZ-Catering in “Environmental Partnership Hamburg” and of Lufthansa Technik in Frankfurt in “Environmental
Alliance Hesse”

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 25

Corporate governance and compliance
Corporate Governance at the Lufthansa Group is expressed as responsible
corporate management and control which targets sustainable value creation.
It is in accordance with the highest international standards and of central
importance – for the Company’s transparency vis-à-vis its shareholders and
for continuously increasing trust in its management.

The German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
and the German Corporate Governance
Code are key elements in this context. The
Company’s declaration of compliance with
the German Corporate Governance Code
was updated in December 2015 and is
published on the Internet at:
www.lufthansagroup.com/investorrelations

Competition

Lufthansa Group
Compliance Program
Compliance describes all measures that
ensure the lawful conduct of companies,
their executive bodies and employees with
regard to adhering to legislation. The
Lufthansa Group Compliance Program,
established in 2004, aims at helping its
employees adhere to current legal norms
and keeping them from breaking the law.
As an aviation company with global activities, the Lufthansa Group advocates fair
competition, integrity and responsible
action. The Lufthansa Group compliance
program currently comprises the modules
Competition, Integrity, Capital Market and
Embargo Compliance.

Integrity

Capital Market

Group Compliance Office
The Group Compliance Office, which was
set up on October 1, 2007 within the central legal department, is responsible for the
implementation, development and communication of the Lufthansa Compliance Program. It is supported in this task by a network of Compliance Managers at the
various Group companies.
Furthermore, the Group Compliance Office
advises Lufthansa Group employees worldwide on how to handle issues related to
integrity, competition, embargo and capital
market compliance. The basis for such
consultations are the Company’s internal
Compliance Guidelines. These regulations
give employees a binding framework for
action to ensure standardized and law-

Embargo

Program consisting of four modules
The Group Compliance Office is responsible for implementation, development and communication.
The Lufthansa Group Compliance Program

26 // Sustainable Business Practices

abiding conduct across the Group. The
Lufthansa Group is not willing to tolerate
violations of law on the part of its employees. The Group Compliance Office coordinates the investigation of circumstances
relevant to compliance and in this context
serves as a contact point for cartel and
investigative authorities, with whom the
Lufthansa Group cooperates without reservation. Culpable breaches of law lead to
consequences under labor law and may
also entail personal liability.
Competition Compliance
The module Competition Compliance
introduces employees to the relevant regulations of competition and cartel legislation,
so as to minimize or exclude risks for the
Lufthansa Group. All employees handling
issues relevant to competition or cartels are
trained in the fundamental regulations of
German and European antitrust legislation.
Integrity Compliance
With the module Integrity Compliance, the
Lufthansa Group documents its fundamental approach of law-abiding conduct in
business relationships. The obligation to
adhere to non-corrupt and ethically correct
conduct flow naturally from current law, the
internal Compliance Guidelines and the
Group’s memberships in relevant national
and international organizations. Examples
of the latter include the Lufthansa Group’s
commitment to the principles of the Un
Global Compact (see page 27) and its
membership in Transparency International.
The Integrity Compliance Guidelines provide support in handling invitations, gifts
and other attentions.

Capital Market Compliance
The module Capital Market Compliance
gives employees an overview of current
capital market law, such as regulations
relating to insider trading or ad hoc publicity. Accompanied by specialized training,
this module ensures that all employees and
Company bodies concerned receive indepth insight into the regulations of the
German Securities Trading Act (WpHG).
Embargo Compliance
The module Embargo Compliance serves
to ensure that the Lufthansa Group, as a
globally active corporation, adheres to
country- and person-specific sanctions and
regulations in the area of foreign trade. The
Embargo Compliance Guidelines provide
the employees concerned with a binding
framework of conduct.
Compliance training
Automated IT processes ensure that all
employees participate regularly in those
Web-based Compliance trainings that are
relevant for them. The employees of the
subsidiary companies also have access to
these e-Learning courses and are either
included in automatic mailings of materials
or have their own company-specific processes. In addition, the Group Compliance
Office conducts trainings with personal
participation worldwide and offers workshops.
Third-party due diligence processes
The Lufthansa Group expects compliance
from its business partners as well. Based
on risk, business partners are therefore
screened by means of third-party due
diligence processes before the beginning
of a business relationship.

Monitoring and reporting
In keeping with current requirements in the
framework of the German Accounting Law
Modernization Act, self-audits and external
audits take place to evaluate the effective
implementation of the Compliance Program.
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board’s Audit
Committee is informed twice a year about
current developments relevant to compliance issues and the current state of the
program’s implementation within the
Group.
Ombudsman system
A further basic component of the Lufthansa
Compliance Program is the globally implemented and proven ombudsman system,
which also allows anonymous information
concerning possible breaches of compliance. Introduced on December 1, 2007, it
serves as an additional preventive measure
against economic crimes. Relevant information can be given by employees or by
third parties to an ombudsman outside the
Company, by telephone, in writing or in
person. The ombudsman function is fulfilled by Frankfurt-based lawyer Dr. Rainer
Buchert, who is fully bound by the professional obligation of secrecy and also has
the legal right to refuse to give evidence to
public investigative authorities. The ombudsman communicates any information he
receives to Lufthansa while respecting
absolute confidentiality concerning the
name and identity of the informant. In this
way, the disclosure of an informant’s identity to Lufthansa or to third parties without
his or her consent is ruled out.
Furthermore, Lufthansa is listed in the joint
transparency register of the European
Commission and the European Parliament.
The goal of this public register is to increase
the transparency of decision-making processes within the EU on a voluntary basis
and to ensure that the interactions between
EU institutions and organizations, associations or companies are in conformity with
current law and are carried out on the basis
of ethical principles.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 27

UN Global Compact
The Lufthansa Group is committed to the
principles of the Un Global Compact, the
largest initiative worldwide for responsible
and sustainable corporate management. In
2002 Lufthansa was the first aviation group
to become a member of the initiative, that
had been set up two years earlier by the
then Un Secretary General Kofi Annan.
By joining, the participating companies
commit themselves to aligning their business activities and strategies to the ten
universally accepted principles of the Un
Global Compact in the areas of human
rights, labor standards, environmental
protection and prevention of corruption
(see overview on this page). The shared
goal is to make globalization socially and
environmentally compatible and thus to
make a contribution to sustainable economic practices for the benefit of all
people and markets.
Over the past years, the Lufthansa Group
has launched numerous programs in this
area. Examples include the step-by-step
expansion of the Group-wide compliance
program, the continuous implementation of
sustainable processes along the output
chain, and the numerous measures in flight
operations in favor of environmentally compatible mobility. The focus on humanitarian
and social projects in the area of corporate
citizenship is an important concern for the
Lufthansa Group in its role as a globally
active company. For this reason, there is a
best-practice example on this topic in the
anniversary edition of the German Un
Global Compact yearbook, which was
published at the beginning of 2016. Citing
the Group-wide employee initiative Help
Alliance, it shows how the Company’s
social commitment is filled with life and
illustrates how the principles of the Global
Compact are applied in practice.

The 10 principles of the
UN Global Compact
Human rights
Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence and
make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked to human
rights abuses.

Labor
Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the
effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor;
effectively abolish child labor; and
eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and
occupation.

Environment
Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally
friendly technologies.

Anti-corruption
Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including
extortion and bribery.
www.unglobalcompact.org

28 // Sustainable Business Practices

Sustainable purchasing
processes
As a globally operating aviation company,
the Lufthansa Group supports fair competition, integrity and responsible business
practices. The Group is committed to
respecting current laws, guidelines and
regulations unrestrictedly. The Lufthansa
Group expects irreproachable conduct
not only from its employees, but also from
its suppliers and competitors.
By integrating sustainability into the procurement process, the aviation group
assumes corporate responsibility. At the
same time, it minimizes risks and thus
protects the Company from potential
damage. In the context of expanding its
supplier management, the Lufthansa Group
will in the future give even greater weight to
the evaluation criterion “corporate responsibility” and is thus planning to address this
topic with greater emphasis in the regular
supplier discussions.

Group Purchasing Guideline
The Group Purchasing Guideline, which
has been in effect since May 2013, obliges
suppliers to commit themselves to social
and ecological responsibility. It is to be
understood as an overriding specification
for all procurement guidelines at the Group
companies. In addition, it serves as a handbook for buyers and all employees with
contacts to the procurement markets. The
regulations are updated and adapted continuously. Among other considerations, it
requires that these obligations be included
in contracts with suppliers:
Suppliers must comply with the ten principles of the Un Global Compact just
as much as the Lufthansa Group. The
principles range from respect for human
rights through commitments to labor
standards and environmental protection
to working against corruption (see overview, page 27). Deutsche Lufthansa AG
was the first aviation group worldwide
when it joined this strategic United
nations initiative in 2002.
They must comply with the four core
work standards of the International Labor
Organization (ILO). These concern freedom of association, the right to collective
bargaining, the elimination of forced
labor and child labor, and prohibition of
discrimination in respect of employment
and occupation.

They must consent to announced and
unannounced audits by companies of
the Lufthansa Group.
They must recognize the Lufthansa
Group’s right to terminate the contractual
relationship in the event of a breach of
the aforementioned agreements. Suppliers must also observe the Lufthansa
Group’s Environmental Protection
Guidelines.
By including these commitments in contracts, the Lufthansa Group ensures that
sustainability is taken seriously as an issue
and that it becomes a way of life all across
the supply chain. To familiarize its purchasers with the Group Purchasing Guidelines,
the aviation group trains them at the Procurement Academy, which provides continuing education opportunities for employees from throughout the Group.
New platform for tenders: buy:source
The Lufthansa Group continuously develops its tools covering the entire supplier
management with the goal of optimizing
the IT-based purchasing processes in an
ongoing manner. Against this background,
the previous purchasing platform FairPartners was replaced in 2015 by the Groupwide bidding platform buy:source. This
move has created a user-friendly and open
marketplace for posting and obtaining offers.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 29

Fleet development
The Lufthansa Group maintains its course in the largest fleet modernization
and renewal program in Company history. An up-to-date and well structured
fleet is not only the foundation for economic success in an environment with
intense competition. Modern aircraft also increase comfort levels for passengers and contribute to limiting the environmental effects of flying.

In 2015, the Lufthansa Group consistently
pursued the optimization of its fleet and put
17 aircraft into service, among them nine
long-haul aircraft. Thus the Group fleet
consisted of 600 aircraft on December 31,
2015, with an average age of 11.8 years
(see table, page 33). The fleet is the largest asset in the Company’s balance sheet.
The majority of aircraft are financially
unencumbered and in the Lufthansa
Group’s full possession.

The decisions taken concerning fleet development over the past years mean that the
Group continuously invests in new technologies, efficiency and customer comfort. The
fundamental renewal of the fleet ensures
that the Lufthansa Group will continue to
offer leading product quality with ongoing
service improvements – and fly ever more
efficiently and quietly as well. In 2016 and
in subsequent years the Company will
invest 2.5 billion euros annually to this end,

primarily in new aircraft. The Lufthansa
Group’s current order list comprises a total
of 251 latest-generation aircraft valued at
about 40 billion euros at list prices (as per
January 2016). The 69 long-haul and 182
short-haul aircraft are to be delivered by
2025 and will primarily replace older
models.

The Lufthansa Group continuously invests in modern and particularly fuel-efficient aircraft.

30 // Sustainable Business Practices

World premiere: At the beginning of 2016 Lufthansa received the first Airbus A320neo, marking a new era of eco-efficient flying.

52 new aircraft in 2016
and two world premieres
In 2016 alone the Lufthansa Group will
take delivery of 52 new aircraft, of which
the 34 airplanes from the A320 family
account for the largest share. In addition,
there are two Airbus A350s, one A330, six
Boeing 777-300ERs and nine Bombardier
CS100s. The deliveries of the A320neo to

Lufthansa and the CSeries to Swiss are
world premieres for these types of aircraft,
which both set new standards for fuel
consumption and noise emissions.

A300. Since then the Lufthansa Group’s
airlines have placed orders for 582 aircraft
with Airbus – which makes it the European
aircraft manufacturer’s largest customer.

At the same time, the delivery of the first
A320neo to Lufthansa is further proof of
the special nature of the partnership between Airbus and the aviation group, which
has been unfolding for 40 years. In 1976
Lufthansa took delivery of the first Airbus

The flying companies’ fleet development at
a glance:

“Thanks to new engine technology and aerodynamic optimizations, the A320neo is more than
15 percent more fuel-efficient than the preceding
model. The aircraft flies exceptionally well and quietly – a milestone in active noise protection!”
Captain Sascha Unterbarnscheidt
A320 Fleet Chief
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Lufthansa
In January 2016, Lufthansa was the first
customer worldwide to receive the Airbus
A320neo (see illustration), which marks the
start of a new era of eco-efficient flying.
Thanks to quieter engines, this model’s
noise footprint during takeoff is reduced
by half, compared with similar previous
models. In addition, all new A320neo and
A321neo aircraft are equipped with vortex
generators as standard, which further
reduce noise emissions. The A320neo is
also more than 15 percent more fuel-efficient than preceding models, which translates into about 5,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions avoided per aircraft per year. This is
the equivalent of 485 flights between Berlin
and Paris. According to current plans,
Airbus will deliver five A320neos to Lufthansa
by the end of 2016, which will be stationed
in Frankfurt. The Lufthansa Group has 116

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 31

aircraft of the A320neo family on order, 45
of which are for the larger A321neo. The
new aircraft are earmarked for Lufthansa
and Swiss.
Furthermore, Lufthansa plans further perceptible increases in efficiency on longhaul routes: In winter 2016 the airline will
receive its first Airbus A350-900 and thus
add a highly efficient aircraft to its fleet from
2017. It is also characterized by significantly

lower noise emissions. The A350-900 is the
most modern and environmental friendly
aircraft worldwide – and the first step into
the “2-liter class”: It flies more fuel-efficiently
than any other type of aircraft. On average,
the A350-900 will consume a mere 2.9 liters
of kerosene per passenger carried over a
distance of 100 kilometers. This is about
25 percent less than the consumption of
aircraft currently operated. Similarly, its
noise footprint is up to 50 percent smaller

than that of comparable types of aircraft.
The share of the most advanced materials
in the A350-900’s structure reaches more
than 70 percent.
The A350-900 will accommodate 293
passengers: 48 in Business Class, 21 in
Premium Economy and 224 in Economy
Class.

The Airbus A320neo
Less noise. Less fuel. More comfort.

Quieter
engines
Geared turbofan technology ensures that the
engines are significantly
quieter and use less fuel.

116 aircraft

Aerodynamic advantages

The Lufthansa Group has a total of 116
aircraft of the A320neo family on order:
“neo” stands for “new engine option”.

Wing tip extensions that are 2.4 meters tall
produce enhanced aerodynamic performance.

50% less
noise
At takeoff, the noise footprint is only about half as
large as that of comparable preceding models.

15% fuel
reduction
The A320neo is over
15% more fuel efficient
than current comparable
models.

Reduction of
noise levels
All new A320neo and
A321neo planes are fitted
with noise-reducing vortex
generators as standard
equipment.

More efficient
utilization of space
A new, more space-efficient
cabin configuration offers
an increased seat pitch
in Business Class and
more seating capacity in
Economy Class.

32 // Sustainable Business Practices

The first ten A350s of 25 on order will be
stationed in Munich from January 2017 and
will likely serve Delhi and Boston as their
first destinations. At the same time, Lufthansa
Technik is preparing its technical services
for the Airbus A350. The expansion of a
state-of-the-art warehouse for supplying
spare parts at the Munich base began in
December 2015.
The fleet modernization also means the
end of an era because Lufthansa says
“Bye, bye Bobby” as it has been decommissioning its remaining Boeing 737s since
the end of 2015. The last Boeing 737s will
leave the Lufthansa fleet by the end of 2016
to make room for more efficient types of
aircraft. Most of the Boeing 737s will be
recycled in the United States (see page 56,
Recycling of aircraft components).

Swiss
Swiss is set to take delivery of nine CS100s
from Bombardier in 2016. It will be the first
airline worldwide to start revenue service
with the CSeries, which is specifically geared at smaller markets. The aircraft will
serve European routes and replace the
currently operated Avro RJ100 regional
aircraft step by step. The CSeries’ most
significant environmental statistics are just
as positive as those of the A320neo. Perceptible noise is reduced significantly,
compared with the preceding aircraft generation, and CO2 emissions are 20 percent
lower. Swiss has a total of 30 CSeries aircraft on order, including ten CS100s and
ten larger CS300s. The airline will decide
later which type will be delivered for the
remaining ten orders.

Furthermore, at the beginning of 2016
Swiss received the first two of nine Boeing
777-300ERs it has on order, which will be
delivered by 2018. This long-haul aircraft is
the airline’s new flagship and will replace
older Airbus A340-300s. The latest addition
to the fleet distinguishes itself above all with
tried-and-tested technology, the highest
levels of reliability and its efficiency. Thanks
to its advanced GE90-115BL engines, the
largest operated on civil aircraft, the B777300ER consumes about 20 percent less
kerosene than the A340-300 and also
emits correspondingly less CO2. At the
same time, passenger comfort is significantly enhanced by a completely revised
cabin interior in all three travel classes.
During a one-year trial period, passengers
can also take advantage of wireless Internet
on board and use roaming telephony,
including texting and data functions.

Austrian Airlines
Austrian Airlines is currently in the process
of replacing its Fokker fleet with modern
Embraer E 195 medium-haul aircraft, which
have been operated by Lufthansa CityLine.
This twin-engined aircraft is substantially
more efficient than the Fokker 70s and
100s currently operated by Austrian Airlines.
In november 2015, Austrian Airlines received
the first of 17 Embraer E 195s; their integration into the fleet is to be completed by the
end of 2017.

Eurowings
The new Eurowings successfully took off at
the end of 2015, concentrating primarily on
point-to-point business with a focus on
leisure travel. By April 2017, the Lufthansa
Group’s innovative quality low-cost airline
will replace its entire fleet, which initially
consisted of 23 smaller Bombardier
CRJ900s, with Airbus A320 aircraft. In 2016
alone, 19 new A320s are to reinforce the
existing Eurowings fleet. The airline operates
its intercontinental services with Airbus
A330-200 long-haul aircraft, of which it
already has two in its fleet. Eurowings plans
to expand its long-haul fleet step-by-step to
a total of seven Airbus A330s.

Lufthansa Cargo
In February 2015, Lufthansa Cargo received its fifth Boeing 777F and successfully integrated the five freighters of this
type it had on order into flight operations.
The Boeing 777F is considered the quietest
and most fuel-efficient freight aircraft in its
class. Additionally, it offers a long range
and high levels of reliability. In August 2015,
Lufthansa Flight Training (LFT) inaugurated
a new flight simulator in Frankfurt to be able
to train the increased numbers of Boeing
777 pilots directly on site in the future.
Taking into account the continuing difficulties of the economic environment, Lufthansa
Cargo plans to reduce its fleet and retire
two MD-11Fs in 2016. Thus only 12 freighters of this type will operate on the logistic
specialist’s route network.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 33

In winter 2016, Lufthansa is to receive the Airbus A350-900,
the most modern long-haul aircraft worldwide.

The Boeing 777F operated by Lufthansa Cargo fulfills the most
stringent noise standards and thus has maximum access to airports
with high noise protection values.

A Eurowings Airbus A330-200

As the first airline worldwide, Swiss is to put the CSeries
into revenue service in 2016.

The Lufthansa Group fleet
As of December 31, 2015 (changes compared to 2014)
In possession 1
Lufthansa
Lufthansa CityLine

Age 1

In operation 2

364

(+ 2)

10.6

(+ 0.1)

9.3

(– 0.7)

259

Age 2
(– 13)

10.9

(– 0.2)

12

(– 11)

54

(+ 5)

6.9

(+ 1.1)

Air Dolomiti

0

(± 0)

10

(± 0)

4.9

(+ 1.0)

Eurowings

0

(± 0)

25

(+ 2)

4.9

(+ 0.2)

Germanwings

38

(± 0)

8.8

(+ 1.0)

62

(+ 2)

13.4

(+ 0.5)

Swiss (including Edelweiss Air)

88

(– 4)

14.0

(+ 0.7)

88

(– 4)

14.0

(+ 0.7)

16.2

(+ 0.7)

16.3

(+ 0.9)

Austrian Airlines

79

(– 1)

581

(– 14)

Lufthansa Cargo

19

(– 1)

Logistics business segment

19

Passenger Airline Group business segment

Lufthansa Group

1 Aircraft in the Group‘s possession
2 Aircraft operated by the Group

600

12.5

(– 0.5)

78

(– 2)

576

(– 10)

19

(± 0)

12.5

(± 0.0)

(– 10)

11.7

(+ 0.2)

19

(– 15)

11.8

(+ 0.3)

595

2
Climate and
Environmental
Responsibility
Climate and environmental responsibility is a guiding principle of our
value-oriented corporate management.
Fuel efficiency in flight operations is
of major importance for our success
according to economic and ecological benchmarks.

36 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Strategy and management
The Lufthansa Group is continuously focused on limiting further the ecological effects of its business activities and using required resources even more
efficiently. The Group has set itself the goal of making mobility as environmentally compatible as possible for its customers. The strategic program
“7to1 – Our Way Forward” also makes a contribution in this area, as it has
set the switches for even more environmentally friendly air transport.

In 1996 the aviation group adopted Environmental Guidelines to firmly anchor its
principles concerning environmental care.
In 2008 the Executive Board approved the
Lufthansa Group’s strategic environmental
program, which remains valid until 2020.
It defines key action areas with regard to
fuel efficiency, climate protection, active
noise protection, and energy and resource
management (see page 36, Balance 2015),
in which the Lufthansa Group wants to
achieve further progress.
Simultaneously, the Company supports the
international aviation industry’s ambitious
climate protection goals. This includes
improving fuel efficiency by an average of
1.5 percent per year up to 2020. Thereafter,
CO2 emissions are to be stabilized at the
level achieved and any additional transport
growth is to be CO2-neutral. Furthermore,
the industry aims to reduce its net CO2 emissions by 50 percent (on the basis of 2005) by
2050. To meet these goals, in 2005 the
aviation industry adopted its four-pillar strategy, which combines different environmentally-relevant paths and measures (see
page 41, Fuel consumption and emissions).

The Lufthansa Group’s
goals and strategy
With regard to climate and environmental
responsibility, the Lufthansa Group’s key
action areas are climate protection (especially through fuel efficiency), active noise
protection, energy and resource management, sustainable innovation, and research
and development. These topics were also
included in the latest version of the materiality analysis related to the Group’s sustainability commitment. Both stakeholders and
the Company confirmed these topics as
having very high importance for responsible
mobility (see page 21, Stakeholder dialogue).
Fuel efficiency
For the Lufthansa Group, fuel efficiency in
flight operations is a fundamental factor for
success, not only economically but also
ecologically. Therefore, the aviation group
continuously invests in new aircraft and
engine technologies and pursues its internal fuel-efficiency campaign. In addition,
the research and use of alternative fuels
play an important role. At the same time,
the Lufthansa Group is firmly committed to
advancing the implementation of the standardized European air space (see page 41).

Active noise protection
For many years, the Lufthansa Group has
been committed to reducing the noise
emissions unavoidably associated with air
transport. There is a particular need to
lessen the burden on people living around
important hubs further by applying active
noise protection measures. Their scope
includes investments in the latest technologies, quieter flying procedures and
advanced noise research. Moreover, the
aviation group regularly analyzes all recorded noise emissions data in order to
develop concrete measures for further
improvements (see page 58).
Energy and resource management
The Lufthansa Group also works to optimize continuously its energy and resource
management, thereby ensuring that required resources – such as water – are
always used responsibly on board and
on the ground (see page 52).
Research and development
The Lufthansa Group cooperates with
partners from the areas of science and
research to advance industry innovations
on the basis of sound data and to improve
its own environmental management further.
Simultaneously, the Group supports climate
research projects to observe the Earth’s
atmosphere (see page 61). Beyond that,

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 37

Lufthansa Technik increasingly relies on
research partnerships to develop product
innovations such as the low-drag “sharkskin”
structure for aircraft surfaces (see page 10,
Balance 2015).
Evaluation of the environmental program
In 2016, the Lufthansa Group plans to
evaluate its strategic environmental program
in a comprehensive manner. This reassessment will take into account not only changes
in the external framework of conditions but
also internal impulses from the agenda
“7to1 – Our Way Forward” and the results
of the stakeholder survey, including the
materiality analysis.
To further develop the environmental strategy, a working group that includes the
environmental experts of the Lufthansa
Group, the airlines and the service companies, as well as representatives from Group
Strategy and Group Communications was
set up. In early 2016, the group identified
fundamental internal and external ecological conditions and challenges that need to
be taken in consideration in developing a
new environmental strategy. As a next
step, they defined and prioritized the various
environmentally relevant aspects and topics
to determine appropriate areas of emphasis for later on. In doing so, they distinguished the three dimensions Lufthansa
Group, airlines and service companies.
Organization of climate and
environmental management
The department Group Environmental
Issues is responsible for the Lufthansa
Group’s definition, coordination and implementation of Company-wide environmentally relevant strategies and measures. In
addition, all larger subsidiaries have their
own environmental departments or a coordinator. These experts meet twice a year
at the Group-wide Environmental Forum
to discuss current topics, exchange experiences and develop new ideas.

Three questions for Dr. KArLhEINz hAAG
Vice President Group Environmental Issues
Deutsche Lufthansa AG
The aviation industry has set itself ambitious climate protection goals. What is the current status?
The UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) is
working intensively on developing a concept for a global
market-based system in air transport. Its task is to contribute
to securing the goal of CO2-neutral growth in international air
transport from 2020. Concrete measures are to be decided
at the ICAO plenary session in October 2016. An important
barometer for the general mood on this path was the climate
summit in Paris with its trendsetting decisions. Therefore, the
Lufthansa Group hopes that the ICAO will be able to pass
clear resolutions concerning a global climate protection
agreement for international air transport.
Has the ICAO made progress in other areas with regard
to climate protection?
In addition to adapting the maximum values for noise and
nitrogen oxides, the ICAO’s environmental protection committee agreed after six years of intensive negotiations, on
February 8, 2016, to introduce a CO2 emissions standard for
aircraft. These limits will come into effect in 2020 and form
an international standardized benchmark for the certification
of new commercial aircraft. With the CO2 standard an important instrument for evaluating technology-based measures
has been created.
And what is the Lufthansa Group’s contribution?
As long ago as 2008 we initiated a strategic environmental
program and have since then made significant progress in
all areas. Specific fuel consumption, which has fallen since
by 11.5 percent, is only one example. We are working on
further improving our environmental balance sheet by
adding new aircraft to the fleet – in 2016 alone the Lufthansa
Group will phase 52 highly efficient aircraft into operation –
and by implementing comprehensive fuel-efficiency programs. At the moment we are reassessing our environmental
strategy, which is valid until 2020, in the light of current
requirements. These reflections also take the results of our
most recent stakeholder survey into consideration.

Limiting environmental effects
The Lufthansa Group strives to limit the environmental effects of its business activities to an
­unavoidable minimum – in the air and on the ground. Our guidelines are the Group’s strategic
environmental program and the industry-wide four pillar strategy for climate protection.

Fleet modernization
Continuous investments in fuel-efficient
and low-noise aircraft and engine technologies are the most efficient lever at
the Lufthansa Group’s disposal to make
flying as environmentally compatible
as possible. In addition, the Company
is actively committed to research projects concerning improvements in
aerodynamics.

Electromobility
At its Frankfurt hub, the Lufthansa Group
is part of the E-PORT AN initiative. The
focus is on operating increasing numbers of electrically powered vehicles
for aircraft handling and for taxiing and
towing, thus making the processes on
the apron more sustainable.

Ground

Energy and resource management

Sustainable construction and
modernizations
When planning, renovating and constructing buildings, the Group places
great value on the sparing use of natural
resources. These measures range from
taking into account the latest standards
for new constructions to implementing
energy-related optimizations for existing
buildings.

The Lufthansa Group relies on the efficient use of water and electricity and on
consistent waste management. In addition, the Group companies work step by
step to establish or expand their environmental management systems.

Recycling of aircraft components
In the framework of its project “2nd Life”
Lufthansa Technic Component Services
disassembles the Group’s decommissioned aircraft at a site in the USA. In this
way, many tonnes of high-quality materials can be reconditioned and reused
following recertification.

Alternative fuels
The Lufthansa Group researches and
uses alternative fuels in scheduled flight
operations. Furthermore, it drives the
development of environmentally friendly
fuels through its participation in various
initiatives.

Climate research

Weight reduction
Be it more lightweight seats, containers,
pallets or trolleys: The Lufthansa Group
seizes every opportunity to reduce
weight and thus conserve kerosene.
Another building block is the e-Enabling
program, which prepares the way toward
the fully paperless cockpit.

For more than 20 years, the Lufthansa
Group has been a partner in climate
research. Selected aircraft serve in the
process as “flying” measuring laboratories. By this means, the Group supports
the establishment of a worldwide measuring infrastructure for the observation
of the Earth’s atmosphere by means of
civil aviation.

Air

Air space management
For many years, the Lufthansa Group
has supported the largest climate protection project in European aviation –
the implementation of the standardized
European air space (Single European
Sky, SES). For this purpose, Lufthansa
Group experts actively participate in related research projects.

Active noise protection
The Lufthansa Group achieves “audible”
reductions of the burden on people living
close to airports by the operation of quieter aircraft, noise-reducing modifications
and improved procedures for approaches
and departures. Another fixed component
of this commitment is the participation in
noise research projects.

Further activities
Efficient engine washes (Cyclean®) and dry washing methods for
aircraft fuselages (see page 51)
Programs for voluntary CO2 compensation (see page 67)
Continuous implementation of digital processes (see page 57)

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group

40 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Covers of the environmental reports and declarations published by Lufthansa CityLine, the LSG Group
and Austrian Airlines. These publications are available on the respective Web sites of those companies.

Raising employee awareness
In its internal communications, the Lufthansa
Group places great emphasis on making
its employees increasingly more aware of
the need for sustainable behavior. The Group
also offers training, workshops, Web-based
trainings and continuing education options.

Environmental
management systems
The Group companies continuously expand
their environmental management systems.
here is an overview of the current situation:
In Germany, Lufthansa Technik has been
certified since 1999 in accordance with the
international environmental standard ISO
14001. Beyond this, all worldwide locations
of this provider of technical aviation services
will receive corresponding certificates by
the end of 2017. The company is an “Environmental Partner” of the City of hamburg
and furthermore set itself the goal to reduce
its CO2 emissions by 30 percent between
2012 and 2018. Today, with the measures
it has planned for 2016 included, more
than 50 percent of this target have already
been reached.
In 2015, Lufthansa Cargo was certified
worldwide for the first time according to the
environmental standard ISO 14001. The
Lufthansa Group’s freight specialist has

been validated accordingly at all its German
locations since 2010. In addition to the
annual internal and external audits, Lufthansa
Cargo has its entire system of corporate
environmental care checked every three
years by external auditors for the purpose
of recertification.
Lufthansa CityLine has been validated
since 1999 according to the European
environmental regulations EMAS and ISO
14001, and in 2015 it received the respective recertifications for the sixth time in a
row. The airline is thus a worldwide trailblazer in the area of sustainability and
demonstrates impressively that economically profitable business operations and
environmentally conscious principles are
not contradictory. This is due to the fact that
the consistent pursuit of goals such as
lowering resource consumption often leads
to direct cost savings. Another important
pillar is the exchange of ideas with other
companies. Therefore, Lufthansa CityLine
is a member in the “Environmental Pact
Bavaria”, an initiative of the Bavarian state
government to promote environmental
awareness in business. This context also
provided the contact with the Association of
European Sustainability and Eco-Management (VNU), which provides an exclusive
network through EMAS Clubs Europe as
well as effective discussion and communications options for EMAS-certified organizations. This approach illustrates that the
company’s ecological commitment has
been anchored in its corporate philosophy
for a long time.

Currently, Lufthansa CityLine and Lufthansa
are about to take a further step in the
direction of a sustainable future: In the
months ahead they will be implementing
an environmental management system at
Lufthansa’s Munich hub as well – with the
future goal of rolling this new system out
Lufthansa-wide. Both airlines benefit from
this bundling of environmental organization.
Austrian Airlines is in the process of establishing an environmental and energy
management system to be certified in
accordance with ISO 14001 or EMAS. The
implementation is expected to be completed by 2018. The airline provides information about its activities in the area of climate
and environmental responsibility in its
environmental report, most recently published in 2015, and on its home page.
The LSG Group operates an in-house
environmental management system that
comprises the core elements of ISO 14001.
All locations worldwide that are fully-owned
by the LSG Group participate in this system.
The locations in rome, Lisbon and helsinki
are certified in accordance with ISO 14001.
Beyond its interactive environmental report
“Thinking Green” the company communicates actively via its dedicated environmental blog. Five environmental audits with
external auditors are planned for 2016.
LZ-Catering is preparing the introduction
of an environmental management system.
The company is an “Environmental Partner”
of the City of hamburg and has offered at
least one daily CO2-friendly main course in
a large number of its company restaurants
since July 2014. In a step to reduce waste
quantities, Lz-Catering is planning
a test run from mid-2016 with multiple-use
coffee mugs, which are set to replace the
cardboard cups with a plastic lid it currently uses.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 41

Fuel consumption and emissions
The Lufthansa Group again flew exceedingly fuel-efficiently: In 2015, the aircraft of the passenger fleets consumed 3.84 liters of kerosene on average
to carry one passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers. Thus, the Group
confirmed the efficiency record it had set the year before.

The evolution of the specific consumption
depends on many variables, including the
payload factor. The latter was 1.1 percentage points lower in 2015 than in the preceding year. The continuing fleet modernization (see page 29, Fleet development),
the numerous fuel-efficiency programs
and the related efficiency increases helped
to sta-bilize the specific consumption of
the reporting year at the previous year’s
record level. The Lufthansa Group consistently strives to attain the industry goal for
annual efficiency increases of 1.5 percent.
Since 2008, the Group has achieved an
11.5 percent-improvement in fuel efficiency.

The Lufthansa Group’s absolute fuel consumption in 2015 increased by 1.4 percent
to about 9 million tonnes of kerosene. With
a current share of more than 17 percent
of operating expenses, fuel is a substantial
cost item for the Group. Therefore, pronounced changes in fuel prices can have
a significant influence on the operating
result. This illustrates once again the degree
to which economical and ecological factors
are interlinked in the area of fuel efficiency.
The less kerosene the aviation group consumes, the greater the positive effects are
on both costs and climate. This is due to the
fact that each tonne of kerosene conserved
in flight operations means 3.15 tonnes less
of CO2 is emitted into the atmosphere.

Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group
2015, in tonnes

Scope 1
(77.4 %)
28,601,347

Scope 1: Direct CO2 emissions from the Lufthansa
Group’s flight operations and ground traffic of
own vehicles as well as own energy-generating
facilities.

Scope 2 1
(0.9 %)
343,438

Scope 2: Indirect CO2 emissions of electricity and
energy purchases for ground operations, including
catering and maintenance.

Scope 3
(21.7 %)
8,005,651

Scope 3: Further indirect CO2 emissions along the
supply chain and from purchased services, here
essentially the emissions from the kerosene supply
chain and those related to the manufacturing of
aircraft and engines.

1 The values for Scope 2 emissions are based on energy consumption values in 2014.

CO2 emissions according to
the GHG Protocol
The Lufthansa Group determines its CO2
emissions on the basis of the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), which divides emissions in three main categories
or scopes (see pie chart).
All direct emissions from flight operations,
shown in the pie chart “Direct and indirect
CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group”,
were recorded and verified on behalf of the
Lufthansa Group in accordance with the
requirements of the European Emissions
Trading System. Additionally, the Lufthansa
Group has recorded the indirect emissions
caused by its business activities for a number of years. For the reporting year 2015,
all recorded and calculated direct and
indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa
Group were verified externally for the first
time (see page 117, Verification statement).
The CO2 footprint helps the Group to identify its significant environmental effects
more exactly and to develop subsequently
more focused options for their reduction.
Evaluating the CO2 footprint shows that
more than three-quarters of it result from
direct Scope 1 CO2 emissions (recorded
are all emissions from the Lufthansa
Group’s flight operations and ground traffic
of own vehicles) while about one-quarter
results from indirect Scope 3 emissions.
The latter include essentially the emissions
of the kerosene supply chain and those
related to the manufacturing processes of

Specific fuel consumption
Passenger transportation
Active fleet in 2015, in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm)
Long-haul more than 3,000 km
Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km
Short-haul under 800 km

Definitions of traffic areas
Group fleet

Lufthansa

Long-haul
(60 %)
3.48 l /100 pkm

Average specific fuel
consumption in l /100 pkm
(center of the circle) and
proportion of the entire passenger fuel consumption of
the active fleet contributed
by each traffic area (segments of circle) in 2015

3.84

Medium-haul
(27 %)
4.01 l /100 pkm

l /100 pkm

Germanwings

Long-haul
(67 %)
3.61 l /100 pkm
Medium-haul
(19 %)
3.85 l /100 pkm

Medium-haul
(100 %)
4.25 l /100 pkm

3.88
l /100 pkm

4.25
l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(14 %)
6.14 l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(13 %)
6.36 l /100 pkm

Specific fuel consumption
of passenger transportation compared
in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm)

Group fleet
Lufthansa
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Germanwings

2015

2014

Changes in %

3.84
3.88
3.53
3.92
4.25

3.84
3.91
3.48
3.87
4.18

± 0.0
– 0.7
+ 1.2
+ 1.3
+ 1.5

Specific CO2 emissions of passenger transportation

Swiss

Austrian Airlines

Long-haul
(63 %)
3.13 l /100 pkm

Long-haul
(38 %)
2.98 l /100 pkm

Medium-haul
(30 %)
4.06 l /100 pkm

Medium-haul
(37 %)
4.17 l /100 pkm

3.53
l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(7 %)
8.57 l /100 pkm

3.92
l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(25 %)
6.59 l /100 pkm

Fuel Dumps

Active fleet in 2015,
in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg /100 pkm)

Long-haul Medium-haul

Short-haul

10.11
9.71
10.23
10.50
10.70

16.03
15.46
21.59
16.61

Group fleet
Lufthansa
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Germanwings

8.77
9.10
7.88
7.51

Active fleet in 2015

Overall
average
9.69
9.78
8.88
9.88
10.70

Events, total
thereof medical reasons
technical reasons
other reasons
Quantity, total 1

2015

Changes compared
to 2014

20
11
9
0
564 t

+4
+4
+1
–1
+ 9.9 %

Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption
Changes compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group
+ 350 %

360
340
320
300
280
260

Efficiency gain

Transport performance

240
220
200
180

+ 186 %

160
140
120
100
80
60

Fuel consumption

40
20
0
1991

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

1997

1998

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013 2014

2015

Fuel consumption 2

Passenger transportation
2015, in tonnes
Passengers

Scheduled flights 3, 4
Lufthansa
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Germanwings

Freight

4,768,746
1,101,795
579,837
430,592

Third parties 5

1,585,102
393,362
87,802
532

82,980

1,418

Other flights 6
All flights

Total

Share

6,353,847
1,495,156
667,638
431,124
8,947,766
84,398

70.1%
16.5 %
7.4 %
4.8 %
98.8 %
0.9 %

25,619

0.3 %

9,057,783

100.0 %

CO2 emissions

in kilograms /100 passenger kilometers

9.69

2015

2014

9.69

2014

2013

9.84

10.93

2008

10.88

2007

11.05

CO emissions

in grams /100 passenger kilometers

2015

Freight

± 2014

Total

± 2014

2014

CO2

21,675,053

+ 2.0 %

6,510,409

– 0.6 %

28,185,463

+ 1.4 %

2013

NOX

103,570

+ 3.1 %

31,877

+ 0.3 %

135,447

+ 2.4 %

2012

CO

15,808

– 0.7 %

3,329

– 0.1 %

19,137

– 0.6 %

2011

1,509

– 3.8 %

350

– 8.8 %

1,859

– 4.8 %

2010

Share of third parties

5, 8

Flights
Passengers
Tonne kilometers transported, TKT (tkm)
Fuel consumption (tonnes)
CO2 emissions (tonnes)

2.4 %
1.8 %
0.6 %
0.9 %
0.9 %

Specific fuel consumption
Passenger transportation
in liters/100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm)
4.32

4.34

4.30

7.1
7.4
7.8

50.6
49.8

2007

50.5

2006

4.20

4.18

4.06

3.91

3.84

3.84

8.4

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Specific fuel consumption
Freight transportation 9

0.285

0.295

0.304

0.289

0.289

0.287

0.278

0.276

0.282

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

0.74
0.80

2011

0.87

2010

0.87

2008

8.5

2008

8.6
8.4

2006

0.91
0.96
0.99

2007

0.96

2006

Freight transportation 9
CO2 emissions

in kilograms /tonne kilometers

NOX emissions

in grams /tonne kilometers

2015

0.71

2015

3.5

2014

0.70

2014

3.4

2013

0.70

2013

3.3

2012

0.72

2012

3.5

2011

0.73

2011

3.5

2010

0.73

2010

3.5

2009

3.7

0.74

2008

3.6

0.72

2007

0.77

2009

0.58

CO emissions

in grams /tonne kilometers

2006

3.4
2.6

UHC emissions

in grams /tonne kilometers

2015

0.4

2015

0.04

2014

0.4

2014

0.04

2013

0.04

0.3

2012

0.4

2012

0.05

2011

0.4

2011

0.05

2010

0.4

2010

0.05

2009

0.4

2009

0.06

2008

0.4

2008

0.06

2007

0.4

2007

0.06

2006

0.05

2006
2007

0.72

2013

2009

2013
in liters /tonne kilometers

0.67

2014

8.5

2006
2008

in grams /100 passenger kilometers

2009

2007

2007

UHC emissions

2012
8.2

2008

2006

50.0

2009
2008

2015

7.3

2007
2015

0.228

48.8

2010

10.84

2009

49.4

2011

10.58

2010

48.4

2012

10.53

2011

± 2014

2006

46.7

2013
10.24

2012

Passengers

4.38

46.3
45.8

4, 7

2015, in tonnes

UHC

in grams /100 passenger kilometers

2015

2006

Emissions

NOX emissions

0.3

2015

1 Projections
2 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events under the
respective operative flight number. recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e.
including taxiing on the ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air.
3 Scheduled flights, charter flights.
4 For the reporting year 2015, the following companies have been included in Balance:
Lufthansa (incl. Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti and Eurowings), Germanwings, Swiss (incl.
Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding the services of third parties
as the Company can influence neither their performance nor the equipment operated (see
table Share of third parties).

5 Includes flights operated by companies that are not part of the Group, which assume services at short notice on Lufthansa’s behalf, as in the case of capacity bottlenecks.
6 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights.
7 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter
flights). recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the
ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air (see notes on page 116).
8 Excludes road feeder service and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no fuel
consumption and emissions values are available for this performance.
9 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger
aircraft.

44 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

aircraft and engines. The emissions related
to electricity and energy purchases for
ground operations, including catering and
maintenance (Scope 2), do not even
amount to 1 percent of the total footprint.

Especially impressive at a height of 2.4 meters, the wing-tip extensions or
“sharklets” of the A320neo yield aerodynamic improvements and thus increase fuel efficiency.

Over the past years, the Lufthansa Group has integrated about 30,000 lightweight trolleys into
flight operations, replacing the existing service trolleys aboard its long-haul aircraft.

523 internal fuel-efficiency projects
All projects in the subject area “fuel efficiency” are managed by the department
Flight Operations Standards and Projects
Group Airlines. Under this organizational
umbrella, the Lufthansa Group pursues the
many fuel efficiency programs it has set in
motion over the past years. Since 2013,
the aviation group has launched or implemented a total of 523 internal projects. For
example, this includes 168 measures concerning weight reductions – such as the
lightweight on-board trolleys – and 231
operative measures – such as the optimized vertical approach profile at Munich
Airport (see page 46, Balance 2015).
Two of the Lufthansa Group’s fuel-efficiency
projects were selected during the reporting
year by the Air Transport Action Group
(ATAG) for its publication “Aviation Climate
Solutions”. The latter presents 100 outstanding programs and initiatives in the
aviation industry and thus illustrates the
entire scope of projects of the aviation
industry’s established four-pillar strategy
for climate protection. The first case study
“The Aircraft Diet” casts a light on the
Group airlines’ numerous activities concerning the long-term reduction of aircraft
weight. The second selected project focuses
on the topic of “electric ground movement”
and presents the initiative E-POrT AN at
Frankfurt Airport (see page 52, Energy and
resource management).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 45

Four pillars for climate protection
1
Technological
progress

2

3

Improved
infrastructure

4

Operational
measures
3

30

12

15

24

E

W

6

33

N

21

Alternative fuels

Improved use of airspace
Airport infrastructures
adapted to needs

S

Innovation in aircraft and
engine technologies

Economic
measures

More efficient aircraft sizes
Optimal flight routes
and speeds
Optimized processes on
the ground

Four pillars for climate
protection

Pillar 1: Technological
progress

While air transport contributes a mere
2.4 percent of CO2 emissions caused by
human activity worldwide, this value is
expected to increase as demand for mobility continues to grow strongly. To limit
the ecological effects of flying, the aviation
industry has developed the four-pillar strategy for climate protection, which bundles
different environmentally relevant measures
(see illustration above). These range from
technological progress and improved
infrastructure to operational measures and
economic instruments. The four-pillar
strategy is also the basis for the Lufthansa
Group’s fuel-efficiency activities.

Efficient aircraft and engine technologies
The most effective way to increase fuel
efficiency is to invest in the most modern
and especially environmentally friendly
aircraft. For this reason, the Lufthansa
Group is currently implementing the largest fleet modernization program in its
history: By 2025, it will take delivery of
251 latest-generation aircraft, which will
mostly replace older models (see page 29,

A global, sensibly designed,
market-based system for
reducing emissions to complement the other three pillars

Fleet development). Among these will figure
116 aircraft of the Airbus A320neo family,
which will be up to more than 15 percent
more fuel-efficient than comparable predecessor models thanks to geared-turbofan
technology. The new CSeries aircraft
manufactured by Bombardier, of which
Swiss is set to receive the first exemplars
from summer 2016, will fly with similar
fuel-efficiency. Thus, the Lufthansa Group
foresees further improvements in its environmental balance sheet.

46 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Research and use of alternative fuels
The use of alternative fuels represents
another step towards the air transport of
the future. As biokerosene has a significantly lower net CO2 balance sheet value,
it allows a sustainable reduction of emissions from flight operations. Following this
approach, the conflict of objectives that
arises from growing demand for mobility
worldwide and finite resources of fossil
fuels can be resolved. The Lufthansa Group
undertook some pioneer work to this end in
2011, when it tested the use of biofuel in
regular flight operations for about six
months as a trial run in the context of the

“We are very pleased that we and our partners
have been able to set an important milestone
for climate-friendly air transport by means of biokerosene fueling in Oslo. The Lufthansa Group
is the first airline group worldwide to have signed a regular
procurement contract of this
kind with a supplier.”
Thorsten Luft
Vice President Corporate Fuel Management
Lufthansa Group

Alternative fuels
Lufthansa successfully completes the
first-ever transatlantic flight from Frankfurt
to Washington, D.C. with a Boeing
747-400 fueled with a blend containing
a biokerosene share of about 22 tonnes.

January 2012

July 2011

Fall 2013

Long-term trial: In the context of the
“BurnFAIr” project, Lufthansa becomes
the first airline worldwide to operate
scheduled flights with an Airbus A321
and a biokerosene admixture of 50 percent on one engine, between Hamburg
and Frankfurt.

An engine run on a test bed at Lufthansa
Technik in hamburg shows that adding
biokerosene to jet fuel leads to an improvement of emissions characteristics.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 47

project “BurnFAIr – Potentials of alternative
fuels in operational conditions” (see timeline). In addition to its own research work,
the aviation group has been actively committed for many years to a number of
initiatives such as aireg (Aviation Initiative
for renewable Energy in Germany) and
SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users
Group).
In February 2015, an interim report was published for the EU research project “Blending study”, an initiative jointly launched in
2013 and since carried out by the Lufthansa
Group and the German Armed Forces’

research Institute for Materials, Fuels and
Lubricants (see page 55, Balance 2014).
The two partners have gained important
insights into the blending characteristics
of conventional fossil kerosene types and
various new biokerosenes in the context
of this project. The final report is expected
in 2016. Moreover, the final report of the
Lufthansa-coordinated research project
“BurnFAIr” was published in June 2014.
Since January 22, 2016, the Lufthansa
Group has been refueling its aircraft at
Oslo Airport with a fuel mix that contains
5 percent of biokerosene. Air BP Aviation,

The final report for the research project
“BurnFAIr”, which was coordinated by
the Lufthansa Group, is published.

An interim report is published for the
EU research project “Blending Study”,
launched in 2013.

June 2014

February 2015

the Norwegian airport operator Avinor and
the biofuel specialist SkyNrG have joined
forces to offer jet biofuel to the airlines at
Gardermoen Airport. For the duration of
one year, Air BP Aviation will feed 1.25
million liters of sustainably produced and
appropriately certified biofuel into the tanks
at Oslo Airport. During this time, about
5,000 flights operated by the airlines of the
Lufthansa Group will fly on a mix of biokerosene and conventional jet fuel. This applies
to Lufthansa, Swiss, Austrian Airlines,
Germanwings and Brussels Airlines.

September 2014

January 2016

Lufthansa‘s first European scheduled
flight is operated using a 10-percent
blend of the sugar-based biofuel
component Farnesan.

All Lufthansa Group aircraft taking off in
Oslo throughout the year are to fly with a
biofuel blend of 5 percent.

48 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

The implementation of the Single European Sky is the largest climate protection project of European aviation.
More direct routings without unnecessary detours would reduce the CO2 emissions of European airlines by 10 percent a year.

Pillar 2: Improved
infrastructure
Single European Sky
The largest climate protection project in
European aviation is to establish a standardized airspace above Europe. This
Single European Sky (SES) would help
airlines to emit 10 percent less CO2 and
save about 5 billion euros in fuel costs
every year. Today, however, about 60 air
traffic control centers are responsible for
air safety in 27 different national systems
with more than 650 sectors, a system that
does not always allow aircraft to follow an
optimum route to their destinations.

The goal of SES is to remove this kind of
patchwork and to steer air traffic flows
substantially more efficiently than is currently the case. An important milestone on
the path toward the Single European Sky is
the standardization and modernization of
the European aviation infrastructure. For
this purpose, the European Commission
set up the SESAr (Single European Sky
ATM research) program. The goal of this
project is to develop, test and implement
Europe-wide new technologies, procedures
and standards that contribute to harmonizing and optimizing the European air
traffic management.

The Lufthansa Group’s airlines and Lufthansa
Systems are actively involved with their
respective expertise in a number of SESAr
research and demonstration projects as
well as standardization initiatives. The
synchronization of SESAr with its American
counterpart “NextGen” as the basis for
global interoperability of air traffic control
systems has a high priority in this context.
The first modernization package was integrated by the European Commission in
the Pilot Common Project (PCP). The
implementation of these technologies in
daily operations is jointly coordinated by
the members of the industry consortium
“SESAr Deployment Manager”. Since the
start of the introduction phase in 2014, the

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 49

first positive effects from optimized routings
and flying times have been observed in the
daily operations of airports, air traffic control organizations and airlines.
Currently, the experts of the Lufthansa
Group are participating in numerous
demonstration projects. In the framework
of the project Free Solutions, whose goal is
the introduction of more direct flight routings
under scheduled flight conditions, 68 flights
were able to travel on such routings in
Europe. About 5 tonnes of fuel and 126
minutes of flying time were saved on these
flights. The routes from Frankfurt to Nice,
Málaga, Algiers, Barcelona and Valencia
as well as the route from Munich to Paris
could thus be shortened permanently. The
quantity of kerosene saved in this way each
year corresponds to the fuel burn of about
200 flights between Frankfurt and zurich.

In the project Augmented Approaches to
Land (AAL), approaches are currently flown
in Frankfurt and Bremen with the three
Airbus A319s specifically retrofitted for this
purpose as well as the Airbus A380 and
the Boeing 747 fleets. Fraport, DFS and
Lufthansa jointly analyze the data from
these test flights to see if the distribution of
noise emissions might be better controlled
when aircraft adhere with greater precision
to the flight path by means of new flight
procedures.
Adequate airport infrastructures
Nevertheless, the conditions for efficient
air traffic management must be provided
not only in the air but also on the ground.
Above all, the adaptation of total airport
infrastructures to actual demand plays a
leading role in this context.

Intermodal transport concepts
Furthermore, the intelligent interlinking of
different modes of transport can make a
contribution to reducing traffic volumes and
thus also to lightening environmental burdens. For many years, the Lufthansa Group
has realized intermodal transport concepts
together with partner companies, which
interconnect air, rail and road traffic systematically. In October 2015, the Company
bundled its comprehensive services for
intermodal travel under the unified brand
name Lufthansa Express. The spectrum of
travel options before and after a flight ranges
from ICE high-speed trains to modern longdistance busses and car-sharing.

With the inauguration of the new satellite terminal at Munich Airport, the capacity of Terminal 2, used by Lufthansa and
the other Star Alliance airlines, increased by another 11 million to a total of 36 million passengers per year.

50 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

3

30

12

15

24

E

W

6

33

N

S

21

Pillar 3: Operational
measures
Operational measures include the deployment of efficiently-sized aircraft; the improved utilization, testing and introduction
of new flight procedures; as well as the
determination of optimum flight routes and
flight speeds. These are complemented by
programs for long-term weight reductions,
the development of intelligent software
tools and the introduction of increasingly
more efficient processes on the ground.
Weight reduction
Over the past years, the Lufthansa Group
has integrated into its flight operations
about 30,000 lightweight trolleys, which
replace the previous model of service carts
aboard long-haul aircraft. By the end of
2016, all trolleys will have been replaced
by the “Quantum Light Weight Trolley”,
co-developed by LSG Sky Chefs. Manufactured from high-grade sandwich material

composites (metal-matrix composites),
the new trolleys are about 35 percent more
lightweight than their predecessors.
Lufthansa Cargo is planning to replace all
standard stowage materials with more
lightweight alternatives by 2020. By the
beginning of 2016, the air freight specialist
had already replaced more than 60 percent
of its containers, including all AKE-type
containers. Likewise, the replacement of
AKH/DQF-type air freight containers by
lightweight models is currently advancing.
Together with its subsidiary Jettainer,
Lufthansa Cargo is also working on a
solution for more lightweight pallets.
At Lufthansa and Lufthansa CityLine the
“electronic Flight Folder” (eFF) ushered in a
new era in flight preparations. In the future,
pilots will use a new briefing application on
their Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) to check
on conditions along a flight routing and to
calculate the quantity of kerosene to be
refueled – another step towards the paperless cockpit.

OMEGA – The post-flight analysis
In September 2015, the Lufthansa Group’s
efficiency project OMEGA (Ops Monitor
and Efficiency Gap Analyzer) was successfully concluded after a project phase of
about three years. The new fuel-efficiency
software, developed jointly with IT specialists Aviaso, was successfully transferred
into scheduled operations.
Honored with the Innovation Award of
German Aviation in 2016, OMEGA combines both planning data and actual performance data from the Flight Data Recorder
(FDR) to analyze them in tandem. Thus far,
only planning data had been used in the
analysis of fuel consumption, which left
new conservation potentials unidentified
and made the assessment of savings significantly more difficult. The new software
allows the aviation group to analyze actual
fuel consumption, loading configurations,
flight routings and many other factors with
regard to their efficiency.

The module “Tracks” of the electronic navigation maps Lido/eRouteManual shows pilots not only the routing currently planned
but also the routings actually flown in the past. In this way, they receive information on possible more direct routes before the beginning
of a flight and can request these from air traffic control if appropriate.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 51

Optimization of flight routings
Currently about 120 airlines worldwide,
including most airlines within the Lufthansa
Group, rely on Lido/Flight by Lufthansa
Systems. On the basis of total flight-relevant
data, weather conditions and current airspace conditions, including all restrictions,
this tool automatically or interactively calculates the best suitable routing for a flight.
Comparison calculations on the basis of
more than 4,000 flight plans revealed:
Depending on the particular optimization
goal, Lido/Flight allows the reduction of
fuel consumption, flight time or flight costs
inclusive of air traffic control fees by up to
2 percent, in contrast with other applications. The next-generation product Lido/
Flight 4D will be introduced step by step
from 2016. It offers even greater integration, modern graphic displays, 4D optimization and comprehensive automatization
of flight routing and flight routing management processes.
Meanwhile, the module “Tracks” of the
electronic navigation solution Lido/erouteManual shows pilots not only the routing
currently planned but also the routings
actually flown in the past. In this way, they
receive information on possible more
direct routes before the beginning of a
flight and can request these from air traffic
control if appropriate. Currently in trial
operation at Lufthansa, “Tracks” is expected
to be introduced in July 2016. In fall 2015,
Lufthansa Systems presented a new Mobile
Updater, which pilots can use to update
their Lido/erouteManual at any time and
at any location.
Lufthansa Cargo focuses as well on the
systematic search for route shortcuts,
so-called “directs”. In this context, the air
freight specialist also began using the
analysis of historical flight routings from
mid-2016. Possible shortcuts are to be

included in flight route planning later on,
in coordination with the relevant control
centers. Furthermore, Lufthansa Cargo
set up an additional waypoint for the alternative airport Frankfurt hahn in coordination with Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS).
For approaches to Frankfurt, this measure
shortens the distance to be planned to
hahn and thus less kerosene has to be
carried during each approach to Frankfurt,
even should the alternative airport not be
needed. In this way, the airline conserves
about 950 tonnes of kerosene per year.
Lufthansa Cargo optimized the routes to
the alternative airports associated with
other destinations in the same way, conserving another 280 tonnes of fuel per year.
More efficiency thanks to Cyclean®
The innovative Cyclean® Engine Wash,
developed by Lufthansa Technik, helps
airlines worldwide to reduce the kerosene
consumption of their aircraft by up to 1
percent. Airlines have applied the waterbased engine wash system more than
40,000 times to date – in part because it is
the only established procedure of this kind
that can be applied right at the gate. Another advantage is that engines can now
be cleaned at external temperatures down
to minus 10 degrees Celsius. Lufthansa
Technik offers Cyclean® for all current
engine types produced by the large manufactures such as General Electric, Pratt &
Whitney, rolls-royce, CFMI and IAE. In
addition, the company also offers a dry
washing method for aircraft fuselages,
using a cleaning paste; this alternative
takes more effort than wet washes but
consumes significantly fewer resources.
Meanwhile, Lufthansa Technik is working
to develop further innovations. Among
these efforts is a research project set to
run until 2017 to test small CO2 dry-ice
pellets and other blasting abrasives for
cleaning engines.

Pillar 4: Economic
measures
Economic incentive systems are to be
understood as a complement to the preceding pillars. For the Lufthansa Group, the
most effective instrument in this area is a
worldwide-valid, market-based and competition-neutral system for CO2 compensation (also called carbon offsetting). The
United Nations’ International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO) decided in October
2013 to develop a system for climate
charges with worldwide validity, whose
introduction is to be approved in October
2016 (see interview on page 37).
By contrast, the European Union currently
still applies an emissions trading system
concerning all intra-European flights. In the
opinion of the Lufthansa Group, insular
solutions of this kind are the wrong
approach, as they unilaterally burden European airlines in contrast to airlines outside
of Europe (see page 59, Balance 2014).
Should the ICAO plenary session in October 2016 not approve a global solution, the
EU has announced its intention to expand
its emissions trading system to all international flights to and from EU airports.
Another option for limiting the effects of
CO2 emissions from air transport are voluntary CO2 compensation schemes. The Group
airlines Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian
Airlines as well as the Lufthansa subsidiary
AirPlus have offered their customers such
programs for many years (see page 67,
CO2 compensation).

52 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Energy and resource management
Making aircraft more fuel-efficient and quieter is a pivotal, but not the only,
adjustment lever for increasing the environmental compatibility of air transport.
On the ground, as well, there are a myriad of opportunities to limit emissions
of pollutants and noise, as well as to use valuable resources efficiently and
responsibly.

The Lufthansa Group sees great potential in
electromobility, which marks a technological
paradigm shift in traffic on the ground. To
conserve fossil energy and minimize emissions related to aircraft handling, the Group
is active in a number of electromobility
projects. These are in accordance with the
goals of the world aviation association IATA
and are part of the aviation industry’s fourpillar strategy for climate protection (see
page 45).

Electromobility at Frankfurt Airport

Electromobility:
E-PORT AN initiates
paradigm shift
Electricity instead of gasoline, diesel or
kerosene: Such is the basic principle of the
initiative E-POrT AN at the Frankfurt hub,
which is supported by the Lufthansa Group,

Fraport AG, the State of hesse and the
rhine-Main Model Electromobility region.
The goal of the initiative – which was
honored as a “Lighthouse Electromobility Project” by Germany’s Federal
Government in 2013 and is supported by
the Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital
Infrastructure – is to switch ground traffic
related to handling processes on the apron
to electrical power technologies step by
step. The project’s focus is as much on
taxiing and towing of aircraft as it is on

The eSchlepper diesel-electric hybrid aircraft tug is particularly suited for environmentally friendly maintenance and positioning tows of large passenger aircraft.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 53

vehicles that carry passengers, freight and
catering supplies. The Lufthansa Group
participates in E-POrT AN with a hybrid
tug that can be controlled from the cockpit
(TaxiBot), the towbarless “eSchlepper”
(eTug) for large passenger aircraft and
the catering lift truck “eLift” on the basis
of an electrically-powered truck chassis
(see page 51, Balance 2015). The initiative
is supported scientifically by Technische
Universität Darmstadt (TaxiBot, eSchlepper)
and Technische Universität Berlin (eLift).
First “green gate” worldwide
at Frankfurt Airport
In October 2015, the E-POrT AN project
partners opened the world’s first “green
gate” at Frankfurt Airport. At Lufthansa
Gate A15 models, display panels and
animations now inform passengers about
the numerous electromobility projects at
Germany’s largest civil airport. Preceding
this opening, the initiative partners had
sought exchanges with the public to present the projects of E-POrT AN during the
hamburg Airport Days in August 2015. The
young academics participating in Frankfurt
University’s Ph.D. Summer School were
also enthusiastic about the innovative ideas
to improve working and environmental
conditions on the apron.
“Eco-Company Partnership of the Year”
In February 2016, the US trade publication
Air Transport World bestowed the award
“Eco-Company Partnership of the Year” on
the Lufthansa Group and Fraport AG. This
renowned publication thus honored not
only the pioneer role of the E-POrT AN
system partners and their joint commitment
for more electromobility on the apron, but
also the entire initiative, including the State
of hesse and the rhine-Main Model Electromobility Region.
www.e-port-an.de

In October 2015, the partners of the initiative E-POrT AN
opened the first “Green Gate” at Frankfurt Airport.

Energy management
Targets of EU Energy Efficiency
Directive fulfilled
According to the EU Energy Efficiency
Directive (EED) taking effect on December
4, 2012, companies in the EU above a
certain size were obligated to carry out
energy audits by December 5, 2015, and
thereafter at least every four years. In
Germany and some other EU countries
this deadline has been extended. Deutsche
Lufthansa AG is affected by the EED as well
as those EU-headquartered subsidiaries in
which the Group holds at least a 25-percent
stake. For the Lufthansa Group, this meant
that a total of 120 companies had to be
audited (see page 52, Balance 2015).
The audits were completed on-schedule
in Germany by the end of April 2016, and
within the EU by the end of May 2016. The
Group-wide results – including more than
300 suggestions for improving the energy
efficiency of buildings – will serve as a basis
for further optimizing the aviation group’s
energy management. The energy experts
of the department Group Infrastructure
Commercial will consult and steer this
process, and will act as contact point for
all energy-related questions. This depart-

ment is also responsible for the Group-wide
central energy management, in order to
increase the links between subsidiaries
and to intensify exchanges on best-practice
cases.
LSG Sky Chefs active in
“LEEN 100” network
LSG Sky Chefs has been active in Frankfurt
in the “LEEN 100” network since 2015;
moreover, the company hosted the second
Energy Efficiency round Table in midOctober 2015. The “Learning Energy
Efficiency Network” (LEEN) was set up for
a four-year term by its initiators: the City of
Frankfurt and the Society for Job Security,
Quality and Environmental Management.
Founded in May 2015, the network is working to improve the CO2 emissions values in
the rhine-Main region and to increase the
share of renewable energies. About 20
participants from eight companies in various industries took advantage of the round
Table to discuss significant measures and
advances in reducing their companies’ CO2
emissions. Furthermore, a guided tour took
place at the airline catering facility, which
occupies 29,000 square meters at Frankfurt
Airport and whose equipment includes
15 energy-and-water-efficient industrial
dishwashing lines and machines.

54 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

View of the state-of-the-art LSG Sky Chefs operation in Chicago, which
was opened at the end of 2015. Constructed in accordance with LEED standards
(Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design), this airline catering building
is the first worldwide to have received the quality seal of the U.S. Green
Building Council (USGBC).

“The LSG Group has installed eTemp® at all of
its North America facilities, as a result we are
able to conserve almost 1,000,000 kWh of electricity and thus avoid 800 tonnes of CO2 emissions during the reporting year.
This corresponds to planting
over 600,000 square meters of
pine forest on an annual basis.”
Dr. Kenneth F. White
Director Environmental Systems
LSG Group

Pilot trial runs with intelligent eTemp®
thermostat
In 2014, the LSG Sky Chefs facility in Dallas,
USA, ran pilot trials with an innovative type
of thermostat. Unlike conventional thermostats, eTemp® switches on cooling units
only when its sensors register significant
temperature differences, while ignoring
minor differences. The reason? The intelligent cooling system takes into account that
when workers enter a cold storage unit the
temperature of the air rises faster than the
temperature of the food stored in it. Meanwhile, the LSG Group has installed eTemp®
at all of its North America facilities.
The Lufthansa subsidiary regularly provides
information about the most important energy
and water ratios in its Environmental report.
Getting the LCC in better shape
Following the Lufthansa Group’s decision
in April 2015 to delay the construction of
the new Lufthansa Cargo Freight Center
“LCCneo” at Frankfurt Airport by at least
two years, the logistics provider is concentrating on getting the existing LCC in better
shape in 2016. To conserve energy, the
installation of a new heating control system
and the switch to LED lighting in certain
areas are planned, among other measures.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 55

Sustainable construction
and modernization
The Lufthansa Group’s strategic environmental program gives a high priority to
ecological ways of constructing new facilities and modernizing existing ones. In
doing so, the Group always applies the
latest standards. An example for this
approach is the Lufthansa Aviation Center
(LAC) in Frankfurt, which was designed as
a low-energy building. Given the EU’s
Green Building Award in 2009 for its exemplary energy efficiency, the LAC avoids
about 1,200 tonnes of CO2 emissions each
year. To mark the LAC’s tenth anniversary
in 2016, the Lufthansa Group participated
through the impressive illumination of its
headquarters in the “Luminale” for the first
time and thus directed the visitors’ attention
to the topic of sustainability.

“Green satellite” opened in Munich
On April 26, 2016, Munich Airport and
Deutsche Lufthansa AG inaugurated the
“Green Satellite”. The new satellite terminal
building sets new standards with regard to
sustainability and energy efficiency. Compared with the existing Terminals 1 and 2,
it emits up to 40 percent less CO2. Other
measures favoring lower emissions include
the use of displacement ventilation technology for climatization as well as LED
lighting and the dimming of lighting levels.
30 percent better than the Energy
Conservation Regulations (EnEV)
Currently under construction, Lufthansa
Technik’s new wheels and brakes workshop in Frankfurt is to start operations at
the beginning of 2017. By implementing
the most modern facilities engineering, the
new 14,500 square meter building will fall
30 percent below the requirements of the
Energy Conservation regulations. Moreover, Lufthansa Technik launched a project

in July 2015 to switch the lighting systems
in all its buildings, and particularly in its
aircraft maintenance hangar, to energy
efficient standards. The goal is use the
latest LED technology to reduce energy
consumption by about 60 to 70 percent.
LSG Sky Chefs facility receives
LEED quality seal
LSG Sky Chefs also works on systematically lowering the energy consumption in
the context of new constructions and
modernizations of existing buildings. Its
latest example is a facility inaugurated in
December 2015 in Chicago. The airline
catering building was constructed in
accordance with LEED standards (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design)
and is the first worldwide to receive the
quality seal developed in 2000 by the U.S.
Green Building Council (USGBC). LEED
makes it possible to comprehensively evaluate a building over its entire life cycle, including its energy and water consumption.

The Lufthansa Aviation Center at Frankfurt Airport received the EU’s “Green Building” award in 2009 for its exemplary energy efficiency.

56 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Recycling /
resource management
Recycling of aircraft components
With the goal of establishing an ecologically and economically sound recycling
sequence for decommissioned aircraft,
Lufthansa Technik launched the project
“2nd Life” in 2012. The background here is
that repairing aircraft parts and storing
replacement components is resourceintensive. However, decommissioned aircraft contain a myriad of valuable materials
and parts that can be reconditioned and
reused for maintenance and overhaul
purposes once they have been recertified.
This applies, for instance, when components in the active fleet fail, their repair
would lead to high costs or they would
have to be sourced externally.

In the reporting year alone, the MrO specialist passed on four phased-out Boeing
747-400s from the Lufthansa Group to its
subsidiary Lufthansa Technik Component
Services (LTCS) in Tulsa, USA, for recycling.
Since the start of the project, a total of 37
Lufthansa Group aircraft have been recycled via “2nd Life”. Depending on the type
of aircraft, up to 1,000 components can
be removed, including parts from landing
gears, engines and auxiliary power units,
cabin elements such as monitors and windows as well as instruments and data entry
units in the cockpit. Which components are
recycled depends on a number of factors,
such as the consideration of which parts a
particular aircraft was equipped with and
the number of aircraft maintained by
Lufthansa Technik that fly with these systems. Another important consideration is
which parts are especially valuable, perhaps
because they are no longer in production.

“With the project ‘2nd Life’ we have established
an ecologically and economically sensible recycling circuit for decommissioned aircraft. Since
the project’s launch, the Lufthansa
Group has already recycled 37
phased-out aircraft in this way.”
Hans Bernd Schmidt
Initiator of the “2nd Life” program
Lufthansa Technik AG

Turning organic waste into water
In January 2014 and May 2015, the
LSG Sky Chefs facilities in Detroit and Los
Angeles both introduced a procedure that
turns organic waste into water. The technological basis is a closed decomposition
system developed by EnviroPure that accelerates the natural decomposition process of organic waste. Provided there are
optimum temperatures and sufficient oxygen, almost all types of organic waste can
be decomposed in this way within 24 to 48
hours. The process works with the addition
of a specific biologically degradable additive that supplies the bacteria naturally
present in waste materials with complementary micro nutrients. The result is a
harmless liquid that can be discharged
through the public sewer system.
Project “Zero Waste to Landfill” successfully implemented
“zero Waste to Landfill” (zLF) is a program
that was launched in spring 2013 by LSG
Sky Chefs at all 41 US locations to recycle
100 percent of its waste materials. At the end
of 2015, the catering specialist achieved
its ambitious goal. On December 31, the
sum total of recycled waste materials
reached 22,444 tonnes; for the program’s
total duration this figure was 43,316 tonnes.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 57

The implementation of paperless processes moves forward: Lufthansa Technik launched the “paperless maintenance” program in 2014.

Fly Greener was launched as a hub-airline
project in 2016. Other Group companies,
such as Lufthansa CityLine and Austrian
Airlines, are already involved.
Initiative “Fly Greener”
Launched in 2014 and guided by environmental thinking, the Group initiative “Fly
Greener” traces back to the commitment of
Munich-based Cabin Crew Manager
rebecca Emmerling. In 2015, a removal
campaign at the Munich hub showed that
above all the disposal of liquids can be
substantially improved. The campaign was
repeated in June 2016 to widen the database. Another goal was to find out what
has changed in the composition of waste
materials thanks to the Fly Greener ambassadors and their work on board.
Fly Greener works closely with the environmental experts at LSG Sky Chefs to recycle
as much of the on-board waste materials
as possible and to analyze additional recycling options on the ground. The basis of
the waste management system at the world’s
largest airline caterer is a comprehensive
internal system of ratios as well as national
laws and regulations, which govern the
handling of on-board waste materials
worldwide (see page 53, Balance 2015).

Digitalization of
processes
Compared with current processes, digital
technologies could lower the global CO2
emissions by 20 percent by 2030 – according to the latest study carried out by the
Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI). To
realize this potential, the Lufthansa Group
has advanced the digitalization of its processes on the ground and in the air for
many years. For example, Electronic Flight
Bags (EFB) have been in use in flight
operations since 1999; the rollout of EFB
2.2, their third generation, was initiated in
October 2014 (see page 12, Balance
2015). Another important role is played by
the consistent switch to paperless tickets,
boarding passes and baggage receipts as
well as the expansion of the digital reading
materials offered aboard Lufthansa aircraft
in the form of eJournals for mobile devices,
which partially replace the print version.

Electronic flow of documents: eFreight
Since 2007, Lufthansa Cargo has been
continuously expanding the paperless
form of air freight transport (eFreight)
worldwide. The ultimate goal is to handle
all transport documents fully digitally in
order to exchange information automatically, to simplify processes, to increase
efficiency and to lighten the burden on the
environment (see page 64, Balance 2014).
As the first step, Lufthansa Cargo has
already implemented the infrastructure to
digitalize the air waybill, the central freight
document. Today, about a third of all
shipments already fly without a paperbased air waybill.
Paperless aircraft maintenance by 2017
Digital solutions are also implemented by
Lufthansa Technik. The latest example is
the program “paperless maintenance”,
which was launched in 2014 and not only
reduces paper consumption, time, costs
and environmental resources but also
accelerates data capture and increases
data quality. The goal is to carry out all
maintenance documentation at the aircraft
fully electronically by 2017 and to abolish
in large part the use of paper.

58 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Active noise protection
Air transport is unavoidably associated with the generation of noise, particularly
in areas surrounding airports. For many years, the Lufthansa Group has worked
to reduce these emissions increasingly and has applied numerous measures in
the area of active noise protection. To this end, the Group also cooperates with
partners in industry, public administrations, universities and research.

The Lufthansa Group’s commitment to active
noise protection is based on five central
points. These include investing in the most
modern aircraft, retrofitting the existing fleet
with noise-reducing technologies, conducting noise research, and developing noisereducing procedures for both approach and
departure in cooperation with the system
partners. Furthermore, the Company places
great emphasis on the constructive dialogue
with neighbors of airports and other interest
groups. When implementing specific measures, the Group also takes into consideration the aspect of economic efficiency.

Noise contours compared
A320neo vs. A320ceo
The Airbus A320neo (new engine option) has an approximately 50 percent
reduced noise contour compared with the Airbus A320ceo (current engine
option). The 85 dB(A) maximum noise level contours are shown for a takeoff
with Lufthansa standard takeoff procedures and maximum takeoff weight
(MTOW). By comparison, a maximum noise level of 85 dB(A) is produced by a
truck passing at a distance of five meters (16 feet) in city traffic.

4 km

With regard to noise emissions, today 592
of 595 aircraft in the Lufthansa Group’s
active fleet already fulfill the currently strictest Chapter-4 standard of the International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), which
has been in effect since 2006 for new
aircraft (see overview page 118). The new
Chapter-14 standard will be applied for
newly certified aircraft types from 2017,
which will significantly lower the limit value
yet again.

3.5 km

~ – 50 %

3 km
2.5 km
2 km
1.5 km
1 km
0.5 km

0.5 km

0 km 0.5 km

Airbus A320neo
MTOW: 73.5 t

0.5 km

0 km 0.5 km

Airbus A320ceo
MTOW: 73.5 t

Source: Airbus

0 km

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 59

Thanks to new engine technology, the
85-decibel noise footprint of an A320neo at takeoff
is only half as large as that of a comparable
airplane in the current fleet.

New aircraft mean audible improvements
The greatest progress in reducing aircraft
noise can be achieved by the operation of
modern aircraft. The Lufthansa Group
invests continuously in this area.
For example, Lufthansa will decommission
all Boeing 737s by the end of 2016 and
replace them with A320neo aircraft. Thanks
to new engine technologies, the A320neo
is by far the most efficient and quietest
aircraft on short- and medium-haul routes.
The Lufthansa Group has a total of 116
A320neo and A321neo aircraft on order,
which will be delivered over the years
ahead (see page 29, Fleet development).
Of these, 60 aircraft will be equipped with
the new PW1100G-JM engines manufactured by Pratt & Whitney. The new engines
and improved aerodynamics allow a significant reduction of noise and emissions.
Accordingly, the 85-decibel noise footprint
at takeoff of an A320neo is only half as
large as that of a comparable aircraft in the
existing fleet (see illustration).
On long-haul routes, the Airbus A350-900,
which will be delivered to Lufthansa from
winter 2016, is set to contribute significantly
to lessening the burden on people living
near large hubs. The A350-900 is the most
modern and environmentally-friendly longhaul aircraft worldwide; its noise footprint

will be about 50 percent smaller than that
of predecessor models. The most advanced
rolls-royce Trent XWB engines and an
aerodynamically optimized design reduce
noise emissions to a point far below currently applicable limits.
At Swiss, the new CSeries by Bombardier
will replace the currently operated Avro
RJ100 regional aircraft, starting in 2016.
This generational change in the skies
means above all a perceptible improvement in noise burdens for airports neighbors, as the CSeries also sets new standards in noise emissions.
And Lufthansa Cargo received its fifth
Boeing 777F freighter aircraft in February
2015. Compared with other freighters, this
aircraft is characterized by the smallest
noise footprint in its class. It also meets the
most stringent noise standards and thus
has maximum access to airports with high
noise protection limits.

Vortex generators for the A320 fleet
To date, the experts at Lufthansa Technik
have equipped all Airbus A319, A320 and
A321 aircraft at the Frankfurt and Munich
hubs with noise-reducing vortex generators. In addition, all newly delivered aircraft
of this type from Airbus have featured these
components as standard equipment since
2015. At the beginning of 2014, Lufthansa
began operations with the world’s first
vortex-generator-equipped A320, thus
introducing yet another industry standard.
As these parts have become part of the
noise reduction programs of numerous
airports, interest in vortex generators is
growing among other airlines as well.
As a result of retrofitting and new acquisitions, more than 200 aircraft in the Lufthansa
Group’s fleet will fly substantially quieter
than before in the future. This will affect
every second landing of a Lufthansa aircraft
in Frankfurt, as the Airbus A320 fleet has a
share of about 50 percent of all flights at
this hub.

60 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

In 2015, flyover measurements were conducted at Magdeburg-Cochstedt Airport with
Lufthansa Cargo MD-11 freight aircraft to test noise-reducing modifications on engines and landing gear.

Noise research: A costly and complex
challenge
The project MODAL (Models and Data for
the Development of Active Noise Protection
Measures in Aviation), which was headed
by the Lufthansa Group and supported in
the context of the aviation research program of Germany’s Federal Ministry for
Economics and Technology, ended in
2015. Together with the German Aerospace
Center (DLR) as well as several airports
and scientific institutes, the Lufthansa
experts have created a new database,
which contributes to the development of an
innovative flexible aircraft noise calculation
method according to DIN 45689. At the
end of June 2015, the research partners
again conducted flyover measurements for
MODAL with Lufthansa Cargo MD-11
freight aircraft at Magdeburg-Cochstedt
Airport; two aircraft were equipped with
modified acoustic panels. As the data
analysis did not produce an unequivocal
result, no recommendations for retrofittings
could be made. This example illustrates
well that the Lufthansa Group’s voluntary
commitment to research for less noise is
quite costly and complex.

Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group supported the noise effect study NOrAh
(Noise-related Annoyance, Cognition and
health), which was concluded in 2015.
Among other results, the survey showed
that the health risks and negative effects
of aircraft noise are apparently less pronounced than was previously assumed.
www.norah-studie.de
The German Aviation Association (BDL)
published its first aircraft noise report in
2015. According to analyses carried out by
Germany’s Environment Agency, 10.2
million people in Germany are affected by
road noise while 6.2 million people are
affected by rail noise with an average noise
level of more than 55 dB(A). In contrast,
aircraft noise affects only 738,000 people.
Noise reduction at the airports
On May 30, 2016, the state of hesse’s
economics minister Tarek Al-Wazir and
representatives of the aviation industry,
Frankfurt Airport and Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS) signed a voluntary agreement
concerning the application of “noise
breaks” as part of regular operations at

Frankfurt Airport. The noise break concept
means that during west-wind operations –
the main operating direction at Frankfurt
Airport – some runways are not used between 5 and 6 a.m. and between 10 and
11 p.m. Aircraft movements are bundled
on the remaining runways during these
times. This gives people living nearby and
beneath the approach routes of these
unused runways an additional hour of quiet.
A one-year trial run had shown a substantial
reduction of noise burdens during those
peripheral hours.
From the end of May to the end of August
2016, Lufthansa, DFS and Fraport are set
to test new satellite-supported approach
procedures at Frankfurt Airport. The goal
of these trials is to prove the advantages
of curved approach procedures linked to
this new technology in areas close to airports. The test series also contributes to
basic research for active noise protection
and is part of the research project Single
European Sky Air Traffic Management
research (SESAr, see 48).
Further, at hamburg Airport the Lufthansa
Group is committed to a punctuality offensive to reduce the aircraft noise burden on
people living near the airport. Together with
three other airlines and hamburg Airport,
Lufthansa and Eurowings signed a declaration at the end of April 2016 concerning the
reduction of delays after 11 p.m. In this
punctuality offensive, the partners pledge
to apply the so-called “delay regulation” as
rarely as possible.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 61

Commitment to climate research
For more than 20 years, the Lufthansa Group has been intensively involved
in research projects which help to observe the state of the Earth’s atmosphere
by establishing a worldwide measurement infrastructure – in order to better
understand global climate changes.

Five years of IAGOS
On July 7, 2011, Lufthansa became the
first airline worldwide to join forces with
research institute Forschungzentrum Jülich
to launch innovative long-term research of
the atmosphere in the project IAGOS (Inservice Aircraft for a Global Observing
System). By means of measuring instruments that are permanently installed
aboard aircraft, the project analyzes the
air’s chemical composition. Through the
successful precursor program MOZAIC,
Lufthansa had already been a central partner of research institutes for more than 20
years. The last MOZAIC aircraft was withdrawn from service in fall 2014. At the
beginning of 2015, Lufthansa equipped a
second aircraft with a measuring probe for
the IAGOS project to ensure a seamless
transition from MOZAIC to IAGOS. Together
with the project CARIBIC, which Lufthansa
supports monthly via the Airbus A340-600
“Leverkusen”, three Lufthansa Group aircraft currently fly in the service of climate
research. By recording atmospheric data
continuously and globally, IAGOS and
CARIBIC close important gaps in the
knowledge necessary to better understand
climate and its forecasts.
At the end of 2015, the scientific journal
Tellus B published a special issue on the
results of the IAGOS and MOZAIC programs. The 16 articles published therein
represent the entire scope of the scientific
atmospheric investigations based on the
data recorded with the support of instru-

mentalized commercial aircraft. For
instance, researchers used the ozone
measurements taken by Lufthansa aircraft
to complete those generated by worldwide
satellite and ground measurements for this
important trace gas and to test the global
models for forecasting air quality. In another article, scientists examined how highaltitude thunderstorms affect the generation
and distribution of nitrogen oxides at high
altitudes. The MOZAIC data stretching over
a number of years clearly prove that nitrogen oxides are generated in thunderstorms
above the southeast of the USA and then
transported across the Atlantic to Europe.
All articles are freely accessible on
www.tellusb.net

In 2015, climate researchers accomplished
a further discovery in which the Lufthansasupported projects IAGOS and CARIBIC
played a significant part. By combining
data from these measurements with those
from satellite observations, they were able
to prove that between 2008 and 2011 the
solar radiation in the lower layers of the
stratosphere was weakened twice as much
as previously assumed in the wake of
multiple volcanic eruptions. This shows that
the cooling effect of volcanoes had been
significantly underestimated in previous
climate models.
www.iagos.org

“In 2015, we expanded our involvement in the
IAGOS project and equipped a second aircraft
with measuring probes. On each flight that these
aircraft make, data of atmospheric trace elements
are collected routinely and worldwide, which are highly useful for
scientific research.”
Dr. Gerd Saueressig
Manager Group Environmental Issues
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

3
Product
Responsibility
Customer centricity and quality
focus are strategic cornerstones of
the ­Lufthansa Group. We constantly
optimize our products along the
entire service chain.

64 // Product Responsibility

Product responsibility at the Lufthansa Group
For the Lufthansa Group, product responsibility means that all business
segments and subsidiaries continuously assess and improve their offers
along the entire travel chain. This dimension of entrepreneurial responsibility
therefore refers to products and services that are particularly important for
customers of the Lufthansa Group, as well as for other stakeholders.

Customer centricity and quality focus
“Customer centricity and quality focus” is
one of the strategic cornerstones of the
Lufthansa Group (see page 65). The orientation according to customers’ wishes and
needs is a very important concern for the
Company. It also includes designing products and services that are free from discrimination and environmentally compatible. The Lufthansa Group companies
regularly conduct customer surveys on a
global scale in their segments, exchange
information with their stakeholders in the
context of a continuous stakeholder dia-

logue and derive product and service
optimizations from this process. The further
development of feedback management
processes also contributes to increasing
passenger satisfaction.
Flight safety and health protection
Flight safety and health protection always
have the highest priority for the Lufthansa
Group. Therefore, the Group airlines
expanded their safety structures immediately following the crash of Germanwings
flight 4U9525 on March 24, 2015 and also
introduced a new procedure for crew pres-

ence in the cockpit. Accordingly, during
flights there now have to be two authorized
crew members in the cockpit at any time.
Furthermore, for many years the Lufthansa
Group has expanded its health-related offers
for passengers and has always set standards in the area of cabin air (see page 71).
Data protection and data security
The protection of customer data is the
basis for a trusting business relationship.
Every day, the Lufthansa Group companies
process enormous volumes of data and in
so doing always handle personal data with
the utmost care. In addition, such data are
protected and secured in accordance with
the most stringent standards and the very
latest technical norms (see page 72).
Offer of voluntary CO2 compensation
The Lufthansa Group’s commitment in the
area of voluntary CO2 compensation is
firmly anchored in the Group-wide Strategic
Environmental Program 2020; moreover, it
is an integral part of the aviation industry’s
four-pillar strategy for climate protection
(see page 67). The hub airlines Lufthansa,
Swiss and Austrian Airlines and the Lufthansa
subsidiary AirPlus all maintain programs
for this purpose.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 65

Customer centricity and quality focus
Satisfied customers and perfect service are of the highest importance for the
Lufthansa Group. It is under this maxim that the aviation group’s employees
work on further optimizing passengers’ travel experiences and customer
service every single day.

“Customer centricity and quality focus” is
one of seven fields of action comprised
by the Lufthansa Group’s strategic program “7to1– Our Way Forward” and one
of the central approaches to ensure the
company’s long-term success and ability
to create added value (see page 18, Strategy and management, Sustainable Business Practices). The goal is to produce top
performances and thus to achieve quality
leadership in all markets and business
segments. This is best illustrated by
Lufthansa’s goal to become the western
world’s first five-star airline in Skytrax, the
industry’s leading rating system.

Within the field of action “Customer centricity and quality focus” the Lufthansa Group
concentrates above all on the following
aspects:
To understand customer needs even better. In this area, the Group has taken an
important step forward with the introduction of the Net Promoter Score (NPS®)1
in 2014.
To further sharpen each individual
brand’s focus and concentrate brand
promises.
To identify further optimization potentials
and realize them.

“Customer centricity and quality focus are a
central concern for us. Consistent processes
and a well-developed service mentality are the
basis for excellent customer service. Simultaneously, we develop new and value-added
high-quality services that are oriented by individual customer needs. Our
goal is to offer a first-rate travel
experience at any time.”
Steffen Harbarth
Chief Commercial Officer Hub Munich &
Head of Marketing LH Group Airlines,
responsible for the field of action customer
centricity and quality focus

To optimize the quality of product and
service portfolios, the Lufthansa Group will
invest a total of 500 million euros by 2020.
In addition, there are investments to
further improve customer service. At the
same time, the company has established
a Group-wide quality circle.

Measuring customer
satisfaction
For the Company’s success it is indispensable to determine how satisfied customers are. Therefore, the Lufthansa
Group regularly conducts surveys on a
global scale to check how customers
evaluate the performance they experienced. In addition, the Lufthansa Group
surveyed its target audiences at the beginning of 2016 concerning 12 sustainable
fields of action to establish a materiality
analysis, including the topic of “Service
and customer orientation”. The stakeholders confirmed the high priority this topic
has for them and the Group (see page 21,
Stakeholder dialogue).

1 Net Promoter® and NPS® are registered trademarks; Net
Promoter Score and Net Promoter System are trademarks of
Bain & Company, Satmetrix Systems and Fred Reichend.

66 // Product Responsibility

The golden “Q” symbolizes the quality offered
by travel with the Lufthansa Group.

The Net Promoter Score focuses on the
travel experience as the central product or
service category of the Lufthansa Group.
In this context, the Group airlines continuously survey their customers to see if
they would recommend the airline to their
friends and acquaintances based on their
travel experience. The share of enthusiastic passengers is deducted from the share
of less satisfied ones. Every month, top
management receives a report detailing
the development of the NPS at the individual airlines and for the Group airlines as
a whole. Lufthansa Cargo and LSG Sky
Chefs also conduct surveys to determine
their NPS values.
Uninterrupted round-the-clock service
Another important contribution to the topic
of customer satisfaction comes from feedback management. The Lufthansa Group
places a high priority on being reachable
at any time, to respond to all customer
reactions worldwide as quickly as possible,
to resolve issues in the customer’s interest
and to learn from feedback. The goal is to
be “best in class” (see page 63, Balance
2015, and page 73, Balance 2014). At the
same time, the Group works continuously
on further developing its service portfolio.
Taking its cue from demand, the Lufthansa
Group concentrates on services it offers via
social media channels.
Lufthansa ensures its uninterrupted roundthe-clock service on 365 days a year by
means of the “InTouch Service Center” with
its seven locations on four continents. Its
employees handle about 11 million individual transactions per year, 2.6 million of
which in Berlin.

Improvements in 2015
For the Lufthansa Group, product responsibility means above all continuously optimizing the different services along the travel
chain and to make flying, including its sustainable facets, come evermore alive (see
page 68, Sustainability in all phases of the
travel experience). Therefore, the Group
introduced additional programs and services
in 2015 that further improve the travel experience and thus also customer satisfaction.
During the reporting year, Lufthansa successfully implemented nearly all service
optimization programs of its five-star airline
activities. This included above all the completion of the largest cabin modernization
program in the airline’s history (see page 62,
Balance 2015). There was also improved
premium check-in in Frankfurt and Munich,
and a more personalized style of service on
board from flight attendants, which also
includes the Lufthansa Restaurant Service
on long-haul flights in Business Class,
launched in August 2015. Moreover, LSG
Sky Chefs conducted a workshop in 2015
to develop new and even healthier dishes.

In addition, Lufthansa expanded its offers
and services for families. This includes
child-friendly check-in areas in Frankfurt
and Munich, amenity kits for children and
the new Family Guide for Frankfurt – a
brochure containing useful tips on spending
time at the airport. Numerous digital innovations similarly improve the travel experience of passengers in all age groups.
Furthermore, there is the internal program
SMILE, which helps to react to changing
customer needs by means of personalized
products, services and communications
options.
Service and customer orientation for
freight shippers
At the beginning of 2015 Lufthansa Cargo
launched the project “Manage Customer
Service” aimed at further increasing its
employees’ quality awareness and service
orientation. The emphasis is placed on the
after-sales process, that is the activities
after a reservation has been confirmed.
In this area, the project team identified 22
improvement measures, some of which
have already been implemented or are in
the pilot phase. For example, customers in
the United States and Canada are now
able to check the customs status of their
shipments; a service that was previously
not available.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 67

CO2 compensation
Passengers of the Lufthansa Group may compensate the CO2 emissions
unavoidably associated with their journeys by making a donation and thus a
personal contribution to climate protection. Compensations are made through
respected agencies that apply the most stringent standards in selecting and
implementing the projects they support.

Offering voluntary CO2 compensation is an
established part of the aviation industry’s
four-pillar strategy for climate protection (see
page 45) and the Lufthansa Group’s environmental strategy 2020. While Lufthansa and
Swiss have cooperated since 2007 with the
charitable Switzerland-based foundation
myclimate, Austrian Airlines has worked
since 2008 with Climate Austria (see page
69, Balance 2015). Since 2011, existing
corporate customers of the Lufthansa subsidiary AirPlus have had the opportunity to
have the CO2 emissions of all their business
travel calculated and compensated for them
as an option.

In 2015, Lufthansa Group customers again
took advantage of the option to travel in a
climate-neutral way: The quantity of CO2
emissions that passengers of the hub airlines Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines
as well as AirPlus customers compensated
during the reporting year added up to
31,300 tonnes of carbon dioxide. Thus,
donations of more than 450,000 euros
were received for climate protection projects – an increase of 3.5 percent over the
preceding year. The CO2 compensation
payments made by customers are channeled to certified climate protection projects in whose context climate-damaging

energy sources are replaced with climatefriendly ones. Over the last four years
alone, about 1,8 million euros were invested in such climate protection projects
in this way. In addition to a reduction of
greenhouse gases, these projects must
demonstrate a positive contribution to
sustainable development.
To make even more customers aware of
the option of a voluntary CO2 compensation, the Lufthansa Group is planning to
further optimize its related Internet offer.
The Group regularly provides information
on the climate protection offer’s background and mode of operation. In addition,
Lufthansa Group experts participate in
panel discussions organized in the context
of the stakeholder dialogue. For example,
in 2015 they participated in a discussion
event organized by myclimate on the subject of climate protection and air transport
at the international tourism fair ITB.
lufthansa.myclimate.org
swiss.myclimate.org
www.climateaustria.at
www.airplus.com

On June 4, 2016, Lufthansa participated with two
aircraft in the Berlin Air Show (ILA) and provided
information about sustainable mobility. The visit of
the “Siegerflieger” (Winners’ Plane) and the Airbus
A320neo was CO2-neutral: Lufthansa compensated
the related CO2 emissions with a donation to the climate protection organization myclimate.

Sustainability in all phases
of the travel experience

Planning

CO2

Travel medicine and accessibility
Paperless processes
Thanks to electronic tickets, digital
baggage services and mobile boarding
passes, sustainable travel begins for
Lufthansa Group customers long before
boarding. These offers are being expanded continuously.

To ensure that passengers are able
to enjoy their trips without worries, the
Lufthansa Group supports them with
comprehensive information concerning
travel medicine. Customers with reduced
mobility or additional needs for care
benefit from specific services, which
ensure optimum comfort on the ground
and on board.

Special meals
Be it for health-related, religious, ethnic
or culinary reasons, with the Lufthansa
Group, passengers may select special
meals from up to 18 options, depending
on the airline, flight duration and booking
class.

Voluntary CO2 compensation
At Lufthansa, Swiss, Austrian Airlines and
the Lufthansa subsidiary AirPlus, leisure
and business travellers have the option
of voluntarily compensating for the CO2
emissions inevitably associated with
flying. The compensation payments support climate protection projects.

Intermodality
Since 2015 the Lufthansa Group has
bundled all road, rail and air feeder
services under the Lufthansa Express
brand. The options for seamless travel
include ICE high-speed rail connections,
long-distance and postal busses as well
as car-sharing.

Relaxed travel
Ergonomic seats ensure restful travel
in all booking classes. Instructions for
relaxation exercises on board, the new
“flyrobic” video and innovative light
concepts to adapt the biorhythm on the
A350-900 starting in January 2017 all
help passengers to arrive at their destinations in a relaxed frame of mind. In
addition, the Lufthansa Group offers a
broad medical product portfolio and
the “Doctor on board” program.

Flying

Arriving

eJournals / recycling
An important building block in the
Lufthansa Group’s sustainability concept
is to expand its offer of digital reading
materials. Free eJournals for mobile
devices now replace part of the print
issues. The resulting weight reduction
implies a cut in fuel consumption and
related CO2 emissions. Furthermore,
flight attendants presort unavoidable
waste materials on board and act as
ambassadors of the Group-wide recycling initiative “Fly Greener”.

Donations for a good cause
Customer feedback
The Lufthansa Group places the highest
priority on customer orientation and
quality. Therefore, the aviation group
actively and continuously surveys its
customers about their travel experiences
and develops service optimizations
from this input.

Not only on board, but also after arrival,
Lufthansa Group passengers have an
opportunity to support the on-board
collection program “Small Change –
It’s a Big Help” run by the Help Alliance.
Small sealable envelopes are available
on board, while on the ground there are
donations columns to accept “leftover”
amounts in any currency. Swiss also
collects remaining amounts of foreign
exchange aboard its flights to benefit
charitable purposes.

Regional flight attendants
To meet its passengers’ intercultural preferences and needs optimally, Lufthansa
has assigned regional flight attendants
from China, Korea, Japan, India and
Thailand to selected routes for the last
25 years.

Further programs
Fleet development (see page 29)
Study on cabin air quality (see page 71)
Support for climate research (see page 61)
Researching and using alternative fuels (see page 46)
Electromobility for taxiing and towing
of aircraft (see page 52)
Fuel efficiency programs (see page 41)

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group

70 // Product Responsibility

Flight safety and health protection
For the Lufthansa Group, safety and the health of passengers, crews and
employees have top priority. For the purpose of flight safety, all airlines within
the Lufthansa Group have Safety Management Systems. Beyond that, the
Lufthansa Group continuously expands its health-related offers for passengers
and also carries out extensive measurement tests concerning cabin air.

Germanwings flight
4U9525
With the crash of Germanwings flight
4U9525 on March 24, 2015, an emergency
occurred for the Company which each
employee of the Lufthansa Group hoped
would never happen. Germanwings and
Lufthansa announced immediately that they
would do everything in their power to look
after and support the family members and
friends of the accident’s victims in the best
possible way (see page 74).
Shortly after the accident, in cooperation
with Germany’s Federal Aviation Office
(LBA), the other German airlines and the
Association of German Civil Aviation (BDL),
the airlines of the Lufthansa Group introduced a new procedure for crew presence
in the cockpit. Accordingly, two authorized
persons now have to be in the cockpit at all
times during a flight.
As a further immediate measure, the
Lufthansa Group expanded its safety structures. As a complement to the safety pilots
of the individual airlines, the new function of
Group Safety Pilot with overall responsibility
for reviewing and further refining procedures related to flight safety was created.
Since March 27, 2015, Captain Werner
Maas has been responsible for this new

task in parallel with his current role as
Safety Pilot of Deutsche Lufthansa AG;
he reports directly to Group CEO Carsten
Spohr.
For the purpose of flight safety, all airlines
within the Lufthansa Group have Safety
Management Systems (SMS), which are
oriented by the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
The goal of these systems is to document
the state of safety in flight operations, to
identify hazards at an early stage and
assess them, and to lower accident risks by
implementing suitable countermeasures
(see page 74, Balance 2014).

IOSA audit – The most
comprehensive standard
for safety in air transport
An independent assessment of the safety
standards of the airlines within the Lufthansa
Group takes place every two years through
the IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA).
IOSA is considered the internationally most
respected safety standard in air transport.
All Lufthansa Group airlines fulfill this IATA
safety standard in its entirety. Lufthansa
Cargo was the first IOSA-registered freight
airline worldwide. Furthermore, in 2014

Lufthansa became the first airline within the
Lufthansa Group to be audited according
to the new Enhanced IOSA Standard,
which has been binding since September
2015. In 2016, the audit was repeated
without objection.
www.iata.org/iosa

Expansion of the medical product portfolio
The Lufthansa Group continuously expands
its medical product portfolio for passengers.
With the so-called Patient Transport Compartment (PTC), which Lufthansa’s Medical
Service developed jointly with Lufthansa
Technik (see page 65, Balance 2015),
Lufthansa offers a service that is unique
worldwide. This “airborne intensive care
unit” has been available since June 2015
on all long-haul flights taking off or landing
in Frankfurt or Munich. An additional way
for Lufthansa to assume responsibility for
its passengers is the “Doctor on Board”
program (see page 75, Balance 2014).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 71

Study on cabin air quality:
108 measurement flights
since April 2013
The Lufthansa Group has made an active
and conscientious commitment to researching the quality of cabin air and investigating
so-called smell events. Whether the latter
might be associated with health hazards
or occupational safety is being analyzed
intensively by the company in close cooperation with national and international authorities, associations, research institutes and
manufacturers. Between April 2013 and
May 2015 Lufthansa conducted a comprehensive study on the quality of cabin air in
cooperation with the Institute for Occupational Medicine at Hanover Medical School
(MHH). The analyses were performed with
a specially designed measuring kit, jointly
developed by Lufthansa Technik and MHH.
The intermediary analyses of measurement
data prove that the cabin air is of high
quality, comparable with indoor air on the
ground, such as in offices.
The researchers found neither indications of
increased levels of aldehyde nor of neurotoxic ortho-tricresyl phosphates (o-TCP).
This also applied to cases of documented
smell events on board and to the analysis
of engine oil. Furthermore, the concentrations measured always remained below
valid German and international maximum
values applicable to working environments.
200 substances are tested
The analyses comprised data collected on
a total of 108 short-haul and long-haul
flights, including 64 measuring flights with
11 Airbus A380 aircraft and 44 flights with
15 Airbus A321 aircraft.
The measuring kit allows the collection of
air samples. These are analyzed at a laboratory and tested for about 200 typical
indoor and hygiene parameters – including
carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, ozone,

C ab

in A

ua
ir Q

lity

Comprehensive study concerning the quality of cabin air: The analyses of about 200 substances
were carried out with a specialized measuring kit, developed jointly by Lufthansa Technik and the
Hanover Medical School.

more than 150 volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) as well as numerous types of aldehydes and organophosphates. In addition,
a so-called screening analysis is used to
identify unknown substances in the cabin air.
This scientific study underscores the high
priority that the Lufthansa Group gives to
the health of passengers and crew members. It is a unique commitment worldwide
and by far exceeds customary industry
standards.
The Lufthansa Group also participates in
the study “Cabin Air Quality” conducted by
EASA, the European Aviation Safety Agency,
and carried out further measuring flights in
this context in 2016.

Laboratory Services and
fire laboratory
The Lufthansa Group also maintains the
highest quality and safety standards concerning all fluids used in the operation
of aircraft systems. Guided by Lufthansa
Technik’s Laboratory Services division in
Frankfurt, fluids are continuously subjected
to chemical and physical laboratory
analyses. An equally important role is
assumed by the five screening laboratories
of Lufthansa Technik’s Central Materials
Technology in Hamburg, which acts as an
approved fire protection institution for the
aviation industry (see page 66, Balance
2015).

72 // Product Responsibility

Data protection and data security
Careful and secure handling of personal data is the basis for trusting business relationships. Protecting data shields the Lufthansa Group’s customers,
employees, shareholders, and suppliers from violation of their privacy rights
through improper use of sensitive personal data. The Lufthansa Group protects and secures data according to the highest standards.

The Corporate Data Protection department
ensures that Germany’s Federal Data Protection Act (FDPA) is applied across the
Lufthansa Group. It familiarizes employees
with the relevant legal provisions and conducts regular data protection audits. In
addition, the Group’s data protection
experts advise the departments when new
systems are introduced and procedures
are designed or modified. This allows for
the coordination of data protection and
business concerns at an early stage. The
all-important first step is to make employees and managers aware of the risks
related to data protection, so that they are
able to detect and avoid them. During the
reporting year, the emphasis of advice was
on using customer data in ways that conform to data protection standards.
Meanwhile, the conflict between German
data protection legislation and ever-more
frequent demands for passenger information from foreign authorities remains unresolved (see page 67, Balance 2015).

Mandatory guidelines
ensure data protection
The framework for secure data handling
within the Lufthansa Group is defined by its
Data Protection Guidelines. Based on laws
such as the FDPA and established principles of data protection, they spell out concrete obligations regarding compliance
with data protection laws. These guidelines
also define rules to ensure Group-wide
conduct that is compliant with data protection law, make risks related to data protection transparent, and safeguard against
such risks. Furthermore, these rules were
integrated into the Group guidelines for the
purposes of data protection in countries
outside the EU and requirements for handling data relating to orders.
Data protection is the responsibility of the
Executive Board and the management of
the respective Group company. They are
assisted in the discharge of this responsibility by the Corporate Data Protection department, headed by Dr. Barbara KirchbergLennartz. As in 2014, the Lufthansa Group
recorded no significant risks or sanctionable violations concerning the protection of
personal data in 2015. Moreover, data disclosure requests and customer feedbacks
were handled in a timely fashion as a rule.

Systematic training
Training and informational measures concerning data protection are aimed at familiarizing employees and managers with the
necessity of data protection, the key terms,
the organization of data protection within
the Lufthansa Group, and specific issues
concerning individual areas.
The Web-based training course “The fundamentals of data protection” is mandatory
for many Lufthansa employees. After signing an agreement to compliance with data
confidentiality, new hires and job changers
must complete this training within a short
time. Since September 2014, the ensuing
training certificates are valid for only three
years, as opposed to the previous five
years. In addition, the Group offers short
specialized trainings online for certain
target groups to intensify their knowledge
concerning sensitive issues and particularities in their work areas.
Furthermore, employees can obtain information on this subject at any time on Corporate Data Protection’s intranet pages.
The department also reports on current
data protection topics via a weekly
internal blog.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 73

The following legal changes concerning
data protection and data security occurred
in 2015/2016 and affect the Lufthansa
Group:
Safe Harbor Agreement and EU-US
Privacy Shield
In its judgment issued on October 6, 2015,
the European Court of Justice (ECJ) declared the Safe Harbor Agreement between
the EU and the USA to be invalid. The ECJ
held that the agreement, which was concluded in 2000 concerning the exchange
of personal data, would violate the right to
respect the private sphere and that personal data of EU citizens would not be sufficiently protected from access by US authorities. Until now, data transmissions to the
USA were only allowed when the US organization held a Safe Harbor Certificate or
specific contracts to ensure data protection
had been concluded. The verdict also
affects the Lufthansa Group: All contracts
concerning the storage and processing of
personal data with US service organizations
on the basis of the Safe Harbor Agreement
were renewed.

On February 2, 2016, the draft for a new
agreement “EU-US Privacy Shield” for the
data transfer between the EU and the USA
was presented. The negotiations concerning the further drafting have not yet been
concluded.
Law concerning the storage of passenger data
The introduction of a EU-wide regulation
for the transmission of Passenger Name
Record (PNR) data for flights outside the
European Union and optionally for flights
within the EU, to so-called Passenger Information Units in the 28 member states, was
accepted by the European Parliament on
April 14, 2016. These rules will come into
effect in two years at the latest. After passage at the EU level, the implementation
of the directive in the national law of the
member states is required. In numerous
EU countries, including Germany, the Passenger Information Units are currently
being set up. Some EU countries are
already in the process of defining their
requirements vis-à-vis the airlines. For the
airline industry, the exchange of passenger

data means increased complexity of reservations and check-in processes, and implies
additional costs for transmitting passenger
data, which the airlines have to pay.
Agreement concerning the new EU
General Data Protection Regulation
After negotiations lasting several years,
the European Parliament adopted the new
EU General Data Protection Regulation on
April 14, 2016. It is to replace the existing
EU Data Protection Directive, which has
been effective since 1995. Following a
two-year transition period, the new regulation will take effect on May 24, 2018. In this
way, standardized regulations will be created
in European data protection. They apply to
all companies that offer their output to EU
citizens. The implementation of the requirements related to the General Data Protection
Regulation means for the Lufthansa Group
the adaptation of the existing data protection
management system.

Careful and secure handling of personal data is the
basis for trusting business relationships.

Germanwings flight 4U9525:
Deepest sympathy and support
for the families
The year 2015 was marked by the greatest tragedy ever in the long history of the Lufthansa
Group: the crash involving Germanwings flight 4U9525 on March 24, 2015. The Lufthansa
Group’s employees as well as the members of the Executive and Supervisory Boards all share
the deepest sympathy for the families of the passengers and crew members. In dealing with this
catastrophe, the Lufthansa Group’s focus has been on those whose lives have been affected.
Easing their suffering and ensuring that such an accident never occurs again are of great
concern for the aviation group.

Long-term support for bereaved families

Aid fund set up

Immediately following the accident, the Lufthansa Group adopted numerous measures to improve flight safety (see page 70)
and to support the official investigations. Likewise, the Group
bundled all tasks related to dealing with the outcome of the
crash and to providing comprehensive care for the victims’
family members into a Post Emergency Organization (PEO). For
those bereaved families, this has resulted in a long-term offer of
psychological care and psychosocial support.

Lufthansa has set up an aid fund endowed with 15 million
euros to support projects, initiatives and suggestions from relatives and other affected groups in memory of the victims. In this
fund, Germanwings and Lufthansa have combined their voluntary and long-term commitment in the wake of the accident.

In addition, the Executive Board decided to extend the Lufthansa
Group’s commitment to the relatives of the passengers and crew
members as well as to other target groups beyond the measures
taken by the PEO and the scope of legal indemnification.

Compensation
It is of great concern for the Lufthansa Group to ease the
accident’s material effects on the families of the victims. For
this reason, Germanwings is actively working on a swift and fair
settlement of all warranted claims for damages. Germanwings
initially paid out 50,000 euros per passenger to the next of kin
as an advance on indemnification and will meet its responsibilities for compensation to their full extent. The families’
claims depend on varying legal systems according to origin
or place of residence of the victims and their relatives. In each
individual case, Germanwings will provide appropriate and
fair compensation.

A board of trustees decides independently and within the
framework of binding criteria on the fair and transparent allocation of funds as well as on the acceptance of aid proposals.
Eligible for aid are measures and initiatives in support of social
or cultural aims which commemorate at least one accident
victim, which show a clear link to the bereaved families, or
which otherwise support people or organizations affected by
the accident.
Five million euros, or a third of the total amount allocated to the
aid fund, has been designated for the special group of orphans
or half-orphans as voluntary support for school education, professional training or university studies. These benefits are to be
paid in addition to eventual (maintenance) claims. The board
of trustees is chaired by Edda Huther, former president of the
Bavarian Constitutional Court and the Higher Regional Court in
Munich. It further comprises three representatives of the families of victims and three representatives of Germanwings and
Lufthansa.

Memorial sites and events

Environmental restoration at the accident site

In addition to setting up financial support, the Lufthansa Group
has inaugurated memorial sites in various locations – near
the accident site in Le Vernet, in Barcelona, in Düsseldorf, at
Germanwings headquarters in Cologne and in Haltern. On the
occasion of the accident’s first anniversary on March 24, 2016,
the Lufthansa Group invited families on behalf of Germanwings
to a shared commemoration ceremony in Le Vernet.

Measures for the environmental restoration of the accident
site began on July 27, 2015 and ended on October 21, 2015
with the handing over of the site to the responsible prefecture.
The goal was to restore the site in the best possible way to
its original condition. To this end, an external environmental
impact assessment was carried out and soil samples from the
site were analyzed. Subsequently, a diverse range of measures
were taken in close cooperation with the local French environmental authorities to eliminate damage as well as kerosene
and oil residues. Environmental analyses will be continued over
the four years ahead to monitor any eventual changes in conditions at the site.

As a gesture of gratitude, Lufthansa and Germanwings also
invited the more than 1,200 French and German relief forces
and voluntary helpers to a friendly match between the French
and German national soccer teams on November 13, 2015
in Paris.
At a commemorative event in Barcelona, the support provided by the many Spanish helpers was acknowledged as well.
These included employees of Barcelona airport and handling
agents as well as representatives of local and national police
forces and emergency services. The Lufthansa Group
Executive Board and Germanwings management thanked
the Group’s employees at an event on September 4, 2015.

4
Social
Responsibility
Motivated, highly qualified employees
are decisive for the Company’s business success. As a socially responsible employer, we support our staff
with transparent structures and processes as well as an attractive work
environment.

78 // Social Responsibility

Strategy and management
The Lufthansa Group is currently traversing a period of profound transformation processes, which are based on internal and external factors. As a result,
the requirements on personnel management have also increased. To react
appropriately to the complex and multilayered framework of conditions and
to secure the Company’s competitiveness and attractiveness as an employer,
the HR experts of the Lufthansa Group count on suitable, precisely fitting and
interlocking HR instruments and measures.

To meet its role as an internationally successful service group in the future as well,
the Lufthansa Group restructured its alignment during the reporting year and started
the introduction of a matrix organization.
The latter allows the Group to be steered
with even stronger functional emphasis,
and the individual business segments to be
more closely interlinked. While the aviation
group’s personnel functions accompany
this process as active sparring partners,
they also advance the harmonization of the
HR programs that have been implemented
Group-wide.

Culture and Leadership
The field of action “Culture and Leadership” of the strategic program “7to1 – Our
Way Forward”, which has been an area of
emphasis since the program’s implementation in July 2014, serves the HR experts of
the Lufthansa Group as a widely visible way
marker. The focus on “Culture and Leadership” acknowledges the fact that in an
increasingly volatile environment, highly

qualified and committed employees who
capture our customers’ imagination are
indispensable for the long-term business
success of the Lufthansa Group.
It is not by chance that the Group promotes
a modern feedback-oriented leadership
culture, which identifies problems openly
and thus prepares the path on which
managers and employees can together
develop future-oriented solutions (see page
72, Balance 2015). The measurable
expression of this cultural change is the
new ratio “Engagement Index”, introduced
in 2016, which is essential to enable suitable responses to be given to external and
internal variables of influence (see page 90,
More transparency and dialogue: First
Group-wide standardized employee survey).
To accelerate the necessary transformation
process, the Lufthansa Group has combined a bundle of effective measures in the
field of action “Culture and Leadership”.
They are making an increasing impact and
will therefore be continued in a consistent
manner in the years ahead. For example,
this includes the five “Leadership Princi-

ples”, which ensure that managers guide
their employees Group-wide according to
the same principles. To anchor the new
guideline even more profoundly in the
organization, the Group has supported its
managers since the beginning of 2014 with
the modern tool “eProfile”. Since the end of
2015 it has been used Group-wide in a
standardized form and is characterized by
a high degree of transparency. It serves
managers as the central platform for quantitative and qualitative evaluation of employees’ performance. At the same time,
“eProfile” also promotes the culture of
dialogue within the Lufthansa Group.
The Lufthansa Group knows the value
of personnel diversity at the management
level. To further strengthen diversity,
with support from the project Diversity@
LHGroup, which was launched during the
reporting year, there will be significantly
more mixed management teams in the
future. In addition, the Group is working on
substantially increasing the attractiveness
of management positions for women. A
similar direction of evolution is pursued
with the new process for posting vacancies,

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 79

A view of the office world at the Lufthansa Aviation Center at Frankfurt Airport.

filling positions and managing performance,
which was reorganized Group-wide to
become standardized and transparent,
and now takes diversity criteria into consideration automatically. Greater diversity in
supervisory positions is also ensured by the
rotation principle introduced in 2015, which
limits management nominations to five
years (see page 82, Diversity and equal
opportunities).
Another important pillar of the Lufthansa
Group’s HR strategy is the project “Spirit”.
Its focus is on tailor-made continuing education offers at the Lufthansa School of
Business (LHSB), which promote lifelong
learning and give employees the tools to
meet the challenges of the modern working
world successfully. Important impulses are
also contributed by the Group talent
management philosophy, which was introduced in 2014 and whose nine core messages follow the guiding principle “Every
employee has talent!” (see page 91).

Modernization of the
working environments
The professional landscape of the future is
global, digital and networked. The changes
are fundamental and hold both opportunities and risks. To adapt these conditions
optimally for employees and fit the HR
processes optimally to these developments, the Lufthansa Group is now increasing its focus on the field of action “Modernization of the working environments”. This
includes, among other steps, the optimization of HR management – for example with
measures that increase both effectiveness
and efficiency while reducing costs.
The Lufthansa Group opens up further
possibilities by reassessing development
paths and proven programs for promoting
junior employees, adapting and realigning
these if needed. Furthermore, modern work
environment models such as “New Work-

space” at the Frankfurt location favor an
autonomous and trust-based work culture.
These measures make a significant contribution to securing the Group’s future
viability and ability to create value over the
long-term – just as an up-to-date healthcare management, and a concept for an
equilibrated work-life balance oriented by
employees’ needs.
The cover story “Changing working environment”, which precedes this report, offers
an overview of changes in the professional
world (see page 6).

Women in the Lufthansa Group
Total workforce

Executives

15 %
45 %

85 %
Target: 30% increase in the percentage
of women in management positions by
2020 (as compared to 2010).

55 %

30 %
Diversity
Management

Group
The Lufthansa
sity
er
iv
D
e
th
ed
sign
–
14
Charter in 20
urco
en
to
e
an initiativ
in
ity
rs
ve
age di
companies.

Supervisory Board
German legal quota of 30 % female
representation achieved.

40 %
Group Executive Board
Highest proportion of women
in the DAX 30 comparison:
women make up 40 % of the
Group Executive Board.

Pilots

417

6%

More than 500 female pilots flying today
for an airline within Lufthansa Group. The
number of female captains increased by
83 % between 2005 and 2015.

First officers

114

94 %

Female captains

Cockpit

Cabin

21,804

19 %

Female flight
attendants and pursers /
maîtres de cabine

81 %
Which Group airline has the
highest number of female pilots?

8%

Female captains

13 %

First officers
Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group

82 // Social Responsibility

Diversity and equal opportunities
Managing diversity means more than cultivating one’s image: Studies prove
again and again that a highly diversified personnel is an advantage for
companies. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group established systematic diversity
management some years ago to make the Group’s business goals as compatible as possible with the interests of its employees and the concerns of
society as a whole.

“For quite some time, the Lufthansa Group has
worked on concepts that take the diversity within
the Company even more into account. This includes the new project Diversity@LHGroup, which
increases the focus on managers. Particular
emphasis is being placed on
increasing the share of women in
management positions.”
Juliane Grauer
Manager Equal Opportunity
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

With the goal of continuously boosting its
innovative capacity and competitiveness,
the Lufthansa Group works to increase
diversity in its management. The basis for
this approach is the aviation group’s diversity-oriented personnel policy. The Company trusts in actively integrating the different dimensions of diversity and showing
the same appreciation for all its employees
– independent of gender, nationality, origin,
religion, world view, disability, age, sexual
orientation or identity.
Likewise, the Lufthansa Group’s philosophy
of talent management takes into account
both the wish for diversity among its employees and the aspiration to give its
employees and managers the means to
create a balance between work and private
life (see page 83, Balance 2015). To
underscore this, the Lufthansa Group
signed Germany’s “Diversity Charter”, a
countrywide initiative to promote diversity
in companies and institutions, in 2014.

Diversity in management
The Lufthansa Group places great emphasis on integrating a broad range of views
and experiences and on taking best advantage of the performance potential represented by its employees and managers.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 83

Welcome diversity!
A multitude of perspectives enhances the
competitiveness of the business. And sometimes it is
not the familiar way that leads to the best results.

One important concern is to strengthen
the Company further by means of mixed
management teams and increased staff diversity at the management level, especially
by making managerial positions more
attractive for women.

New project
Diversity@LHGroup
For this purpose the Group launched the
strategic project Diversity@LHGroup in
2015. Against the backdrop of current
social developments and megatrends,
its task is to develop Group-wide solutions
in the target areas of gender balance in
management, internationality and age
structures. A broad scope of measures
and programs have either been adopted
or already implemented during the
reporting year.
Following the principle that managing can
be divided, the Lufthansa Group offers
programs for managers, such as “Managing Part-time” and “Shared Leadership”.

In the interest of increased job rotation, the
Group limits management positions to five
years and permits sabbaticals to better
accommodate the life situations of modern
managers. Furthermore, the project Diversity@LHGroup reassesses established
career models and the working conditions
in management with a view to increasing
the share of women in management
positions. The Group has seen noticeable
success in this area since it introduced the
long-established transparent job posting
process for non-managerial staff for
management positions as well and began
applying diversity criteria when filling such
vacancies.
The Lufthansa Group supports and accompanies younger female managers in their
professional advancement with a crosscompany mentoring program. The internal
program “Go ahead” also addresses
women aiming at a management-level
position (see page 77, Balance 2015).

Women in management
positions
That the Lufthansa Group is on the right path
with its strategy is illustrated by its coming in
second in the “Women-on-Board Index
100 II” 2015 (WoB), which the nonpartisan
initiative Women on Boards publishes on
behalf of Germany’s Federal Ministry for
Family Affairs. The WoB 100 II is calculated
by the percentage share of women in supervisory board and management board positions in relationship to the total number of
members on these two boards.
At the Lufthansa Group, two of five members of the Executive Board are already
female, which corresponds to a share
of 40 percent. The Group also met the
women’s quota of 30 percent passed by
Germany’s parliament in 2015 for supervisory board positions of companies listed
on the stock exchange and applying
codetermination, even before it came
into effect on January 1, 2016.
On May 1, 2015, the “Gesetz für die gleichberechtigte Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an Führungspositionen in der Privatwirtschaft und im öffentlichen Dienst” (“Law

Part-time employment

Average age
Female employees  

Lufthansa Group, in percent
Male employees   Total

50

Lufthansa Group, in years
Male employees   Total

Female employees  
45

40

30

40

20

10

35
42.6
25.7
13.7

43.8
26.8
14.3

42.7
26.5
14.0

42.7
26.9
14.0

43.9
26.9
13.6

44.2
27.1
13.3

45.3
27.9
13.7

45.6
28.1
14.1

45.0
28.0
14.3

45.7
28.8
14.9

41.3
40.2
38.9

41.4
40.3
39.0

41.5
40.4
39.1

41.5
40.3
39.0

41.8
40.7
39.5

41.9
40.8
39.6

42.4
41.3
40.2

42.7
41.9
40.9

43.1
42.3
41.3

43.3
42.3
41.3

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Part-time work by Group companies

Age structure at the Lufthansa Group
2015, in percent

Passenger Airline Group

2015, in percent
60 and older

47
20

Logistics
9

MRO

8.6
16.2

50 – 54
14

Catering

4.0

55 – 59

17.7

45 – 49
23

Service & Finance

28.8

Total

13.7

40 – 44

13.9

35 – 39

11.6

30 – 34
9.2

25 – 29
4.2

20 – 24
18 – 19
15 – 17

Share of women in management positions

0.6
0.1

Share of women with staff responsibility

Lufthansa Group, in percent

Lufthansa Group, in percent

20

50

15

40

10

30

5

20
12.9

15.0

14.6

14.7

13.1

13.6

13.6

14.5

14.2

14.9

34.7

35.8

38.0

41.5

36.8

35.5

34.5

34.1

35.1

33.9

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 85

To persuade more women to choose a career in the cockpit, five highly publicized Lufthansa Group long-haul flights
took off for New York with all female crews on March 8, 2016 to mark International Women’s Day.

for the equal participation of men and women
in management positions in the private
sector and in government service”) took
effect. Against this background, the companies of the Lufthansa Group decided to
jointly increase the share of women on the
first management level from 9.6 percent
(on June 30, 2015) to at least 10.5 percent
by December 31, 2016 – while taking into
account the respective frameworks of
conditions. On the second management
level the share of women is to rise from
15.9 percent to at least 17.9 percent. In
this way, the aviation group is set to reach
the goals resulting from the DAX30 companies’ self-imposed commitment ahead
of schedule. Among other measures, the
share of women in management positions
is to increase by at least 30 percent by
2020 (base year: 2010).

Same pay for same
performance
At the Lufthansa Group, equal opportunity
also includes remuneration. Collective labor
agreements in areas with binding collective
pay agreements have ensured since the
1970s that men and women receive the
same salary for the same work. An exception
is the area outside of collective agreements;
here salaries are negotiated individually by
strictly applying the criteria of experience,
task relevancy and the measure of responsibility for employees (see page 78, Balance
2015). Thanks to a new labor agreement,
Lufthansa employees paid outside of collective agreements have had the option since
2016 to turn their “performance-oriented
variable remuneration” into time off.

Women in the cockpit
While men continue to form the majority of
pilots at the Lufthansa Group, female captains have long since become a familiar
sight. Currently, the Company employs
more than 530 female pilots and has thus
increased its share of women in this area to
around 6 percent. At the regional subsidiary Lufthansa CityLine, the share of female
first officers is even 13 percent. To persuade
more women to choose a career in the
cockpit, five highly publicized Lufthansa
Group long-haul flights took off for New
York with all female crews on March 8,
2016 to mark International Women’s Day.

86 // Social Responsibility

In 2015, the Lufthansa Group expanded the “Luftikusse” program. This full-day internal summer vacation
childcare offer for employee children gives varied insights into the Group’s world.

Work and family in
harmony
To the extent that society has changed, the
classic concept of family has also lost in
terms of dominance. The Lufthansa Group
accommodates this development by
means of a family-friendly corporate culture, which facilitates the compatibility of
work and private life and thus increases
the Group’s attractiveness in competing
for more than just young professionals.
One adjusting lever is the implementation
of innovative work concepts, such as “New
Workspace”: The latter offers employees
at the Lufthansa Aviation Center (LAC) in
Frankfurt more flexibility and drives “Mobile

Office” and “Home Office” solutions (see
page 6, Changing working environment).
In addition, employees benefit from
“breathing” work time options, which take
into account changing needs in different
phases of life. A better work-life balance is
also supported by comprehensive offers
for child care and vacation care, which the
aviation group offers through pme Familienservice. Furthermore, Lufthansa employees who need a child-care solution at short
notice or for a short period of time have
had two additional parent-child offices
available in Frankfurt since 2015.
And to ensure that parents do not have to
be without reliable child care during school

vacations, the Company extended its established internal summer school vacation
care program “Luftikusse” to its Munich
location for the first time during the
reporting year.
Given current demographic changes, the
importance of family care is growing. The
Lufthansa Group meets this challenge with
comprehensive information on the intranet
for affected employees, the placement of
nursing staff through pme Familienservice
and access for Lufthansa employees to the
Internet pages of Deutscher Pflegering
(German Care Association). In addition, the
Company signed the “Charter for compatibility between work and care in Hesse”
during the reporting year.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 87

Fathers discuss their
role with other fathers
To support men in their newly-defined father
role, the Lufthansa Group cooperates with
Väter gGmbH (“Fathers Inc.”) at its locations in Frankfurt and Hamburg. At the
initiative of the Group’s Manager for Equal
Opportunity, interested fathers met in
Frankfurt for the first time on June 15, 2015
to exchange ideas with the focus on parttime work and flexibility in everyday
management and working situations.

During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group opened two further parent-child
offices at its Frankfurt location, which employees may use when they face childcare bottlenecks.

Awaken girls’ passion
for technology
Dissolving the notion that certain professions are gender-specific: That is the goal
of Girls’ Day and Boys’ Day, in which
numerous Lufthansa Group companies
again participated in 2015. In October
2015, Lufthansa Technik and Lufthansa
Technical Training also offered a group of
10th-grade girls at a Hamburg school the
opportunity to build their own glider under
professional supervision as part of the
“mint:pink” project.

Lufthansa Technik would like to inspire even more women to choose a technical career.

88 // Social Responsibility

Employment policy based on partnership
The Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, enthusiasm
and commitment of its employees. Therefore, the aviation company attaches
the greatest importance to providing its employees with an attractive work
environment and appropriate salaries. Likewise, it is an established tradition
always to balance the economic interests of the Company with the expectations
and needs of its employees.

It is tried-and-tested Company policy to
settle clashes of interests between Company management and the bodies representing employees in a transparent manner. A fair approach to coexistence in all
areas creates the balance needed to
advance the Lufthansa Group’s position in
the market. The growing plurality of opinions and opinion leaderships, much like
developments in society as a whole, is
increasingly a challenge for all parties
concerned. The guiding principles for joint
efforts are flexibility and responsiveness.

Partnership in
collective agreements
The Lufthansa Group employs its staff
under conditions that guarantee them
social and material security not only
during but also after their working years.
These are established on the basis of
collective agreements that the Company
negotiates with its union partners Vereinte
Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), and Unabhängige
Flugbegleiter Organisation e.V. (UFO). The

goal is to treat all employee groups within
the Company fairly and justly – a desideratum that the multiplicity of unions within
the Company presents with an array of
increasingly challenging conditions.
You can find the latest information on the
ongoing collective bargaining negotiations
at www.lufthansagroup.com/media

Active pay and social
policy abroad
Internationalization and globalization offer
a broad range of opportunities for the
Group’s business and personnel processes. As a company with international operations, Lufthansa’s pay and social policies
are guided by conditions in the various
countries. The focus is on the long-term
definition of the conditions of employment,
which depend on the needs of the employees, operational requirements, and the
local labor market – with the inclusion of
compensation rules, working conditions,
and pension schemes. Lufthansa defines
these agreements in cooperation with
internal labor committees and employees.

The Company is a party to collective wage
bargaining with employees in about 25
countries. In all countries where Lufthansa
acts unilaterally, the Company uses benchmarks and macroeconomic data such as
inflation figures to review salaries usually
once a year on the basis of market and
competitiveness criteria. In countries with
very high rates of inflation, this assessment
is performed more often, given the circumstances, and usually leads to pay increases.
In this way the Lufthansa Group offers
continual review and adjustment of working
conditions for its locally employed staff. As
a signatory to the UN Global Compact,
Lufthansa has documented its support for
freedom of association and the right to
collective bargaining for all of its employees
worldwide (see page 27). Employees in
any country where Lufthansa companies
are active are free to lawfully organize
themselves and become involved in defining their working conditions.

Lufthansa Group: Distribution of employees
Employees as of December 31, 2015
2015

2014

change

120,652

118,781

+ 1.6 %

55,255

54,960

+ 0.5 %

4,607

4,663

– 1.2 %

of which MRO

20,661

20,079

+ 2.9 %

of which Catering

34,310

32,843

+ 4.5 %

5,819

6,236

– 6.7 %

Group employees

New approach to Company pension scheme
There has been an attractive Company
pension scheme for Lufthansa employees
since 1994. The aviation group attaches
great importance to rewarding the performance of its employees in this additional
way. In order to respond to the developments of the capital markets as well as the
consequences of demographic change,
the Company terminated the bargaining
agreement with employees regarding the
Company pension plan in September 2013.
The goal is to agree with the collective
bargaining partners on modern, marketoriented retirement benefits that sustainably
secure the Company’s competitiveness.
All pension entitlements previously earned
under the Company pension scheme are
secured and remain unchanged in any
case. The Company’s management has
proposed a new Company pension
scheme by which Lufthansa would pay
amounts into an individual capital account
for each employee (defined contribution
system) and invest these funds on the
capital market. Under this new system, the
amount of the pension payments would be
based on actual investment performance
rather than on guaranteed pension levels
(defined benefit system). In this system, the
amount of pension paid out would depend
on the return on capital achieved, among
other factors. In addition, all employees
would have the option of increasing the
level of their Company pension by adding
private funds.
Collective pay agreement with ver.di in
Germany concluded
At the end of November 2015, the Lufthansa
Group and Vereinigte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (ver.di) agreed to an increase of remuneration and a fundamentally reformed bargaining agreement concerning the Company
retirement scheme in the context of an overall
package for the roughly 30,000 ground
employees in Germany at the companies
Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo, Lufthansa
Technik and LSG Sky Chefs. The bargaining
agreement provides for leaving the defined
benefit system over the long-term.

of which Passenger Airline Group
of which Logistics

of which Others

Lufthansa Group: Jobs throughout the world
Employees as of December 31, 2015
Frankfurt

36,907
9,219

Hamburg

11,015

Munich
Cologne

2,165

Berlin

1,045
6,569

Rest of Germany

66,920

Total of Germany
23,184

Rest of Europe
5,305

thereof Vienna

7,900

thereof Zurich
Africa / Middle East
North / Central
America
South America

2,121
16,792
3,756
7,879

Asia / Pacific

120,652

Group total

Lufthansa Group:
Number of employees by professional group and gender
Employees as of December 31, 2015, in percent
Female employees
Male employees
Female
54,408
Male
66,244

45.1
54.9

Apprentices
1,154

24.9
75.1
38.1

Ground 1
83,415

61.9
61.8

Flight 2
36,083
Cockpit
9,026

38.2
5.6

Cabin
27,057
1 Without apprentices
2 Consists of cockpit and cabin

94.4
80.6
19.4

90 // Social Responsibility

More transparency and
dialogue: First Groupwide standardized
employee survey
For many years, employee surveys have
been an important instrument for the
Lufthansa Group to capture the mood
among employees, identify action areas
and introduce necessary changes early
on. Under the name “involve me!” the first
Group-wide standardized employee survey
took place in 2015 (see page 82, Balance
2015). The new procedure is an important
step on the path towards a transparent,
Group-wide dialogue and allows a direct
comparison of results as well as coordinated measures across business segments.
From a total of 72,000 employees in 17
companies, 52 percent seized the opportunity to participate in the survey and communicate their personal impressions anonymously.
At the core of the survey were ten topic areas
reflecting the Group’s strategic agenda “7to1
– Our Way Forward” – including strategy
and corporate management, the Company as employer, customer orientation,
information and communication, working
conditions as well as innovation and change.
One important insight from “involve me!”
was that employees place an emphasis on
further developing and improving the error
and feedback culture.

New ratio “Engagement Index”
The Executive Board took the opportunity
of the publication of the survey results to
announce the introduction of the new ratio
“Engagement Index” in the course of 2016.
It consists of three components and reflects
the fact that the success of the Lufthansa
Group with its international activities
depends to a very significant degree on
committed and motivated staff. The “Engagement Index” will be calculated regularly in the future and communicated to top
management. Furthermore, a pilot project
is planned in which employees can rate
measures that may strengthen the “Engagement Index”. In this way, management
has the opportunity to adapt measures
independently of an “involve me!” survey.
With regard to the new “Engagement Index”
the Lufthansa Group achieved an average
of 2.3, which was marginally worse than
the external comparison value of 2.2. The
latter is based on responses to a companyneutral version of the “involve me!” questionnaire by 4,000 external employees in
Germany and abroad. A similar picture was
generated for the topic “connection with
the company”: Here, the Lufthansa Group
achieved an average of 2.4 (comparison
value: 2.2). The most important results of
the employee survey have been published
on the intranet. In the future, “involve me!”
will take place every two years and will be
complemented by annual short surveys.

Program for professional
reorientation
In 2013, the Lufthansa Group set up the
COMPASS program. It addresses employees and managers whose jobs are threatened, who seek new professional challenges within or outside the Group or who
would like to become self-employed.
COMPASS thus makes an important contribution to shaping staff adaptation processes in socially compatible ways.
Since the program’s launch, more than
1,500 employees and over 150 managers
have already used its confidential career
counseling services. COMPASS consists
of various service modules, including comprehensive counseling concerning professional reorientations, active accompaniment
by counselors throughout the application
process as well as a Company-related job
exchange. Since the beginning of 2015,
the job exchange has offered even more
up-to-date job listings from more than 50
partner companies (see page 82, Balance
2015).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 91

Talent management
Qualified and committed employees are fundamental for the Company’s
success and its ability to innovate. Talent management is an important field of
action within the Lufthansa Group’s HR function and a substantial part of its
value-based entrepreneurial policy.

Changes within society and the Company
demand a rethinking and reimagining of
many processes and instruments within the
HR function. In this context, the topic of
talent management plays a significant role.
To enable the implementation of a comprehensive talent management approach, the
Lufthansa Group developed an inclusive
talent management philosophy in 2014
(see page 83, Balance 2015). It comprises
nine key messages and creates a uniform
understanding of talent management
across the entire Group under the guiding
principle “Every employee has talent!” In
this context, it is an important task of talent
management to accompany and advance
these changes by providing new and innovative concepts. For example, an important
foundation was laid by introducing a transparent process for filling vacancies at the

upper management level. Initial successes
have already emerged: successful candidates are increasingly coming from other
Group companies or unrelated job families.
Thus, the process of filling vacancies makes
an important contribution to promoting
the exchange of employees within the
Lufthansa Group.
A significant element of HR strategy and
thus also of talent management are the
Leadership Principles, which were introduced in 2014 (see page 73, Balance
2015). These five guiding principles anchor
the understanding of leadership that is
applied as a guideline for all employees.
For example, this leadership guideline is
focused through the aspect of “fostering
talent” on the role of managers as first
developers of personnel and talent(s).

Every employee has talent!
All employees are encouraged to enrich their working environment by using their different talents.
The scope of Talent Management at Lufthansa includes all employees.

With the introduction of the performance
management system “Profile”, it became
possible for the first time to link an
employee’s target agreement and talent
assessment in one standardized Groupwide approach. This process is now being
rolled out step by step for all Lufthansa
Group employees in administrative functions. At the same time, the introduction of
a standardized IT system supporting performance and talent management offers the
opportunity to identify and develop talents
across all Lufthansa companies – entirely in
the spirit of the talent management philosophy “share and benefit”.
A further area of emphasis in the Lufthansa
Group’s talent management is the introduction of Strategic Personnel Planning (SPP),
which was launched in 2014. It already
provides important information for securing
the medium- and long-term personnel
resources needed for implementing the
Group’s and business segments’ strategies. SPP’s task is to make the development of existing staff and future staff requirements transparent. Differentiated by
job families, risk concerning capacities,
age structures and qualifications can be
identified and specified early on. This data
serves as a basis on which to develop HR
and talent management measures that
support the strategic steering of personnel
resources. In this way, SPP has a central
bridge function between corporate and
personnel strategy, and provides an important decision-making foundation for deriving
concrete HR programs and measures.

92 // Social Responsibility

Health management and occupational safety
The Lufthansa Group’s comprehensive employee health and safety protection aims at promoting and maintaining its employees’ individual performance and motivation. In 2015, the aviation group’s Medical Service
restructured the Group health management and advanced the interlinking
between health management and job safety managers.

The demands placed on a comprehensive
health management system are diverse
and vary between subsidiaries of the
Lufthansa Group. The focus is on tailormade offers and programs that strengthen
prevention and maintain the employees’
long-term health. This applies not only to
administrative jobs, but also to those in
production areas and flight operations.
A supervisory position in the Lufthansa
Group’s job safety and health protection
concept is assumed by the department
Group Health Management/Medical
Services as an instrument of social care
for employees. Its occupational, aviation
and travel physicians are the first point
of contact for all of the employees’ health
concerns. This function, whose quality
management was successfully recertified in
April 2015 according to DIN EN ISO 9001,
has been headed since September 1, 2014
by Dr. Lothar Zell.

Comprehensive
competency center
Upon the completion of its strategic realignment in 2015, the Medical Service has
positioned itself as a comprehensive competency center for the Group’s health
management. In this role, it complements
the activities specific to individual business
segments with initiatives that extend to the
entire Lufthansa Group. In addition, it promotes networking and exchanges between
health and job safety managers at the
individual Group companies.
In the reporting year, the Group’s Health
Management placed its emphasis on the
follow-up and psychosocial care for people
affected by Germanwings flight 4U9525.
These programs will be continued intensively over the years ahead.
Furthermore, in 2015 the health management experts were concerned with the topic
of cabin air quality (see page 71, Flight
safety and health protection) and pollutant
levels in the air, among other issues. In
December 2015, the highest level of smog
alarm applied in Peking, for instance. The
Lufthansa Group took this as a cue to
implement effective measures to optimally

protect the health of its crews during layovers as well as that of its employees.
During the reporting year, the employees of
the Lufthansa Group’s subsidiaries again
benefited from numerous offers in the
context of corporate health management.
These were available at different Company
locations and addressed topics such as
healthy skin, flu protection, wellness and
relaxation as well as back-saving working
techniques. All initiatives are designed to
strengthen the employees’ own initiative.

Health index
As a result of the employee survey “involve
me!” (see page 90, More transparency and
dialogue: First Group-wide standardized
employee survey) the Lufthansa Group
established a health index for the first time.
It aims at measuring health and comprehensive well-being across the Group and
identifying fields of action for optimization
measures. The health index is based on
questions that are addressed to all employees as well as those that take into consideration the work requirements at individual
subsidiaries.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 93

Psychosocial counseling
In 2015, the Lufthansa Group restructured
its social counseling services in Germany
as a holistic competence center for psychosocial health under the new umbrella
organization of “Psychosocial Counseling”.
Available as a voluntary benefit from the
aviation group, the experts of Psychosocial
Counseling support employees and managers facing problems at the place of work,
in crisis and conflict situations as well as in
difficult private, financial or family circumstances. This broad scope of services is
offered at many locations in Germany. In
2015, the department organized 168 workshops, trainings and information events. In
March 2015, the department received the
Soul@Work Award in the category “Corporate groups” for its health-oriented and
psychosocial accompaniment of change
processes and the burdens they entail.
In addition, Stiftung Gesundheitsförderung
Schweiz (Foundation for Health Promotion
Switzerland) awarded the label Friendly
Work Space® to the corporate health
management of Swiss (see cover page,
Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards
and indices).

Occupational safety
Pursuing safe, health-oriented working
conditions is firmly anchored in the
Group’s guidelines. Successful occupational safety in the sense of sustainable,
responsible business practices is understood by the Lufthansa Group as a continuous process of improvement, aimed at
promoting health and reducing risks and
hazards. To fulfill this philosophy of life
within the Company, specific guidelines
for job safety have been defined.

Dr. Lothar Zell, Head of Group Health Management/Medical Services, and Volker Schierle,
Head of Group Occupational Safety, provided information concerning the protective
measures for crews and local employees that the Lufthansa Group implemented in response
to the highest level of smog alert in December 2015 in Peking.

Preventive measures to avoid accidents,
adverse effects on health and occupational
illnesses are consistently implemented
within the Lufthansa Group. As a rule, the
effects of new or improved products, production processes or hazardous materials
are assessed in advance. This also applies
to new services, planned work sites and
operational equipment. The maxim is to
always use new technologies and materials
to improve employees’ health and protection.
Risk assessments are regularly carried out
to check all activities and work situations
within the Company. Existing risks are
evaluated and measures to minimize them
are determined. Regular safety walkabouts
and the exchange of information involving
all parties concerned ensure the effectiveness of protective measures.

Technical facilities and the equipment in
buildings and workplaces are kept up-todate, and job safety experts and occupational physicians are consulted in the context of changes and new work sequences.
Emergency management plans have been
drawn up in the companies of the Lufthansa
Group and regular exercises help to identify
weak areas. Emergency representatives
and employees trained in first aid are present in all work areas.
The employees’ individual responsibility is
strengthened by recommendations for
ergonomically sensible ways of working
and a health-oriented lifestyle. Programs to
promote health are offered in work environments that are particularly burdensome.

5
Corporate
Citizenship
The Lufthansa Group represents
responsible mobility, networking and
worldwide connections. The emphasis of our corporate citizenship is on
social and humanitarian projects.

96 // Corporate Citizenship

Lufthansa Group Social Care
As a global player, the Lufthansa Group has been emphatically committed
to social concerns for many years. All its corporate citizenship activities aim
at giving help to less privileged people and to make a difference in society
in a direct way. In 2015, the aviation group further focused its activities and
bundled them under the umbrella of “Lufthansa Group Social Care”.

Focal point: Social and humanitarian
commitment
The social and humanitarian activities are
the focal point of the Lufthansa Group’s
commitment in the area of corporate citizenship and are to be further expanded in the
future. This is evidenced by numerous longterm aid projects and initiatives that are due
to the personal dedication of employees and
enjoy the support of Group management.
During the reporting year, aid projects giving
support to refugees made up the largest
part of corporate citizenship activities.
The Lufthansa Group’s social commitment
is complemented by selected activities in

the areas of culture, sports and environment. These are also to generate a benefit
for social concerns, by means of charitable
concerts, for example (see page 105).

network of renowned aid organizations.
This cooperation gives aid organizations
direct access to Lufthansa Cargo’s logistics
competence for foreign deployments.

Beyond that, an established part of the
aviation group’s corporate citizenship concept is swift and professional emergency
aid in the event of humanitarian crises and
catastrophes. The graphic illustration “Swift
aid from the air” in this report (see page
97) explains clearly the numerous processes that are set in motion and optimally
coordinated to prepare and operate aid
flights. Since February 2013, Lufthansa
Cargo has been a partner in a professional

Employee commitment
It is important for the Lufthansa Group to
create a framework of conditions that
enables an even more focused promotion
of social commitment on the part of employees and managers. The systematic expansion of corporate volunteering takes into
account that today’s talents seek not just a
job, but rather a professional setting in
which they can combine personal involvement and future-oriented action. The Group
supports this approach and has expanded
the Group-wide trainee program “ProTeam”
with a four-week internship at a social
business abroad. The “Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp 2015” also gave Lufthansa
Group employees an opportunity during
the reporting year to combine entrepreneurial initiatives and social commitment.
Established in 2014, it aims at motivating
young people to set up their own business
and thus refute the commonly held view in
Haiti that success is a question of background.

The “Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp 2015” gave Lufthansa Group employees an
opportunity to combine an entrepreneurial initiative with social commitment.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 97

Humanitarian emergency aid
For many years, the Lufthansa Group has placed its logistical resources in the
service of emergency humanitarian aid. The goal is to transport relief supplies
in an uncomplicated and efficient manner whenever they are needed to provide emergency assistance to people in disaster areas – be it in the wake of
earthquakes, flooding, typhoons, droughts or epidemics.

Taking its cue from the expanding need,
the Lufthansa Group has continuously
increased its humanitarian commitment
over the past years. Since February 2013,
Lufthansa Cargo has strongly assisted the
emergency aid alliance “Aktion Deutschland Hilft” and its strategic partner “World
Vision Deutschland”. The stated goal of this
partnership is to provide the 24 renowned
German aid organizations joined together

by this emergency alliance with direct
access to Lufthansa Cargo’s logistical
infrastructure.
#CSRhumanitär
In the frame of its cooperation with “Aktion
Deutschland Hilft” the Lufthansa Group is
also committed to supporting #CSRhumanitär. Launched by Germany’s Federal Foreign Office, this initiative sees itself as part

of the global dialogue related to the UN’s
World Humanitarian Summit. #CSRhumanitär
is set up as a forum to allow regular, professional exchanges between companies and
aid organizations. A key focus is on the
questions regarding the potentials and
boundaries of cooperative partnership. A
further concern is to jointly develop innovative concepts for need-oriented and
principled humanitarian action.

Swift aid from the air for refugees: In 2015, the German Red Cross and Lufthansa Cargo
flew more than 15,000 camp beds from North America to Germany.

Swift aid from the air
When people somewhere around the world are plunged into an emergency situation following a
natural disaster, immediate aid by means of air freight is called for. This is when the cooperation
between Lufthansa Cargo and the emergency aid alliance Aktion Deutschland Hilft (ADH) steps
in. The graphic below shows exactly how this works.

1

2

Preplanning

Preparation of flight and handling

Lufthansa Cargo and ADH evaluate if aid
flights are possible. ADH assesses the needs
for aid materials in the disaster area: defini­
tion of destination, time, type and quantity
of aid supplies needed, volume, weight.
Lufthansa Cargo determines if a scheduled
or a charter flight will be operated.

Lufthansa Cargo’s network control in
Frankfurt plans the aid flight with regard to
crew availability, crew safety, clarification
of landing and overflight rights, routing,
fueling stops, handling. Depending on local
conditions, additional technicians and loadmasters are made available (including travel
arrangements). ADH carries out detailed
coordination of packing lists.

3
“Go!” for all players
Lufthansa Cargo has coordinated all agreements with delivering and collecting aid
organizations and publishes the flight number.
ADH begins the transport of aid supplies.

4
Freight delivery and loading
ADH ensures delivery of aid supplies to
the Lufthansa Cargo Center in Frankfurt,
following agreed logistical standards:
presorting and checking of packages, security check, loading on pallets in conformity
with air cargo requirements. The next step
is loading the aircraft. The MD­11F is then
ready for takeoff.

5
Flight routing
Depending on the distance to the disaster
area, this may include a refueling stop and
a crew change.

6
Landing in the disaster area
ADH takes delivery of the aid supplies and
organizes their distribution by land.

7
Resumption of scheduled services
The MD­11F’s mission is completed.
The aircraft leaves the disaster area and
resumes its regular flight operations.

At a glance
The Lufthansa Group’s
humanitarian emergency aid
Refugee aid (2015)
Earthquake, Nepal (2015)
Ebola crisis, western Africa (2014)
Typhoon, Philippines (2013)
Earthquake and tsunami, Japan
(2011)
Famine, Eastern Africa (2011)
Earthquake, Haiti (2010)
Earthquake, Pakistan (2005)
Tsunami, southeast Asia (2004)

MD-11F freight capacities
90 tonnes of aid supplies max.
lower deck: freight hold 5:
14.4 m3 loose cargo
rear hold: 4 positions 244 x 318
cm max. or 14 LD3 containers
front hold: 6 positions
244 x 318 cm max.
main deck: 26 positions
244 x 318 cm max.

Aid supplies
food parcels
equipment for treating
drinking water
medicines, medical
equipment
hygiene articles, clothes
tents, sleeping bags
tools
mobile kindergartens

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group

100 // Corporate Citizenship

Social Commitment
The Lufthansa Group takes advantage of its logistic, financial and organi­
zational means to provide aid where it is needed the most – long-term,
sustainably and with hands-on participation from employees.

alliance
Help Alliance
The aviation group bundles its social commitment in the Help Alliance, an aid organization founded by employees in 1999. The
registered charity works above all for poor,
ill and socially disadvantaged children and
youths in Africa, Asia, Central and South
America as well as eastern Europe. At the
center of the Help Alliance’s humanitarian
work, which is guided by the worldwide
standards of the United Nations Convention
on the Rights of the Child, are the issues of
education, health care and nutrition.
Every year, the Help Alliance looks after
about 40 projects in the area of development cooperation and administers annual

donations of significantly more than 1 million euros. Efficient structures and the
assumption of personal responsibility by
employees across the Lufthansa Group
ensure that the administrative costs remain
at a consistently low level.
Emphasis in 2015: Refugee aid
In the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group
and the Help Alliance placed their emphasis on aid to refugees. The aid organization
closely coordinates its activities with the
companies of the Lufthansa Group and
applies a three-level concept. It includes
projects in development aid, concrete
emergency relief and long-term integration
projects at the Group’s important locations
in Germany.

“For the Help Alliance and the Lufthansa Group, it
is a matter of course to provide initial aid to refugees
and to open up professional perspectives for young migrants by
supporting long-term measures.”
Vivian Spohr
Patroness
Help Alliance e. V.

Hamburg: Preparatory classes
for young refugees
Starting on October 1, 2015, the Help
Alliance joined forces with the Hamburgbased association basis & woge to launch
a long-term learning sponsorship project.
The goal is to give young refugees with an
uncertain residence permit status better
access to the job market and to promote
their social integration. For this purpose
15 young men and women in their senior
year at the Staatliche Gewerbeschule für
Bautechnik (State Vocational School for
Construction Technology) in Hamburg
currently attend a preparatory class. Each
of these students is paired with a volunteer
mentor from Lufthansa Technik, who
accompanies his or her mentee intensively
every step of the way. The Lufthansa Group
assumed the sponsorship for this project in
the context of the German industry’s integration initiative “Wir zusammen” (“We
together”), founded in February 2016.
Düsseldorf: Educational opportunities
for students in socially troubled areas
New to the Help Alliance’s project portfolio
since 2015 has been its cooperation with
Chancenwerk e. V. in Düsseldorf. This
association has developed a unique concept for the promotion of education in
which three partner schools, all located in
the city’s socially troubled areas, participate. At the project’s heart are “learning
cascades”, which means that university
students teach older secondary school
students in a subject of their choice. The
latter agree, in turn, to support younger
schoolmates in a similar fashion. The

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 101

In 2015, the Help Alliance and the association basis & woge in Hamburg jointly launched a learning
sponsorship project that helps young migrants gain better access to the job market.

target audience of this study coaching
project are boys and girls from families
that are educationally disadvantaged or
have a migration background.
Rhine-Main region: Language support
for migrant children
The Help Alliance also provides aid to
migrants via the Flörsheim­based association Stern des Südens e. V., with which the
employee has cooperated since 2007.
Since 2015, Stern des Südens has offered
targeted language courses for refugee
children based on playful approaches to
learning and also offers assistance in the
area of accommodation for refugees.
Launched as a pilot project, it has developed into a regular education program.
A donation of 100,000 euros to the
Social Services Department in Munich
To relieve the city of Munich in registering
and accommodating newly arrived refugees, the Help Alliance supported the city’s
Social Services Department with a donation
of 100,000 euros in November 2015
toward urgently needed interpretation
services. In this way, the Lufthansa Group
assumed half of the costs incurred.
In addition, more than 50 Lufthansa employees answered a call from the Help Alliance

to offer their services as volunteer interpreters and translators at various locations
in Germany.
Refugee aid provided by Group companies
The airlines and service companies of the
Lufthansa Group provided concrete immediate aid to refugees in many ways during

the reporting year. For example, Lufthansa
Cargo cooperated with the German Red
Cross in September 2015 to transport
15,000 camp beds from North America to
Frankfurt. Aboard the 13 flights, which the
logistics specialist operated on an at-cost
basis, was cargo with a total volume of
nearly 120 tonnes. The camp beds came

“I’ve always regarded education as a central
element when it comes to ensuring that people
are able to take an active part in society. So I was
pleased to respond to the Help Alliance’s call for
study mentors to help young refugees in Hamburg.
The work I do is very enjoyable
and I’ll definitely support my
mentee with advice once he has
graduated.”
Lisa Wiebusch
Group Purchasing Manager
Lufthansa Technik AG

102 // Corporate Citizenship

Small Change –
It’s a Big Help
With the aim of building bridges into a
better future for people in need, the Help
Alliance launched the on-board collection
program Small Change – It’s a Big Help in
2001. It offers Lufthansa Group passengers the opportunity to donate coins and
bills in any currency they might be carrying
on homeward-bound long-haul flights (see
page 97, Balance 2015).

On-Board Collection Program
Development of donation volumes in euros
2015

362,662

2012
2011
2010

318,380
205,362
286,184
224,053

2008

230,433

2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001

www.helpalliance.org

301,566

2009
2007

Further Help Alliance activities in
2015/16 (selection):
Second Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp in
Port-au-Prince with the goal of promoting
entrepreneurial initiatives as a contribution to sustainable economic and social
development. The project is supported
by 14 volunteer managers from across
the Lufthansa Group
Inauguration of a “drop-in center” for
homeless children and endangered
youths in Pattaya, Thailand, in cooperation with long-term Help Alliance partner
Human Help Network Foundation Thailand (HHNFT)

Cooperation with the charitable organization Homes of Hope in the context of the
first Lufthansa flight to Panama City
Fundraising activities
“Flight Mode App”:
digital time out for a worthy cause
www.LH.com/flightmode
Cooperation with the donation platforms www.betterplace.org and
www.ammado.com
Fundraising campaigns on Facebook,
YouTube, the Help Alliance blog and the
on-board collection program
October 2015: part of the proceeds
from Lufthansa’s in­flight shopping are
donated to the Help Alliance
Campaign “Give a bottle – give hope”
at Munich Airport: Highly visible placement of an oversized bottle collection
machine for beverage bottles and forwarding of bottle deposits to support
the construction of a well in Mali

497,823

2014
2013

from stock held by the Canadian and U.S.
Red Cross organizations. LSG Sky Chefs
and its subsidiary Spiriant provided several
thousand blankets, sleeping masks and
hygiene articles as donations in kind for
refugees in Munich and the Rhine-Main
region. Austrian Airlines joined the Help
Alliance in supporting refugee accommodation at Vienna Airport with sleeping bags
and insulation mats.

260,939
279,575
294,870
238,023
216,539
232,692
207,175

October 2002:
start of Condor’s participation
September 2011: start of Brussels Airlines’
participation
July 2012:
start of Austrian Airlines’
participation

“When I learned last year about the Help Alliance’s
commitment to refugees, I signed up immediately
to work as a volunteer in this area. To this day I
enjoy being part of language tutoring in Flörsheim.
In their warm-hearted manner the
children give me much in return
and more than gratefully accept
the help they need.”
Michael Kopf
Copilot A320
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 103

To carry Cargo Human Care’s positive message around the world, the multicolored footprints of children
living at Mothers’ Mercy Home have adorned the fuselage of the Lufthansa Cargo MD-11 freighter registered
“Charlie Hotel” since November 2015. First destination following the makeover:
Nairobi, to mark the occasion of opening the new John Kaheni Residence.

Cargo Human Care
Like the Help Alliance, the association
Cargo Human Care (CHC) owes its existence to the personal involvement of committed employees. This humanitarian aid
project was founded in 2007 by Lufthansa
Cargo staff in cooperation with German
physicians of various specialties. The registered charity provides access to free medical care to sick and suffering people in
Kenya, as well as a home and a future to
impoverished orphans.
Treatments are administered at Cargo
Human Care’s medical center in Nairobi.
Its patient roster includes needy people
from the surrounding area and the children
living at the CHC-supported orphanage
Mothers’ Mercy Home. The number of
medical treatments given by volunteer
doctors increased to about 21,500 in 2015,
benefiting about 6,000 patients. Coopera-

tion with local clinics, where German physicians perform more specialized treatments,
and full, partial or educational sponsorships
round off CHC’s spectrum of sustained
assistance. From the start, Lufthansa Cargo
has backed Cargo Human Care with logistical, financial and organizational support.
New residential educational center
inaugurated
November 25, 2015 saw the inauguration
of the John Kaheni Residence, a new
residential educational facility for youths in
the Nairobi area. A major project of Cargo
Human Care, the center’s educational
offer will provide up to 100 young people
with access to high-quality professional
training in future. Patron of the John Kaheni
Residence is German Federal Foreign
Minister Dr. Frank­Walter Steinmeier.
www.cargohumancare.de

Social projects supported
by Group companies
Lufthansa Cargo: Long-standing cooperation with the registered association
“Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main
e. V.” (Workshops for the Disabled)
LSG Sky Chefs: Varying by region, commitment covers educational projects,
health promotion, sports events and more
Swiss: Long-standing cooperation with
the foundation SOS Children’s Village
and support for the Children’s Foundation run by Swiss employees
Austrian Airlines: Support for social
and charitable organizations
Brussels Airlines: Bundling of
social commitment in the initiative
“b.foundation for Africa”, the airline’s
conduit for supporting numerous longterm aid projects in Africa. Annual
mountain bike event “Bike for Africa” to
support selected humanitarian projects.

104 // Corporate Citizenship

Additional commitment
Beyond humanitarian emergency aid and the consistent social “help for
self-help”, the Lufthansa Group has been committed for decades to the areas
of environment, culture and sports.

Environmental
sponsorship
The protection of its heraldic bird, the
crane, has been a concern close to the
heart of the Lufthansa Group for over 30
years and is an established part of its
corporate citizenship commitment. The
aviation group was a cofounder of the
Crane Protection Germany working group,
which will celebrate its 25th anniversary in
2016. Since 1991 it has made significant
contributions to securing the breeding,
resting and gathering areas of the “birds
of luck”.
Its foundation goes back to a joint initiative
involving Lufthansa, Naturschutzbund
Deutschland (NABU) and the environmental foundation WWF Deutschland. Through
Crane Protection Germany, the Lufthansa
Group supports crane protection projects
at home and abroad to prevent the destruction of crane habitats.
With its “Cranorama”, the charitable organization has offered a new, barrier-free observation platform since October 2015.

New observation platform “Cranorama”
The Crane Information Center, operated by
Crane Protection Germany in Groß Mohrdorf, plays an important role. It allows
visitors a nature-friendly way of observing
the estimated 125,000 cranes that rest
every year in late summer and early fall in
the regions around the Darß-Zingst peninsula and near Rügen to prepare for the
continuation of their journey south. Employees of the Lufthansa Group regularly work
at the center as volunteer rangers in the
area of environmental education.
On October 15, 2015, the Crane Information Center inaugurated the new, barrierfree and weather-protected observation
platform “Cranorama” at Günzer See. The
educational program is part of the combined project “Schatz an der Küste”
(“Coastal Treasures”) and receives subsidies via Germany’s Federal Agency for
Nature Conservation from Germany’s
Federal Ministry for the Environment,
Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear
Safety.
www.kraniche.de
www.facebook.com/kranichschutz
Information about species-appropriate animal
transports: www.lufthansa-cargo.com
as well as Balance 2015, page 101)

Facts and figures
Over the past 25 years, about 625,000
bird watchers have visited the Crane
Information Center and the neighboring
Günzer See.
Since 1996, the maximum number of
cranes resting each fall in the DarßZingst and Rügen regions has increased
from 35,000 to 73,000.
The number of crane pairs in Germany
has increased from 1,960 (1993) to
8,500 (2015).
Number of cranes ringed in Germany
and abroad since 1996: 1,500
International cooperations and projects
with public administrations and nongovernmental organizations
Intensive cooperation with numerous
crane protection organizations in
Europe (European Crane Working
Group) and Asia (Eurasian Crane
Working Group)

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 105

Piano concert at a high level: Every month about
200 employees enjoy virtuoso concerts after work, which
the Company offers for their relaxation.

Cultural commitment
The emphasis in the area of cultural commitment has been placed on supporting
outstanding musical institutions and
events, whose cultural resonance makes
an important social contribution.
First Global Partner of Gürzenich
Orchestra
In its first long­term commitment to a symphony orchestra, the Lufthansa Group has
supported the Gürzenich Orchestra in
Cologne since 2010 as First Global Partner.
This renowned ensemble ranks among
Germany’s leading orchestras and enjoys
an excellent reputation abroad as well.
The orchestra and the Lufthansa Group
joined forces for a charity concert given at
Cologne’s Philharmonie on October 18,
2015. Donations from this event were
equally divided between the Help Alliance
and the association “Wir helfen”.
Support for the Lufthansa Orchestra
Since its foundation in 2011, the Group has
supported the Lufthansa Orchestra, which
currently counts more than 65 employees
from different Group companies and diverse
professional backgrounds who join their
talents as active volunteer musicians. Its
concerts are a fixture in the Company’s
cultural activities and delight Lufthansa
employees and fans of classical music in
Germany and abroad. In 2015, the Lufthansa
Orchestra gave a performance to mark the
inauguration of Lufthansa Technik’s new
maintenance hangar in Puerto Rico.

Under the well­known “Fanhansa” motto, Lufthansa will again provide
an aircraft bearing a specially designed livery during
the UEFA European Football Championship 2016 in France.

Charity concert organized by
Lufthansa Technik
In 2015, Lufthansa Technik again set up
a charity concert in the context of the
Schleswig Holstein Music Festival (SHMF).
The venue was once again Hangar 7 at
Lufthansa Technik’s base in Hamburg.
Donations of 20,000 euros benefited the
SHMF’s pedagogical work as well as the
Stiftung “phönikks”, which supports families
of cancer patients with psychotherapeutic
counseling offers and group options.

Sports sponsorship
Top performances require successful
synergy among different players – both in
business and in sports. For this reason,
the Lufthansa Group has been a reliable
partner for sports associations, institutions
and clubs for many years.
German Sports Aid Foundation
Lufthansa has been a National Sponsor of
the German Sports Aid Foundation since
2007. Through this cooperation the Company supports more than 3,800 athletes
with and without disability, from young
talents to top performers. In addition, the
Lufthansa Group supports the initiatives
“Your name for Germany” and “Springboard Future – Sports and Career” (see
page 103, Balance 2015).

Olympic and paralympic organizations
As the official carrier of the German Olympic Sports Confederation and National
Paralympic Committee Germany, Lufthansa
traditionally flies the German national
teams to the venues of Olympic and Paralympic Games. For many years, Austrian
Airlines has supported the Austrian Olympic Committee as a National Partner and
the Austrian Paralympic Committee as a
Sponsor, as it will in 2016 in Rio de
Janeiro. Since October 2015, Swiss has
been the official airline and partner of the
Swiss Olympic and Swiss Paralympic
teams, and will operate special flights
during the 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil.
This partnership is set initially to run to the
end of 2016. In addition, Swiss is the
official airline of the Swiss Handball Association and Swiss Ice Hockey.
Football
As a partner of the German Football Association (DFB), Lufthansa has flown all
German national soccer teams to their
away games as well as to European and
world championships since 2005. Lufthansa
also supports Germany’s women’s football
through DFB and the German Sports Aid
Foundation. Furthermore, the “Airline of
Sports” is also an official partner of the
Eintracht Frankfurt team and Official Carrier of FC Bayern München, with whom it
cooperated in 2016 to develop a “Flyrobic” video for its passengers.
www.lufthansagroup.com/sports

6
Service and
Information
Glossary
Editorial information
Contact partner
Methodology of calculations
Verification statement Scope 1- 3
Overview of noise standards
Overview of the
Lufthansa Group’s fleet

108 // Service and Information

Glossary
A
Aerosols
Aerosols are solid and/or liquid particles
that are suspended in the air. They reach
the atmosphere by means of natural processes (wind, desert storms, volcanic eruptions) or human activities (combustion of
biomass and fossil fuels). The most important aerosols are mineral dust, sea salt,
cellular (biological) particles, soot, organic
compounds, and sulfates. From a climatic
perspective, aerosols are the opponents of
greenhouse gases, as they can reflect
incident light and thus have a cooling effect.
aireg e. V. – Aviation Initiative for
Renewable Energy in Germany
aireg is a registered association of leading
German research institutions, Lufthansa
and other companies in the aviation industry, and bioenergy producers. The goal of
this initiative, which was founded in 2011,
is to advance the development and introduction of regenerative aviation fuels in
Germany and to inform the public at large
about this topic.
www.aireg.de
ATM – Air Traffic Management
Air traffic management ensures both the
safe and the efficient movement of aircraft
in all phases of operations.
Atmosphere
Mass of air surrounding the Earth. It is
divided into various layers, which are separated from one another by significantly
different vertical temperature distributions.
Important for air traffic are the two lower
layers: the troposphere and, above it, the
stratosphere. The troposphere’s upper
boundaries vary depending on season and
latitude. They lie at altitudes of 16 to 18
kilometers above sea level at the equator,
and at eight to 12 kilometers above sea

level at the poles. The temperature in the
tropopause, the transition layer between
troposphere and stratosphere, drops to
about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It rises
again in the stratosphere.

C

climate protection strategies transparent.
For this purpose, the CDP and its partners
jointly developed two indices: the Carbon
Disclosure Leadership Index, which includes
companies that make their emissions transparent to a particular extent, and the Carbon Performance Leadership Index, which
takes concrete climate protection achievements into account.

Carbon dioxide (CO2)
Gas resulting in nature from the burning or
decomposition of organic substances (e.g.
plant material). The greenhouse gas CO2
remains in the atmosphere for about 100
years. Scientists attribute the increase in
atmospheric CO2 over the last 100 years
to the burning of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil,
natural gas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel,
3.15 tonnes of CO2 result from the combustion process. Currently, about 2.42 percent
of the CO2 emissions due to human activities are caused by global air traffic.
(Source: International Energy Agency (IEA)
2014, 2012 values)

Chapter 4 aircraft
Aircraft that comply with the strictest noise
protection standard currently in force – the
Chapter 4 noise standard. The Environmental Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO
agreed on this standard in September
2001. As a result, all aircraft newly certified
since 2006 must remain cumulatively
below the Chapter 3 noise levels by 10
decibels or more. The maximum noise
emission values for aircraft were introduced
by the ICAO under Annex 16 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation. Noise
levels depend on the aircraft’s maximum
takeoff weight and number of engines.

Carbon monoxide (CO)
Chemical compound consisting of one
carbon and one oxygen atom, formed in
the incomplete combustion process of
substances containing carbon. For aircraft
engines, the level of CO emissions
depends greatly on the thrust level: The
emissions per kilogram of fuel burned are
higher at idle settings, while taxiing, and
on approach than during the climbing and
cruising phases.

CO
see “Carbon monoxide”

CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure
Project)
The CDP is an independent, charitable
organization with a current membership of
more than 820 institutional investors worldwide. The goal of this initiative, which was
founded in 2000, is to motivate the world’s
largest listed corporations to make data on
their greenhouse gas emissions and their

CO2
see “Carbon dioxide”
Compliance
Compliance describes in their entirety all
measures that ensure the lawful conduct of
companies, their management bodies, and
their employees with regard to legal directives and interdictions.
Corporate Responsibility (CR)
Corporate responsibility expresses the
degree to which a company assumes
accountability for the effects its business
activities have on employees, customers,
society, and the environment.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 109

D
Decibel
Measuring unit for the intensity and pressure of sound. The difference in intensity
between the softest sound the human ear
can perceive and the pain threshold is
1:10 trillion. To depict this enormous range
objectively, acoustics uses the logarithmic
decibel scale. On this scale, the value “0”
is assigned to the perception threshold
(for a sound of 1,000 Hz) and the pain
threshold at the value “130”. An increase of
10 dB corresponds to a tenfold increase in
sound intensity. For the perceived volume,
a difference of 10 dB corresponds to half
or double the volume. However, the human
ear is not equally sensitive across the entire
range of frequencies. Low and high sounds
are not perceived as being equally loud
even at the same intensity. For measurements, this difference is equalized and
noted accordingly. The best known such
notation is the A value, marked by the
index dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the
EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibel)
unit is used internationally.
Diversity
In a corporate context, diversity refers to all
characteristics that distinguish employees
from one another. Diversity management
offers approaches for handling human
differences for the benefit of company and
employees alike.
DLR – Deutsches Zentrum für Luftund Raumfahrt (German Aerospace
Center)
The DLR serves scientific, economic, and
social purposes. It maintains 33 institutes,
testing facilities and research centers. Its
declared goal is to help – using the means
of aviation and space flight – to secure and
shape the future. In its work, the DLR also
seeks cooperation and allocation of
research tasks among European partners.
www.dlr.de

DNWE – Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik (German Network for
Business Ethics)
DNWE is a nonprofit organization of which
Lufthansa has been a member since
January 1998. DNWE has more than 600
current members, including many from
German business, politics, religion, and
science. At the same time, DNWE is a
national association of the European Business Ethics Network (EBEN).
www.dnwe.de

E
ECPI
The Lufthansa Group’s place in the ECPI®
Index family was confirmed in 2015. This
index comprises the 150 highest-capitalized companies within the European economic and monetary union, which represent suitable and sustainable investments
according to the ECPI’s screening method.
The ECPI analyzes data in the environmental, social and governance (ESG) areas of
companies as well as the development,
calculation and publication of ECPI indices.
It monitors 4,000 issuers by means of a
disciplined and certified method that covers
a range of ESG criteria.
EMAS – Environmental Management
and Audit Scheme
European regulations concerning environmental management and certification;
colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit
regulations.

Equivalent continuous noise level (Leq)
The Leq is a measure for the energetic
average of all sound pressure levels over
a defined period of time. All sound events
that differ in intensity and duration are
summarized according to mathematical
rules. The resulting average value is an
accepted and proven measurement of the

noise quantity occurring over an observed
time interval.
Ethibel – Ethibel Sustainability Index
The independent Belgian agency Ethibel
has listed Lufthansa in its Ethibel Investment Register and the Ethibel Sustainability
Index (ESI). The ESI offers institutional
investors, asset managers, banks, and
private investors a comprehensive overview
of the financial results of companies that
distinguish themselves by pursuing sustainable business practices. Since the merger
with Vigeo and Stock at Stake in 2005, this
index has been part of Vigeo. However,
Forum Ethibel continues to be responsible
for the ethical criteria and the composition
of the ESI. Updates of and calculations for
the index are performed by the internationally renowned index provider Standard &
Poor’s.
www.ethibel.org

F
Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT)
Airlines distinguish between freight performance offered (FTKO, freight tonne kilometers offered) and its sold freight performance (FTKT, freight tonne kilometers
transported). See also “Tonne kilometers”.
FTSE4Good
The index was introduced in 2001 by FTSE,
a wholly owned subsidiary of the London
Stock Exchange. It lists only those companies that meet the internationally accepted
standards for corporate responsibility in the
following dimensions: environmental
management, climate change, human and
labor rights along the supply chain, corporate governance, and anti-corruption efforts.
Lufthansa has been listed since 2001.
www.ftse.com

110 // Service and Information

Fuel Dump
Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency
situations to reduce a long-haul aircraft’s
weight to the maximum permissible landing
weight before unscheduled landings (e.g.
in the event of technical problems or serious passenger illness). Special air space is
assigned to the aircraft, if possible above
uninhabited or thinly populated areas. Fuel
is usually dumped at altitudes of 4 to 8
kilometers. A minimum altitude of 1,500
meters and a minimum speed of 500 km/h
are required. The aircraft may not fly a fully
closed circle. The dumped kerosene forms
a fine mist in the turbulence behind the
aircraft. Despite the use of highly sensitive
methods of analysis, no contamination has
been detected so far in plant or soil samples after fuel dumps.

G
Generation Y and Generation Z
The term Generation Y applies to those
born roughly between 1980 and 1995. It
comes from sociology and refers to this
generation’s characteristic to question
things. “Y” is derived from “why” in this
context. Another term to describe this
generation is “digital natives”. The term
Generation Z applies to the population
group of those born after 1995; they are the
second generation of digital natives.
Global Compact
see “UN Global Compact”
Great-circle distance
The shortest distance between two points
on the Earth’s surface, measured in kilometers (great circle kilometers) or nautical
miles. The center of a great circle is the
center of the Earth.

Greenhouse gases
Gaseous substances that contribute to the
greenhouse effect and have both natural
and human (anthropogenic) causes. The
most important natural greenhouse gases
are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide
(CO2), and methane (CH4); the most important anthropogenic greenhouse gases are
carbon dioxide from the combustion of
fossil fuels and methane, primarily from
agriculture and industrial livestock farming.
Other artificial greenhouse gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons (FCs and
HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs).

H
Hub
In air transport, a hub is a central traffic
point or an airline’s transfer airport. Passengers and freight are transported from their
point of departure to one of the airline’s
“home airports” (hub). From there, they are
carried to their destination by a second
flight alongside passengers and freight
from other departure points, but with the
same destination.

I
IATA – International Air Transport
Association
The umbrella organization of international
commercial aviation.
www.iata.org

ICAO – International Civil Aviation
Organization
A United Nations agency that develops
internationally binding norms for civil
aviation.
www.icao.int
ICC – International Chamber of
Commerce
The ICC was founded in 1919 as the World
Business Organization. More than 1,500
business organizations and over 5,000
corporations are organized in the worldwide framework of the ICC. Lufthansa has
been a member since 1955.
www.iccgermany.de
ILO standards
Work standards of the International Labor
Organization, which include, among
others, the bans on child labor, forced
labor, and discrimination as well as the
fundamental right of freedom of association for employees.
ISO 14001 – International environmental management system
Companies thereby receive an effective
instrument that allows them to take environmental aspects into consideration in decisions relating to corporate policies and to
continuously improve the situation of environmental care in relation to all daily tasks.
www.iso.org

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 111

K
Kerosene
Fuel for jet and propeller engines that is
chemically similar to petroleum. Like diesel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is produced
by distilling crude oil; unlike these fuels,
kerosene does not contain halogenated
additives.

L
LHSB – Lufthansa School of Business
The LHSB supports processes of change
within the Group and promotes a shared
management culture. It has received multiple awards for the worldwide standards it
establishes for the development and training of professionals and managers.
Low-cost segment
Airlines offering predominantly low fares,
but featuring reduced or separately charged
services on the ground and in the air.
Flights are most often operated to/from
airports outside of major population centers.

M
Mentoring
Instrument for targeted support of junior
employees. Focuses on regular personal
contacts between mentor and mentee.
MRO
Acronym standing for maintenance, repair,
and overhaul of aircraft

MSCI Global Sustainability Index
Series
The US index provider MSCI launched a
series of sustainability indices in September
2010. The MCSI index family comprises
seven environmental, two value-based
and 15 best-of-class indices. These include
shares of companies with high and
medium market capitalization and are
based on the MSCI World Index. They
depict companies that are particularly
committed to environmental, social and
governance (ESG) issues. Lufthansa has
been included in this index series since
June 2015.
www.msci.com/esg-indexes
MTOW
Acronym standing for maximum takeoff
weight of an aircraft

N
Nitrogen oxides (NOX)
Chemical compounds consisting of one
nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX is
defined as the sum of NO and NO2 compounds. Natural sources include lightning
and microbes in the soil. Nitrogen oxides
are also generated in combustion processes under high pressures and temperatures. Both of these parameters have been
increased in modern aircraft engines to
significantly reduce fuel consumption as
well as emissions of carbon monoxide and
unburned hydrocarbons. However, future
combustion chambers of an advanced
design could help reduce NOX emissions
by 85 percent. Air traffic contributes 2 to 3
percent of man-made NOX emissions.
Climate models show that nitrogen oxides
have increased the concentration of ozone
at cruising altitudes by a few percentage
points.

NOX
see “Nitrogen oxides”

O
oekom
The oekom Corporate Rating evaluates
the social and environmental compatibility
of companies according to a selection of
100 industry-specific indicators on average.
Companies that rank in the top of their
respective industries in the context of an
oekom Corporate Rating and fulfill the
industry-specific minimum criteria are
awarded the oekom Prime Status by
oekom research.
www.oekom-research.com
OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health
and Safety Assessment Series
Job safety management system developed
by the British Standards Institution in
cooperation with international certification
organizations.
Ozone
Molecule formed in the stratosphere and
consisting of three oxygen atoms. The
ozone layer located in the stratosphere
has an important protective function, as it
absorbs harmful ultraviolet light. While
ozone at higher altitudes is broken down
massively by chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs),
it develops close to the ground under the
influence of sunlight from numerous precursor substances (summer smog) and
irritates the mucous membranes. At current
levels, nitrogen oxide emissions from air
traffic at cruising altitudes cause an increase in atmospheric ozone, analogous
to the generation of summer smog, estimated by scientists at 3 to 4 percent on the
heavily-flown North Atlantic routes.

112 // Service and Information

P
Passenger kilometer (PKO/PKT)
Measure for transport performance in
passenger carriage (number of passengers
multiplied by distance flown). A distinction
is made between available transport performance (PKO, passenger kilometers offered,
or, synonymously, SKO, seat kilometers
offered) and actual transport performance
(PKT, passenger kilometers transported).
Pro Recycling Paper Initiative
Founded in 2000, the initiative unites companies from various industries and aims at
improving the acceptance of recycling
paper and promoting its increased use.
Lufthansa is one of the initiative’s founding
members.
www.papiernetz.de

R
RSB – Roundtable on Sustainable
Biomaterials
International initiative to develop a global
standardization and certification system for
agrofuels.
http://rsb.org

S
SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Users Group
Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufacturers,
and providers of refinery technology whose
goal is to accelerate the development and
commercialization of sustainable fuels for
the air transport industry.
www.safug.org

Seat kilometer
Measure for the transport capacity available
(SKO, seat kilometers offered).
Seat load factor (SLF)
Passenger-related measure of aircraft
capacity utilization: the ratio of transport
performance (PKT, passenger kilometers
transported) to capacity (PKO, passenger
kilometers offered).
SES – Single European Sky
Describes the efforts of the European
Commission since the late 1990s to
restructure European airspace for the
purpose of optimizing traffic flows. Its goal
is to dissolve the airspace’s fragmented
structure by creating a limited number of
Functional Airspace Blocks (FABs).
Slot
Designated point in time at which an airline
may use an airport’s runway for takeoff or
landing.
Stakeholder
Groups or individuals who formulate their
demands on a company (e.g. attainment of
corporate goals) and pursue these either
personally or through representatives. This
includes shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, and others.
Sustainable development
According to the guiding principle of sustainable development formulated in 1987
by the World Commission for Development
and the Environment (Brundtland Commission), “sustainable development is […] a
form of development that meets the needs
of today’s generation without jeopardizing
the abilities of future generations to satisfy
their own.” For businesses, this means
acting responsibly not only in economic
matters but also in environmental and
social issues. All three aspects – economic,
ecological, and social – must be kept in
balance.

T
Tonne kilometer (TKT / TKO)
Measure of transport performance (payload
multiplied by distance). A distinction is
made between available transport performance (TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and
the actual transport performance (TKT,
tonne kilometers transported). In calculating payloads, passengers are taken into
account by means of a statistical average
weight.
Town Meeting
Information event for employees at different
locations of a company.
Transparency International
Anti-corruption organization, of which
Lufthansa has been a member since 1999.
www.transparency.de

U
UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons
Organic mixture of carbon and hydrogen
that results from the incomplete combustion of fuels containing hydrocarbons or
from the evaporation of fuel.
UN Global Compact
Global network in whose context the United
Nations cooperates with private-sector
corporations and civil action organizations
to advance human rights, labor standards,
environmental protection, and anti-corruption measures. Deutsche Lufthansa AG has
been a member since 2002.
www.unglobalcompact.org

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 113

V
VOC – Volatile Organic Compounds
Volatile organic substances that are characterized by high steam pressure and thus
evaporate easily into the atmosphere at
room temperature. VOCs are present in
solvents, cleaning agents, fuels, and other
substances. In the presence of nitrogen
oxides and intense sunlight, VOCs lead to
the generation of ozone.

W
Water vapor
The most important greenhouse gas, even
ahead of carbon dioxide. Without water
vapor from natural sources, the Earth’s
surface would be around 22 degrees
Celsius cooler. This makes water vapor
responsible for two-thirds of the natural
greenhouse effect (33 degrees Celsius).
For each kilogram of kerosene burned,
1.24 kilograms of water vapor are released.
Concerns that air traffic might increase the
concentration of water vapor in the stratosphere and thus change the climate have
been refuted by scientific research. The
German Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded
that even a one hundred-fold increase in
the quantity of water vapor emitted by air
traffic would not result in a detectable climatic signal.

114 // Service and Information

Contact partner

Editorial information
Published by
Deutsche Lufthansa AG
Lufthansa Group Communications
Senior Vice President: Andreas Bartels
Concept, text, and editors
Lufthansa Group Communications
Corporate Responsibility &
Events Management
Director: Susanne Kotysch
Steffen Milchsack
Claudia Walther
Design and production
organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH,
Frankfurt am Main
Copy deadline
June 30, 2016
Paper
Contents: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper
made from 100 percent recycled paper.
Produced without optical brightening agents
or chlorine bleach. Certified with The Blue
Angel environmental label – RAL-UZ 14.
Cover: Hello Fat Matt (FSC-certified)

carbon neutral
natureOffice.com | DE-197-588722

print production
Reprints, including excerpts, only with
written permission from the publisher and
by citing Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the
source (text and images). In this case we
ask that you send us a copy or clipping.
Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany
ISSN 1612-0906

Photo credits
Oliver Rösler (title, cover, content
pages 7, 8, 12, 29, 30, 44, 55, 59, 65, 67,
79, 82, 85, 86, 104, 105, 115)
Gregor Schläger (title, cover, content pages
7, 8, 16, 23, 34, 37, 52, 53, 93, 115)
Patrick Kuschfeld (title, content pages 9,
10, 15, 60, 61, 76, 87, 102)
Andreas Pohlmann (page 3)
Sonja Brüggemann (pages 7, 15, 46, 57,
87, 101)
Jens Görlich (pages 8, 48, 64, 106)
Jan Brandes (page 9)
Fenchel & Janisch Filmproduktion (page 11)
Christian Scholz (page 12)
Jürgen Mai (page 15)
Rolf Bewersdorf (pages 20, 30, 44)
DennerleinBrands GmbH (pages 31, 58, 71)
Airbus (pages 33, 115)
Jörg Ladwig (page 33)
production ncag (page 33)
Munich Airport/Aesthetika (page 49)
Dominik Mentzos (pages 62, 73)
Alex Tino Friedel (page 66)
Helmut Fricke (pages 94, 103)
Tilman Becker (page 96)
Lufthansa Cargo/Fraport (page 97)
Lufthansa Cargo (infographic pages 98/99)
Christian Ahrens (cover)
www.fotolia.com: senoldo (pages 5, 98)
Other: Lufthansa Group photo archive

Deutsche Lufthansa AG
Lufthansa Group Communications
Susanne Kotysch
Head of Corporate Responsibility &
Events Management
FRA CI/B
Lufthansa Aviation Center
Airportring
D-60546 Frankfurt/Main
balance@dlh.de

Please note that www.LH.com is the
central contact point for all inquiries concerning customer service. Under the header
“Help & Contact” you will find full information on how to contact Lufthansa.
You will find further information on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group at:
www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

Order your copy of our Annual Report 2015:
www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations

116 // Service and Information

Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology
for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions
Scope of consolidation
Reporting on transport performance, kerosene consumption, and emissions from
flight operations in 2015 is – unless noted
otherwise – based on the following scope
of consolidation:
Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine,
Air Dolomiti, Eurowings), Germanwings,
Swiss (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian
Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Not included are services performed by third
parties, as their performance and the
aircraft they use are beyond our control.
Types of flight service: all scheduled and
charter flights.

Methodology of
calculations
Kerosene in absolute terms
Kerosene consumption is calculated on the
basis of actual flight operations (i.e. using
actual load factors and flight routings)
according to the gate-to-gate principle.
This covers all phases of a flight, from
taxiing on the ground to flying detours and
holding patterns in the air.
Emissions in absolute terms
The emissions from flight operations are
calculated on the basis of actual transport
performance and hence on actual load
factors and the actual absolute quantity of
kerosene consumed in the reporting year.
Transport performance is measured in
tonne kilometers; i.e., payload transported
over a distance. For passengers and their
luggage, an average of 100 kilograms is
the standard estimate; for freight, it is its

scale weight. Each aircraft/engine combination present in the fleet is considered
separately, and the associated values are
calculated with the aid of computer programs provided by the aircraft and engine
manufacturers. The annual average flight
profile for each subset of the fleet is then
fed into these programs. This allows us to
determine emissions in relation to flight
altitude, distance flown, thrust, and load.
This approach is necessary for nitrogen
oxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), and
unburned hydrocarbons (UHC) in particular.
Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions do not
require special calculation methods, as
they are generated in a fixed ratio to the
quantity of kerosene burned. The combustion of 1 tonne of kerosene generates 3.15
tonnes of CO2.
Specific consumption and
emission values
Calculating specific consumption and
emissions entails expressing absolute
values in relation to transport performance.
For example, the ratio liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm) is calculated
on the basis of actual load factors along
with the quantity of kerosene actually consumed. The distances used in the calculations are great-circle distances. In combination flights (freight and passenger transport
in one aircraft), fuel consumption is attributed on the basis of its share of the total
payload to calculate the passenger- and
freight-specific figures.
Since 2013 the DIN EN 16258 standard
has provided a guide for standardized
calculation of greenhouse gas emissions
for transport processes. This guide uses
the same estimates for calculating payload
as the Lufthansa Group. When traveled
distances are calculated, 95 kilometers
must be added to the great-circle distance

according to the guidelines of the EU emission allowance trading scheme. The International Air Transport Association (IATA)
has separately developed its own calculation proposals, which deal with the division
of fuel consumption between freight and
passengers and attribute a larger share of
fuel consumption to passengers because
of the passenger-specific infrastructure.
Although this method has no effect on the
overall efficiency of a flight, it changes the
apportionment between passengers and
freight. There are still divergences between
the two methods (including from the method
used up to now by Lufthansa). We would
welcome a standardized, internationally
harmonized and accepted method.
Environmental management system
The Lufthansa Group collected the environmental data used in this report with the aid
of its environmental management system.
This system also defines how data are
verified and transmitted to the Group Environmental Issues division. The basis for
data collection is Lufthansa’s own environmental database.
Accuracy
For presentation purposes the figures in the
charts and tables are rounded. Changes
from the previous year’s figures and share
percentages refer in each case to precise
figures, however. For this reason it is possible that a reported value may remain the
same from one year to the next even
though a relative change is reported.
Because of the rounding of share percentages, it is also possible that the sum of their
addition may differ from the sum of the
unrounded percentages. For example, as a
result of rounding, share percentages may
not add up to 100 percent even though it
would be logical to expect them to.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 117

Verification statement Scope 1- 3

Müller-BBM Cert GmbH, accredited verifier DAkkS D-VS-18709-01-01,
accredited and approved for air transportation confirms, that CO2
emissions data in the submitted Climate Change 2016 CDP final
report, dated 2016/06/23 and those in figure “Direct and indirect CO2
emissions of the Lufthansa Group” on page 41 of the sustainability
report Balance, issue 2016, of

Deutschen Lufthansa AG
and affiliates*
are verified under the verification standards
• EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) Directive and EU
ETS related national implementation laws
• Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) of Airports Council
International Europe
with following uncertainties:
Scope 1
Scope 2
Scope 3

28,601,347 t CO2eq (high assurance)
343,438 t CO2eq (limited assurance)
8,005,651 t CO2eq (limited assurance)

Kerpen, 30 June 2016

Müller-BBM Cert GmbH
* Scope of application from organizations at CDP-report 2016: Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Lufthansa
Cargo AG, Lufthansa Technik AG, Lufthansa CityLine GmbH, Swiss International Air Lines AG,
Edelweiss Air AG, Austrian Airlines AG, Air Dolomiti S.p.A, Germanwings GmbH, Eurowings Aviation
GmbH, LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG, Lufthansa AirPlus Servicekarten GmbH, Lufthansa Global
Business Services GmbH, Lufthansa Training and Conference Center GmbH, Seeheim, Miles & More
GmbH, Lufthansa Process Management GmbH, Lufthansa Systems GmbH & Co. KG, Lufthansa
Industry Solutions GmbH & Co. KG, Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH, LZ-Catering GmbH.

Most stringent noise standards
for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet
Margins below the noise limit of ICAO Chapter 3 and Chapter 4
Active fleet of the Lufthansa Group on December 31, 2015
in EPNdB

0

Of the 595 aircraft in the Lufthansa
Group’s active fleet, 592 fulfill the stringent Chapter 4 noise standard of the
International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO). The most important element of
Chapter 4 is the minus 10 EPNdB criterion (Effective Perceived Noise dB); see
the vertical broken line in the overview
on the left. The limits depend on the
aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight and
number of engines.

– 10.0 *

A330-300 LH

– 18.4

A330-300 LX / WK

– 18.3 / – 18.4

A330-200 WK

– 14.5

A330-200 EW

– 12.8

A340-300 LH/CL

– 22.6

A340-300 LX

– 22.1

A340-600 LH

– 23.0

A380-800 LH

– 25.8 / – 26.7

B747-400 LH

– 13.1 / – 13.6

B747-8 LH

– 25.6

B767-300ER OS

– 16.6 / – 16.8

B777-200ER OS

– 20.9 / – 21.1

B777F LH

– 17.0

MD-11F LH

– 13.5

A319-100 LH

– 15.3 / – 19.3

A319-100 LX

– 18.2

A319-100 OS

– 19.3

A319-100 4U

– 17.4 / – 19.4

A320-200 LH

– 13.4 / – 17.2

A320-200 LX

– 14.3 / – 15.9

A320-200 WK

– 14.3 / – 15.0

A320-200 OS

– 15.0 / – 15.9

A320-200 4U

– 13.4 / – 17.2

A320-200 EW

– 17.2

A321-100 LH
A321-100 LX

– 15.5
– 10.0 / – 10.8

A321-100 OS

– 11.5

A321-200 LH

– 14.1 / – 15.1

A321-200 LX
A321-200 OS
B737-300 LH
B737-500 LH

– 14.4
– 9.0
– 13.8
– 14.3

Avro RJ100 LX

– 16.4

Bombardier CRJ900 CL

– 16.6

Bombardier CRJ900 EW

– 16.6

Bombardier Q400 OS

– 23.9 / – 25.9

Embraer 190 CL

– 15.1

Embraer 195 CL

– 14.9

Embraer 195 EN

– 14.9

Fokker 70 OS
Fokker 100 OS

The bar chart indicates the sum of the
differences between the measured value
and the threshold value at the three
measuring points by type of aircraft
(cumulated margin). Where necessary,
the values based on the reduced maximum takeoff weight prevailing in flight
operations are indicated. To allow a
more transparent depiction, an improved
method of analysis was developed for
the previous issues of Balance, which
include the individual noise certificate
data of all Group aircraft. Different versions of an aircraft and its engines by
year of construction are thus better
taken into account. Accordingly, the
value ranges from the lowest to the
highest cumulated margin are indicated
for many fleets. The analysis also takes
into account any modifications to aircraft
or engines that have been made in the
meantime, thereby leading to modified
noise data and cumulated margins in
certain cases. In addition, numerous
additions and withdrawals in individual
fleets lead to changes in the value
ranges reported.

Grouping of aircraft types according to
MTOW (maximum takeoff weight):
under 50 t
50 to 150 t
more than 150 t
This division generally corresponds to a
grouping of regional, continental, and intercontinental aircraft

– 24.3 / – 25.9
– 16.2

* New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since 2006:
– 10 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3.

4U
CL
EN
EW
LH
LX
OS
WK

=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=

Germanwings
Lufthansa CityLine
Air Dolomiti
Eurowings
Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Edelweiss Air

The operating ﬂeet of the Lufthansa Group
(as of December 31, 2015)

Lufthansa and regional partners
Boeing 737-300

LH: 8 aircraft, 140 seats, 2,000 km range

Airbus A380-800

LH: 14 aircraft, 509 seats, 12,400 km range

Embraer 195

CL: 23 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range
EN: 10 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range

Boeing 747-8

LH: 19 aircraft, 364 seats, 13,000 km range

Embraer 190

CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,500 km range

Boeing 747-400

LH: 13 aircraft, 371 seats, 12,400 km range

Bombardier CRJ900

CL: 19 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,100 km range

Airbus A340-600

LH: 24 aircraft, 297 seats, 12,900 km range

Airbus A340-300

LH: 15 aircraft, 279 seats, 11,850 km range
CL: 3 aircraft, 298 seats, 11,700 km range

Eurowings and Germanwings

Airbus A330-200

EW: 2 aircraft, 310 seats, 10,450 km range

Airbus A330-203, D-AXGB, detailed version, left side

Airbus A330-300

LH: 19 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range

Airbus A320-200

EW/4U: 26 aircraft, 180 seats, 4,000 km range

Airbus A321-100 / 200

LH: 64 aircraft, 200 seats, 4,150 km range

Airbus A319-100

EW/4U: 43 aircraft, 150 seats, 2,900 km range

Airbus A320-200

LH: 51 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,200 km range

Bombardier CRJ900

Airbus A319-100

LH: 30 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range

Boeing 737-500

LH: 2 aircraft, 120 seats, 1,900 km range

EW: 16 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,100 km range

Lufthansa Cargo

Boeing MD-11F

LH: 14 aircraft, 579 m3/ 89.4 t, 6,700 km range

Austrian Airlines
Boeing 777F

LH: 5 aircraft, 657 m3/103 t, 8,900 km range

Swiss and Edelweiss Air

Boeing 777-200ER

OS: 5 aircraft, 308 seats, 12,100 km range

Boeing 777-200ER, Austrian Airlines, OE-LPD „Spirit of Austria“, detailed version, left side

Airbus A340-300

LX: 15 aircraft, 219 seats, 13,000 km range

Boeing 767-300ER

OS: 6 aircraft, 214 seats, 10,250 km range

Boeing 767-300ER, Austrian Airlines, OE-LAZ „India“, detailed version, left side

Airbus A330-300

LX: 14 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range

Airbus A321-100 / 200

OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 4,150 km range

Airbus A321-111, Austrian Airlines, OE-LBB „Pinzgau“, detailed version, left side

Airbus A321-100 / 200

LX: 8 aircraft, 219 seats, 2,100 km range

Airbus A320-200

OS: 16 aircraft, 168 seats, 4,150 km range

Airbus A320-214, Austrian Airlines, OE-LBS „Waldviertel“, detailed version, left side

Airbus A320-200

LX: 22 aircraft, 180 seats, 2,700 km range

Airbus A319-100

OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range

Airbus A319-112, Austrian Airlines, OE-LDA „Sofia“, detailed version, left side

Airbus A319-100

LX: 5 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range

Fokker 100

Avro RJ100

LX: 16 aircraft, 97 seats, 2,150 km range

Fokker 70

Airbus A330-300

WK: 1 aircraft, 315 seats, 9,000 km range

Bombardier Q400

OS: 14 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,100 km range

OS: 6 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,250 km range

OS: 18 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,350 km range

DeHavilland DHC-8-402Q, Austrian Airlines, OE-LGK „Burgenland“, detailed version, left side
HB-IQZ

Airbus A330-200

WK: 1 aircraft, 275 seats, 10,800 km range

HB-IHX

Airbus A320-200

WK: 6 aircraft, 168 seats, 4,150 km range

Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload, respectively.
In part, different versions are in operation.

Legend
4U = Germanwings
CL = Lufthansa CityLine
EN = Air Dolomiti

EW = Eurowings
LH = Lufthansa,
Lufthansa Cargo

LX = Swiss
OS = Austrian Airlines
WK = Edelweiss Air

Corporate Responsibility:
Prizes, awards and indices
Every year, the Lufthansa Group and the Group companies
receive numerous prizes and awards. Here is a selection
of those related to the topic of Corporate Responsibility:

2015
The US trade publication Air Transport
World named the Lufthansa Group as
Eco Airline of the Year 2015 – already
the second time in three years.
At the travel fair ITB in Berlin the Swiss
climate protection organization myclimate honored the AirPlus Green Company Account of Lufthansa subsidiary
AirPlus with the myclimate Award 2015
for being a pioneer for sustainable financial products in the travel industry.
The project Free Route Airspace Maastricht and Karlsruhe (FRAMaK), supported
by Lufthansa, Deutsche Flugsicherung
and Eurocontrol won the IHS Jane’s
ATC Award 2015 in the category
“Environment”.
The initiative Ludwig Erhard Prize honored LZ-Catering with the Recognized
for Excellence 4 Stars rating. The subsidiary of the European Foundation for
Quality Management acknowledged the
high level of entrepreneurial performance
of the Lufthansa Group’s experts for
company restaurants with the four-star
certificate.
The Lufthansa career portal
www.Be-Lufthansa.com was
recognized by the research institute
Trendence as best career website in
Germany. The jury praised among other
criteria the convincing design with high
recognition value, clear presentation
of contents, lively animation and clear
navigation.
The internal healthcare management of
Swiss was honored with the Friendly
Work Space® Label by Stiftung Gesundheitsförderung Schweiz (Foundation
for Health Promotion Switzerland).
The label is awarded according to

practice-oriented quality criteria. Friendly
Work Space® companies systematically
support favorable working conditions for
their employees.
Lufthansa Social Counseling has received the Soul@Work Award for the
health-oriented accompaniment of corporate restructuring processes.
Lufthansa Technical Training (LTT) was
awarded the Partner in Education
Award by Temasek Polytechnic in Singapore. Temasek Polytechnic is a leading
teaching institution that trains mechanics
for the aviation industry, among others.
Austrian Airlines has participated in the
environmental initiative “ÖkoBusinessPlan” of the City of Vienna since 2005.
The city supports companies in implementing ecologically and economically
relevant measures. As in the preceding
years, the airline received the ÖkoProfit
Award for numerous projects in 2015 as
well.
The Air Transport Action Group (ATAG),
a global association of partners across
the aviation industry, accepted two
outstanding efficiency projects of the
Lufthansa Group for publication in ATAG
Aviation Climate Solutions. The latter
highlights 100 groundbreaking projects
in the aviation industry related to the
established four-pillar strategy for climate
protection.
The Lufthansa Group airlines Lufthansa,
Swiss and Austrian Airlines were awarded
a gold rating in the study “With a good
conscience” for responsible corporate
management. The business magazine
Focus Money conducted the representative survey together with Deutschland
Test and the analytical company
ServiceValue.

2016
The US trade publication Air Transport
World honored the partners of the
E-PORT AN initiative, which also includes
the Lufthansa Group, as Eco-company
Partnership of the year. It thus acknowledges the initiative’s pioneering role and
its commitment for more electromobility
on the apron.
Lufthansa was honored for being the
Quietest Overall Airline by San Francisco
Airport with the award that is given in the
context of the “Fly Quiet Program”. The
airport’s Round Table Initiative praised
above all the airline’s efforts in the
areas of fleet modernization and noise
reduction.
For its analysis software OMEGA, which
it jointly developed with IT company Aviaso, Lufthansa received the Innovation
Award of German Aviation in the category emissions reduction.
The Lufthansa Group is currently listed in
the following sustainability indices and
received the following ratings:
FTSE4Good
Ethibel Excellence Investment Register
and Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI)
Excellence Europe
ECPI
MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series
oekom Prime Rating

Deutsche Lufthansa AG
Lufthansa Group Communications
Lufthansa Aviation Center
60546 Frankfurt am Main
Germany
E-mail: balance@dlh.de
Balance is a registered title.
© July 2016
www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

