Issue 2014

Balance
Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group

About this report

// 01

The present sustainability report Balance informs stakeholders and
the interested public about the goals, activities, and advances of
the Lufthansa Group in the areas of business, social responsibility,
environment, and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this
report pertain to the ﬁnancial year 2013.

Corporate responsibility as understood in
the Lufthansa Group has the following
ﬁve dimensions:
Economic sustainability
Social responsibility
Climate and environmental
responsibility
Corporate governance and
compliance
Corporate citizenship
The Corporate governance and compliance dimension is considered in the
chapter “Sustainable Business Practice”.
A new chapter, “Product Responsibility”,
appears for the ﬁrst time in the present
edition of this report.
Scope of consolidation and
comparability
Explanatory notes on the scope of consolidation, comparability of data, and the
methodology employed to calculate the
absolute and speciﬁc consumption of
resources by the Lufthansa Group are to
be found on page 125. Changes in our
portfolio in recent years limit the extent to
which the personnel ﬁgures and environmental data presented in this report are
comparable to those reported for previous years. The cooperative arrangement
between Lufthansa and the regional
airline Contact Air, to cite one example,
ended in September 2012. This report
also differs from the 2013 Annual Report
in the approaches it takes to passenger
numbers and the indicators derived from
them (see the explanatory notes to the
table At a glance on page 02).

Publication dates of this report
Balance, the Sustainability Report of the
Lufthansa Group, is published once a
year in a German and an English edition.
The previous edition was published on
June 6, 2013.
Additional information on the Internet
In addition to this report, Lufthansa provides a source of information about its
activities in the area of sustainability at
this Internet address:
www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

Disclaimer in respect of forwardlooking statements
The data included in this report have
been collected and processed with the
utmost care. Nevertheless, errors in
transmission cannot be ruled out entirely.
Information published in this report that
relates to the future development of the
Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries
consists purely of forecasts and assessments and not of deﬁnitive historical
facts. It is intended for informational
purposes only and is qualiﬁed by the use
of such cautionary verbs as believe,
expect, forecast, intend, project, plan,
estimate, count on, and endeavor. These
forward-looking statements are based on
all discernible information, facts, and
expectations available to us at this time.
They can, therefore, only claim validity
up to the date of their publication. Since
forward-looking statements are by nature
subject to uncertainties and imponderable risk factors—such as changes in
underlying economic conditions—and
rest on assumptions that future events

may not entirely, if at all, conﬁrm, it is
possible that the Group’s actual results
and the course of its development may
differ substantially from those forecast.
Lufthansa makes a point of checking and
updating the information it publishes. It
cannot, however, assume any obligation
to adjust statements referring to the
future in light of events or developments
that may occur at some later date.
Accordingly, it neither expressly nor
implicitly accepts liability, nor does it give
any guarantee for the topicality, accuracy, or completeness of these data or
information. ß

Þ
1 Taken from the Annual Report 2013 of the Lufthansa
Group. 2 For the reporting year 2013, the following
companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa
(including Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings,
Augsburg Airways), Germanwings, Lufthansa Cargo,
Swiss (including Edelweiss Air) and Austrian Airlines.
Excluding the services of third parties as Lufthansa
can inﬂuence neither performance nor the equipment
operated (see also table Share of third parties on
page 52). 3 Types of ﬂights taken into account: all
scheduled and charter ﬂights. 4 See also table Fuel
consumption on page 52. 5 Value corrected due to
calculation error. 6 Balance: segments (operational
perspective); Annual Report: Distance (customer
perspective). One distance can include several segments, e.g. in the event of stops en route. 7 Balance:
on the basis of all passengers aboard; Annual Report:
on the basis of all revenue passengers. 8 Companies
referred to as in 2, but including the services of third
parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results.
Types of ﬂights as in 3, but including ferry ﬂights, as
these represent costs.

At a glance

// 02

Business performance data 1

2013

2012

Change

million €

30,028

30,135

– 0.4%

million €

24,565

24,793

– 0.9%

Operating result

million €

697

839

– 16.9%

Proﬁt/loss from operating activities

million €

849

1,622

– 47.7%

Net proﬁt/loss for the period

million €

313

1,228

– 74.5%

Total assets

million €

29,084

28,559

+ 1.8%

Cash ﬂow from operating activities

million €

3,290

2,842

+ 15.8%

Capital expenditure

million €

2,499

2,359

+ 5.9%

percent

21.0

16.9

+ 4.1PP

Revenue
of which trafﬁc revenue

Equity ratio

Personnel data

2013

2012

Change

118,214

116,957

+ 1.1%

of these, in Germany

66,795

67,620

– 1.2%

of these, outside Germany

51,419

49,337

+ 4.2%

7,350

6,741

+ 9.0%

Number of employees (on December 31, respectively)

Staff costs

million €

Revenue/employee

thousand €

256

257

– 0.4%

Staff costs/revenue

percent

24.5

22.4

+ 2.1PP

years

41.9

41.3

+ 0.6 years

Part-time ratio, absolute

percent

28.1

27.9

+ 0.2PP

Part-time ratio, men

percent

14.1

13.7

+ 0.4PP

Part-time ratio, women

percent

45.6

45.3

+ 0.3PP

Share of women in management (Germany)

percent

16.7

15.5

+ 1.2PP

Share of women in management (worldwide)

percent

14.5

13.6

+ 0.9PP

2013

2012

Change

tonnes

8,764,774

8,878,926

– 1.3%

l /100 pkm

3.91

4.06

– 3.8%

g / tkm

223

230

– 3.0%
– 1.3%

Average age

Environmental data 2, 3
Resource consumption
Fuel consumption 4
Fuel consumption, speciﬁc, passenger transportation
Fuel consumption, speciﬁc, freight transport
Emissions
Carbon dioxide emissions
Carbon dioxide emissions, speciﬁc, passenger transportation
Nitrogen oxide emissions
Nitrogen oxide emissions, speciﬁc, passenger transportation
Carbon monoxide emissions
Carbon monoxide emissions, speciﬁc, passenger transportation
Unburned hydrocarbons
Unburned hydrocarbons, speciﬁc, passenger transportation

tonnes

27,609,039

27,968,627

kg /100 pkm

9.84

10.24

tonnes

131,091

132,651 5

– 1.2%

g /100 pkm

46.7

48.4 5

– 3.5%

tonnes

18,976

19,512 5

g /100 pkm

7.4

tonnes

1,990.8

g /100 pkm

0.7

Transport performance data 2013
Flights 6

– 3.8%

7.8

– 2.8%
– 5.5%

2,098.0 5

– 5.1%

0.8

– 7.3%

Balance 2, 3

± 2012

Annual Report 8

± 2012

968,428

– 3.5%

1,028,260

– 3.7%
+ 1.0%

102,693,589

+ 1.7%

104,587,418

tonnes

1,962,764

– 0.5%

1,965,330

– 0.9%

million pkm

259,593

+ 1.2%

262,682

+ 1.0%

Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO

million tkm

14,564

+ 0.7%

14,893

+ 1.0%

Tonne kilometers offered, TKO

million tkm

40,212

+ 1.0%

41,218

+ 0.7%

million pkm

213,475

+ 2.8%

209,649

+ 2.3%

Passengers carried

7

Freight and mail carried
Seat kilometers offered, SKO

Passenger kilometers transported, PKT 7
Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT

million tkm

9,395

+ 1.4%

10,285

+ 0.4%

Tonne kilometers transported, TKT

million tkm

30,817

+ 2.3%

30,879

+ 1.5%

A day
in the
Lufthansa
Group

2,800
286,000
5,400
1.45
32,000
1,700

takeoffs / landings a day

passengers a day

tonnes of freight a day

million meals a day

calls a day
to the Customer Service Network

aircraft are maintained by us every day

Passenger Airline Group
flight destinations *
Europe
8,917 weekly
frequencies to
158 destinations in
41 countries

Africa
203 weekly
frequencies to
44 destinations in
33 countries

North Atlantic
307 weekly
frequencies to
21 destinations in
2 countries

Central and
South America
59 weekly frequencies to 9 destinations
in 7 countries

Middle East
172 weekly
frequencies to
15 destinations in
11 countries

Asia / Paciﬁc
241 weekly
frequencies to
27 destinations in
12 countries

* Frequencies per week by Lufthansa, Swiss,
Austrian Airlines, and Brussels Airlines.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // ­Lufthansa Group // 03

Dear Readers,
In 2013, as in previous years, the companies of the L­ ufthansa Group and their employees have
“maintained the balance.” Even in economically demanding times, we have never lost sight of
how important sustainable management of our company is for our long-term success. We have
underscored this principle with our membership in the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest
initiative for responsible business management, which we joined back in 2002.

“Aircraft today are 80%
quieter than 60 years
ago.”
Carsten Spohr

I am pleased to present to you the 20th edition of our sustainability report, Balance. As the
largest aviation company in Europe, we are obligated to a large number of interest groups.
We embrace this responsibility.
Economic sustainability is fundamental to shaping the important dimensions of our responsibility
to society, the climate, and the environment in a manner that is geared towards the future. Our
corporate program, SCORE, which we have reported on in Balance and other publications since
the program began in 2012, has an important role to play in this regard. SCORE is making a
key contribution as we consolidate our financial strength and finance our investments in new
aircraft and innovative products and services. In financial year 2013 alone we put 31 new
aircraft into service. With the Airbus A350-900 and Boeing 777-9X long-haul aircraft we have
on order, we are making a quantum leap—not only where the travel experience of our
customers is concerned, but also in respect of noise and fuel efficiency. You can learn about
our commitment to active noise protection in our special chapter “More quietly into the future,”
included in this report.
Aircraft today are 80% quieter than 60 years ago. We are not only quieter as we travel the skies,
but also more sparing in our use of kerosene. In the last year the airlines of the L­ ufthansa Group
once again achieved a further increase in their fuel efficiency. In 2013, average consumption
stood at 3.91 liters of kerosene per passenger per 100 kilometers. That is 3.8% less than in the
previous year—another record, this one taking us below the four-liter limit. And for the second
time in a row, absolute fuel consumption has decreased. The Group consumed 114,152 fewer
tonnes of fuel as compared to 2012, sparing the environment the potential burden of more than
350,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. This equates approximately to the emissions produced by
oil-burning furnaces in 50,000 single-family homes in one year.
The changes that have been taking place in our company, to which SCORE has given new
impetus, will be continuing. They are also seen from “outside” as an important element in the
future viability of the ­Lufthansa Group. This makes us even more attractive as an employer, as
does our focus on promoting women to management positions. The percentage of women at all
levels—in management, on the Executive Board, and on the Supervisory Board—increased
further during the reporting year. As compared to the other DAX 30 companies, we have the
highest percentage of women on the Executive Board (40%). And with women occupying 35% of
the positions on the Supervisory Board, we are in a top position on the Women on Board index.
For a more in-depth look at our fascinating company and the world of air travel, I recommend
that you read our latest Balance report. Enjoy!

Carsten Spohr
Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO
Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG
www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

Contents
  /
1/

2/

3/

4/

5/

6/

01
02
06

About this report
At a glance
Company profile

08

More quietly into the future

22
24
28
30
35
38
40

Sustainable Business Practice
Embodying corporate responsibility
Corporate governance and compliance
Stakeholder dialogue
Fleet development
Sustainability in the procurement process
Local value creation

44
46
49
60
66

Climate and Environmental Responsibility
Strategy and management
Fuel consumption and emissions
Energy and resource management
Involvement in science

68
70
72
74
76
78

Product Responsibility
Our fundamental focus
Customer satisfaction
Flight safety and health protection
Data protection and data security
CO2 compensation

80
82
85
90
97
100

Social Responsibility
A new personnel strategy for the L­ ufthansa Group
Diversity and equality of opportunity
Employment policy based on partnership
Training and continuing education
Employee safety and health protection

102
105
106
110
112
114

Corporate Citizenship
Humanitarian emergency aid
Social commitment
Environmental sponsorship
Cultural commitment
Sports sponsorship

116
118
124
125
126
127
129

22

Sustainable
Business Practice

44

Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Service and Information
Glossary
Editorial information and contact persons
Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology of calculations
Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet
The operating fleet of the ­Lufthansa Group
Prizes and awards

102

Corporate Citizenship

80

Social Responsibility

116

Service and Information

68

Product Responsibility

06 // Company profile

The ­Lufthansa Group
Europe’s largest aviation company

The ­Lufthansa Group is a globally operating aviation company with approximately 500
subsidiaries and associated companies. It operates in five business segments: Passenger
Airline Group, Logistics, MRO (maintenance, repair, overhaul), Catering, and IT Services.
The Group is one of the global market leaders in all of these business segments.
www.lufthansagroup.com

Ú > 104.5 million
Ú > 1.9 million
tonnes of

passengers
in 2013

freight /mail
in 2013

Ú 118,214
employees*

Ú 151

Ú 622

aircraft
in the fleet*

nationalities*

Corporate
head­quarters in

Ú Cologne
Ú Frankfurt a. M.,
Munich, Zurich,
Vienna, and
Brussels
hubs

* As of December 31, 2013.

Ú 301 destinations in
102 countries

route network of the passenger airlines
according to the 2014 summer flight
schedule

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // ­Lufthansa Group // 07

The five business segments
of the ­Lufthansa Group
Passenger Airline Group
The Passenger Airline Group constitutes the largest business segment
and is the nucleus of the L­ ufthansa Group. The airlines of the L­ ufthansa
Group have positioned themselves in their various segments as quality

carriers. In 2013 the airline group was able to assert its market leadership in Europe and once again achieve the highest passenger and
sales numbers of all European airlines.

­Lufthansa
www.LH.com

Germanwings
www.germanwings.com

Swiss
www.swiss.com

Brussels Airlines
(equity interest: 45%)
www.brusselsairlines.com

SunExpress
(equity interest: 50%)
www.sunexpress.com

jetBlue Airways
(equity interest: 15.85%)
www.jetblue.com

Logistics

Austrian Airlines
www.austrian.com

Catering

­Lufthansa Cargo is one of the global market leaders in the international air freight business. The company offers an extensive network
of routes to roughly 300 destinations in more than 100 countries.
­Lufthansa Cargo AG has its headquarters in Frankfurt am Main.
www.lufthansa-cargo.com

LSG Sky Chefs is the world’s largest provider of services in the field of
airline catering and inflight management. In 2013 the company produced 532 million inflight meals for more than 300 airlines throughout
the world. The parent group, LSG L­ ufthansa Service Holding AG, has
its headquarters in Neu-Isenburg near Frankfurt am Main.
www.lsgskychefs.com

­Lufthansa Cargo AG

AeroLogic
(equity interest: 50%)

MRO
­Lufthansa Technik is a world market leader in maintenance, repair,
and overhaul (MRO) of commercial aircraft. The company serves
more than 770 customers worldwide. L­ ufthansa Technik AG has its
headquarters in Hamburg.
www.lufthansa-technik.com

IT Services
­ ufthansa Systems is a major global provider of IT services for
L
the airline and aviation industry. More than 300 airlines and some
150 companies worldwide rely on the company’s expertise.
­Lufthansa Systems AG has its headquarters in Kelsterbach near
Frankfurt am Main.
www.LHsystems.com

08 // More quietly into the future

More quietly into the future
The ­Lufthansa Group is setting standards
in its approach to active noise abatement

Over the course of the 20th and 21st centuries, mobility became an ordinary aspect of everyday life.
The world became a village. Nowadays it is a fundamental condition for economic or social community.
In 2013, for the first time, more than three billion people traveled by air. Mobility can also give rise to
conflict, however. It not only provides benefits but also has an impact on the environment, one source of
which is noise emissions. This is true of all modes of transportation. It is as true of freight trains as it is for
trucks, cars, and airplanes. The airlines of the ­Lufthansa Group have been setting standards worldwide
for responsible mobility. And that includes our commitment to active noise abatement. Understanding the
causes of noise in detail and finding ways to continually reduce them are formidable tasks. We are working
on them with leading scientists and experts.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // ­Lufthansa Group // 09

quiet

10 // More quietly into the future

Interview
with Professor
Dr. Brigitte Schulte-Fortkamp
Prof. Dr. Brigitte Schulte-Fortkamp

Expert on psychoacoustics and noise effects,
­Institute of Fluid Mechanics and Engineering
Acoustics at the Technische Universität Berlin.

How loud you want your music depends on
your own mood or what type of music it is.
This explains why your neighbor may feel
bothered by it. When sounds disrupt conversation, interfere with sleep, or are inappropriate to a situation, then they become noise.
The more often this happens, the more
annoyed one feels and the greater the danger of falling into a cycle of irritation, stress,
and illness. It is not always the volume of a
sound that matters; quite often it is its significance. Softer sounds that resemble the
pattern of unwelcome sounds can be perceived as noise as well.
Prof. Schulte-Fortkamp, the issue of
noise is becoming increasingly prominent
on the agenda of public debate. We could
sum up the expectation of many people as
follows: “The world must get quieter.” But
to achieve this objective, we need to come
to a shared understanding of the causes
and effects of noise as well as possible
solutions. What is noise?
Noise is sound that is unpleasant, disturbing,
and/or harmful to health (DIN 1320). The
adverse effects of unpleasant or disturbing
sounds may be psychological, physical,
social, or economic. The important thing to
remember is that noise cannot be measured
on a gauge. Noise is one’s reaction to sounds,
which may be experienced as irritation, anger,
stress, or even illness.

What makes noise different from other
emissions such as the toxic substances or
radiation levels we are exposed to in our
highly developed, mobile society?
One can always reduce or even prevent
noise, whether by “turning it down” by technical means at the source or, for the sake of
social compatibility, by social convention. By
that I mean not only that rules and regulations
for noise prevention should be complied with.
Rather, noise is not just physically present or
technically generated but socially generated
as well. It is, in other words, also a matter of
individual, and therefore social, behavior.
Furthermore, even though the harmful effects
of noise are well known, often they cannot be
observed directly, and this is why noise can
affect people in a dangerous matter.

Why is it that one person may find loud
music pleasant while his or her neighbor
is disturbed by it? Or to put the question
another way, what turns a sound into
noise?

We all want to be mobile. Even the exotic
fruits on display in the supermarket are
expected to be fresh. But airports and
freeways, like cell phone towers, are considered undesirable. How do you explain

this development, which, in Western
­societies at least, is very widespread?
People are of course only too happy to use
modern innovations, including freeways and
airports, for their own convenience. The question is, however, would one really like to live
near a freeway or airport and put up with the
associated stresses? Probably not! We prefer
to leave that to “others.”
What can one do about noise, actively
or passively?
There is a lot one can do about noise, both
actively and passively. Noise can be actively
reduced at the source. One can begin by
avoiding noise oneself, which is partly a matter of social conduct. We’re all familiar with
them, those people on the train, in the waiting
lounge at the airport, or on the neighbor’s
balcony who are forever talking on their
phones. By the same token, you don’t have
to rev up your motorcycle or sports car in a
populated area or insist that the entire neighborhood enjoy your latest CD at full volume.
It is the technological sources that matter
the most. Manufacturing-based solutions
can reduce noise generation at the source,
as in the case of low-noise road and rail
vehicles and aircraft. Given the burden of
­environmental noise, it is absolutely vital to
use passive sound insulation for one’s living
area. But that means it also has to be made
­available. ß

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 11

Volume of various noises compared
Motor saw

All values in dB(A)

7m

120

dB(A)
Pneumatic hammer

7m

100

dB(A)
Freight train 100 km / h

25 m

90

dB(A)
Heavy goods vehicle 75 km / h

7.5 m

90

dB(A)
Boeing 747-400

300 m

90

dB(A)
ICE train 250 km / h

25 m

80

dB(A)
Bus 60 km / h

25 m

80

dB(A)
Airbus A 319

300 m

80

dB(A)
Car 60 km / h

25 m

70

dB(A)
Airbus A 319

1,000 m

70

dB(A)
Normal conversation

1m

60

dB(A)
Airbus A 319

2,000 m

60

dB(A)
Quiet radio

1m

50

dB(A)

30

dB(A)

20

dB(A)

Ticking alarm clock

Dripping faucet

Sources: SRU, EMPA, MIL, HLUG, UBA, Armbruster

1m

1m

12 // More quietly into the future

More quietly into the future
The dimensions of our commitment

­Lufthansa
Boeing 747-8

	
The chevron nozzle
reduces jet noise;
for more details
see page 14

01 / Investments in the most
advanced aircraft
	We always put a premium on having the most advanced
technologies.
	261 new aircraft will be delivered to us between 2014 and 2025.
	We buy the quietest engines available on the market.
	We are thereby considerably reducing the noise burden on
­people living in the vicinity of airports.

02 / Retrofitting the existing
fleet in order to reduce
noise
	We are retrofitting our fleet with new noise-reducing
technologies.
	157 aircraft in the existing fleet are getting vortex
generators, which lower the noise level of an aircraft
during its landing approach by up to four decibels.
	All L­ ufthansa B 737 aircraft stationed in Frankfurt
have been equipped with noise mufflers.

03 / Active involvement
in noise research
	We are conducting research for quieter
flying.
	We are identifying noise sources and
deriving options for action from what we find.
	We are participating in studies on the effects
of noise.
	We have been involved in the Quiet Traffic
research network for 15 years.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 13

05 / Dialogue with persons living in proximity to airports
and other stakeholders
We take an active part in dialogue forums.
We provide extensive information about our activities.

04 / Joint development of noisereducing landing approach and
takeoff procedures with our
­system partners
	Our flight operations are tied into the measures for noise abatement in numerous ways.
	Under certain weather conditions the angle of approach to the
northwest runway in Frankfurt is increased.
	At the Frankfurt hub the scheduled rotation of different runways
for takeoffs leads to real noise breaks.

14 // More quietly into the future

Ú

01/

Investments in the most
advanced aircraft
Ideally, active noise abatement would either
prevent noise from occurring in the first place
or substantially reduce it by using the most
advanced technologies. We therefore invest
continually in state-of-the-art aircraft.
By 2025 the L­ ufthansa Group will take delivery
of 261 aircraft of the latest generation at a list
value of EUR 32 billion. It is clear from the
example of the new Boeing 747-8—the legendary jumbo jet—that modern commercial
aircraft are becoming quieter all the time.
As compared to its predecessor model the
­Boeing 747-400, the noise footprint of the
Boeing 747-8 is 30% smaller [Ú 02].

The chevron nozzle, as shown in the photograph [Ú 03], considerably reduces pressure
fluctuations and, consequently, the jet noise
emitted by the engines. The sawtooth concept
is applied also to the outer trailing edge.
There, too, it reduces noise emissions. In
2001, L­ ufthansa and the German Aerospace
Center together used overfly measurements
to demonstrate that chevrons on the exhaust
nozzle reduce the exhaust noise of an Airbus
A319 engine by about 1 dB(A).
In addition to the A320neo short- and
medium-haul aircraft ordered in 2011 and
2013, 59 state-of-the-art aircraft—34 Boeing
777-9X and 25 Airbus A350-900—will join the
­Lufthansa Group’s long-haul fleet in the future
[Ú 01]. Delivery of the A350-900 will begin
as early as 2016. By 2025 they will have
replaced the older Boeing 747-400 and
­Airbus A340-300 aircraft. The new models
will have a considerably smaller noise footprint than today’s aircraft [Ú 02]. ß

Noise contours compared
(B 747-400 vs. B 747-8
and B 777-9X)

[Ú 02]

For each of the contours shown, the intensity of
sound at takeoff is 85 decibels. ß
10 km

– 30%
8 km

– 40%

www.lufthansagroup.com/fleet_development
6 km

4 km

New long-haul aircraft
(A350-900 and Boeing 777-9X) [Ú 01]
2 km

Start

On May 1, 2014 the ­Lufthansa Group received
the 13th of the 19 Boeing 747-8 aircraft it has
on order. This aircraft is powered by thoroughly redesigned, considerably quieter, and
highly fuel-efficient engines. The most striking
of the numerous technological innovations is
the chevron, a sawtooth pattern on the trailing
edge of the engine’s exhaust nozzle. This
results in a better mixing of the turbulent shear
layer, the stratum of air between the hot, fast
exhaust jet from the engine’s turbine and the
cold bypass stream that flows around or
envelops the engine’s core.

Airbus A350-900

MTOW
First flight
Boeing 777-9X
More quietly into the future: The new long-haul aircraft
will be powered by exceptionally quiet and fuel-efficient
engines: the Airbus A350-900 by Rolls Royce Trent XWB
84 engines and the Boeing 777-9X by the GE-9X engines
manufactured by General Electric. The noise footprint
of both models will be considerably smaller than that of
today’s aircraft.

Boeing
747-400
395 t
1989

Boeing
747-8
442 t
2012

Boeing
777-9X
351 t
~ 2020

The noise footprint of a Boeing 747-8 on takeoff is,
despite its 10% higher maximum takeoff weight, about
30% smaller than that of the Boeing 747-400. The Boeing
777-9X ordered by L
­ ufthansa will have a noise footprint
that is about 40% smaller than that of the Boeing 747-400,
according to the manufacturer’s specifications. The chart
shows the 85 dB maximum level contours for a takeoff
according to standard L
­ ufthansa takeoff procedures
(modATA) and with the takeoff weights as shown.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // ­Lufthansa Group // 15

[Ú 03]

261

Between 2014 and 2025
the ­Lufthansa Group will
be taking delivery of a
total of 261 low-noise
and highly fuel-efficient
aircraft.

03
The L­ ufthansa Boeing 747-8 is powered
by thoroughly redesigned, considerably
quieter, and highly fuel-efficient engines.
The most striking of the numerous technological innovations is the chevron, a
sawtooth pattern on the trailing edge of
the engine’s exhaust nozzle.

16 // More quietly into the future

Ú

02 /

Retrofitting the existing
fleet in order to reduce
noise
The L­ ufthansa Group is also retrofitting older
aircraft in its fleet with noise-reducing technologies. In this connection the Group is
working closely with the German Aerospace
Center (DLR) and the various aircraft manufacturers. Some of the research findings
resulting from this cooperation have already
been incorporated into the manufacturing
process.
­ ufthansa is retrofitting more than 200
L
aircraft with vortex generators so that
they will fly more quietly in the future
In February 2014 ­Lufthansa became the first
airline in the world to take delivery of an Airbus A320 equipped with vortex generators. A
total of 157 aircraft in the existing fleet will be
equipped with the new noise-reducing component, so that, when the expected new
deliveries are added in, more than 200 A320
aircraft in total will be flying more quietly.
These will be used on short- and mediumhaul routes in Germany and Europe.
The vortex generator technology [Ú 06] is
based on the results of the research conducted by the ­Lufthansa Group and the DLR.
Overfly measurements revealed that the
vortex generators are able to eliminate two
unpleasant tones. Initial measurements of the
new aircraft with vortex generators have
shown that the aircraft’s total noise level on
approach falls by up to four decibels at distances between 17 and 10 kilometers from
the runway. Thus the ­Lufthansa Group has
realized a key objective of the Alliance for
More Noise Protection, a joint initiative of the
­Lufthansa Group, Fraport, the airline association BARIG, DFS, the Airport and Region
Forum (FFR), and the government of the State
of Hesse. This measure brings relief particularly to neighbors of the major hubs serving
Frankfurt and Munich.

Silencers for the Boeing 737
The ­Lufthansa Group retrofitted all of its
­Boeing 737 aircraft stationed in Frankfurt with
new silencers in 2011 to bridge the period
until new, quieter aircraft are delivered and to
bring relief earlier to those living in the vicinity
of the airport. The last Boeing 737 is to be
taken out of service in 2015. ß

[Ú 04]

Ú

03 /

04
Research for quieter flying: Lufthansa
Technik’s soundproof hangar at
Hamburg Airport.

Active involvement in
noise research
The task of making air traffic ever quieter is a
complex one. It requires the cooperative
efforts of multiple actors. For this reason, the
­Lufthansa Group is working closely with
partners in industry, government, academia,
and major research institutions. We have
been actively involved with the Quiet Traffic
research network since 1999. This initiative,
which is led by the DLR, relies on the interdisciplinary cooperation of industry, research
institutions, and transport operators. It investigates specific problems related to noise from
road, rail, and air traffic.
Project MODAL: Identifying noise sources
and improving noise abatement measures
The ­Lufthansa Group is spearheading the
project MODAL (Models and Data for the
Development of Active Noise-Abatement
Measures in Aviation) as part of the Aeronautics Research Program of the German Ministry of Economics. The project is aimed at
achieving a better understanding of the noise
emissions produced by different types of
aircraft. Another aim is to improve the analysis of active noise abatement measures
through more precise calculations.
Project SAMURAI: The cornerstone
for ­quieter jet engines
From September 23 to 28, 2013, DLR scientists used laser technology and microphones
for the first time to analyze noise generation
inside jet engines and on the main fan. In this
elaborate and sophisticated measuring cam-

paign, the noise researchers used the DLR’s
A320-ATRA research aircraft for a series of
static engine tests. The test runs were carried
out in ­Lufthansa Technik’s soundproof hangar
at Hamburg Airport. ­Lufthansa Technik and
Hamburg Airport supported the multidisciplinary research project. Never before had the
mounted engines of a commercial aircraft
been studied with the simultaneous use of a
large number of microphones and laser-optic
metrology techniques while in operation. The
objective of the project is to locate the zones
within the engine flow where large, turbulent
fluctuations in velocity and density produce
noise. Once the project is completed, the
researchers intend to deliver improved simulations of jet engines and their noise-producing
flow structures.
NORAH: A new noise study
The NORAH (Noise-Related Annoyance,
Cognition, and Health) study concerns the
effects of noise produced by road, rail, and air
traffic on the health and quality of life of the
resident population of affected areas. Publication of the NORAH report is expected sometime in the middle of 2015. The ­Lufthansa
Group supports the study because of its broad
scope and sound scientific basis. ß
www.norah-studie.de

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 17

“Before every takeoff
we consider what the
optimum procedure
is to keep noise to a
minimum.”

Capt. Oliver Cantele,
Ops­Efficiency Program Manager,
Austrian Airlines

“There is an audible
reduction in the noise
burden on residents of
areas near our major
hubs.”

Markus Pauly,
Director, Commercials
& ­Development
Frankfurt Hub,
Deutsche L
­ ufthansa AG

“Low noise and consumption values are the
two crucial environmental
parameters when selecting new aircraft.”

Nico Buchholz,
Executive Vice President,
Group Fleet Management,
Deutsche ­Lufthansa AG

“We have been actively
involved for years in
noise research so that we
can fly more quietly.”

Dr. Gerd Saueressig,
Manager, Group Environmental
Issues,
Deutsche ­Lufthansa AG

18 // More quietly into the future

Flight noise portal
Extensive information on the
airline industry’s commitment
to noise abatement can be
found also on the new website of the German Aviation
Association (BDL).

Major progress for
freight transport
05
Boeing 777-F: The three numbers and one letter
stand for the world’s quietest and most environmentally friendly freighter. In June 2014 L­ ufthansa Cargo
put into service the fourth of the five aircraft of this
type it had ordered. It meets the standards of what is
currently the most rigorous noise protection class in
civil aviation.

[Ú 05]
[Ú 06]

Fewer people affected
by noise from aviation 

[Ú 07]

Fewer and fewer people consider themselves extremely or moderately affected
by noise from aviation.

17%

Neighbors

15%
Rail
traffic

6%

Air
traffic
’00 ’02

’04

’06

’08

’10

2012

Source: BMU, Umweltbewusstsein in Deutschland
(Environmental awareness in Germany) 2000 – 2012

Quieter thanks to sophisticated
technology
06
­Lufthansa is retrofitting more than 200 aircraft with vortex generators
so that they will fly even more quietly in the future. They are based
on the results of research conducted by the L­ ufthansa Group and
the DLR. Overfly measurements revealed that the vortex generators
are able to eliminate two unpleasant tones and thereby lower the aircraft’s total noise level on approach by up to four decibels.

07
Those who question the benefits of mobility for persons or for the transport of goods are entering into a
discussion with implications for society as a whole.
Some of these implications are health-related, as
mass transportation produces noise. For those who
are affected the most, aircraft noise is a source of
stress. On the whole, however, the adverse effect air
traffic has on people is small in comparison to other
modes of transportation. Moreover, the proportion of
people who consider their exposure to aircraft noise
to be strong to moderate has declined by more than
half since 2000.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 19

[Ú 08]

Bombardier CSeries at
Swiss: Audible reduction
in the noise burden on
residents of areas near
airports
08
Swiss will be taking delivery of 30 CSeries aircraft
from Bombardier, which will replace the Avro RJ100
regional aircraft currently in operation. The advent
of this new generation of aircraft will bring a clearly
audible improvement to the lives of those living near
airports. The new aircraft, which are destined for
service on European routes beginning sometime
in 2015, are on average 10 to 15 decibels quieter
than an Avro RJ100. According to the manufacturer
information, the 60 dB maximum level contour of the
CSeries has been reduced by 75% in comparison
with its predecessor.

Where noises are generated on an aircraft
Control surfaces

[Ú 09]
Engines

Turbine fan

Slats
Flaps

Jet

The sound of an aircraft taking off is
dominated by the noises produced by
the engines. These emit noise both
­forwards and backwards. Airframe noise
is caused by landing gear and control
surfaces such as slats and flaps. These
are important starting points for any
­project to develop new, quieter aircraft.

Landing gear

Yet more of the substantially quieter Airbus
A320neo aircraft for
­Lufthansa
10
The ­Lufthansa Group ordered 30 aircraft in the
A320neo family on March 16, 2011 and another
70 such aircraft on March 13, 2013. 60 of these
aircraft are equipped with PW1100G engines built
by Pratt & Whitney, 40 others with LEAP-1A engines
built by CFM International. These two engines are
comparable in their flight performance and environmental compatibility values. For example, they
reduce by half, according to their manufacturers’
specifications, the usual noise footprint produced
by an aircraft when taking off or landing. This is
a substantial reduction in the noise burden on
­residents of areas close to airports.

[Ú 10]

20 // More quietly into the future

Ú

04 /
Financial incentive systems for
airlines.
Did you know
that … Ú
Since 2001, aircraft that take
off or land in Frankfurt are classified according to the aircraft
type’s noise level as actually
measured in Frankfurt? Louder
types of aircraft bear a heavier
fee burden. The Frankfurt
Airport is an international pioneer with its noise-based fee
structure.
Source: Fraport, B
­ ericht
über Schallschutz am
Flughafen Frankfurt (Report
on noise abatement at
Frankfurt Airport), ­October
2012 – March 2013

Joint development of
noise-reducing landing
approach and takeoff
procedures with our
­system partners

and work intensively to introduce new noisereducing takeoff and landing approach procedures. One measure already implemented in
Frankfurt is the scheduled alternation of different takeoff runways referred to as dedicated
runway operations. This results in predictable,
genuine breaks from noise.
In addition, the angle of approach to the new
northwest runway in Frankfurt has been
increased for certain weather conditions from
3.0 to 3.2 degrees, which results in higher
overfly altitudes. This is one of the few means
available to afford people living in proximity
to the airport and directly below the final
approach path at least some mild relief from
the noise [Ú 11].

In its efforts to fly more quietly, the Lufthansa
Group has been having successful results for
a long time with new flight procedures such
as continuous descent operations, steeper
approaches, and changes in flight routes.
Such noise-reducing takeoff and landing
procedures are another focus of our active
noise abatement measures, such as those
developed and implemented in the Airport
and Region Forum (FFR) in Frankfurt. Our
flight operations are tied into these measures
in numerous ways.
Noise reduction at the Frankfurt hub: Relief
for those affected the most
Particularly in Frankfurt, our biggest German
hub, representatives of the flight operators
regularly take part in a roundtable of experts

Flying higher for longer

[Ú 11]
Since the middle of October 2012, the angle of approach to the
northwest runway has been increased by almost 7%.

929 m

New angle
of approach

602 m
870 m

292 m
565 m

Previous angle
of approach

3.2 °
3.0 °

275 m
Mainz

Hochheim

Flörsheim

Frankfurt
Airport

A steep angle of approach contributes to noise abatement.
The illustration above uses the approach to Frankfurt Airport’s northwest runway as an example.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 21

Ú
80% quieter as a result
of technical innovations

[Ú 13]

Aircraft today are 80% quieter than they were
60 years ago. This progress has been based
primarily on developments in engine technology; see [Ú 12]. Aircraft are improving aerodynamically all the time. They produce smaller
vortices and therefore less noise. With each
new generation of aircraft there is a reduction
in noise emissions as compared to the previous models. In addition, industry and science
are working hand-in-hand to reduce noise
emissions ever further, so that an aircraft’s
noise contours [Ú 02] are being increasingly
limited to the airport premises. This also
reduces the burden of aircraft noise on the
local population.
Furthermore, guidelines such as those for
noise certification by the United Nations’
International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO) are having an impact. These specify
the level of permissible noise emissions from
new aircraft models. Many older and louder
aircraft are no longer allowed at European
airports at all. Exceptions are made for relief
supply flights and vintage airplanes. ß

Reducing noise
at the source

[Ú 12]

Less noise as the result of modern engine
t­echnology. Investments in the billions that
have paid off: 80% quieter in 60 years.
dB
Jet engines

– 25 dB
– 80%

1st generation
of bypass engines

2nd generation
of bypass engines

1950
Source: Airbus

1980

2010

Ú

05 /

Dialogue with ­persons
living in proximity to
airports and other
stakeholders
The ­Lufthansa Group has been engaged for
years in a neighborly dialogue with politicians, experts, and residents of areas near
airports. Maintaining this exchange is a key
concern for us. One example that may serve
as a visible expression of our efforts in this
regard is the Information Center of the Environment and Community House (UNH) in
Kelsterbach near Frankfurt am Main, which
opened in April 2013 [Ú 13]. Together with
other system partners, the Lufthansa Group
provides the project with material support
and content. The UNH contains interactive
exhibition spaces dedicated to topics such as
noise and sound, aviation and the environment, and the importance of the airport to
the economy and the labor market. Its most
important goal is to bring about lasting and
continual improvement in communication and

cooperation among the airport, its users, and
its neighbors. ß

13
View of the interior of the Information
Center of the Environment and Community House in Kelsterbach near
Frankfurt, which opened in April 2013.
Together with other system partners, the
­Lufthansa Group provides material support and content for the project.

Sustainable
Business
Practice
Sustainable business practice is the basis of our
success. Together with our stakeholders we shape
the future.

697

261

3,200

20

operating result for
2013 in million euros

new aircraft that we
will receive between
2014 and 2025

SCORE projects
implemented

years of continuous
reporting on our
sustainability
performance

24 // Sustainable Business Practice

Embodying corporate responsibility

Sustainable business practice is an important influencing factor on our ability
to ensure the future viability of the Lufthansa Group. Responsible entrepreneurial practice is firmly embedded in our corporate strategy. Its guiding principle is shaping the future together.

The Lufthansa Group is committed to pursuing sustainable and responsible management
practices in all of its business segments. In
particular, our extensive investments in a new,
even quieter and more fuel-efficient fleet
constitute an important step towards making
present and future means of human mobility
environmentally compatible. The cash value
added (CVA) approach to measuring company performance under a value-based
management regime integrates value- and
future-oriented thinking into all decisionmaking processes.
The Lufthansa Group’s business operations
and its sustainability agenda are influenced by
many different social developments. Current
global megatrends and future challenges
include, in addition to population growth and
increasing human mobility, demographic
changes, the trend towards a service economy, and growing access to the Internet. At
the same time, there is a mounting need for
security, and environmental protection is
taking on ever greater importance in light of
impending climate change and dwindling
resources.
Confronting these challenges is what we
mean by acting “sustainably.” Our aim is to
create, with innovative services and products,
long-term positive value for our shareholders,
customers, employees, and the good of

society. Through its contribution to our earnings, our corporate program SCORE, which
we instituted in 2012, creates an important
prerequisite and the necessary scope of
action for sustainable business practice.

The Lufthansa Group is
steadfast in its pursuit
of sustainable business
practice.
This creates positive prospects for our companies, our employees, our shareholders, and
our customers.
The Lufthansa Group is pursuing four strategic
goals:
Increase the company’s value.
Expand the leading market position of our
airlines and service companies by actively
shaping the aviation industry.
Continuously increase customer
satisfaction.
Conduct economically, ecologically, and
socially balanced and sustainable business.

The focus of our attention is our customers
and their mobility needs. Our efforts towards
continual improvement are based on longterm value creation, prudent management of
opportunities and risks, rigorous management
of our supply chains, and constructive dialogue with our stakeholders.
Assuming corporate responsibility in the
Lufthansa Group encompasses matters of
economic, ecological, and social sustainability together with corporate governance
and compliance as well as corporate citizenship. Our five-dimensional model makes
sustainable corporate management in all its
facets intelligible for our many and varied
stakeholders [Ú 01].
The individual chapters and subchapters of
the present report provide detailed information
about the various areas on which our commitments are focused. In addition, we include
for the first time a separate chapter devoted
entirely to a report on product responsibility.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 25

Ú
Jointly defining the
key issues
As 2014 began, the Lufthansa Group once
again conducted an expert survey among
representatives of their stakeholders. Its
­purpose was to compare areas of practical
importance for their sustainability policies, as
seen from the standpoint of our stakeholders
and of the company, and to work the results
accordingly into the topics as presented in the
present Sustainability Report and into our
strategic corporate deliberations.

The dimensions
of our corporate responsibility 

[Ú 01]

Climate and
environmental
responsibility

Social
responsibility

Economic
sustainability

Corporate governance
and compliance

Corporate
citizenship

Among the participants in the survey were
representatives of nongovernmental organizations, system partners, politicians, investors,
customers, employees, suppliers, and sustainability experts. Altogether, 21 interviews
were conducted by telephone and in person.
We asked our stakeholders to prioritize the
items on our sustainability agenda (by field
of action) and to evaluate our sustainability
performance. The results of the survey provided us with valuable stimuli for the future
development of our sustainability agenda.

Ú
Actively shaping the
future with SCORE
The Lufthansa Group achieved an operating
result of EUR 697 million in 2013. Given this
economic development, the Executive Board
no longer believes that the earnings target for
2015 of EUR 2.65 billion, which was set as
part of the SCORE program, can be achieved,
despite the substantial contributions to earnings made by SCORE. The Executive Board
now expects an operating result of around
EUR 2 billion for 2015. The company nonetheless intends to substantially increase its operating profit compared with the current year. The
current development underlines the importance of SCORE for the Lufthansa Group.
The goal of the SCORE program is to exploit
synergies within the Group, lower costs,
increase revenues, and optimize processes.

SCORE now comprises more than 4,200
individual projects, some 3,200 of which we
have already implemented. The Lufthansa
Group is thereby creating the conditions that
will allow us to actively shape the future and
manage the company on a sustainable basis.
The SCORE program is organized on three
levels. It comprises Group-wide projects, joint
projects of the airlines in the Lufthansa Group,
and projects within individual companies.
Each project passes through five phases:
conception, evaluation, planning in detail,

implementation, and performance assessment. The SCORE tracker keeps those
involved informed of the status of the various
projects. This Group-wide program also has
long-term corporate cultural significance.
Our goals are entrepreneurship and flexibility
along with optimal cooperation within the
Lufthansa Group. These require motivation
and a strong sense of commitment on the part
of our employees.

26 // Sustainable Business Practice

Ú
Demonstrating responsibility with an extensive
fleet modernization
In 2013 the Lufthansa Group more than doubly
fulfilled the airline industry’s annual target of
increasing fuel efficiency in flight operations by
1.5%. For the first time in the Group’s history,
the Group fleet’s specific fuel consumption
(measured in liters of kerosene per passenger
per 100 kilometers) fell to less than four liters.
For the second year in a row, we were able
also to reduce kerosene consumption in
absolute terms. We are flying more economically while at the same time reducing our
impact on the environment. Detailed information on the subject of fuel efficiency may be
found in the chapter “Climate and Environmental Responsibility” beginning on page 44.
The Lufthansa Group is currently implementing the largest fleet modernization program in
the company’s history. There are now 261
aircraft on order for delivery by the end of
2025, representing an investment volume of
EUR 32 billion at list prices (as of December 31, 2013). The Lufthansa Group invested
EUR 2.5 billion during the reporting period. Of
that, EUR 2.1 billion was invested in modernizing and maintaining the fleet. The Lufthansa
Group also maintains a focus on active noise
protection efforts. We are continually working
to further reduce the noise burden on residents of the areas surrounding our major
airport hubs. This year’s focus topic, “More
quietly into the future”, offers an overview of
these efforts beginning on page 08.

Ú
Awards for commitment
to sustainability
Outside experts and agencies regularly evaluate the Lufthansa Group’s commitment to
responsible action. In 2013 the Group was
once again included in the FTSE4Good and
Ethibel Excellence Investment Register sustainability indices and in two indices compiled
by the well-known ECPI rating agency, which
specializes in sustainability.

02
The E-PORT AN electro-mobility initiative,
in which the Lufthansa
Group is a participant,
received the rating
Leuchtturm Elektromobilität (“ElectroMobility Beacon”) from
the German federal
government.

The FTSE4Good index was introduced in
2001 by FTSE, a wholly owned subsidiary of
the London Stock Exchange. It lists only those
companies that meet the internationally
accepted standards of corporate responsibility
in the following dimensions: environmental
management, climate change, human and
labor rights along the supply chain, corporate
governance, and anti-corruption efforts.

Through its participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the Lufthansa Group
scored yet another improvement in its
assessment as compared to the previous
year. The goal of this independent investor
initiative, which is global in its scope, is to
induce companies to disclose not only their
CO2 emissions, but also their strategies to
further reduce them.
During the reporting year the Lufthansa Group
once again received numerous awards and
prizes. In the category of corporate responsibility, for example, we were awarded the
Airline Business Technology Award by Airline
Business magazine. The jury commended in
particular the technical capabilities and innovativeness of Lufthansa Technik, which is

[Ú 02]

making an important contribution towards
economic and ecological sustainability.
In addition, the E-PORT AN electro-mobility
initiative at Frankfurt Airport, a joint initiative of
the Lufthansa Group, Fraport AG, the State of
Hesse, and the Rhine-Main Model ElectroMobility Region, won the prestigious GreenTec Award in May 2014 in the aviation category. This prize is regarded as the most
important of all European environmental and
business management-related awards. The
joint initiative had already received the rating
Leuchtturm Elektromobilität (“Electro-Mobility
Beacon”) from the German federal government in 2013. A list of selected prizes and
awards can be found on page 129.

Ú
Organizationally
embedded corporate
responsibility
The Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC) is
responsible for coordinating and further developing all activities and initiatives within the
Lufthansa Group related to issues of sustainability. This interdisciplinary and interdepartmental body at the upper management level
is managed by the head of Group Strategy.
The CRC’s members also include the heads
of Political Issues, Environmental Issues,
Human Resources, Legal Affairs, Communi-

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 27

cations, Investor Relations, Controlling, and
Corporate Sourcing departments. The CRC
reports directly to the Executive Board of the
Lufthansa Group. In addition, a working group
established within the Group and comprising
representatives from all sustainability-related
departments meets regularly to discuss current topics and questions relating to corporate
responsibility. This working group reports to
the CRC.

Ú
Linking corporate
responsibility to
financial incentives
Executive Board members and managers
receive their variable remuneration in part on
the basis of cash value added and such
sustainability parameters as fuel efficiency
and CO2 emissions, but also on the basis of
customer and employee satisfaction. The
­Lufthansa Group ensures its economic success by regularly studying the critical opportunities and risks facing the company and
factoring the results into its corporate management decisions. This prepares us for both
positive and negative influences and enables
us to respond to them with flexibility. Detailed
information on how we manage risks and
opportunities may be found in the 2013
Annual Report, beginning on page 97 in the
“Opportunities Report” chapter, and beginning on page 102 in the “Risk Report” c
­ hapter.

Ú
For us, compliance
with the law goes
­without saying
The Lufthansa Group defines corporate governance first and foremost as corporate management and control that is informed by an
awareness of the company’s responsibilities
and aimed towards sustainable value creation. It meets high international standards
and is crucial for maintaining transparency
towards shareholders and trust in the company’s management. The German Stock
Corporation Act and the German Corporate
Governance Code are key elements on which

it is based. Further information on the subject
of corporate governance and compliance
begins on page 28.
Particularly in the social sphere, our scope of
action is defined not only by current laws but
also by the Lufthansa Group’s own commitments. These include our membership in the
UN Global Compact, the largest initiative in
the world for responsible business management. In 2002 Lufthansa became the first aviation company to join the initiative, which had
been launched two years earlier by then UN
Secretary General Kofi Annan. The participating companies have agreed to align their
business activities and strategies with 10
universally accepted principles concerning
human rights, labor standards, environmental
protection, and anti-corruption measures. The
Lufthansa Group supports the principles of the
UN Global Compact with numerous programs
and activities.
The Lufthansa Group is committed to fostering
a culture of diversity within the company
and—with its membership in the UN Global
Compact, the International Chamber of Commerce, Transparency International, the German Business Ethics Network, and institutions
devoted to particular aspects of human
rights—expressly embraces compliance with
the various applicable standards and, ultimately, the cause of human rights. In 1951
Lufthansa’s home country, Germany, signed a
commitment to comply with the ILO standards, whose rules—which for our Group are
a matter of course—are therefore binding on
Lufthansa as well.
In countries where acceptance of human
rights cannot be taken for granted, we make
every effort to encourage positive development by setting an example through our
conduct towards our own employees.
Although realization of the human rights
formulated in the UN Charter is a matter of
national, and hence country-specific, standards, Lufthansa is nevertheless making a
contribution towards securing the following
rights through its exemplary treatment of its
employees:
The right to freedom of assembly and
association
The right to social security
The right to work, to free choice of employment, and to just conditions of work

The right to equal pay for equal work, the
right to form trade unions
The right to rest and leisure and regular
paid vacations
The right to a standard of living adequate
for health
The right to an education and to freely
choose the form of one’s education ß

The 10 principles
of the UN Global
Compact Ú
Human rights
Businesses should support and respect
the protection of international human
rights within their sphere of influence and
make sure their own corporations are not
indirectly linked to human rights abuses.
Labor
Businesses should uphold the freedom
of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor;
effectively abolish child labor; and
eliminate any discrimination in respect
of employment and occupation.
Environment
Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental
challenges;
undertake initiatives to promote greater
environmental responsibility; and
encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly
technologies.
Anti-corruption
Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and
bribery.
www.unglobalcompact.org

28 // Sustainable Business Practice

Corporate governance
and compliance

For the Lufthansa Group, corporate governance is expressed in practice as
corporate management and control that is informed by an awareness of the
company’s responsibilities and aimed towards sustainable value creation. It
meets high international standards and is of central importance in our efforts
to maintain transparency towards the shareholders and continually increase
trust in the company’s management.
The German Stock Corporation Act and the
German Corporate Governance Code are key
elements on which it is based. Our declaration
of conformity pursuant to the German Corporate Governance Code may be found on page
17 of the 2013 Annual Report.
Lufthansa is also registered in the voluntary
transparency register of the European Commission and European Parliament. The goal of
this public register, which was set up in June
2011, is to increase the transparency of decision-making processes within the EU and to
ensure that interactions between EU institutions and organizations, associations and
companies are in conformity with current law
and are conducted on the basis of ethical
principles.

Ú
The Lufthansa Compliance Program ensures
compliance with applicable law
Compliance refers to all measures taken to
ensure that companies, their executive bodies, and their employees observe the law in
their conduct. The Lufthansa Compliance
Program, which was established in 2004, is

intended to keep employees from violating
the law and to train them in the application
and interpretation of legal norms. As an
aviation company with global operations, the
­Lufthansa Group advocates fair competition,
integrity, and responsible action. The compliance guidelines are in unison with the
­Lufthansa Group’s existing guidelines, programs, and work rules.
Organization of the Compliance Program
The Compliance Office, which was established on October 1, 2007 within the central
legal department, is responsible for implementing, developing, and communicating the
Lufthansa Compliance Program. In addition,
the various Group companies have appointed
Compliance Commissioners and Compliance
Managers. The Compliance Office coordinates investigations into circumstances surrounding compliance issues and serves as a
contact point for antitrust and investigative
authorities, to which Lufthansa gives its full
cooperation. The compliance guidelines
constitute a core component of the Lufthansa
Compliance Program. These internal regulations mark out for employees the limits of
proper practice to ensure that conduct conforms to a uniform and legally compliant
standard. The company is not willing to tolerate any violations of law by its employees.
Culpability for violations of law has legal
consequences under labor law and may also

entail personal liability. The Lufthansa Compliance Program currently comprises modules
relating to competition, capital market, integrity, embargo, and corporate compliance
matters.
Competition Compliance
The Competition Compliance module familiarizes employees with the relevant provisions of
antitrust legislation to minimize or exclude the
risks Lufthansa faces under antitrust law. All
employees who are exposed to matters in
which antitrust law is of relevance are trained
in the fundamental provisions of European
and national antitrust legislation.
Capital Market Compliance
The Capital Market Compliance module gives
employees an overview of the applicable
provisions of capital market law, such as
those concerning insider trading or ad hoc
publicity. In this way, and with an accompanying training program, all employees and
company bodies concerned receive an indepth understanding of the provisions of the
German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz).
Integrity Compliance
With the Integrity Compliance module,
­Lufthansa documents its fundamental
approach to legal compliance in its business
dealings. The duty to conduct oneself in a

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 29

manner that is free of corruption and ethically
correct flows naturally from current law, internal compliance guidelines, and the commitments Lufthansa has made through its
­membership in the relevant national and
international organizations. Examples include
the Lufthansa Group’s commitment to the
principles of the UN Global Compact and its
membership in Transparency International.
The Integrity Compliance guidelines and
checklist provide guidance on how to handle
invitations, gifts, and other c
­ onsiderations.
Corporate Compliance
The Corporate Compliance module bundles
those internal regulations that are of key
importance for the Lufthansa Group from a
legal standpoint and makes them transparent
for employees.
Embargo Compliance
The Embargo Compliance module serves to
ensure compliance by the Lufthansa Group,
as a globally operating group of companies,
with the provisions of foreign trade sanctions
imposed against specific countries or persons. The Embargo Compliance guidelines
mark out for the employees concerned the
limits of proper practice.

Regular training in matters of compliance
Automated IT processes ensure that all
employees and executive bodies at Lufthansa
participate once a year in the web-based
training courses (e-learning courses) that are
relevant to what they do. Employees of the
subsidiaries also have access to these
e-learning courses and are to some extent
already included in the automated mailing list.
The Compliance Office regularly offers faceto-face training courses as well. Compliance
training is an integral part of leadership seminars, management courses, and other internal
continuing education events and conferences.
Monitoring and reporting
Self-audits and external audits ensure that
the Compliance Program is implemented
effectively in light of the current requirements under the Accounting Law Modernization Act (Bilanzmodernisierungsgesetz).
In addition, the Supervisory Board’s Audit
Committee is informed twice a year of current compliance-related developments
within the Group and the current state of the
program’s implementation. ß

Ombudsman
­system Ú
Another fundamental element in
the Lufthansa Compliance Program
is the ombudsman system, a program of proven effectiveness that
has been implemented worldwide.
Introduced on December 1, 2007,
it serves as an additional preventive
measure against white-collar crime.
An ombudsman outside the company can receive information from
employees or third parties by telephone, in writing, or in person. The
office of ombudsman is performed
by Dr. Rainer Buchert, a Frankfurt
lawyer who is subject in full to the
legal duty of professional secrecy
and who also has the right to
refuse to give evidence to government investigative authorities. The
ombudsman refers all information
given to him to Lufthansa without
disclosing the names or identities
of his informants. Disclosure of an
informant’s identity to Lufthansa or
third parties without the informant’s
consent is prohibited.

The Lufthansa Compliance Program

Competition

Capital Market

Integrity

Embargo

Program consisting of five modules
The Compliance Office is responsible for implementation, development, and communication

Corporate

30 // Sustainable Business Practice

Stakeholder dialogue

The Lufthansa Group actively seeks constructive and critical exchange with
all of its stakeholders. We maintain this dialogue at the various levels and
work what we learn from it into what we do so that together we can shape
a sustainable future.

Openness, clarity, and continuity are essential
for preserving and further developing trust in
our company among our stakeholders.
Understanding the expectations, interests,
and information needs of our stakeholders is
important for us in many respects. Apart from
the continual exchange of knowledge, it helps
us promote mutual trust and understanding
for both sides.
An all-embracing dialogue with our stakeholders, moreover, clears the way for new forms of
cooperation and collaboration with them. We
are constantly getting our stakeholders
involved in processes of development and
innovation. This includes, for example, the
development of new seats, or other innovations associated with flight as a product, along
with regular customer surveys. We look constructively for joint solutions to social problems
and seek to improve social conditions. An
example of this is our involvement in the
Airport and Region forum and in the Environment and Community House at Frankfurt
Airport.
A fundamental challenge in this dialogue with
stakeholders in different regions of the world
is their variety as reflected in differences in
their expectations. The various subsidiaries
and our worldwide business operations are
other factors. All this calls for great skill in

steering the dialogue towards reconciliation of
varying interests.

Ú
Our sustainability
report, Balance, also
contributes towards
transparency
The sustainability report Balance keeps our
stakeholders informed of various points of
emphasis and the progress being made in our
sustainability strategy. We began in 1994
initially with an environmental report but now
cover all relevant aspects of corporate
responsibility. The sustainability report is the
comprehensive basis for our dialogue with our
stakeholders. In addition, we use various
media to communicate sustainability-related
informational content intended for specific
target groups, content that we are continually
developing.
Since January 2013, for example, the
­Lufthansa Group’s corporate communications
service has been offering, with its information
service Corporate Responsibility – Stichwort
der Woche (“Key phrase of the week”), a
weekly source of information, through social

media and other channels, relating to the
topic of corporate responsibility.
Balance, as the title of our sustainability
report, illustrates our sense of responsibility for
a strategy of balance between the multifarious
interests of the Group and its stakeholders.
We regard the inclusion of our stakeholders in
our corporate decision-making processes as
an ongoing process.

Ú
Recognizing what
the key sustainability
issues are
In February 2014 we made adjustments,
based on a survey conducted among our
stakeholders, to the key areas of action in our
sustainability strategy and to the focus of our
communication on sustainability issues.
Among the participants in the survey were
representatives of nongovernmental organizations, system partners, politicians, investors,
customers, employees, suppliers, and sustainability experts.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 31

Ú
Our dialogue with individual stakeholders

The diverse stakeholders of the Lufthansa Group

Suppliers
Contractual partners

Shaping the future together expresses the
guiding principle behind our approach to
corporate management and its pursuit of
sustainability. It is entirely in keeping with this
spirit that we attach great value to maintaining,
in a spirit of trust, an ongoing dialogue with
our stakeholders.
Passengers/customers
Customers are always at the center of the
Lufthansa Group’s attention. Their satisfaction
is an important concern for us. For more than
a decade Lufthansa has therefore systematically gauged the level of our passengers’
satisfaction using, for example, the CPI (Customer Profile Index). This index reflects customer evaluations all along the service chain.
In 2013 the CPI once again rose in comparison to the previous year—from 7,733 to 7,804
points. This represents a roughly 1% increase
in our passengers’ level of satisfaction. In
addition, the Lufthansa Group is continually
seeking dialogue with its customers, and it
has designed a new feedback process with
its customer advisory boards (see “Customer
satisfaction,” page 72).
Our customers and other stakeholders may
also receive and exchange extensive information about the Lufthansa Group through the
Discover Lufthansa visitor service at our
Frankfurt and Hamburg locations. This service is intended specifically for top German
and international customers from various
industries as well as for students, university
or college graduates, persons living in the
vicinity of airports, and representatives of
various associations and research institutes.
In 2013, 4,645 interested persons availed
themselves of the opportunities offered in
Frankfurt for dialogue on various topics,
including topics relating to sustainability, by
taking part in 485 expert-guided tours and
other events. Roughly 40% of the events were
for corporate or sales customers. Research
institutes and institutes such as the Max
Planck Institute, the Fraunhofer Institute,
Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS), and the
Schmalenbach Gesellschaft accounted for
16%, the second highest share, of visitors.

Employees
	Employee
­representatives

Science
Research
Education

Customers
Consumers
	LOHAS (Lifestyle
of Health and
Sustainability)

Lufthansa
Group

	Nongovernmental
organizations
(NGOs)
Organizations
Consortia

Capital market
Investors
Shareholders
Analysts
Rating agencies

Governments
Legislators
Politicians
Authorities

Neighbors
Local communities
Society
Publicity
Social networks

[Ú 03]

03
For the first time the visitor
service organized bicycle tours for
employees in conjunction with a tour
of Lufthansa’s flagship A380.

32 // Sustainable Business Practice

In the reporting year there were also numerous events geared towards students and held
as part of information days for schoolchildren.
In August and September 2013 the visitor
service organized for the first time bicycle
tours for employees in conjunction with a tour
of Lufthansa’s A380 wide-body airliner, thus
combining physical exercise and information
in an innovative fashion.
The range of activities that the Group is
involved in is wide. The Lufthansa Group’s
participation in the Kunst privat! (“Private art!”)
project, for example, offered those interested
in art or architecture an opportunity to
become familiar with the Lufthansa Aviation
Center at Frankfurt Airport on June 8 and 9,
2013. The Tag der Luftfahrt (“Air Travel Day”)
took place on the same weekend. Its highlight: the A380. By the end of the first day,
more than 1,000 visitors had already taken
advantage of the opportunity afforded by a
raffle to experience Lufthansa’s flagship up
close.

Lufthansa German Airlines, and the transfer of
our decentralized services to Germanwings
were each explained in two additional events
in June and October. German private investors were another special focus. Representatives of Investor Relations gave presentations
in 2013 at four forums tailored specifically to
private investors. These events were complemented by Shareholder Information, which
was published twice in 2013. As well as the
regular annual and quarterly reports, the
Lufthansa Group publishes Investor Info on a
monthly basis to inform the capital markets of
trends in the airlines’ traffic figures and current
topics from across the Group. In addition,
bondholders and providers of outside capital
received the publication Creditor Info, which
contains information relevant to their interests,
several times a year on request. All publications, financial reports, presentations, background information, talks, and current news
are available also, to anyone who is interested, on the Lufthansa Group’s homepage
on the World Wide Web.
www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations

Visitor services are operated also by the
Lufthansa Group airlines Lufthansa Cargo (at
Frankfurt Airport), Swiss (at Zurich Airport),
and Austrian Airlines (at Vienna Airport).
Investors
In the financial year 2013 the Lufthansa Group
provided its investors with timely, comprehensive, and objective information as usual. We
make every effort to earn and maintain the
trust of our shareholders by giving them an
up-to-date and transparent picture of the
Group and its prospects. Members of the
Executive Board and employees of the Investor Relations department were on hand at the
quarterly conferences, 38 road shows, and
nine investors’ conferences to take questions
and provide information about the Lufthansa
Group’s performance. They used these occasions also to conduct more than 300 individual and group discussions. Our corporate
program SCORE, the performance of

Employees
After the Lufthansa Group introduced numerous new dialogue formats for its employees at
home and abroad in 2012 (see also Balance
2013, page 28), these were continued and
further developed in 2013. Another focus was
the formats used for the Executive Board’s
dialogue with managers. The reporting year
saw an increase in the use of Web-based
formats, which aim to guarantee maximum
accessibility and make personal exchange of
information with top management possible. At
the same time, the established Town meetings
at various Lufthansa Group locations once
again provided a platform for exchange
between management and employees of the
Group companies. Numerous business segments within the Lufthansa Group also implemented dialogue formats of their own, including, for example, Lufthansa Technik with its
new series of MITeinanderREDEN (“Join the

discussion”) events. In 2013 the company
also continued its Dialogue Cockpit events
and established the new Purser Forum 2013
series of events.
Neighbors, municipalities, and politics
We want to do our part to create a competitive
transportation infrastructure for the German
economy. For this reason we use regional and
national forums to highlight for opinion-makers and political decision-makers the role of
global aviation in an intermodal transportation
scheme. One example of this was the first
German Mobility Conference in Frankfurt am
Main, in which we participated in 2013.
The Lufthansa Group has long maintained an
extensive dialogue with representatives of
Germany’s federal and state governments.
We bring our practical knowledge to bear in
various projects and undertakings. At the
same time, we work at the international level
to make our position clear in regard to legal
and regulatory requirements. One of our most
important joint efforts concerns, for example,
the planned uniform airspace over Europe.
We also maintain a vigorous dialogue with
mayors and public authorities in the communities surrounding our most important
company locations. Since 2008 we have, for
example, taken an active part in the Airport
and Region forum in Frankfurt for the purpose
of developing, in cooperation with participating partners, effective measures for protection
against noise.
At Lufthansa Cargo’s third Cargo Climate
Care environmental conference on April 24,
2013, numerous industry experts reported on
and discussed megatrends in logistics and
the environmental requirements arising from
them. This took place partly on the basis of a
study that considered various future scenarios
for the logistics industry. ß

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 33

[Ú 04]

[Ú 05]
[Ú 06]

[Ú 07]

04
Lufthansa Cargo’s third Cargo
Climate Care conference at
the prestigious Senckenberg
Museum in Frankfurt am Main.
05
The Lufthansa Group took part
in the first German ­Mobility
Conference in Frankfurt am
Main in 2013.

06
The Lufthansa Group opened
the Lufthansa Aviation Center
at Frankfurt Airport as part
of the Kunst privat! (“Private
art!”) campaign.
07
The web conference is an upto-date medium for dialogue
which the Lufthansa Group
uses to reach a broad target
group quickly.

34 // Sustainable Business Practice

[Ú 08]
[Ú 09]

08
Thanks to sharklets, the
­Lufthansa A320 is always
more fuel-efficient in flight,
with fuel savings of up to 4%.

[Ú 10]

25%
less fuel

20%

reduction in unit costs

09 / 10
In 2013 the Lufthansa Group
ordered highly fuel-efficient
Boeing 777-9X [Ú09] and
A350-900 [Ú10] aircraft,
making its entry into the
2-liter class.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 35

Fleet development
We turn visions into reality: 2.9 liters of kerosene
per 100 passenger kilometers
The greatest contributor to more efficient flight operations is investment
in technological progress. That is why the Lufthansa Group buys the most
­advanced and environmentally friendly aircraft. Currently the Group is
­engaged in the largest fleet renewal program in its history.

As 2013 came to a close, there were 261
aircraft on our list of orders Group-wide that
were scheduled for delivery by the end of
2025. This represents an investment of EUR
32 billion at list prices. The new aircraft are
extremely fuel-efficient and offer ultimate
passenger comfort. In addition, the power and
efficiency of the new machines are such that
the noise burden on people living in the vicinity of the major hubs is markedly reduced.
The aircraft on order have a considerably
smaller noise footprint in comparison to their
predecessors (see also our focus topic “More
quietly into the future,” page 08). A modern
and well-structured fleet is the basis for economic success. It ensures that we retain our
advantage in a highly competitive market
environment.

Ú
Entry into the two-liter
class on long-haul flights
In September 2013 the Lufthansa Group
ordered 59 state-of-the-art aircraft: 34 Boeing
777-9X and 25 Airbus A350-900 aircraft will
be joining the Lufthansa Group’s long-haul
fleet. Delivery of the aircraft is set to begin
as early as 2016. By 2025 they will have
replaced older Boeing 747-400 and Airbus

A340-300 aircraft. This most recent order
represents an investment of EUR 14 billion at
list prices and is the largest single private
investment in German industrial history. In
macroeconomic terms, this investment will
secure some 13,000 jobs within the Lufthansa
Group alone, added to which will be positive
effects on employment among our partners in
the aviation industry and other suppliers.
The A350-900 and Boeing 777-9X aircraft will
fly more fuel-efficiently in terms of kerosene
consumption per passenger per 100 kilometers than any other comparable type of aircraft. The 59 new aircraft will consume on
average a mere 2.9 liters of kerosene. That is
about 25% less than the figure for the aircraft
available today. This will have an equally
positive effect on the atmospheric CO2 balance. The unit costs are roughly 20% less
than for previous models. The harmony of
ecological and economic goals is especially
striking in this case. This order underscores
the company’s wish to invest in the newest
technology for the sake of the environment.

Ú
Lufthansa’s last
­propeller flight
October 26, 2013 marked the end of an era
for Lufthansa. On that date, Lufthansa’s
regional subsidiary Air Dolomiti completed its
last flight with a propeller plane, an ATR
72-500. The decommissioning of older propeller aircraft is a further step in the process of
modernizing and consolidating the European
fleet. In the future, Lufthansa’s regional fleet
will be limited exclusively to Embraer 190/195
and Bombardier CRJ700/900 jet aircraft,
which can seat 70 or more passengers.
Within the Lufthansa Group, only Austrian
Airlines still has propeller aircraft in service,
the modern DHC 8 turboprops in their newest
version, the Q400. By the end of 2015, Lufthansa will also take its remaining Boeing 737
aircraft out of service.

36 // Sustainable Business Practice

Ú
Low-noise and highly
fuel-efficient engines
for the A320neo family
Over the past few years the Lufthansa Group
has ordered a total of 100 aircraft in the Airbus
A320neo family (“neo” stands for “new engine
option”). Sixty aircraft of this type are equipped
with PW1100G engines from Pratt & Whitney,
40 others with LEAP-1A engines from CFM
International. These two engines are comparable in their flight performance and environmental compatibility values, delivering, for
example, yet another marked improvement in
fuel efficiency. In comparison to their predecessors, they need roughly 15% less fuel and
emit less carbon dioxide accordingly.
The Group will receive delivery of a total of 23
aircraft of the latest generation yet this year:
six Boeing 747-8 long-haul aircraft, two Airbus
A380s, two Boeing 777-Fs, an A330, and 12
planes in the A320 family.

Ú
Lufthansa Cargo takes
off with the Boeing 777
freighter
In November 2013, 41 years after the legendary jumbo freighter first took to the skies,
Lufthansa once again launched a new era in
air freight service with a flight to New York. On
that day, the first Boeing 777 freighter operated by Lufthansa Cargo took off in scheduled
service. Lufthansa Cargo ordered a total of
five of the new twin-engine freighters from
American aircraft manufacturer Boeing, two of
which were put into service in the reporting
year. The specific CO2 emissions from the
Boeing 777-F are nearly 20% less than those
of the MD-11 cargo aircraft that Lufthansa
Cargo also operates. The Triple Seven is
considered the most modern, efficient, and
quietest freight aircraft in its class. According
to the manufacturer, it offers greater efficiency
and capacity than any other twin-engine
freighter, especially on long-haul flights. The

cargo airline AeroLogic, in which Lufthansa
Cargo holds a 50% interest, also has a fleet of
state-of-the-art and efficient Boeing 777 cargo
aircraft.

Further investments of
other Group airlines
Ú
Swiss: Quieter and more
fuel-efficient travel with
the CSeries beginning
in 2015
Beginning in 2015, Swiss International Air
Lines will take delivery of 30 CSeries aircraft
from Bombardier, which will replace the Avro
RJ100 regional aircraft currently in operation.

Ú
Germanwings
Germanwings, the Lufthansa Group’s quality
provider in the low-cost segment, operates a
fleet of Airbus A319/A320 aircraft. In 2013 the
airline received four new aircraft in this series.
Two more aircraft of this type will be added to
the fleet in 2014.

Ú
Austrian Airlines
Austrian Airlines stepped up its efforts to
create a more homogeneous European fleet
of aircraft in the Airbus A320 family. In 2013
the airline removed the Boeing B737 from
service entirely. Beginning with the summer
flight schedule for 2014, another Boeing
777-200 was added to the fleet for long-haul
routes.

Ú
A fleet of 622 aircraft as
of December 31, 2013
The Lufthansa Group put 31 new aircraft into
service in 2013. As of December 31, 2013,
the Group owned 622 aircraft. The Lufthansa
Group’s fleet comprises the aircraft belonging
to Lufthansa (including Germanwings and
regional partners), Swiss, Austrian Airlines,
and Lufthansa Cargo. All Lufthansa Group
aircraft are continually being optimized to
reduce noise emissions and fuel consumption. The average age of the aircraft in the
Group’s fleet (operating fleet) was 11 years as
of the end of 2013.

Ú
Uniform basic standards
in the cabin bring cost
benefits
The Lufthansa Group has adopted uniform
basic standards for its airlines when it comes
to equipping the aircraft and their cabins.
Bundling interests and pooling purchasing
power in this way leads to cost benefits when
ordering aircraft and replacement parts, for
example. In addition, it allows maintenance
procedures to be standardized. The basic
version of an aircraft as agreed within the
Group provides the airlines with a basis for
individual detail specifications. These specifications should differ across airlines as little
as possible in the interests of flexibility. ß

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 37

The Lufthansa Group fleet
As of December 31, 2013 (changes compared to 2012)
In possession 1
Lufthansa
Lufthansa CityLine
Air Dolomiti
Augsburg Airways

3

Contact Air 4
Eurowings

Age 1

In operation 2

Age 2

360

(± 0)

10.5

(– 0.3)

273

(– 3)

11.6

(– 0.6)

30

(– 4)

9.8

(+ 0.5)

61

(+ 1)

6.1

(+ 0.5)

5

(– 1)

11.9

(+ 0.7)

10

(– 6)

2.9

(– 5.4)

0

(± 0)

0

(– 14)

0

(± 0)

0

(– 2)

0

(– 1)

23

(± 0)

3.7

(+ 1.0)

Germanwings

36

(+ 4)

7.2

(+ 0.2)

44

(+ 12)

9.5

(+ 2.5)

Swiss (including Edelweiss Air)

94

(+ 2)

12.3

(+ 0.6)

92

(+ 1)

12.3

(+ 0.5)

14.7

(+ 1.2)

14.6

(+ 1.0)

Austrian Airlines

77

(– 7)

602

(– 7)

Lufthansa Cargo

20

(+ 2)

Logistics business segment

20

Passenger Airline Group business segment

Lufthansa Group
1 Aircraft in the Group’s possession.
2 Aircraft operated by the Group.

622

14.1

(– 0.6)

74

(– 4)

577

(– 15)

19

(+ 1)

13.8

(– 0.9)

(– 14)

11.0

(± 0.0)

19

(– 5)

11.2

(+ 0.1)

596

3 Augsburg Airways flew on behalf of Lufthansa until the end of the summer timetable 2013.
4 The cooperation with Contact Air ended in September 2012.

38 // Sustainable Business Practice

Sustainability in the
procurement process

As a globally operating aviation company, the Lufthansa Group stands for
fair competition, integrity, and responsible action. The Group is unreservedly
committed to compliance with all applicable laws, directives, and regulations.
The Lufthansa Group expects this not only from its employees, but from its
suppliers and competitors as well.

Lufthansa assumes corporate responsibility by
integrating sustainability into the procurement
process. At the same time, we minimize risks
and thereby avert potential damage to the
company. For us as a globally operating
Group with nearly 500 subsidiaries and
affiliated companies, this is a challenging
task.

Ú
Group purchasing
­guidelines approved
In May 2013 the Executive Board approved
Group purchasing guidelines requiring suppliers to enter into a commitment to social and
ecological responsibility. The guidelines are
meant as an umbrella directive for all of the
Group companies’ purchasing guidelines.
They also serve as a manual for purchasers
and all employees with contacts in the procurement market. They are regularly updated
and adjusted.
The guidelines prescribe, among other things,
that the following duties be included in contracts with suppliers:

Compliance with the 10 principles of the
UN Global Compact. The principles range
from respect for human rights through
commitments to labor standards and environmental protection to working against
corruption. In 2002 Deutsche Lufthansa
AG became the first aviation company to
join this strategic United Nations initiative
for companies, thereby agreeing to uphold
the 10 principles formulated by it (see the
Global Compact overview on page 27).
Compliance with the International Labour
Organization’s (ILO) four fundamental principles for labor. These concern freedom of
association, the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced labor and
child labor, and prohibition of discrimination
in respect of employment and occupation.
Consent to announced and unannounced
audits of the supplier by companies of the
Lufthansa Group.
Recognition of Lufthansa’s right to terminate the contractual relationship in the
event of a breach of the aforementioned
agreements. Suppliers must also observe
the Lufthansa Group’s Environmental Protection Guidelines.

By including these commitments in contracts,
the Group ensures that the issue of sustainability is taken seriously and that sustainability
becomes a way of life across the supply
chain. To familiarize our purchasers with the
Group purchasing guidelines, we train them
in our Procurement Academy, which provides continuing education opportunities for
employees from throughout the Group. ß

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 39

40 // Sustainable Business Practice

Local value creation

The major German air travel hubs are of immense macroeconomic importance to all of Germany, where aviation plays a major economic role, and to
its regions. Frankfurt Airport in particular, one of the world’s leading passenger and cargo hubs, is very important to the export-oriented German economy and the entire German logistics industry by virtue of its central location.
Moreover, the Lufthansa Group’s other hubs—Munich, Zurich, Vienna, and
­Brussels—each make an important contribution to local value creation.

The airlines in the Lufthansa Group ensure
jobs for tens of thousands of people in their
home countries and are an important factor
in the gross domestic product (GDP). They
are a basic necessity for these countries’
export companies in particular. In Germany,
for example, more than 73% of industrial
companies ascribe an important or very
important role to aviation, according to a
survey conducted by the ifo Institute in March
2013 in which more than 7,000 companies
were asked about the relative importance of
aviation. The results are representative of the
German economy. Of particular interest is the
fact that those sectors that have been experiencing above-average growth in Germany—
such as mechanical engineering, the pharmaceutical industry, and the automotive
industry—are precisely those that attach the
greatest importance to having a first-class
transportation link to the air travel system.
The carrier is therefore of particular importance to those economic sectors that have
contributed substantially to growth and prosperity in recent years. Industry’s gross value
added amounts to approximately 23% of total
value added in this country and around 15%
in the EU as a whole.

Ú
Local value creation
as exemplified by our
Frankfurt hub
Some 78,000 workers are employed at
Frankfurt Airport, making it one of Germany’s
largest local workplaces. Frankfurt is also the
home airport of Deutsche Lufthansa AG,
which, with more than 36,000 employees, is
Hesse’s largest employer. Further jobs have
been created at Frankfurt Airport thanks to
the openings of the northwest runway on
October 21, 2011, and the new Terminal
A-Plus. Thus expansion of Frankfurt Airport
has been a source of further economic
growth. It also enhances the location’s attractiveness to international companies and
improves the local economy’s links to the
international division of labor. With more than
58 million passengers and more than 2
million tonnes of cargo passing through it
annually, Frankfurt Airport is a central hub for
people and goods.

It is all the more important, then, that Frankfurt—the most important export and logistics
location in Germany—not be further curtailed.
This applies especially to restrictions on hours
of operation. As global competition becomes
ever more intense, the companies of the
Lufthansa Group depend on competitive
operating hours at their hubs. Frankfurt is
already subject to the most severe operating
restrictions of any major airport worldwide.
Additional restrictions could further strengthen
foreign competitors to the detriment of domestic airlines and, ultimately, to local economic
value creation. If Frankfurt is to remain among
the world’s most important hubs, the airport
needs long-term, internationally competitive
prospects.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 41

[Ú 11]

Strengthening the region
In 2013 Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Fraport
AG once again awarded numerous contracts
to companies in the Rhine-Main region. The
regional contract volume for the two companies came to more than EUR 2 billion. These
expenditures create jobs and contribute to
local value creation. Lufthansa in particular
contributes to securing employment and value
creation in the Rhine-Main region with its
more than EUR 1.5 billion in expenditures for
regional suppliers and services. Numerous
companies in different industries in the RhineMain metropolitan region profit in everything
from the security equipment at the airport to
the locally cultivated cuisine and wine on the
on-board menu.
The great macroeconomic importance to the
region of Frankfurt as an international hub was
recently confirmed by a report commissioned
by Fraport AG from the independent Swiss
consulting and research firm Infras. According
to this report, Germany’s largest aviation hub
secures roughly 116,000 jobs with businesses
and companies on the airport’s premises
(“direct effects”) and with suppliers and service providers, including those outside the

region, further along the value chain (“indirect
effects”). This is equivalent to 2.9% of the total
employment figure for Hesse. The value
added arising from these employment effects
amounts to EUR 9.1 billion, or 3.4% of the
entire Hessian economy. Currently, every
30th euro in Hesse is exchanged directly at or
because of Frankfurt Airport. Moreover, the
airport has contributed to the creation of some
59,000 further jobs through the consumption
patterns of those with disposable income
derived from employment with airport businesses and suppliers. Some 175,000 people
therefore benefit from the positive economic
effects of aviation in Frankfurt.

11
Terminal A-Plus at Frankfurt
Airport.

42 // Sustainable Business Practice

[Ú 12]

Ú
Lufthansa ensures sustainable and forwardlooking investments
in infrastructure at the
Munich location
The largest expansion project currently underway with Lufthansa participation is the construction of the satellite terminal at Munich
Airport, which in the first phase of expansion is
designed for 11 million passengers per year.
The satellite terminal has been conceived as a
green satellite. The ambitious target set for the
building is a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions
as compared to the two existing terminals.
The new satellite building, like the existing
Terminal 2, is being built, financed, and operated by Flughafen München GmbH and
Deutsche Lufthansa AG in a ratio of 60 to 40,
respectively, between their contributions. The
rod-shaped satellite terminal will have a total
of 52 gates on three passenger levels and
allow passengers convenient access to the
aircraft with 27 aircraft parking positions near
the building. Construction of the building is
scheduled to be completed in 2015.

At Munich Airport, the possibilities for further
development in terms of capacity are reaching their limits because of limitations imposed
by the current two-runway system. The Bavarian Administrative Court (Verwaltungsgerichtshof), with its judgment of February 19, 2014
approving plans for a third runway at Munich
Airport, has made an important decision for
the aviation industry in Germany and for
development of the region. This judicial goahead for one of the most important infrastructure projects in Germany clears the way
for further development of Munich as a base
for air travel on a scale commensurate with
demand. The third runway is key to the future
viability of the airport and of Lufthansa at its
Munich location. It lays the cornerstone for
long-term and sustainable growth. This will
result in a better competitive position in the
international market, and it is above all the
basis for securing existing jobs and creating
new ones. A third runway in Munich is the only
way to bring about real capacity expansions in
Germany’s aviation infrastructure.
The Lufthansa Group recognizes that people
living in proximity to airports require peace
and quiet, particularly at night, and it takes
this requirement very seriously. The company
has been working for years to reduce noise
emissions from air traffic over areas around
airports and is continually investing in active
noise protection measures. For more informa-

tion, read our focus topic “More quietly into
the future” (see page 08).
With more than 10,000 employees, Deutsche
Lufthansa AG is the largest employer at
Munich Airport and an engine of value creation for the region. Numerous contracts were
awarded in 2012 to companies in the immediate vicinity of the airport. Altogether, the
regional contract volume for all companies of
the Lufthansa Group based at Munich Airport
and for purchases of goods and services
directly from other companies at the airport
amounted to more than EUR 1 billion. These
expenditures secure jobs and value creation
in the region.
When the administration of Lufthansa CityLine
moves in the second half of 2014, some
300 high-skill jobs will be relocated from
Cologne to Munich, further strengthening the
Munich location. It will also better serve the
airline’s focus on continental feeder flights to
­Lufthansa’s Frankfurt and Munich hubs,
especially those to the Munich hub.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 43

[Ú 13]

Ú
Zurich hub ensures
value creation
Swiss aviation and the businesses that supply
it employ approximately 180,000 people. The
resulting value added amounts to 30 billion
Swiss francs, the greater part of which is
attributable to operations at Zurich Airport. In
2012 Flughafen Zürich AG commissioned a
study on the macroeconomic importance of
Zurich Airport from Arbeitsgemeinschaft
Infras/BAK Basel. In addition to an analysis of
Zurich Airport’s direct and indirect effects on
employment, which have already been mentioned, its contribution to value creation, its
relevance to tourism, air cargo transport, the
export trade, and the factor of location,
accessibility also came under consideration.
The study provides evidence for the great
economic importance of this air travel hub for
Switzerland.

[Ú 14]

Ú
Hamburg Aviation
cluster
The Hamburg metropolitan region is, along
with Seattle, Washington, and Toulouse,
France, one of the aviation industry’s most
important centers worldwide. With 40,000
employees, more than 9,000 of whom work
for various companies of the Lufthansa Group,
aviation is the largest industrial sector in the
region. One of the crucial factors in the success of the aviation industry in Hamburg is the
level of cooperation across companies. Altogether, some 300 aviation companies, institutes of higher learning, and public authorities
cooperate within the Hamburg Aviation industry cluster alongside the three giants of the
industry: Airbus, Lufthansa Technik, and the
airport. Lufthansa Technik devotes substantial
resources to research and development along
with training and continuing education. ß

12
Lufthansa’s Munich hub.
13
Zurich: An important
hub for Swiss.

14
Hamburg Airport: The
largest base of operations and the headquarters of Lufthansa
Technik AG.

Climate and Environmental Responsibility
Climate and environmental responsibility is paramount in our value-based corporate management.
Progress is a success factor in economically and
environmentally.
3.91

114,152

1,000

20

liters of kerosene consumed per passenger
per 100 kilometers

fewer tonnes of fuel
consumed than in 2012

ideas and projects to
increase fuel efficiency

years of involvement in
climate research

46 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Strategy and management
Furthering mobility responsibly

The L­ ufthansa Group’s corporate management practices are guided by
values, and central to those practices is a sense of responsibility for the
climate and environment. To achieve steady reductions in the effects our
business ­operations have on the environment, we make as efficient use
of the resources we need as possible.

The core business of the L­ ufthansa Group is
the transportation of our passengers. The
most significant effects on the environment
therefore result from our flight operations. For
our flights we need kerosene, combustion of
which produces carbon dioxide (CO2) and
other emissions (such as nitrogen oxides and
unburned hydrocarbons). For every tonne of
kerosene that we conserve, 3.15 fewer tonnes
of CO2 are released into the environment.
Accordingly, we have been directing our
environmental protection efforts towards
continual improvement in fuel efficiency and,
ultimately, a reduction in the size of our CO2
footprint. Management of energy and
resources on the ground and in our catering,
our involvement in research, and active noise
protection are important areas where we can
apply these efforts.
Energy efficiency in flight operations is of
considerable relevance to our success in
terms of economic and ecological criteria.
Fuel costs across the Group as a whole now
account for more than 22% of our operating
costs and therefore constitute an important
cost factor for the L­ ufthansa Group. Successfully implemented measures to lower fuel
consumption therefore have an especially
positive effect on our corporate success while
at the same time improving both our results
and our environmental balance sheet.

Energy efficiency in
flight operations is of
considerable relevance
to our corporate success in terms of economic and ecological
criteria.
The ­Lufthansa Group is committed to making
mobility, now and in the future, as environmentally compatible for its customers as
possible. We see the constant growth in the
need for mobility worldwide as a particular
challenge to this commitment. This trend is
being intensified mainly by the increasing
need for mobility in the newly industrialized
countries.
According to a prognosis made by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) in
December 2013 (Airline Industry Forecast
2013–2017), passenger volume will increase
by 31% worldwide by 2017. The number of
passengers, accordingly, is expected to
increase from 2.98 billion in 2012 to 3.91
billion in 2017. This is equivalent to an annual
growth rate of 5.4%. During the period from
2012 to 2013, the number of passengers

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 47

Strategic environmental program for 2020
Ú
The ­Lufthansa Group has set itself ambitious goals for climate and environmental
responsibility. In 2008 we launched a strategic environmental program with which we
hope to achieve further progress in climate and environmental responsibility by 2020.
The ­Lufthansa Group has successful outcomes to show for its work in every field of
the environmental program. These include, apart from billions invested in modern and
quieter aircraft, our pioneering accomplishment in the world’s first long-term testing of
alternative fuels (biokerosene) in 2011. In addition, we are investing in optimized flight
procedures and ground processes, ecological building, and expansion of the environmental management systems in the Group companies. Since the strategic environmental program was implemented in 2008, we have been able to increase fuel efficiency
in our flight operations by more than 7%, and by as much as 36.2% as compared to
when measurements began in 1991. If the ­Lufthansa Group were still flying today with
the aircraft it had in its fleet in 1991, it would have consumed roughly five million more
tonnes of kerosene in 2013, thereby emitting roughly 16 million more tonnes of CO2.
This would be 60% more than today.

grew by 5.2%. This is in line with the average
rate of increase over the last 30 years.
For this reason, airlines are also faced with the
challenge of further increasing the environmental compatibility of flying despite steady
growth in transport performance. Despite
significant growth rates, aviation’s share of
worldwide CO2 emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels has been declining for
years. In 2010 this share was just under
2.45%, according to the last publication of the
International Energy Agency (IEA) in 2012.

Ú
Organization of climate
and environmental
management
The climate- and environment-related goals,
strategies, and measures across the Group
are coordinated by the Group Environmental
Issues department, which is part of the Corporate International and Government Affairs
staff department. There is regular exchange
with Corporate Strategy. In addition, all of the
larger companies of relevance to environmental matters have their own environmental
departments, an environmental commissioner,
or a coordinator.
The ­Lufthansa Group’s Environmental Forum
meets twice a year to give the company’s
experts in this area the opportunity to discuss

current issues and take advantage of synergistic effects. In February 2014 the L­ ufthansa
Group initiated an internal energy forum in
addition. Experts from all divisions of the
company take part in the knowledge transfer
and best practice exchange so that we can
achieve further increases in efficiency on the
ground in addition to our environmental goals
in the airspace.
We have teams of experts working on fuel
efficiency and alternative fuels. In recognition
of the importance of the issue of fuel efficiency
and CO2 emissions, the L­ ufthansa Group has
had its own Fuel Efficiency department since
2013. Experts from various Group companies
are working continuously to develop and
implement measures to reduce fuel consumption. Closely associated with the subject of
fuel efficiency is the testing and use of alternative fuels in flight operations. The L­ ufthansa
Group is currently involved in various projects
for the future in this area.
Group-wide standards and guidelines
The Executive Board approved as early as
1996 guidelines for environmental protection
that applied all across the Group. This made
the ­Lufthansa Group a trailblazer in the aviation industry. The guidelines, which are binding on all employees and at all locations,
ensure that all companies rigorously pursue
the common goal of environmental protection
and continually improve environmental care.

Environmental management systems
in the Group companies
The L­ ufthansa Group has set itself the goal
of continually improving environmental
management in the companies and at the
Group level. Below is an overview of the status
quo of the environmental management systems in the Group companies:
­Lufthansa Technik has had its locations in
Germany certified to the international environmental standard ISO 14001 since 1999.
Since then it has also had an occupational
safety management system that has been
validated according to the OHSAS 18001
occupation safety specifications. At the
end of 2013 the audit for recertification in
the quality, environment, and occupational
safety categories was completed successfully. All ­Lufthansa Technik locations will be
certified by the end of 2015 under a worldwide program. The ISO 14001 international
environmental management standard sets
globally accepted standards and requirements for an environmental management
system. The emphasis is on a process
of continual improvement with the aim of
achieving an organization’s defined environmental goals.
At the local level L­ ufthansa Technik is working in the field of environmental management with various organizations. Since the
initiative began in 2003, L­ ufthansa Technik
has been active in the Environmental Partnership in Hamburg. The coalition of industry, politics, and administration is working to
encourage companies to take responsibility
for environmental protection. ­Lufthansa
Technik is a member of corresponding
associations in Hesse and Brandenburg
as well.
­Lufthansa Cargo was certified at its
Frankfurt location to the ISO 14001 environmental standard for the first time in 2008.
The ­Lufthansa Group’s logistics specialist
was certified at all German locations in
2010. The certification of the environmental
management system was reconfirmed by
external auditors in 2013 in the course of a
supervisory audit.

48 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

­Lufthansa CityLine has had ISO 14001certified environmental management systems at its company locations since as
long ago as 1999. In 2012 the airline also
received, for the fifth time in a row, the
certificate of compliance with the European
eco-audit regulation EMAS. Both environmental management systems were certified
by the supervisory audit in 2013.
LSG Sky Chefs has a management system
that is based on the ISO 14001 standard
and is the industry leader in aviation catering. This system enables the company to
continually make improvements within its
worldwide network. However, there are no
plans at present to have the system certified. LSG Sky Chefs is working on numerous energy-relevant measures that will
enable it to implement in its six international
management regions by 2015 the environmental program passed by the Executive
Board in 2013.
LZ-Catering is participating in the Ökoprofit
(“Eco-Profit”) project in both Hamburg and
Frankfurt. Its primary aim is to systematically implement cost-reducing environmental measures in the LZ-Catering facilities.
For this purpose, various resources, such
as water, energy, and even waste materials,
are analyzed in order to optimize or reduce
their consumption or production. The company is working also on building an environmental management system that meets
the requirements of ISO 14001 and is
designed to ensure a systematic approach
to all matters of environmental protection.
Linking responsibility to
financial incentives
The L­ ufthansa Group’s Executive Board and
managers receive their variable remuneration
partly on the basis of sustainability parameters. These include environmental criteria
such as fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions.

Ú
Key areas of action
in climate and environmental protection
Fuel consumption and emissions
In carrying out our environmental strategy, we
rigorously follow the established four-pillar
strategy of the air travel industry (see illustration on page 54). This comprises various
measures aimed at reducing both kerosene
consumption and CO2 emissions. These
measures range from technical progress
through an improved infrastructure and operational measures to economic instruments. As
an innovation driver in the aviation industry,
we are involved also in numerous pathbreaking initiatives and research projects that will
permanently improve the environmental compatibility of flying.
Our biggest successes are achieved by using
modern aircraft. They make use of new
engine technologies, improved aerodynamics,
and greater use of composite materials to
reduce weight. The amount of kerosene
consumed depends primarily on the weight of
the aircraft. In the past several years aircraft
manufacturers have succeeded in building
significantly lighter and aerodynamically
optimized aircraft. By continually investing in
new aircraft, the L­ ufthansa Group ensures that
it always has the most efficient airplanes
available on the market.
Energy and resource management
on the ground and in catering
In addition to our efforts to reduce environmental effects in the air, we also want to work
as efficiently as possible on the ground. In this
connection we focus on developing and
testing electronic propulsion technologies for
aircraft taxiing and towing on the ground.
­Lufthansa Technik and the subsidiary
­Lufthansa LEOS are especially active in this
area. Apart from this focus, we are also pursuing the goal of continually reducing energy
consumption on our real estate.

As the L­ ufthansa Group’s catering specialist,
LSG Sky Chefs focuses its attention mainly on
the issues of waste and water and energy
consumption. Using various key performance
indicators, the ­Lufthansa Group subsidiary is
continually reviewing and controlling its consumption of these resources and its progress
towards its goals.
Research activities
Progress needs research. The L­ ufthansa
Group therefore regards this as one of its key
areas of activity. Together with our system and
project partners, we have been actively
involved for years not only in noise research
but also in research into alternative fuels.
­Lufthansa Technik also has been investing
more in research work and the development
of product innovations with which to cultivate
new markets and customers. ­Lufthansa Technik is always focused on preparing for new
aircraft types and technologies. New materials
and technologies offer great opportunities for
making the L­ ufthansa Group’s services even
more ecologically efficient, cost-effective, and
attractive to customers. The previously mentioned research project at Frankfurt Airport is
devoted to testing electro-mobile propulsion
concepts for ground travel (see page 61).
For more than two decades the ­Lufthansa
Group has been involved also in climate
research, and it has been helping scientists
evaluate and refine their climate models (see
page 66).
Active noise protection
The ­Lufthansa Group is involved in active
noise protection in a variety of ways and
makes sure that the Group’s fleet significantly
exceeds the most stringent standards worldwide. This year we are devoting a special
chapter to this topic in the present report. It
offers a summary of the numerous measures
we have taken to reduce aircraft noise. ß
You can read more on this in the chapter “More
quietly into the future” from page 08 onwards.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 49

Fuel consumption and emissions
The ­Lufthansa Group reduces fuel consumption
and sets another fuel efficiency record
The ­Lufthansa Group is doing its utmost to keep the impact of its business
operations on the environment as low as possible. We are investing billions
in modern and fuel-efficient aircraft and promoting innovative processes,
methods, and technologies. This allows us to save on fuel and avoid emissions that pollute the environment.

For the ­Lufthansa Group, fuel efficiency in
flight operations is a key success factor in
both an economic and ecological sense. Our
continued dedication to fuel efficiency will
ensure our long-term corporate success. At
the same time, we are living up to our responsibility as a globally operating company by
keeping the effects of our business activities
on the environment as low as possible. This is
a commitment that we have defined also in
our corporate strategy: “economically, ecologically and socially balanced and sustainable business.”
Our basis for further increases in efficiency
is the industry’s accepted four-pillar strategy
for environmental protection (cf. illustration
on page 54). This strategy agenda covers the
entire spectrum of feasible measures.

an international statement of commitment
in 2008 [Ú 01]:

Ú
Increasing fuel
­efficiency and
reducing emissions

An increase of 1.5% per year in energy
­efficiency until 2020
CO2-neutral growth from 2020
A 50% reduction in net CO2 emissions by
2050 as compared to 2005

The ­Lufthansa Group has set itself ambitious
goals for fuel efficiency and reductions in
emissions. We aim to lower our specific fuel
consumption and associated CO2 emissions
by 25% as compared to 2006. In addition,
the ­Lufthansa Group supports the ambitious
goals of the air travel industry as set forth in

In 2013 the ­Lufthansa Group made further
progress in reducing fuel consumption and
emissions and has some impressive figures
to prove it.

Measures to achieve CO2 reduction targets

[Ú 01]
Reduction due to investments in

Replacement of the customary kerosene with
alternative fuels also creates great potential for
improving the environmental balance sheet.
At the same time, this presents the L­ ufthansa
Group with several challenges. Among them
are the availability of alternative fuels in adequate quantities, non-existent supply chains, a
competitive price, and lengthy, as yet uncompleted approval processes.

1.5%
increase in
­efficiency
per year

s

No

ure
eas

m

2012

100%

CO2-neutral
growth

– 50%

Market-based
systems

2005

2010

2020

2030

Source: BDL, based on industry strategy

2040

(in the EU
since 2005)

2050

existing technology
operations
infrastructure
new technologies,
alternative fuels,
and propulsion systems
  

50 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Our most significant
successes

Ú
Less fuel consumption
and fewer CO2 emissions
again in 2013
Despite an increase in transport performance
of 2.3%, we reduced absolute fuel consumption for the second year in a row, with 1.3%
less fuel consumed in 2013 than in 2012. In
absolute terms, the Group consumed 114,152
fewer tonnes of fuel as compared to the
previous year, thereby reducing the amount of
carbon dioxide (CO2) released into the environment by more than 350,000 tonnes. This
equates to approximately the quantity of CO2
emitted annually by roughly 50,000 singlefamily homes with oil-fired heating. This is a
clear sign that our measures to increase
efficiency are working and the overall impact
of the ­Lufthansa Group’s flight operations on
the environment is diminishing. We have
successfully continued our decoupling of
transport performance from fuel consumption.
The ­Lufthansa Group’s transport performance
grew by 339% from 1991, while kerosene
consumption increased by only 180% [Ú 03].

Ú
New efficiency record:
Airlines in the ­Lufthansa
Group make it below the
four-liter mark
For the first time, the L­ ufthansa Group made it
below the four-liter mark with 3.91 liters of
kerosene consumed per passenger per
100 kilometers (l/100 pkm), a 3.8% improvement over the previous year. This means that
the industry target of 1.5% per year until 2020
for increased efficiency was surpassed by
more than double and exceeded by a more
substantial amount than even a year earlier.
The specific consumption of the individual

3.9 L*
#greenefﬁciency
More
Lightweight
Design

Higher
Efﬁciency

Better
Aerodynamics

Lower
Fuel
Consumption

Less CO2
* Fuel consumption in liters per 100 passenger kilometers.
Average value for the airlines of the Lufthansa Group in 2013.

airlines of the ­Lufthansa Group is illustrated in
the pie charts [Ú 02]. In the case of freight
transport, we were likewise able to reduce
specific consumption and associated CO2
emissions in the logistics segment. Fuel consumption fell from 0.29 l per freight tonne
kilometer in 2012 to 0.28 l in 2013. We were
able to achieve this by consistently adhering
to environmentally friendly measures and
making optimum use of payload space.

Ú
Calculating the
CO2 balance
The ­Lufthansa Group measures its CO2 emissions according to the categories of the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol).
This calls for dividing emissions into three
main categories (called scopes):
Scope 1: Direct emissions from combustion
of fuels in one’s own facilities and transport
means
Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the consumption of purchased energy (electricity,
heat, cooling)
Scope 3: Indirect emissions, for example
from the transport-related activities of our
subcontractors and suppliers. This category
includes other indirect emissions resulting, for example, from the manufacture of

capital goods purchased from third parties
(such as aircraft), products and services,
and the commuting activities of employees.
Added to this are emissions from the production and transport of fuels and energy.
We calculate the direct emissions that are
covered by the European Emissions
­Trading System (EU-ETS) according to its
requirements.
The CO2 footprint results make it easier to
assess the company’s own contribution to
climate change, however. Hence the CO2
footprint can provide ideas for internal
improvement processes.

Ú
A new Fuel Efficiency
department
On May 1, 2013 the L­ ufthansa Group established the new Fuel Efficiency department
under the management of Senior First Officer
Jens Ritter. Its job is to coordinate the various
measures we take to reduce the L­ ufthansa
Group’s fuel consumption. The team also
assumes responsibility for auditing the fuel
efficiency units. It directs all of the activities
undertaken to improve the fuel efficiency of
the airlines in the ­Lufthansa Group and of
­Lufthansa Technik. In addition, the department

Specific fuel consumption
Passenger transportation

[Ú 02]

Definitions of traffic areas  

Active fleet in 2013, in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm)
Long-haul more than 3,000 km   Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km   Short-haul less than 800 km
­Lufthansa

Group fleet
Long-haul
(58%)
3.47 l /100 pkm

Average specific fuel consumption in l /100 pkm (center of the circle) and proportion of the entire passenger
fuel consumption of the
active fleet contributed by
each traffic area (segments
of circle) in 2013

3.91

Medium-haul
(30%)
4.20 l /100 pkm

l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(12%)
6.83 l /100 pkm

Specific fuel consumption
of passenger transportation compared
in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm)

Group fleet
­Lufthansa
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Germanwings

2013

2012

Changes in %

3.91
3.98
3.54
3.93
4.22

4.06
4.16
3.64
3.98
4.55

– 3.8
– 4.2
– 2.7
– 1.3
– 7.1

Specific CO2 emissions of passenger transportation

Germanwings

Long-haul
(64%)
3.63 l /100 pkm
Medium-haul
(23%)
4.17 l /100 pkm

Medium-haul
(99%)
4.22 l /100 pkm

3.98
l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(13%)
6.67 l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(1%)
4.09 l /100 pkm

Swiss

Austrian Airlines

Long-haul
(61%)
3.05 l /100 pkm

Long-haul
(34%)
2.91 l /100 pkm

Medium-haul
(26%)
4.02 l /100 pkm

4.22
l /100 pkm

Medium-haul
(54%)
4.47 l /100 pkm

3.54
l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(13%)
7.67 l /100 pkm

3.93
l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(12%)
6.84 l /100 pkm

Fuel dumps

Active fleet in 2013,
in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg /100 pkm)

Group fleet
­Lufthansa
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Germanwings

Long-haul Medium-haul

Short-haul

Overall
average

10.58
10.50
10.14
11.26
10.64

17.20
16.81
19.32
17.25
10.31

9.84
10.03
8.92
9.91
10.64

8.75
9.14
7.68
7.34

2013

Events, total
thereof medical reasons
technical reasons
other reasons
Quantity, total

2013

Changes compared
to 2012

31
13
15
3
937 t

+ 14
+2
+ 11
+1
+ 110.8%

Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption

[Ú 03]

Change compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group
+ 339%

340
320
300

Û

280
260

Efficiency gain

Transport performance

240

Ü

220
200
180

+ 180%

160
140
120
100
80
60

Fuel consumption

40
20
  0
1991

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

1997

1998

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Fuel consumption 1

Passenger transportation
2013, in tonnes
Passengers

Scheduled flights 2, 3
­Lufthansa
Germanwings
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Third parties

4,756,889
276,464
1,079,405
559,066

1,630,188
0
383,781
78,981

87,401

4

Other flights

Freight

1,903

5

All flights

Total
6,387,076
276,464
1,463,186
638,047
8,764,774
89,304

Share
72.0%
3.1%
16.5%
7.2%
98.8%
1.0%

14,375

0.2%

8,868,453

100.0%

CO2 emissions

in kilograms/100 passenger kilometers

2013

9.84
10.53

2011

10.93

2008

10.88

2007

11.05

2006

11.07

2005

in grams /100 passenger kilometers

7.4

in grams /100 passenger kilometers

2013

Freight

± 2012

Total

± 2012

2012

CO2

21,016,246

– 1.2%

6,592,793

– 1.6%

27,609,039

– 1.3%

2011

NOX

99,782

– 0.8%

31,309

– 2.3%

131,091

– 1.2%

2010

CO

15,787

– 2.9%

3,189

– 1.9%

18,976

– 2.8%

2009

8.5

2009

1,584

– 4.7%

407

– 6.5%

1,991

– 5.1%

2008

8.5

2008

0.74
0.80

2012
8.2
8.4

8.6

2007

Share of third parties 4

50.8
50.6

UHC emissions

± 2012

UHC

50.5

2004

Passengers

7.8

50.6
49.8

2007

2006

11.00

50.0

2009
2008

2005

2013

49.4
48.8

2010

10.84

2009

CO emissions
2013, in tonnes

48.4

2011

10.58

2010

46.7

2012 9

2004

Emissions 3, 6

in grams /100 passenger kilometers

2013
10.24

2012

NOX emissions

2011

0.87

2010

0.87
0.91
0.96
0.99

2007

2006

8.4

2006

0.96

2005

8.4

2005

0.97

8.5

2004

1.00

2004

2013
Flights
Passengers
Tonne kilometers transported, TKT 7 (tkm)
Fuel consumption (tonnes)
CO2 emissions (tonnes)

2.7%
1.6%
0.6%
1.0%
1.0%

Specific fuel consumption
Passenger transportation

Freight transportation 8
CO2 emissions

in kilograms/ tonne kilometers

4.36

2004

4.39

2005

4.38

2006

4.32

2007

4.34

2008

4.30

2009

4.20

2010

4.18

2011

4.06

2012

3.91

2013

0.70

2013

2012

0.72

2012 9

3.5

2011

0.73

2011

3.5

2010

0.73

2010

3.5

0.77

2007

in liters / tonne kilometers
0.23

0.23

0.23

0.29

0.30

0.30

0.29

0.29

0.29

0.28

3.7

0.74

2008

3.6

0.72

2007

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

3.4

2006

0.58

2006

2.6

2005

0.58

2005

2.6

2004

0.59

2004

CO emissions

in grams/tonne kilometers

0.3

2.9

UHC emissions

in grams/tonne kilometers

2013

0.04

2012 9

0.4

2012

0.05

2011

0.4

2011

0.05

2010

0.4

2010

0.05

2009

0.4

2009

0.06

2008

0.4

2008

0.06

2007

0.4

2007

0.06

2006

0.3

2006

0.05

2005

0.3

2005

0.05

2004
2004

3.3

2009

2008

2013

Specific fuel consumption
Freight transportation 8

in grams/tonne kilometers

2013

2009
in liters /100 passenger kilometers

NOX emissions

0.4

2004

0.10

2013

1 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events.
Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground,
holding patterns, and detours in the air.
2 Scheduled flights, charter flights.
3 For the reporting year 2013, the following companies have been included in Balance:
Lufthansa (incl. Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, and Augsburg Airways),
Germanwings, Swiss (incl. Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines, and Lufthansa Cargo.
Excluding the services of third parties as the company can influence neither their
performance nor the equipment operated (see table Share of third parties).
4 Includes flights operated by airlines that do not belong to the Group, which carry out services
on Lufthansa’s behalf at short notice, e.g. in the event of capacity bottlenecks.

5 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights.
6 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter
flights). Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the
ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air (see notes on page 125).
7 Excludes road feeder service and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no fuel
consumption and emissions values are available for this performance.
8 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger
aircraft.
9 Value corrected due to calculation error.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 53

[Ú 04]

is responsible for introducing valid key performance indicators and mandatory reporting
standards throughout the Group, and it continues to develop them further. It is also establishing a Group-wide innovation management
program for fuel efficiency. Experts from all
the various segments of the ­Lufthansa Group
are working at full speed to develop measures
to make the use of fuel as efficient as possible
and thereby achieve an even greater dissociation between fuel consumption and transport
performance. In addition to the ecological
benefits, this will produce economic gains for
us. The goal is to make a positive contribution
of EUR 196 million to the Group’s bottom line
by 2015 with the fuel efficiency measures.
Furthermore, a code of conduct passed in
early 2014 provides that the projects to
reduce fuel consumption are to be set up
uniformly across the Group and that their

data are to be recorded in a central reporting
system. All of the Group’s fuel efficiency
experts are networked together through an
internal exchange of knowledge in the regularly occurring Fuel Efficiency Group (FEG)
conference. To date the Fuel Efficiency Team
has developed some 1,000 ideas and projects. In addition, it has already implemented
130 of the 280 measures contained in
SCORE, our corporate program for the future
(for details about SCORE see the chapter
“Sustainable Business Practice,” page 25).
For 2014 we made a decision to defer our
search for creative ideas on how to further
increase fuel efficiency in favor of implementing the SCORE measures.

04
SCORE poster on the subject of
joint fuel purchasing.

54 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Four pillars for climate protection

[Ú 05]

1

2

Technological
progress

Innovation in aircraft and
engine technologies
Alternative fuels

3

Improved
infrastructure

Improved use of airspace
Airport infrastructures
adapted to needs

4

Operational
measures

More efficient aircraft sizes
Optimal flight routes
and speeds
Optimized processes on
the ground

3

30

12
15

24

E

W

6

33

N

Economic
measures

A global, sensibly designed,
market-based system
for reducing emissions
to complement the other
three pillars

S

21

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 55

[Ú 06]

Ú
Technological progress

05
Four pillars for climate protection: The
­Lufthansa Group is constantly increasing
fuel efficiency with the aforementioned
four-pillar strategy for climate protection.
It comprises, in addition to technical
progress such as the investment in the
newest generation of fuel-efficient aircraft, testing and use of alternative fuels
in flight operations. To this are added
infrastructure improvements, such as
optimum use of airspace and optimized
airport infrastructure. Operational
measures such as using more efficient
aircraft sizes, introducing improvements
to procedures on the ground, making
better use of aircraft capacity, and flying
optimum routes are also being taken to
increase fuel efficiency in flight operations. As well as the three pillars already
mentioned, economic instruments
are used.
06
Lufthansa Technik conducted a
­farnesane rig test in Hamburg as part of
the EU’s Blending Study project.

Innovations in aircraft and
engine ­technologies
The most powerful lever for increasing
­efficiency is continual investment in the
­newest technologies, i.e. in modernizing the
­Lufthansa Group’s fleet of aircraft (see “Fleet
development,” page 35). In September 2013
we ordered 59 ultra-modern long-haul,
next-generation aircraft. This represented a
capital investment of EUR 14 billion at list
prices, the largest single private investment in
German industrial history to date.
The new aircraft will be delivered gradually
beginning in 2016. This will enable the
­Lufthansa Group to make a quantum leap in
efficiency and enter the 2-liter class.
The A350-900 and Boeing 777-9X aircraft on
order will fly more fuel-efficiently per passenger per 100 kilometers than any other
comparable type of aircraft. On average, this
newest generation of aircraft will consume
only 2.9 l/100 pkm.

Research into alternative fuels
Alternative fuels with a substantially lower net
CO2 output are a crucial component in all
future efforts to permanently reduce emissions. The use of alternative fuels in flight
operations is therefore an important cornerstone of technical progress according to the
four-pillar strategy. The L­ ufthansa Group did
pioneering work in 2011 by running a longterm trial of biofuel in regular scheduled flight
operations and demonstrated that biofuels can
be used for that purpose without any problem.
With its continued involvement in numerous
future-oriented projects focusing on alternative
fuels, the L­ ufthansa Group is further consolidating its role as a trailblazer in this area. It
applies its expertise to the assessment and
analysis of potential alternative fuels, for
example, lending its support to their development until they are ready for the market.
In 2013 we conducted a rig test at ­Lufthansa
Technik in Hamburg. This test is part of the EU
Blending Study project, for which Deutsche
­Lufthansa AG is the consortium leader.
Experts involved in this project have been
examining the possible impact on aircraft
emissions and engine performance of blending farnesane, a new biokerosene component
made from biomass sugars, with conventional
kerosene.

56 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Strict criteria for
alternative fuels
Ú
Gradually establishing an alternative fuel
supply system is a step towards realizing
the aviation industry’s climate protection goals. The ­Lufthansa Group sets the
highest standards for the use of alternative fuels, however. Before we use plantderived fuel, for example, we must make
sure that cultivation of the energy plants
in question never ends up in competition
with food production. An indispensable
criterion for selecting suppliers is that
their fuel must be produced in sustainable
ways and certified accordingly. We accept
certifications based on the International
Sustainability and Carbon Certification
(ISCC) or Roundtable on Sustainable
Biofuels (RSB) standards. ISCC is the first
government-recognized global certification system for sustainability and greenhouse gas emissions. The RSB standard
places nearly the same requirements on
biokerosene production, while its criteria
are in part even stricter. Other conditions
include a proven environmental benefit
and adequate availability at an acceptable price.

System partners for
fuel from alternative
sources Ú
We are involved in several initiatives to
help advance the development of alternative fuels and ensure their sustainability.
The ­Lufthansa Group is a member of the
Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group
(SAFUG) and the Aviation Initiative for
Renewable Energy in Germany (aireg e.V.).
With Group company Swiss as intermediary, the ­Lufthansa Group also participates
in the Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels
(RSB, Lausanne). Moreover, ­Lufthansa
is active in the Flight Path 2020 initiative,
whose goal is to produce 2 million tonnes
of sustainable aviation fuel in Europe
by 2020.

In the Blending Study, furthermore, the
­Lufthansa Group is also working with a specialty supplier that produces renewable fuels.
The American company Gevo has provided
the ­Lufthansa Group with its innovative alcohol-to-jet fuel (ATJ kerosene). With these
samples we will be studying, in cooperation
with the German armed forces’ Bundeswehr
Research Institute for Materials, Fuels and
Lubricants, the blending behavior of conventional kerosene mixed with ATJ kerosene.
Research into and laboratory testing of alternative fuels are vital for advancing their commercial use in the airline industry. We aim to
obtain approval for the innovative ATJ fuel this
year.
While biosynthetic fuel derived from plant oil
and animal fat was used in our long-term trial
in 2011, in the alcohol-to-jet process the plant
wastes are fermented to produce isobutanol.
This is then dehydrated and converted into
kerosene using standard refinery processes.
There is a wide range of suitable feedstocks.
This makes the method as versatile as the
Fischer-Tropsch process that is already
approved, but it requires a much lower initial
investment.
A larger proportion of alternative fuels results
in a smaller carbon footprint in aviation. Currently the maximum blend of renewable and
conventional kerosene is 50% for each
engine. This will probably be the case for ATJ
kerosene as well, which is another reason
why it is important to conduct research into
the optimal blend ratio.

Ú
Improving
infrastructure
Improving the potential for emissions
reductions with the Single European
Sky initiative
One climate protection project of central political importance in Europe is the creation of a
common European airspace. Current flight
routes over Europe, which are dictated by
national interests, force aircraft to fly detours
averaging 42 kilometers per flight. The Single
European Sky (SES) would enable the
­Lufthansa Group alone to reduce its kerosene
consumption by about 270,000 tonnes per
year. This equates to a quantity of fuel sufficient to fly a L­ ufthansa Airbus A380 from
Frankfurt to San Francisco and back about
1,000 times. Airlines would be able to reduce
their CO2 emissions by 10% and save roughly
EUR 5 billion per year.
In an effort to make the Single European Sky
a reality by 2020, the EU Commission and the
European flight safety authority Eurocontrol
launched the Single European Sky ATM
Research (SESAR) Program back in 2008.
The aim was to standardize European air
traffic management with the aid of new technologies, procedures, and standards. At
present, the ­Lufthansa Group is actively
involved in more than 50 SESAR projects.
Specialists from the various airlines contribute
the expertise they have gained in diverse
areas ranging from route planning, operations
control, and training to information technology and financial management. Free Route
Airspace Maastricht & Karlsruhe (­FRAMaK),
for example, which is a SESAR Flight Trials
and Demonstration project, has resulted
since December 2012 in distance reductions
on routes in the upper airspace over Germany, the Benelux countries, and parts of the
North Sea. This has enabled airlines to realize
permanent fuel savings and avoid CO2 emissions. Since the middle of 2013, 199 shorter

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 57

07
Fuel savings through weight reduction:
Successful campaign to weigh all loose
objects in a Lufthansa Cargo MD-11F.

[Ú 07]

direct routes have been available, which are
used by an average of 229 ­Lufthansa flights
per day.

ducing new flight procedures, optimizing
engine performance and aircraft aerodynamics, and developing intelligent software tools.

Nevertheless, the Single European Sky (SES)
is making only slow progress. All the necessary tools, technologies, and procedures have
long since been in place, yet the EU member
states remain insistent on protecting their own
national interests, including their national air
traffic control systems and the revenue they
generate from fees. The L­ ufthansa Group and
other airlines have repeatedly pointed out
such hurdles in the SES legal framework, and
they continue to offer their services as constructive partners in the quest for an expeditious solution.

Potential savings through
systematic weighing
In a weighing initiative carried out on an A340300 wide-body aircraft last year, we identified
potential weight savings of about 100 kilograms per long-haul aircraft. Items weighing a
total of 70 kilograms have already been permanently removed from the aircraft. This will
allow the ­Lufthansa Group to save more than
1,000 tonnes of kerosene annually on its
intercontinental passenger flights. That
equates to the fuel consumption of 14 A340300 flights from Frankfurt to Rio de Janeiro.
We will thereby reduce our annual fuel costs
in future by more than EUR 900,000 and
reduce CO2 emissions by 3,606 tonnes per
year.

part of its Clear Out project. The results of
the project are being applied to the entire
fleet of Austrian Airlines and the ­Lufthansa
Group. This, too, will result in savings in kerosene. The mentioned weighing initiatives
make us more acutely aware of the impact of
weight on fuel consumption. That has a positive impact on our profitability while also
making an important contribution to our
efforts to steadily improve our ecological
balance. Other weight-reducing measures
are also being put in place. They include
equipping the entire long-haul fleet with lighter
catering trolleys and ­Lufthansa Cargo’s
replacement of its freight containers with
lighter models. In the middle of May 2014
­Lufthansa Cargo successfully completed the
replacement of all of its more than 5,500
standard aluminum freight containers with the
nearly 14-kilogram lighter versions made from
composite materials.

L­ ufthansa Cargo’s freighter fleet also will be
operating more efficiently in the future. Every
single one of the MD11-F aircraft was able to
shed 35 kilograms. Experts have already
identified potential weight savings of about
70 kilograms per aircraft. The measures are
due to be implemented in 2014. Austrian
Airlines also has weighed and documented
all of the loose parts in an Airbus A320 as

Optimum flight routes and speeds
The ­Lufthansa Group plans to use a new
software application that will save fuel by
optimizing the flight profile and speed of
aircraft during flight operations. During a flight,
the program processes the latest aircraft and
weather data to calculate in real time the most
economical flight curve for the remainder of
the flight. A first prototype went into trial

Ú
Operational
measures
The Fuel Efficiency department has developed
numerous projects with great potential for
savings, projects the airlines in the ­Lufthansa
Group will be implementing in the future.
They include programs to achieve permanent
weight reductions on board, testing and intro-

58 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

[Ú 08]

08
Lufthansa Technik’s Project Cyclean
2.0: Clean engines operate with greater
thermal efficiency and consume less
kerosene.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 59

operation in 2013 and will be tested initially
on ­Lufthansa’s long-haul fleet. A similar version of the application, which has been developed by the Berlin-based software producer
PACE, is already being used successfully by
­Lufthansa CityLine.

Ú
Economic
measures

Engine cleaning to reduce
kerosene consumption
Clean engines are more thermally efficient
and consume less kerosene. To maintain
performance, we regularly clean our aircraft
engines to remove contaminants such as
dust, pollen, or salt. Under the Cyclean 2.0
program, experts from L­ ufthansa Technik and
the Darmstadt University of Applied Sciences
are investigating how the cleaning process
can be made even more economical and
environmentally friendly. They have come up
with a promising idea: Instead of using water,
engine washing could be accomplished in the
near future by using CO2 dry ice pellets. This
innovative method would also save large
quantities of water, and it could be used even
in the winter.

The fourth pillar of the four-pillar model aims
to bring about systems and measures that
operate on the basis of economic incentives.
The ­Lufthansa Group supports the institution
of a globally valid, market-based, and competition-neutral system of climate change
­taxation.

A new index helps save costs
The Strategic Cost Index is a successful
example of a measure designed to increase
fuel efficiency. This index indicates the overall
costs incurred for each flight taking into
account the load, speed, and item costs for
crew, MRO, and engines. By using the “new”
Strategic Cost Index, flight crews are able to
calculate this value on a significantly more
precise basis. This is because the calculations
now include not only time costs (crew and
MRO) but also current fuel costs.

Not long after the ICAO decision, however,
the European Commission launched yet
another competition-distorting solution,
planned for the period from 2013 to 2020,
with a decision to limit emissions trading for
air travel to flights within European airspace
until 2016. While this has averted an international conflict for the time being, the EU has
thereby locked in place competitive disadvantages for European Airlines. L­ ufthansa, Air
France, and British Airways must continue
paying for emissions trading for their intraEuropean feeder flights, while competitors
with hubs outside the EU, such as Istanbul,
Doha, Abu Dhabi, and Dubai, are able to
transport travelers from Europe without incurring additional costs. The L­ ufthansa Group’s
costs for intra-European emissions trading are
in the mid-eight-figure range every year.

In October 2013 the UN International Civil
Aviation Organisation (ICAO) took the decision
to develop a globally valid system for climate
change levies by 2016. This system is scheduled to enter into force in 2020—an outcome
that countries and the industry had been
working together to achieve for years. Thus
the aviation industry has been a pioneer in the
movement towards a global convention on
climate change.

Should the ICAO fail to propose a solution for
a global system by 2016, the EU will once
again be expanding emissions trading to all

international flights from EU airports. This
would once again make international conflicts
inevitable, which would not be to the detriment of European airlines alone.
One thing should be clear here: Climate
protection is a joint, worldwide responsibility.
Only on that basis can an acceptable solution
be found, particularly when the share of traffic
taking place outside European airspace is
growing rapidly.
Besides emissions trading, the national aviation tax, which was introduced in Germany in
2011, continues to be a burden, costing the
­Lufthansa Group more than EUR 353 million
in 2013. This makes the tax nearly one and a
half times as much as the net income from
operations of L­ ufthansa and Germanwings
combined (EUR 265 million). This is a considerable sum, one that we are not able to invest
in modern aircraft or new, environmentally
compatible technologies. It is time for policymakers to devise a regime of competitive and
fair terms for the industry.

Ú
Continuing to optimize
processes in the future
In the future, a new flight data analysis tool
called OMEGA (Ops Monitor and Efficiency
Gap Analyzer), which is currently under development, will enable the L­ ufthansa Group to
analyze current fuel consumption with even
greater accuracy and use the results of the
analysis to identify further ways in which to
optimize processes.
The aim is to establish the use of a software
application during flight operations that compares planned, actual, and optimum values
during the various phases of flight. OMEGA
will enable the airlines to improve the efficiency of future flights using the data thus
gathered during flight operations. ß

60 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Energy and resource management
The ­Lufthansa Group is investing in Group-wide
environmental measures and innovations
The ­Lufthansa Group is constantly working to increase the efficiency of
its use of energy and resources at all levels. Our systematic approach
to waste management in catering, our efficient use of resources in building
management, and our environmentally friendly ground services at the
airports are making important contributions to that end.

Energy and resource management helps us
save costs and conserve the environment at
the same time. The L­ ufthansa Group aims to
leverage its energy and resource management to realize further potential savings. At the
same time, keeping track of industry-specific,
regional, and national regulatory regimes for
energy, emissions, and waste disposal is a
complex task. In 2013 the companies of the
­Lufthansa Group set themselves numerous
new targets and put into practice a large
number of measures to conserve resources.
This is demonstrated inter alia by the examples below.

Ú
­Lufthansa Technik: 30%
less CO2 by 2018
On March 27, 2013, ­Lufthansa Technik signed
an agreement to further reduce CO2 emissions. Under the terms of the agreement, the
­Lufthansa Group’s MRO specialist agrees to
further lower energy consumption and thereby
reduce CO2 emissions by 30% by 2018.
From 2019, the company plans to work
together with 14 other Hamburg-based
­companies to reduce at a minimum a
­further 150,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. This
will continue and increase the voluntary

commitment to 0.5 million tonnes in savings
per year that it undertook in 2007. This new,
second phase in the company’s commitment
is becoming considerably more challenging
for the locations involved, because numerous
measures that are effective in avoiding CO2
with little use of resources have already been
implemented. “This renewed voluntary commitment underscores the relative importance
that sustainable management practice has at
­Lufthansa Technik,” according to Ralf Wunderlich, Head of Environmental Management
at ­Lufthansa Technik.
L­ ufthansa Technik also set its subsidiaries the
goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 30% by
2018. For this reason we are working vigorously to bring to bear across the entire
­Lufthansa Technik Group the personal knowledge and experience already available to us
in this area.
The ­Lufthansa Group seeks to keep emissions
and noise to a minimum on the ground as
well. For this reason, we are maintaining a
focus on developing and testing electric
propulsion technologies for taxiing aircraft.
With the use of electrically powered vehicles
for aircraft handling and taxiing procedures
we can reduce noise and exhaust gases in
the immediate vicinity of airports.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 61

[Ú 09]

Electromobility at Frankfurt Airport

Ú
E-PORT AN:
Into the future with
electro-mobility
Frankfurt Airport is Germany’s largest commercial airport and one of the most important
hubs for air travel in the world. It is also where
we are currently working with our project
partners to advance the E-Port AN electromobility initiative. The objective is to use
electrically powered vehicles for aircraft
handling to reduce emissions generated
during ground maneuvering. The ­Lufthansa
Group, Fraport AG, the State of Hesse, and
the Rhine-Main Model Electro-mobility Region
are partners in the initiative. The future-oriented electro-mobility project is being subsidized by the German Federal Ministry of
Transport, Building and Urban Development
with scientific support from the Technical
University of Darmstadt. On June 10, 2013, it
received the “Electro-Mobility Beacon” distinction from the German federal government.
This award is reserved for innovations that
make a significant contribution to progress in
the field of electro-mobility.
The ­Lufthansa Group’s eTaxi, eSchlepper, and
TaxiBot projects involve various electro-mobil-

ity concepts for future application in vehicles
used for aircraft taxiing and towing on the
apron at Frankfurt Airport. The long-term goal
is that aircraft will no longer taxi to a runway,
parking position, or hangar under the power
of their engines but with the use of an electrically powered aircraft tower or an electrical
propulsion system integrated into the aircraft
itself.
eTaxi: Electrically powered landing
gear for taxiing
In the eTaxi project we are studying the use
and technical integration of an electric motor
in the main gear of short- and medium-range
aircraft for all taxiing maneuvers on the apron.
The system’s electrical power is generated
and stored by the aircraft’s auxiliary power
unit.
eSchlepper: A hybrid electrically
powered aircraft tug
This sub-project involves a hybrid (diesel/
electric) electrically powered aircraft tug without a tow bar. The eSchlepper was developed
by ­Lufthansa LEOS, a subsidiary of ­Lufthansa
Technik, in collaboration with the Swedish
company Kalmar Motor AB. ­Lufthansa LEOS
plans to use the eSchleppers for repositioning
and towing heavy long-haul aircraft over
distances of up to seven kilometers between
the gates and hangars (on-base tows).
The eSchlepper can move even the largest

passenger aircraft with a maximum takeoff
weight of 600 tonnes and is unique in its
performance class. The first prototype of the
vehicle is scheduled for delivery to ­Lufthansa
LEOS at the end of 2014. In the medium term
the eSchlepper will be replacing the dieselpowered tow-bar-based aircraft tugs currently
in use. The eSchlepper will be more environmentally friendly and economical owing to its
innovative electric motor. The all-wheel-drive
electric vehicle will be powered by lithium-ion
batteries and externally charged from the
electricity grid. When necessary, the batteries
can be charged during operation with the use
of a fully integrated diesel motor.

09
Heading for green aircraft handling: In
the future, Lufthansa LEOS would like to
use an eSchlepper to reposition and tow
heavy long-haul aircraft.

62 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

[Ú 10]

[Ú 11]

10 /11
TaxiBot tow truck tested in operation. At
the end of March 2014, Lufthansa LEOS
received its third TaxiBot vehicle.

TaxiBot: Diesel-electric-powered
aircraft tow truck
The TaxiBot subproject, whose focus is a
diesel-electric-powered aircraft tow truck, is
already at a far advanced stage. It, too, can
taxi commercial aircraft to the runway with
their engines off (dispatch towing). This process is based on a technology patented by
Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) and developed jointly with L­ ufthansa LEOS. Unlike the
eTaxi, this system requires no or only minimal
modifications to the aircraft. Once the aircraft
has been pushed back from the gate, the

TaxiBot driver temporarily turns control of the
truck over to the pilot in the cockpit, who then
operates the truck remotely in pilot control
mode (PCM). Once the aircraft reaches the
disconnect position, the TaxiBot driver
resumes control and separates the tow truck
from the aircraft. Only then are the aircraft’s
engines started. The third TaxiBot vehicle was
delivered to L­ ufthansa LEOS at the end of
March 2014. Testing for certification by the
German Federal Aviation Office (LBA) and
other authorities is currently underway. The
testing program will also assess the pilots’
workload when starting the engines during
the TaxiBot towing.
eLift: Catering lift truck of the future
The aim of the eLift project, as part of the
E-PORT AN initiative, is to develop the catering lift truck of the future—one that is electrically powered. The project, which is being
managed by ­Lufthansa subsidiary LSG Sky
Chefs, is a collaborative effort with the companies Doll Fahrzeugbau and Euro Engineering along with the Technical University of
Kaiserslautern. Various concepts for the
electrification of the lift truck’s individual
components, such as its lifting mechanism
and its propulsion system, are being considered. The basis for the new vehicle is an
electrically driven truck chassis. The box
body is to fulfil the same functions with electric drives as a conventional lift truck. In
addition, the use of electric propulsion will
result in a substantial and lasting reduction in
all types of emissions, particularly noise and
CO2 emissions. The catering lift truck of the
future will incorporate a design that separates
the truck chassis mechanically and energetically from the box body, the lifting system
being powered separately. The vehicle itself
will be able to undergo future development
independently as a result.
www.e-port-an.com

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 63

Ú
LSG Sky Chefs:
Avoiding waste and
conserving resources
LSG Sky Chefs is the world’s largest provider
of airline catering and management services
for all inflight processes. LSG Sky Chefs has
developed a comprehensive system of key
performance indicators. These are used to
measure and continually optimize the outcome of all measures taken to reduce waste
quantities and conserve resources. They
include the indicator waste per meal in grams,
which the company aims to lower worldwide
by another 2% in the next three years. Other
indicators are water consumption per meal,
energy per square meter of operating surface,
energy per meal, and recycled waste as a
percentage of total waste.
Ambitious goal: 100% recycling in the USA
LSG Sky Chefs has set itself the goal of having
as much of its waste materials recycled as
possible and to steadily reduce the quantity of
its waste. Since 2008 the ­Lufthansa Group’s
catering specialist has been keeping a record
of all the waste produced by all of the companies throughout the world that are wholly
owned by the Group. The data that are collected in this way provide the basis on which
the company calculates the recycling rate for
each location, each country, and the entire
Group.
LSG Sky Chefs set itself the goal of recycling
100% of its recyclable waste at all 41 of its
locations in the USA by 2015. Since the Zero
Waste to Landfill program began in February
2013, nine locations have introduced the new
procedures and were thus able to successfully recycle some 6,500 tonnes of waste.

“To meet our social responsibility, we aim
to become the first airline caterer to achieve
zero waste to landfill in the US,” says Dale
Easdon, LSG Sky Chefs’ Senior Vice President Operations, North America. The company produces 532 million meals a year,
160 million of them in the US.
SIMBA: Environmentally friendly operation
of dishwashing lines
LSG Sky Chefs also developed an environmentally friendly method for operating its
dishwashing lines, a tool called SIMBA (a
German acronym that translates to dishwashing information management tool including
operations analysis and alarm system). Since
April 2010 when the pilot project began, we
have been able to reduce water consumption
in the dishwashing process by 30% and
energy consumption by 24% at the Frankfurt
base alone. SIMBA is currently in use at 65
LSG Sky Chefs locations worldwide. For its
commitment to conserving resources, LSG
Sky Chefs received the Fraport Energy Award
in the Highest Savings category in August
2012.
Recycling on board
Limited stowing capacity and short service
periods are crucial factors that affect the
choice of foods and beverages that are
offered on board. They also have a direct
effect on waste management. Incorrect sorting of recyclable wastes cannot always be
avoided, for example. Nevertheless, we aim
to conserve valuable resources and avoid
increased disposal costs. For this reason,
airline catering is subject to specific sorting
criteria. Flight attendants are urged to stow all
items in the places from which they took
them. While we dispose of open foodstuffs in
waste boxes or with clean-up trolleys, empty
beverage containers are returned to the
beverage trolleys. National disposal rules also

Fly Greener Ú
Cabin Crew Manager
Rebecca Emmerling from
Munich is currently promoting
the Fly Greener initiative in the
cabin area. Our aim here is
to heighten flight attendants’
environmental awareness.
Measures include information
stands on the theme of recycling and increased coverage
in internal media. Planning
is also underway for a team
of Fly Greener ambassadors.
Participants will actively communicate the theme of recycling on board.

play an important role for us (see Balance
2013, page 84).
LSG Sky Chefs in Frankfurt gets its own
combined heat and power plant
Since October 2013 the Frankfurt location of
LSG Sky Chefs has been producing much of
the energy it needs on its own. A combined
heat and power plant was installed in the
basement of the facility. This plant uses natural gas to generate the necessary electricity
along with heat and hot water. By producing
its own electricity, heat, and hot water, the
location is reducing its annual carbon dioxide
emissions by roughly 3,000 tonnes, thereby
helping to protect the environment and climate. The cost of electricity and gas has risen
steadily over the last several years, and, given
the volume and production growth that is to
be expected at the Frankfurt location, consumption and, ultimately, costs are going to
be rising even further. By having its own
combined heat and power plant, the company is therefore able to save costs in the
long term.

64 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Ú
­Lufthansa Systems:
Saving electricity
intelligently

Ú
­Lufthansa Cargo:
­Electro-mobility-based
aircraft handling

L­ ufthansa Systems, the ­Lufthansa Group’s IT
subsidiary, is working to steadily optimize its
consumption of energy. The IT specialist’s
largest computing center covers 6,600 square
meters in Kelsterbach, a town located on the
outskirts of Frankfurt am Main. It contains
more than 2,000 servers, which are spread
out over four data centers. Because of the
huge amount of hot air that is generated, an
intelligent air-conditioning solution is a key
component of any approach to further reducing the computing center’s electricity consumption. 280,000 cubic meters of air are
moved every hour in each computing center.
Keeping hot and cold airstreams separate
from one another is a highly important factor in
the energy balance. The server cabinets,
which are referred to as racks, are positioned
relative to one another in such a way that
escaping warm air is collected in one aisle
while cold air is fed into a parallel aisle. The air
streams are thus kept separate from one
another, and cold and warm aisles are created. The cold air can be used specifically and
without loss to cool the servers. Another component involves harnessing the outside temperature. In the winter especially, the outside
air provides 100% of the needed cooling.
Thanks to these and other green IT measures,
­Lufthansa Systems was able to reduce its
consumption of electricity by about 5% in
2013 as compared to the previous year.

At the ­Lufthansa Cargo Center, L­ ufthansa
Cargo’s largest base of operations, 40 electrically powered vehicles were replaced by the
latest generation of energy efficient models:
31 new electric fork trucks and nine electric
tractors. The new industrial trucks consume
about 14% less energy for the same power as
their predecessors. They operate much more
efficiently and can be used for a longer period
before their batteries must be recharged.
Hence they are responsible for a considerable
increase in efficiency at the Frankfurt hub. In
total, ­Lufthansa Cargo has more than 120 of
these industrial trucks. With the exception of
one that carries especially heavy loads of nine
to 12 tonnes, all are electrically powered.

In 2013 ­Lufthansa Systems also built an outdoor, fully operational back-up cooling unit in
Frankfurt that is connected to the computing
center. In addition, an improvement in the
coefficient of performance (CoP) value was
achieved with a series of other measures,
including installation of state-of-the-art heat
exchangers in the ventilating stations. This
value provides information about the energy
efficiency of cooling and ventilation systems.
In 2014 the IT specialist aims to achieve further improvement in the CoP by replacing the
cooling stations with refrigerating machines.

eFreight: Off to a paperless future
with ­Lufthansa Cargo
­Lufthansa Cargo has been expanding its
international paperless air freight transport
services (eFreight) since as early as 2007 with
the aim of completely digitalizing the transport
chain. Nowadays up to 30 different paper
documents are needed for every single air
freight shipment, regardless of its size. This
imposes high costs every day and prolongs
transport times. By converting to eFreight,
therefore, the air freight industry will experience a simplification of procedures, a reduction in complexity, and the elimination of an
environmental burden. The potential savings
for the air freight industry as a whole—7,800
tonnes of paper per year—are considerable.
This quantity of paper documents piled one
atop the other would be 20 times the height of
Mount Everest. L­ ufthansa Cargo aims to have
100% of its transport documentation handled
electronically beginning in 2020.
By using SmartPads for transport order management, ­Lufthansa Cargo has already made
paperless document management a reality.
Instead of processing transport orders on
paper, this process has been completely electronic since 2013. This saves approximately

7,500 sheets of DIN A4 paper per week. It also
reduces the burden on the environment and
saves printing costs. L­ ufthansa Cargo has
awarded the company’s internal environmental
prize to those of its employees who were
involved in the project’s d
­ evelopment.

Ú
Resource efficiency in
building management
In our efforts to reduce energy consumption
while improving the efficiency with which we
use resources, we are also setting similar
standards for the company’s buildings. In its
key points, the L­ ufthansa Group’s strategic
environmental program requires that the
planning, construction, and redevelopment of
buildings take account of the latest energysaving and resource-conserving options that
are available.
The ­Lufthansa Aviation Center (LAC) at Frankfurt Airport was honored by the European
Union for its energy efficiency as far back as
2009. The LAC is one of the first buildings in
Germany to earn the privilege of calling itself
a Green Building. Thanks to an innovative
structure consisting of thermally-active fairfaced concrete ceilings, a sensitive automated shading system, and a highly insulated
façade, it needs only about one-third of the
heating energy of a conventional office
­building. As a result, the heating energy
consumed by the LAC is 56% below the
guidelines of the German Energy Saving
Regulation currently in effect. In the case of
electricity consumption it is 17% less. Owing
to the building’s low-energy design,
­Lufthansa is able to relieve the Rhine-Main
region of about 12,000 tonnes of CO2 each
year. Further examples of sustainable construction for which the ­Lufthansa Group is
responsible include the L­ ufthansa Training &
Conference Center in Seeheim, which is
supplied with energy from deep underground
by a geothermal energy system, and the new
building satellite currently under construction
at Munich Airport. This building is designed
according to the principles of sustainable
construction, which improves its CO2 balance

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 65

by 40% as compared to the two existing
terminals.
The planned construction of L­ ufthansa Cargo’s new logistics center at Frankfurt Airport,
LCCneo, will satisfy the exacting requirements
of the Gold Standard of the German Association for Sustainable Construction (Deutsche
Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen). The
categories covered by the extensive certification process are ecology, economy, technology, processes, location, and socio-cultural
and functional aspects. Thanks to its up-todate technical infrastructure and automated
storage logistics, the new cargo hub will allow
faster turnaround times at significantly
reduced unit costs while at the same time
increasing the quality of service for L­ ufthansa
Cargo customers.

Ú
Outlook
To achieve further successful outcomes, the
­Lufthansa Group launched an internal energy
forum in February 2014. The aim is to establish a system for managing electricity and
energy conservation that encompasses the
Group as a whole. We are therefore exploring
the applicability of best-practice examples to
the entire L­ ufthansa Group and working on
uniform key performance indicators. ß

[Ú 12]

12
View inside the Lufthansa Aviation
­Center, which has been recognized
as a Green Building for five years.

66 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Involvement in science
Twenty years of climate research on scheduled
flights
Global climate change constitutes one of the greatest challenges that humanity is faced with. Reliable forecasts of future climate trends are therefore of key
importance. To improve the climate models needed for such forecasts, constant comparisons between the model and reality are necessary. For the past
20 years the ­Lufthansa Group has been helping to observe the condition of
the Earth’s atmosphere.
With more than 300 destinations all around
the world, our route network offers ideal
opportunities to lend assistance to climate
research. Aside from its involvement in climate research, the L­ ufthansa Group is active
in numerous other research projects. These
include noise research, the testing of alternative fuels, the development of alternative
propulsion technologies for land-based transportation means, and projects to develop
technical innovations for use in commercial
aircraft maintenance.
In these areas and in our climate research
projects we have been able to score significant successes over the past several years.
Our contribution to science and research has
been especially multifarious in the field of
climate research. Our involvement has also
made it possible to achieve greater accuracy
in weather forecasts and climate predictions
and to gather more precise information on the
composition of our air quality.

Ú
MOZAIC: More than
24,000 measuring flights
serve to increase the
accuracy of climate
models
We began our involvement in climate research
as far back as 1993. Under the MOZAIC
project (Measurement of Ozone, Water Vapor,
Carbon Monoxide, and Nitrogen Oxides
aboard Airbus In-Service Aircraft), more than
24,000 flights conducted for measuring purposes were completed over a period of 20
years following a one-year development
phase for the measuring instruments we
helped develop for the project. This enabled
us to gather extensive data on the ozone,
water vapor, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen
content of the atmosphere. On the basis of
the data collected aboard two ­Lufthansa
Airbus A340-300 long-haul aircraft, scientists
were able to increase the accuracy of climate
models and improve weather forecasting
models. The measuring flights also allowed us
to gather a globally unique data source for
water vapor and ozone.

[Ú 13]

[Ú 14]

[Ú 15]

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 67

Ú
AMDAR: Further
improvement in weather
forecasts
Since the end of 1999, L­ ufthansa aircraft have
been equipped with software that gathers
current meteorological data in flight. The
­Lufthansa Group is thus helping to improve
the accuracy of weather forecasts. Taking the
data measured by aircraft into account can
increase the accuracy of weather forecasts for
the next 24 hours by 5–7%. Aircraft Meteorological Data Relay (AMDAR) is the term used
to describe this system for collecting weather
data in flight. No additional weather sensors
or on-board hardware are needed to record
AMDAR data. Since pilots in the cockpit also
need information such as barometric altitude,
air temperature, and wind speed, aircraft are
already equipped with the appropriate measuring devices. The special software, which
was developed in collaboration with L­ ufthansa
Systems, is needed only for transmission of
the weather data by data link.

addition to the measurements on board, 116
air samples are taken per mission for further
analysis in European laboratories. The objective of the project is, among other things, to
investigate the processes taking place in the
boundary layer between the troposphere and
the stratosphere, a layer of the atmosphere
that is of particular interest to scientists. Neither satellites nor ground-based equipment
can measure climatically relevant parameters
in nearly the same quantity or with nearly the
same accuracy. Measurements taken with the
flying CARIBIC laboratory have recently made
an important contribution to proving the presence of three previously undetected chlorofluorocarbons (CFC). One of them, CFC-113a,
has been increasing rapidly of late. The next
step is to find out where these gases are
being produced and what the reasons are for
their increase. Only when we have done so
will successful countermeasures be possible,
as they have been in the case of previously
known CFCs, of which there have been only
seven so far. They are considered as the main
cause of the ozone hole. This is true also of
the likewise newly detected CFC replacement,
hydro-chloro-fluoro-carbon (HCFC).

Ú
Ú
IAGOS: A new measureCARIBIC: Important dis- ment infrastructure for
covery for the protection climate research
of the ozone layer
The ­Lufthansa Group has supported the
CARIBIC (Civil Aircraft for the Regular Investigation of the Atmosphere Based on an Instrument Container) project since 2004. The aim
of this project is to obtain detailed analyses of
the atmosphere in particular regions. For this
purpose the Leverkusen, a L­ ufthansa Airbus
A340-600, was equipped with a globally
unique, 1.5-tonne measuring container, turning the aircraft into a flying climate research
laboratory. Ten research institutes in five
European countries jointly developed and
equipped the automated measuring container
under the supervision of the Mainz-based Max
Planck Institute for Chemistry. The container is
installed once a month for several days and
measures data relating to 50 different gases
and particulate compounds simultaneously. It
has now covered more than two million kilometers in the service of climate research. In

The climate research project IAGOS (Inservice Aircraft for a Global Observing System), in which ­Lufthansa is likewise a participant, was begun in 2013 as one of three
major research projects in the Roadmap for
Research Infrastructures of the German
Federal Ministry of Education and Research
(BMBF). As a successor to MOZAIC, IAGOS
also uses commercial aircraft as a platform for
collecting global and continuous atmospheric
data on scheduled flights. The IAGOS measuring equipment is constantly being
improved by the participating research institutes so that more, and more precise, data on
trace substances in the atmosphere can be
collected. According to the scientific panel
appointed by the BMBF to oversee the project, this will close an important knowledge
gap, resulting in more accurate climate forecasts. The BMBF has given the selected

Why are commercial
aircraft particularly
suited to this? Ú
Civil aviation is suited to the study and
observation of the atmosphere for
several reasons:
The Earth’s atmosphere can be observed
by satellites as well as from the ground.
Both are remote sensing measurements.
However, they have a relatively poor
spatial resolution. Direct measurements
on board aircraft, on the other hand,
provide a much higher spatial resolution.
Commercial aircraft, therefore, bridge
the gap between observation satellite measurements and ground-based
measurements.
Aircraft fly at a higher level (tropopause),
which is of particular importance for climate research.
Aircraft fly worldwide, and so can
observe the entirety of the Earth’s
atmosphere.
Scheduled flights provide a high level
of continuity and mean that long-term
observations can be made that would
not be possible with the individual flights
made by special research aircraft, which
are also much more expensive.

major research projects top priority under its
overall research policy.
The first IAGOS system has been in service
since July 2011 on the Viersen, a L­ ufthansa
Airbus A340-300. Other systems have since
been installed on three A340-300 aircraft
along with an A330-300 operated by other
airlines. After each landing, these data are
sent by means of a GSM modem directly to
the CNRS research center in Toulouse, where
the IAGOS database has its home. From there
the data are made available for use by numerous other research institutions around the
world in addition to our IAGOS partner. The
package of instruments specially developed
for the project is robust and requires virtually
no maintenance. In addition to the routine
capture of atmospheric trace substances, it
will be measuring aerosols and cloud
­particles.

13 / 14 / 15
Measuring sensors on Lufthansa aircraft
used for climate research in flight.

Product
Responsibility
The satisfaction of our customers is a measure
of what we do. Safety and service are our top
­priority. They are the principles that guide our entire
value chain.
5

4

7,804

14,000

star service is what
we wish to offer our
customers

pillars for our customer
feedback management

points on the Customer
Profile Index

tonnes of CO2 voluntarily offset by customers through our online
offers

70 // Product Responsibility

Our fundamental focus
safety, health, satisfaction

The companies of the ­Lufthansa Group continually review and improve their
products along the entire service chain. This ranks high in importance for our
business success.

Our goal is to achieve a steady increase in
customer satisfaction. We have made our
commitment to this goal one of the four cornerstones of our corporate strategy. A key
concern for us is that we maintain a strong
emphasis on accommodating the diversity
of our international customer base. We
design our services accordingly—with onboard meal and entertainment choices that
are appropriate to specific target groups,
assistance for children traveling alone,
and assistance for travelers with restricted
mobility, to mention just a few examples. In
addition, we are constantly improving our
feedback management procedures.
The safety and health of our passengers,
crews, and employees are of key importance to us. Swiss, for example, was
certified in 2014 as the world’s first allergyfriendly airline and is a pioneer in that
respect among the L­ ufthansa Group.

Large volumes of data are processed every
day in the ­Lufthansa Group. Current social
and technical trends are making people all
over the world acutely aware of the need for
data security. The topic of data protection
and data security therefore continues to
gain in importance for the L­ ufthansa Group
as well.
We aim to live up to our responsibility to
keep the impact of our flight operations on
the environment as low as possible. Many
customers share this concern and wish to
offset the CO2 emissions resulting from their
air travel. We have developed appropriate
options in this respect too as part of our
product and service chain. ß

01 / 02 / 03 / 04 / 05
Service excellence: For the airlines of
the Lufthansa Group, maintaining a
focus on the customer is a key concern.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 71

[Ú 01]

[Ú 02]

[Ú 03]

[Ú 04]

[Ú 05]

72 // Product Responsibility

Customer satisfaction

Achieving a constant rise in the level of customer satisfaction is one of our
key concerns. It is a cornerstone of our corporate strategy. We are therefore
continually optimizing the quality of our portfolio of products and services and
introducing innovations. And we maintain a focus on personal d
­ ialogue with
our customers as we do so. In what follows, we wish to introduce L­ ufthansa’s
activities in this regard by way of illustration.

L­ ufthansa is committed to being a 5-STAR
airline. An important aspect of this commitment is how we manage our customer relations. Our goal is to offer the best possible
service to each passenger—even when we
receive negative feedback. Such feedback
can be a source of valuable suggestions as to
how we might further improve our service. To
us, 5 STAR means providing what our customers expect of us when it comes to accessibility and rapid problem-solving on a more
personal level. The standard we strive to
uphold is based on the prestigious Skytrax
Airline Rating System.
Our journey to top marks

5 STAR is ...

We regularly conduct online surveys to gauge
customer satisfaction. Service variables relating to the entire passenger experience and
service chain are measured. They range from
preflight information and booking procedures
through the actual flight experience and such
aspects as waiting times for luggage to the
completion of the journey at the destination.
To measure customer satisfaction, we use
satisfaction scales that show which services
our customers are especially satisfied with or,
as the case may be, less satisfied with. In
addition, L­ ufthansa collects data on the level
of customer satisfaction with the Miles & More
services and our direct sale services, such as
those offered at our service centers and our

booking portal at LH.com. We issue comprehensive, user-specific reports on a monthly
basis for and to departments responsible for
delivering these services. Management is also
regularly informed of the status quo of customer satisfaction.
Our passengers’ reviews are consolidated in
the Customer Profile Index (CPI), which provides a weighted average assessment of our
services from our passengers’ standpoint. The
CPI rose from 7,733 in 2012 to 7,804 in 2013.
This improvement is reflected also in the
numerous prestigious awards that ­Lufthansa
and numerous other Group companies
received in 2013 (see “Prizes and Awards” on
page 129).
We aim not only to measure customer satisfaction but also to continually improve it. Many
areas are assigned passenger satisfaction
targets. Satisfaction figures are used also to
identify weak spots in our past performance
and as basis for initiating measures to rectify
them.
A key success factor for the L­ ufthansa Group
is the manner in which the Group organizes
its management of customer feedback and
applies it in dialogue with passengers. What
customers report back to us provides a crucial starting point from which to work towards

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 73

Lufthansa is ­
committed to being
a 5-STAR airline.

an increase in customer satisfaction, which
has a substantial effect on the L­ ufthansa
Group’s image. L­ ufthansa receives on average 200,000 valuable feedback messages
from customers per year through every sort
of channel.

Ú
Best in class ­dialogue
for and with our
passengers
In 2013 the L­ ufthansa Group launched the
Passenger Dialogue Services program. It is
based on four cornerstones:
Accessibility:
	­Lufthansa is committed to enabling passengers to reach us from wherever it is
convenient for them to do so, regardless of
which channels they use to contact us. For
this reason L­ ufthansa installed a Feedback
button right on the homepage at LH.com,
for example, while also providing an e-mail
address and a telephone number for those
who prefer to call us directly. In addition
to these feedback options, passengers
can contact us even while in flight through
­Lufthansa’s Flynet product. Our experts
have not forgotten the social media channels either. L­ ufthansa’s Facebook presence
gives the customer direct access to our
feedback form, and we are represented in
dialogue in other relevant forums as well.

Speed:
Particularly in these days of Web 2.0,
speed is crucial to our success in customer relationship management. Short
response times are highly important,
particularly when there are short-term
increases in the volume of customer feedback owing to strikes, airspace closures,
or the effects of winter weather.
Problem-solving:
Our paramount goal is to understand
each passenger’s feedback and to deal
with it in as personal a way as possible
without adversely affecting the factor of
speed.
Learning from feedback:
With the Passenger Feedback Cycle,
feedback is clustered and analyzed as a
potential source of improvements to our
products and services.
This program has given our feedback management system a new fundamental focus
with the goal of being best in class. ß

Key measures in our
efforts to achieve a
continual rise in the
level of customer
­satisfaction Ú
More personal attention in the services
we provide.
Upgrading the quality of our service and
hospitality.
Greater differentiation of check-in areas
according to booking class at the major
hubs in Frankfurt and Munich.
Optimization of the services provided to
assist arriving passengers and passengers in transit in Frankfurt and Munich.
Improving the amenity kits (toiletry bags
with convenience items) in First and
Business Class.
Upgrading the inflight entertainment program in all classes.
Providing more sophisticated meal
and beverage options in the business
lounges.
Offering a fast lane for status customers and First Class and Business Class
passengers at all intercontinental
destinations.
A new option on long-haul ­Lufthansa
flights: A new product, a Premium
­Economy service class, will become
available in December 2014, initially
on all flights aboard the new Boeing
747-8. This new product will close the
gap between our high-end ­Business
Class segment and the traditional
Economy Class. All long-haul ­Lufthansa
aircraft will be furnished with the new
class by the summer of 2015.

74 // Product Responsibility

Flight safety and health protection
are the ­Lufthansa Group’s highest priority

For the ­Lufthansa Group, the safety and health of passengers, crew members,
and employees always come first. It is the duty of the management and all
employees of the L­ ufthansa Group to monitor flight safety risks and achieve a
constant rise in the level of safety.

For the sake of flight safety, all airlines of the
­Lufthansa Group have safety management
systems (SMS) that follow the requirements of
the International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO). The purpose of these systems is to
determine the safety level of flight operations,
detect and measure risks in advance, and
lower the risk of accidents through suitable
countermeasures. L­ ufthansa has developed
for this purpose new and accredited processes for systematic risk analysis and
assessment. In addition, L­ ufthansa heads a
consortium of various university professors
and research institutions whose goal is to
develop meaningful parameters for measuring
flight safety. Such safety performance indicators enable us to control accident risk more
effectively. But L­ ufthansa is setting standards
in matters of safety with traditional measures
too, such as its heavy investments in aircraft
equipment and a pilot training program without equal in the industry.
Within the L­ ufthansa Group, independent
departments monitor compliance with flight
rules and procedures. In addition, the experts
make safety recommendations and advise
the airline on all matters of relevance to flight
safety. The Group Safety Pilot department
coordinates the cooperative efforts in safety
matters among the companies of the
­Lufthansa Group.

Ú
The IOSA audit—a comprehensive standard for
aviation safety
An independent review of the safety standards
of the airlines in the L­ ufthansa Group takes
place every two years with the IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA). The IOSA is internationally the most widely-accepted standard
for aviation safety. All airlines in the L­ ufthansa
Group fully satisfy the IATA safety standards.
­Lufthansa Cargo was the first IOSA-registered
cargo airline in the world. With its first successful completion of an intensive audit in
2007, the L­ ufthansa Group’s cargo specialist
has been a trailblazer for flight safety standards as they apply to cargo airlines.
In 2014 L­ ufthansa also became the first airline
in the L­ ufthansa Group to be audited according to the new Enhanced IOSA Standard,
which becomes mandatory in September
2015.
www.iata.org/iosa

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 75

Ú
Medical health services
further expanded
The ­Lufthansa Group has seen a further
increase in the importance of medical health
services for its passengers. Demographic
trends have played a role in this development,
as people are living longer and therefore
remaining mobile longer. The increasing need
for clarification of medical issues presented by
passengers and the growing demand for
medical transports led to the establishment of
the Passenger Medical Care division in 2009
as an addition to the ­Lufthansa Group’s Medical Service. Requests for transport services
specifically for sitting or recumbent passengers with limited mobility, for example, or even
for intensive-care transports with the ­Lufthansa
Patient Transportation Compartment (PTC),
are becoming ever more frequent. And then
there are the medical emergencies that occur
on board. The central advisory unit is the
Medical Operation Center (MOC). It coordinates all transports of medical patients aboard
the ­Lufthansa fleet. Since July 2010 the MOC
has also been managing, with its Special
Service Team, the procedures for accommodating passengers with limited mobility
according to legal requirements and operational necessities.
With its PTC, L­ ufthansa is the only airline in
the world to offer a flying intensive-care unit
that provides patients with return transport and
all-around medical care. In addition to the
MOC, ­Lufthansa Technik also plays an important role. As the technical specialist in the
­Lufthansa Group, it is able to quickly convert
seating in an aircraft when necessary to allow
installation of the PTC. During flight, intensivecare patients receive medical care from a
physician and a specially trained PTC Medical
Crew Member.
In April 2014 L­ ufthansa Technik, together with
its partner company Aerolite Max Bucher AG,

presented for the first time a complete model
of a newly developed unit for transporting
patients in passenger and VIP planes. The
system has a modular structure and can be
adapted to personal requirements. The first
deliveries of the system are scheduled for as
early as September 2014.
L­ ufthansa is also constantly expanding its
bonus program Doctor on board, which it
developed in 2006. Under this program,
previously registered physicians make themselves available on board for immediate
medical assistance in the event of a medical
emergency. When physicians register for the
program, information about their medical
specializations is stored with their frequent
flyer miles information under the Miles & More
program so that flight attendants are able to
approach them directly, discreetly, and without making an onboard announcement in a
medical emergency situation. ­Lufthansa
further expanded the Doctor on board program in July 2013. Since then, a special
website on our homepage provides information on the program for doctors who wish to
register.

Ú
Swiss—The first
­allergy-friendly airline
In May 2014, to improve the travel experience
for passengers with allergies, Swiss introduced anti-allergenic products on the ground
and in the air. Adjustments were made to the
cabin, and lactose- and gluten-free products
were added to the foods and beverages
already on the menu. This earned Swiss
certification by ECARF (European Centre for
Allergy Research Foundation) as the world’s
first allergy-friendly airline, putting Swiss in the
role of trailblazer for the ­Lufthansa Group.
“Our customers’ need for an anti-allergenic
travel environment has increased steadily in
past years. In cooperation with the foundation

ECARF we would now like to take concrete
steps to address this need so that we can
make traveling as pleasant and painless as
possible,” explained Frank Maier, Head of
Products & Services at Swiss.

Ú
A measuring kit for
analyzing cabin air
in flight
L­ ufthansa is the world leader in cabin air
quality research, to which it has a particularly
strong commitment. This work is taking place
in cooperation with unions, staff representatives, trade associations, industrial federations,
and aircraft and engine manufacturers. It also
includes developing technical solutions in the
form of special sensors and filters.
One special feature is the measuring kit that
we have been using since April 2013 to analyze cabin air. A partner in its development
is the reputable Hanover Medical School.
­Altogether, a minimum of 50 tours with the
Airbus A380 are planned for tests. Using the
measuring kit on selected flights, L­ ufthansa
will attempt to record changes in the composition of the cabin air during a smell event.
Preliminary results have indicated no noticeable chemical pollution, even during smell
events. Neurotoxic ortho-tricresyl phosphates
(o-TCP), in particular, were not detectable. “All
in all, only a small concentration of organophosphates was detectable,” summarize the
researchers. L­ ufthansa wants to identify and
quantify substances that are potentially present in the cabin air and to optimize the objective assessment of such events. ß

76 // Product Responsibility

Data protection and data security

Careful and secure handling of personal data is the basis for trust in a business relationship. Protecting data protects the ­Lufthansa Group’s customers,
employees, shareholders, and suppliers from violation of their personality
rights through improper use of their personal data. The L­ ufthansa Group protects and secures data according to the highest standards.

The Corporate Data Protection department
ensures that the German Data Protection Act
(Bundesdatenschutzgesetz, BDSG) is applied
across the L­ ufthansa Group. It acquaints our
employees with the relevant provisions of the
law and conducts data protection audits. In
addition, the Group’s data protection experts
advise the departments when new systems
are introduced or procedures are designed or
altered. This makes it possible to coordinate
data protection and economic concerns early
on. The crucial first step is to make employees
and managers sensitive to the risks to data
protection so that they are able to detect and
avoid them.
For a service company such as the L­ ufthansa
Group, the protection of personal data also
has special economic importance. Such
information is invaluable to the companies in
their efforts to deliver the best quality of services possible. The more personal the options
or services are, the more important knowledge of the preferences of individual customers becomes.
In recent years a particularly troublesome area
of legal conflict has developed over the use of
personal data as foreign authorities have
come to demand, with ever greater frequency,
information on passengers as contained in
their passports or flight reservations. As a
German company, Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG is

subject to German data protection law. Nevertheless, the airlines must also observe rules of
entry and security provisions in the various
destination countries. ­Lufthansa always
attempts to avoid such data disclosures for as
long as possible. This problem can be definitively resolved only at the political level
through workable international agreements
that are compatible with data protection law.
Mandatory guidelines ensure
data protection
The Data Protection Guidelines establish the
framework for data protection in the L­ ufthansa
Group. They are based on laws such as the
BDSG and accepted principles of data protection. The Guidelines spell out the duties of
compliance with data protection law. They
also set forth rules intended to ensure conduct
in conformity with data protection law throughout the Group, to make risks to data protection transparent, and to safeguard against
such risks. Data protection is the responsibility
of the Executive Board and the management
of various companies. They are assisted in the
discharge of this responsibility by the Corporate Data Protection department under the
direction of Dr. Barbara Kirchberg-Lennartz.
In 2013, as in 2012, the L­ ufthansa Group
recorded no significant risks to or sanctionable violations of personal data protection.
As a rule, we were able to respond quickly to

data disclosure requests and customer feedback. When necessary, we instituted changes
in procedures or behavior.
Training in the protection of data
One of the main issues on which the Group’s
data protection experts gave advice in the
reporting year was the use of customer data
for sales purposes in compliance with data
protection requirements. Training courses and
measures to disseminate information on data
protection for employees and managers will
be further stepped up in 2014. They are an
essential requirement for detecting and managing risks to data protection. The Web-based
training course (WBT) The fundamentals of
data protection is mandatory for much of our
workforce.
Data protection audits
The experts in Corporate Data Protection also
conduct their own audits of selected procedures and systems used to process personal
data. As a rule, the reliability, security, and
regularity of the audit projects are checked. ß

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 77

[Ú 06]

[Ú 07]

06 / 07
The Lufthansa Group protects and
secures data according to the highest
standards.

78 // Product Responsibility

CO2 compensation

The ­Lufthansa Group goes to great lengths to avoid and reduce emissions.
To ensure that we use the necessary kerosene as efficiently as possible and
realize sustainable savings in its consumption, we invest in the most advanced
aircraft and introduce innovative processes, procedures, and technologies.
But as long as air travel continues to depend on the use of kerosene, a fossil
energy source, CO2 emissions cannot be avoided entirely. For this reason, the
­Lufthansa Group airlines L­ ufthansa, Swiss, and Austrian Airlines, along with
AirPlus, one of the largest providers of management solutions for business
travel, offer all customers programs that enable them to voluntarily offset the
unavoidable emissions their flights produce.

Here is an example of
a project that we have
supported with the aid of our
­environmentally conscious
­customers Ú
Solar lamps in rural Ethiopia
Photovoltaic cells on rooftops give families access to electricity and
light. For people living in rural regions of Ethiopia, this constitutes a
substantial improvement in living conditions. Replacing petroleum
lamps with solar-powered lighting also has a positive effect on their
health while at the same time reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

After booking a flight, any passenger can use
an emissions calculator to calculate his/her
actual CO2 emissions for the route to be flown
and offset them accordingly. The personal
CO2 compensation option we offer our customers is part of our 2020 environmental
strategy and the aviation industry’s four-pillar
climate protection strategy (cf. page 54). In
2013 passengers of L­ ufthansa Group airlines
made contributions to offset more than 14,000
tonnes of CO2 resulting from air travel. This is
the equivalent of about 320 flights from Frankfurt to New York with a ­Lufthansa Airbus
A330-300 and an increase of 18.5% as compared to the previous year.
The airlines L­ ufthansa and Swiss work closely
with the well-known Swiss non-profit organization myclimate (www.myclimate.org) to offer
the opportunity to make voluntary donations to
climate protection. myclimate is obligated to
contribute at least 80% of the CO2 compensation money paid in by customers to climate
protection projects that meet the highest

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 79

standards. In addition to reducing greenhouse
gases, the projects have been shown to contribute to sustainable development. The climate protection projects offered are registered
with the Gold Standard. This independently
maintained label is a mark of distinction for
qualitatively superior climate protection projects and the emissions reduction certificates
resulting from them. The emphasis is on the
integrity of these projects in terms of their
environmental balance and social compatibility. Our cooperating partner myclimate
issues to private persons from Germany and
Switzerland tax-approved receipts for their
donations to offset CO2 emissions. Passengers
are therefore able to deduct their CO2 compensation donations from their taxable income.
Austrian Airlines is cooperating with
­Climate Austria on CO2 compensation
(www.climateaustria.at). When a customer
books a flight online, a CO2 calculator calculates the flight’s CO2 emissions. Climate Austria collects the donations and uses them to
support high-quality Austrian and international
climate protection projects. Climate Austria
always selects projects according to rigorous
standards. These projects promote energy
efficiency and renewable energies such as
hydro-, biomass, wind, or solar energy.
Climate-neutral business travel with AirPlus
AirPlus is a company of the L­ ufthansa Group
and an international provider of payment and
billing solutions for business travel. AirPlus
now offers three green product solutions:
Carbon Offset (since 2009)
Green Reports (since 2011)
AirPlus Green Company Account
(since 2014 also in Germany)
AirPlus Carbon Offset enables companies to
automatically settle and offset the emissions
generated by business travel through their
AirPlus customer accounts.
AirPlus Green Reports gives customers
clearly structured and detailed analyses of the
CO2 emissions generated by their business
travel. These analyses are based on four
internationally accepted methods of calculating CO2 emissions, among them the reporting
standard established by the German Association of Travel Management for business travel.
They can be imported into the customer’s
own emissions accounts.

CO2 compensation for private and business customers

CO2

Climate Austria

CO2

Customer

Company

CO2 compensation

CO2 compensation

myclimate

Emissions
report

AirPlus

Climate protection
projects

The AirPlus Green Company Account developed by AirPlus in 2012 is the world’s first
completely CO2-neutral central bill account.
Available on the German market since early
2014, this product enables companies to
organize their business travel even more
sustainably. In addition, the AirPlus Green
Company Account dispenses with cumbersome paper-based processes involving
extensive forms or invoices. Customers are
therefore able to save CO2 emissions even
while making travel arrangements. AirPlus
compensates for any unavoidable CO2 emissions resulting from its internal processes and
the use of the Green Company Account by
supporting a reforestation project in Nicaragua managed by myclimate. This project is
improving the basic living conditions of the
local population, protecting the local flora and
fauna, and helping to counteract the effects of
climate change over the long term. By using
the AirPlus Green Company Account, our
business customers take responsibility for
the climate and contribute directly to its
­protection.

AirPlus also sets great store by its collaboration with the prestigious climate protection
foundation myclimate.
L­ ufthansa, Swiss, and Austrian Airlines calculate CO2 emissions for individual accounts on
the basis of real flight events. Kerosene consumption is calculated per flight passenger
from gate to gate, taking into account meteorological conditions (such as winds), taxiing
procedures on the ground, and holding patterns and detours in the air. An emissions
calculator operated by myclimate or Climate
Austria can allocate accordingly the CO2
emissions resulting on average from the flight
in question. Since the seating class (Economy,
Business, First) can be selected in advance,
the emissions can be weighted according to
the amount of space required for a seat. ß
http://lufthansa.myclimate.org
http://swiss.myclimate.org
www.climateaustria.at
www.airplus.com

Social
Responsibility
Our dedicated and qualified employees are
always at the service of our customers. Being
an attractive and responsible employer is key to
­ensuring that this remains the case.
14.5

15

151

136

percent of managers
are female

years of cross-company
mentoring

nationalities are represented in the ­Lufthansa
Group worldwide

million euros spent on
internal educational
measures

82 // Social Responsibility

A new personnel strategy
for the ­Lufthansa Group
On course with Forward with HR
The ­Lufthansa Group’s productivity and ability to innovate depend in large
measure on making optimal use of highly qualified employees. Also of
central importance are motivation and passion, because only enthusiastic
employees can generate enthusiasm among our customers.

Social change exposes companies to formidable challenges. Demographic trends are
already exacerbating a shortage of skilled
workers and managers. We are grappling with
this problem as much as we are with technological change and social trends, including
digitalization, globalization, and the diversification of models for balancing hours on and off
the job. Our personnel management staff is
responding to these challenges as the times
demand. Hence we consider work-life integration, home office options, and flexible workspace models when formulating our strategies. We expect that future generations will
clearly articulate their expectations to their
employers.

Ú
Ensuring lasting
competitiveness
We want to preserve and further consolidate
our competitiveness in the future as well. To
do so we developed our corporate program
SCORE in 2012. One of the consequences of
SCORE is around 3,500 job cuts, which are
taking place with the full involvement of the
­Lufthansa Group’s various personnel departments. These cuts are mainly being made
through voluntary measures and they are

We position ­ourselves
as an attractive, modern,
and responsible
employer for which our
employees work with
passion and enthusiasm.

always compatible with social policy. In this
regard, SCORE had a significant impact in
2013 on the work of our HR managers.
But also required are a forward-looking
approach to personnel management and
efforts to increase our attractiveness as an
employer. Our aim is to stay ahead of the
general trends so that we remain able to
attract the right talent to the L­ ufthansa Group
over the long term. To that end we are continually improving our personnel management. The new personnel strategy we are
implementing now was formulated in 2013 for
this reason. The following statement of how
the ­Lufthansa Group would like to position
itself in the future serves as the basis for the

fundamentally new direction being taken in
the strategic areas for action:
We—the L­ ufthansa Group—position ourselves
as an attractive, modern, and responsible
employer for which our employees work with
passion and enthusiasm.
In our pursuit of value-oriented corporate
management, our employees are of central
importance. The ­Lufthansa Group is known for
its outstanding services and is already considered a highly attractive employer among the
workforce. For years now, the L­ ufthansa
Group has emerged as one of the favorite
employers in various rankings by employees.
In the Trendence Graduate Barometer 2014,
for instance, university graduates with degrees
in economics put the aviation company in
fourth place in the top employer rankings. The
­Lufthansa Group also placed among Germany’s top 10 employers in the Universum
Student Survey 2014, just as it had done in
2013.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 83

Increase the organization’s productivity:
Focusing on further enhancing the
­Lufthansa Group’s productivity with the
means of HR management.
Preserve and strengthen our attractiveness
as an employer: Ensuring attractive yet
competitive terms of employment and pay.

Ú
Key areas for action in
personnel matters
We wish to work to preserve and strengthen
our stature as an employer particularly in light
of demographic trends. Our Personnel department’s future goals are therefore based on
and consistent with the Group’s corporate
strategy:

­Lufthansa Group
goals Ú
Increase the company’s value.
Expand the leading market position of
our airlines and service companies by
actively shaping the aviation industry.
Continuously increase customer
satisfaction.
Conduct economically, ecologically,
and socially balanced and sustainable
business.

Personnel department goals Ú
Increase the organization’s productivity.
Preserve and strengthen our attractiveness as an employer.
Increase employee commitment.
Promote sustainable social responsibility.

The ­Lufthansa Group is unwavering in its
pursuit of these goals. To realize them, the
Personnel department has developed the
strategic program Forward with HR. This
program gives concrete expression to the four
goals derived from the Group’s corporate
strategy and defines the measures that will
point the way for the next several years:

Increase employee commitment: Encouraging employee commitment by giving
employees an active voice in the direction
of the ­Lufthansa Group.
Promote sustainable social responsibility:
Fulfilling our internal and external social
responsibilities and further developing them
to lasting effect.
We have already set in motion comprehensive
measures to create the conditions for innovative personnel work. As the first step in their
implementation, the Personnel department
has set its focus on capturing synergies,
standardizing processes, and developing
managers and the management culture.
Effective as of financial year 2014, the Executive Board also approved a comprehensive
reorientation of the instruments of benefits
management and variable compensation.
We are convinced that this will further improve
team performance in the L­ ufthansa Group.

Ú
The five principles of
our new management
culture
A mainstay of our position as an attractive
employer is a modern, feedback-oriented
management style that inspires enthusiasm
and loyalty towards the L­ ufthansa Group
among its employees and enables them to
achieve their best. Moreover, the ability of
management to cope with impending processes of change is becoming ever more
important. The future will see an even greater
need for managers to think and act entrepreneurially. This involves a willingness to make
courageous decisions, seize opportunities,
and strike out on new paths, all with the firm
support of employees. The ­Lufthansa Group’s
management guidelines consist of our five
Leadership Principles:

1. Driving Business
I shall do all I can for our lasting success.
2. Leading Change
I shall take a proactive approach to my
area of responsibilities.
3. Creating Spirit
For me it is the human element that makes
all the difference.
4. Fostering Talent
I shall help each employee develop his or
her full potential.
5. Mastering Complexity
I shall be at once courageous and careful
in my decisions and actions.
These five Leadership Principles will guide the
future actions of our managers. Their influence will also be felt in numerous personnel
processes, such as those associated with
compensation or the search for employees
and their selection and development.
The ­Lufthansa Group began to base its personal performance assessments on these
principles in 2014. This has shifted the
emphasis to aspects that allow finer distinctions to be made. We do not judge performance merely by the results; rather, we take a
broader view that takes into account the path
leading to those results. Part of the process is
to give precise feedback in which performance differences are clearly identified. At
the same time, we allow our managers
greater discretionary leeway to give monetary
rewards for individual performance. The key
instrument for assessing individual performance is the corporate management grading
system newly redesigned under the name
PROFILE (potential and performance assessment of management personnel). ß

84 // Social Responsibility

Interview
with Dr. Dorothee Warnke
Director of Corporate HR Strategy and Organizational Development, Deutsche Lufthansa AG
Dr. Dorothee Warnke

Personnel department provide optimal support for the strategic corporate goals.
To ensure that it continues to do so in the
future, we will maintain our practice of continuously analyzing the internal and external
environments for relevant influences and
developments and readjust our personnel
planning, processes, and instruments as
needed. It is important to us that we design
efficient, effective, and economical structures
that enjoy a high level of acceptance among
employees and are at the same time highly
beneficial for the departments.

The L
­ ufthansa Group has introduced a
new personnel strategy. What further steps
are planned?
The ­Lufthansa Group’s personnel strategy
aims to consolidate our position as an attractive, modern, and responsible employer for
which our employees are inspired to work
with passion and enthusiasm. And we have
devised certain key measures that are
designed to achieve that aim. My colleagues
in Human Resources are working with the
departments at full steam to implement these.
The focus here is as much on improving our
management culture as it is on developing
social activities. The objective is implementation as quickly as possible so that our present
and future employees will experience us as
the ideal employer and continue to do so for
as long as possible. Only in this way can the

Why do you want to improve the
­ ufthansa Group’s management culture,
L
and how do you propose to do so?
The ­Lufthansa Group is undergoing a sweeping process of transformation aimed at ensuring the company’s future viability. This process
will succeed only if all of us remain prepared
for and open to fundamental changes and
continually pursue these. Action is required
from management staff especially: They need
to initiate changes, question the status quo,
make innovative but also difficult decisions,
and inspire employees for a common cause.
With the Cultural & Leadership Transition
project we are supporting the company and
our executives in this process through various
Group-wide measures. With the Executive
Board in Dialogue format, for example, we
have initiated a company-wide series of
events in which the Group’s Executive Board
responds directly to all questions posed by
management staff and employees in a kind of
road show. Our newly developed management principles, which fully inform all relevant
personnel processes, are the core element in
all of the change initiatives. Even if the necessary cultural transformation takes time in a
large company, the new Leadership Principles
offer all management staff clear practical
guidance.

Last year you set up COMPASS, a program for the professional reorientation of
employees. Has it been successful?
COMPASS helps employees and managers
to successfully reorient themselves professionally. We are working closely with wellknown, internationally active personnel consulting firms. The program is designed for
those employees whose jobs are at risk as
well as for employees and management staff
who are interested in a new professional
challenge.
COMPASS offers consultation in a protected
space. Employees may, for example, avail
themselves of up to five separate hours of
professional consultation at no charge without
having to reveal their identity. With their superior’s approval they can then book, if needed,
a semiannual consultation package, also free
of charge. Approximately 700 employees are
currently taking advantage of the consultation
offer. We have already successfully placed
more than 160 applicants. ß

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 85

Diversity and equality of opportunity
Differences are as valuable as what we have
in common
A culture based on diversity and equality of opportunity enhances our ability
to innovate and adapt to market forces, a crucial factor in our ability to remain
competitive. Diversity within a company also fosters creativity and makes
our corporate culture more receptive to different values, outlooks, and life
experiences. We regard this as the basis of our modern service culture and
the responsiveness to customers that goes with it.
The ­Lufthansa Group’s employees come from
literally all over the world. They hail from very
different cultures and ethnic groups, belong to
a range of age groups, and bring to their jobs
an enormous variety of skills and outlooks.
Such abundant diversity in human resources
is crucial to our ability to ensure the long-term
endurance of our strong competitive position.
We regard this very diversity as a source of
great opportunities for our company.

[Ú 01]

The L­ ufthansa Group has been committed to
systematic diversity management for many
years. It aims to achieve a form of understanding that respects differences and encourages
results in a spirit of mutual respect. Our management approach is subject to continual
development in response to conditions in an
ever-changing environment.
Furthermore, we have instituted programs
designed to improve career opportunities for
women, programs that also make it easier, for
men and women alike, to reconcile career
demands with family life. In this regard, our
Personnel departments are working with our
equality-of-opportunity representatives to
develop concepts and measures.

01
Flight crews of the Lufthansa Group’s
airlines.

Part-time employment

Average age 2

­Lufthansa Group, in percent
Female employees   Male employees  

­Lufthansa Group, in percent
Female employees   Male employees  

Total

50

Total

45

40

30

40

20

10

35
40.3
24.6
13.9

41.1
24.6
13.0

42.6
25.7
13.7

43.8
26.8
14.3

42.7
26.5
14.0

42.7
26.9
14.0

43.9
26.9
13.6

44.2
27.1
13.3

45.3
27.9
13.7

45.6
28.1
14.1

40.6
39.6
38.3

41.1
40.1
38.8

41.3
40.2
38.9

41.4
40.3
39.0

41.5
40.4
39.1

41.5
40.3
39.0

41.8
40.7
39.5

41.9
40.8
39.6

42.4
41.3
40.2

42.7
41.9
40.9

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Part-time work by Group companies

Age structure at the Lufthansa Group 2

2013, in percent

2013, in percent

Passenger Airline Group

45

60 and older

18

Logistics
8

MRO

7.8
13.8

50 – 54
21

IT Services

13.9

35 – 39
28

Total

15.0

40 – 44
23

Service & Finance

19.1

45 – 49

14

Catering

3.5

55 – 59

12.6

30 – 34
9.5

25 – 29
4.1

20 – 24
18 – 19

0.5

under 18

0.1

Share of women in management positions 1

Share of women with staff responsibility 1

­Lufthansa Group, in percent

­Lufthansa Group, in percent

20

50

15

40

10

30

5

20
13.3

12.7

12.9

15.0

14.6

14.7

13.1

13.6

13.6

14.5

32.0

32.5

34.7

35.8

38.0

41.5

36.8

35.5

34.5

34.1

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

1 Scope of consolidation without LSG outside Germany, SWISS Aviation Training, Edelweiss
Air AG, SWISS European Airlines, SWISS Aviation Software, Traviaustria, LH Malta Holding
Ltd., LH Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., LH Technik Malta Ltd.,
LH Technik Airmotive Ireland Ltd., LH Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific
Aerospace Inc. (US), LH Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd., BizJet Int. Sales & Support
Inc., LH Technik North America Holding Corp., LH Systems Americas Inc., AirPlus Air Travel
Card Vertriebsges. mbH, LH Flight Training Berlin GmbH, AirPlus International Ltd., AirPlus
International S.r.I., AirPlus Payment Management Co. Ltd., AirPlus International AG, AirPlus
International Inc., LH Malta Finance Ltd., LH Technik Component Services LLC.

2 Scope of consolidation partially without LSG outside Germany, Lufthansa Malta Holding
Ltd., Lufthansa Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Philippines Inc., Shannon
Aerospace Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Malta Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Airmotive Ltd., Lufthansa
Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace Inc. (US), BizJet International Sales
& Support Inc., AirLiance Materials LLC, Lufthansa Technik North America Holding Corp.,
Lufthansa Malta Finance Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd. (formerly
Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd., UK).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 87

Ú
Women in management
positions
At almost 45%, the ­Lufthansa Group as a
whole currently has a high proportion of
female employees. Indeed, the workforce
is dominated by women in service areas.
We would like to further increase the ratio
of women to men in technical areas. The
­Lufthansa Group has also set itself the goal of
increasing the percentage of women among
its managers by 30% by 2020 as compared
to 2010. In the reporting year, this figure
was 14.5% for the entire L­ ufthansa Group
worldwide (PY: 13.6%), 16.7% in Germany
(PY: 15.5%).
In addition, we aim to increase the representation of women in the cockpit. This stood
at 5.4% in the reporting year (PY: 5.3%).
Female pilots have been a familiar sight
at L­ ufthansa for 25 years now. At the end
of 2013 we employed 8,973 pilots, 486
of whom were female pilots and more than
100 of whom were female flight captains.

Ú
The ­Lufthansa Group
occupies fourth place
in the Women on Board
index
The Women on Board index is compiled
annually by the Frauen in die Aufsichtsräte
(“Women on Supervisory Boards”) initiative.
It provides information on the proportion of
women on the executive and supervisory
boards of a total of 160 German companies,
including the DAX 30 companies. The
­Lufthansa Group occupies fourth place in

02
Dr. Bettina Volkens, Chief Officer Corporate
Human Resources and Legal Affairs of the
­Lufthansa Group, was a speaker in 2013 in the
event series Women for Technology, hosted by
Lufthansa Technik AG in Hamburg.

the current study (as of January 14, 2014).
Two of the five members making up the Executive Board team are women (40%). Women
accounted for 30% of the Supervisory Board
in the reporting year. Indeed, with the appointment of Monika Ribar to the Supervisory
Board, that figure has stood at 35% since
May 2014.

Ú
15 years of cross-­
company mentoring
Mentoring is an established method the
­Lufthansa Group uses to promote equality of
opportunity for women and men as part of its
personnel development program. In September 2013, the cross-mentoring program we
initiated back in 1998 entered its 15th generation. The target group is women with serious
career ambitions who are beginning a management career. They receive guidance for

one year by a male or female mentor from
one of the other companies. In confidential
conversations with their mentors, the mentees
consider questions and approaches relating
to career matters, the demands of balancing
career and family, and positioning themselves
within the company. In this exchange the
candidate benefits from the experience and
network of her mentor. But the latter may also
question his/her own management role and
gain access to the mentee’s company. What
makes cross-company mentoring special is
the network of female talent and experienced
managers across company boundaries. This
enables both to look beyond familiar territory
into another corporate culture and observe its
rules of the game. Currently the Group is
running the program in cooperation with Axel
Springer, Robert Bosch, Commerzbank,
Deutsche Bank, Fraport, Hewlett-Packard,
Merck, and Sanofi Deutschland. At present
the L­ ufthansa Group is participating with 10
mentees and as many mentors in this double
exchange of perspectives.

[Ú 02]

88 // Social Responsibility

[Ú 03]

[Ú 04]

[Ú 05]

[Ú 06]

03 / 04 / 05
Work-life integration: With the Luftikusse
(“The happy-go-lucky ones”) program and
the Lufthansa Family Conference, the
­Lufthansa Group aims to further promote
the compatibility of career and family life.
06
LH New Workspace: The office of the
future in the Lufthansa Aviation Center.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 89

Ú
Further increasing the
compatibility of career
and family life
The ­Lufthansa Group has been assisting its
employees for many years with customized
options for the care of their children. These
include a choice of flexible work-time and
workspace models along with childcare spots
and emergency or vacation childcare spots in
external institutions. Our goal is to further
develop our childcare infrastructure with a
focus on providing our employees with maximum compatibility between the demands of
career and family during the various phases of
family life. With our in-house vacation childcare program Die Luftikusse—Kinder erobern
die L
­ ufthansa Welt (“The happy-go-lucky
ones: Children conquer the ­Lufthansa world”),
the ­Lufthansa Group took another step in
financial year 2013 towards better work-life
integration during summer vacations. In
response to the vigorous demand for such
services, there will be a varied vacation program for our employees’ children at the
Frankfurt location during the 2014 summer
vacation.
During the reporting year we gave a great
deal of thought to the question of where our
employees might need even more help in
balancing the demands of career and family.
For this purpose we established the ­Lufthansa
Family Conference dialogue format. The ideas
workshop took place in early March 2014 in
our Training & Conference Center in Seeheim.
At the invitation of Dr. Bettina Volkens, the
­Lufthansa Group’s Chief Officer for Corporate
Human Resources and Legal Affairs, roughly
70 employees from all areas of the L­ ufthansa
Group discussed questions, ideas, and concerns relating to the topic of childcare. Participants in the family conference specified which
of the company’s options were useful, which
should be expanded or improved, and what
new options should be offered. We derived
courses of action from the insights gained at
the conference. One idea, a parents’ network,
was championed by the association L­ ufthansa
employees established in February.
The number of fathers who want a more
active role in family-related work

is growing—including among our own
employees. We therefore further developed
our cooperation with Väter gGmbH, and we
offer fathers an opportunity to take part in various events centered around the subject of
fatherhood and work-life integration. With the
exception of a contribution from participants
towards the costs of a father-child weekend,
the ­Lufthansa Group assumes the costs for all
events in which employees wish to take part.
Our employees are not left on their own even
when it comes to providing care for other
family members. Under the Elder Care program they receive help from the external
service provider pme Familienservice, which
since 1992 has provided employees with
childcare assistance as well.

Ú
LH New Workspace—
Innovative forms of
administrative work are
designed to improve
work-life integration
Work-life integration, home office options, and
flexible workspace models are topics that
modern personnel management must deal
with. We are responding to these challenges
by, among other things, introducing the innovative programs described along with new
work-time models. A parallel change is taking
place in infrastructure requirements, e.g. in
offices. For this reason we conducted tests
from October 2013 to April 2014, as part of
our LH New Workspace pilot project, to get an
idea of what the workspace of the future might
look like in administrative departments. Two
large work areas in the L­ ufthansa Aviation
Center (LAC) at Frankfurt Airport were completely redesigned for the test run. Employees
from various departments subjected the new
design to a practical test. With the working
world becoming increasingly mobile, the
focus has shifted to the problem of how to
permit greater flexibility. Some 60 standard
workspaces and various work modules, such
as small conference rooms, video conferencing capabilities, think tanks, etc., were provided for the 90 employees involved in the test
run, as we wanted to encourage for purposes

of the project both activity-oriented work and
the use of home office days.

Ú
Encouraging cultural
dialogue
Meeting and working with people of very
different cultural backgrounds is a daily experience in the L­ ufthansa Group. It is a source of
fascination for employees and lends the
­Lufthansa brand its international flair. Direct
communication conveys knowledge of the
cultural backgrounds of colleagues and customers. At our major hub in Frankfurt, for
example, there is constant cultural dialogue
relating to information on current occasions or
events associated with religious festivals,
traditions, or exhibitions. And let us not forget
the flight crews. In the Kulturraum (“Cultural
Space”) continuing education events for
pursers and flight attendants which are held
over a period of several days, intercultural
knowledge is amplified with service-specific
aspects and understanding of specific
national features is fostered. ß

At a glance
Ú
Of our 118,214 employees,
Ú 44.6% are women.
They represent
Ú 34.1% of all employees with
­responsibility for other staff,
Ú 14.5% of all managers,
Ú and 5.4% of all pilots.
Ú 151 nationalities are represented
in the ­Lufthansa Group worldwide.
The average age is
Ú 41.9 years.
The percentage of employees in
­Germany with disabilities is
Ú 4.1%.
As per December 31, 2013

90 // Social Responsibility

Employment policy based on partnership
Creating viable conditions for the future

The ­Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, enthusiasm
and commitment of its employees. Therefore, the aviation company attaches
the greatest importance to providing its employees with an attractive work
environment and appropriate salaries. Likewise, it is an established tradition
always to balance the economic interests of the company with the expectations and needs of its employees.
It is tried-and-tested company policy to settle
clashes of interests between company management and the bodies representing
employees in a transparent manner. A fair
approach to coexistence in all areas creates
the balance needed to advance the L­ ufthansa
Group’s position in the market. The growing
plurality of opinions and opinion leaderships,
much like developments in society as a
whole, is increasingly a challenge for all
parties concerned. The guiding principles for
joint efforts are flexibility and responsiveness.

Ú
Partnership in collective
agreements
L­ ufthansa employs its staff under conditions
that guarantee them social and material
security not only during but also after their
working years. These are established on the
basis of collective agreements that the company negotiates with its union partners Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (ver.di),
Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), and Unabhängige
Flugbegleiter Organisation e.V. (UFO). The
goal is to treat all employee groups within the
company fairly and justly—a desideratum that
the multiplicity of unions within the company

presents with an array of increasingly challenging conditions.
Pay negotiations with ver.di for ground staff
On May 1, 2013, the air traffic employers’
association Arbeitgeberverband Luftverkehr
e.V. (AGVL) and the trade union ver.di agreed
in the fourth round of negotiations on a wage
settlement for the roughly 33,000 workers
whom the ­Lufthansa Group employs in Germany as ground staff. This agreement is the
first to make distinctions among the various
business segments based on differences in
their economic performance. The wage
agreement is valid for a period of 26 months,
from February 1, 2013, to March 31, 2015.
The introduction of differentiated wage scale
increases in combination with long terms for
collective wage agreements marks an important change of course for future wage policy.
Since the pay increases also do not go into
effect until later, beginning in February 2013
the employees made a contribution, with the
delay of several months in their wage
increases, to the L­ ufthansa Group’s measures to safeguard profitability. In return, the
­Lufthansa Group promised the employees
job security until 2015. The agreement was
preceded by several widespread warning
strikes in Germany.

LSG Sky Chefs: Structural reform for the
German regional companies
A structural reform was negotiated in February
2013 between ver.di, the AGVL, and LSG Sky
Chefs for the employees of the German
regional companies of LSG Sky Chefs. In this
agreement, cost reductions were defined for
existing employees, while adjusted pay terms
were defined for new hires. At the same time,
a promise of long-term job security was
made. Owing to this solution, it was agreed
that the companies included in this structural
reform would not fully participate in the 2013
round of Group-wide collective bargaining.
New agreement for Germanwings
cabin staff
Germanwings and the representatives of the
flight attendants’ union UFO reached agreement in June 2013 in the wage negotiations
for cabin personnel.
For ­Lufthansa cabin crews, an agreement was
made in the reporting year to implement the
mediated settlement with the UFO from 2012.
A noteworthy feature is the collective agreement on annual working hours, which
improves the ability of the company in Germany to cover seasonal demand and thereby
lighten peak workload demands on cabin
crew members while the summer flight schedule is in effect. For the transition from the
decentralized services of L­ ufthansa to

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 91

Germanwings, furthermore, solutions that are
compatible with social policy were found for
the employees.
Negotiations with cockpit staff
The negotiations for collective bargaining
agreements with cockpit personnel employed
by ­Lufthansa German Airlines, Germanwings,
and ­Lufthansa Cargo have resumed with
intensity. The discussions proved difficult
because of the complexity of the issues and
the wide disparity of positions. The dispute
came to a head with the three-day strike by
cockpit personnel in April 2014. ­Lufthansa
and the union Vereinigung Cockpit subsequently reached a constructive agreement on
the next steps towards resolving the issues of
pay and carry-over benefits. Since then the
negotiations have continued.
Swiss was engaged in trilateral negotiations
with the cockpit unions Aeropers and IPG for
an amalgamation of the two cockpit corps.
The talks were brought to a successful conclusion. The agreement submitted to the
union members for a vote was rejected in
early 2014 by the long-haul pilots (Aeropers),
who were being asked at the same time to
increase their productivity. Negotiations are
ongoing for collective bargaining agreements
with cabin and ground personnel.

Austrian Airlines significantly overhauled its
collective bargaining agreement in 2013 and
adapted it to future requirements. An agreement was reached with unions and employees on the largest package of reforms for
ground crews to date. It contains radical
changes in salary ranges, entry-level wages,
pay increases, company pensions, anniversary bonuses, and severance pay. In
exchange, employees will have a share in
future profits. The employees approved the
new provision with an overwhelming majority
of roughly 75%.

Ú
Active pay and social
policy abroad
Internationalization and globalization offer a
broad range of opportunities for the Group’s
business and personnel processes. As a
company with international operations,
­Lufthansa’s pay and social policies are guided
by conditions in the various countries. The
focus is on long-term definition of the conditions of employment, which depend on the
needs of the employees, operational requirements, and the local labor market—with the
inclusion of compensation rules, working
conditions, and pension schemes. L­ ufthansa

defines these agreements in cooperation with
internal labor committees and employees. The
company is a party to collective wage bargaining with employees in 24 countries. In all
countries where ­Lufthansa acts unilaterally,
the company uses benchmarks and macroeconomic data such as inflation figures to
review salaries at least once a year on the
basis of market and competitiveness criteria.
In countries with very high rates of inflation,
this assessment is performed more often,
given the circumstances, and usually leads to
pay increases. In this way the L­ ufthansa
Group offers continual review and adjustment
of working conditions for its locally employed
staff.
As a signatory to the UN Global Compact,
­Lufthansa has documented its support for
freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining for all of its employees worldwide. Employees in any country where
­Lufthansa companies are active are free to
lawfully organize themselves and become
involved in defining their working conditions
(see page 27).

92 // Social Responsibility

Lufthansa Group: Distribution of employees
Employees as of December 31, 2013

Group employees

2013

2012

Change

118,214

116,957

+ 1.1 %

54,702

55,236

– 1.0 %

4,589

4,606

– 0.4 %

19,917

20,282

– 1.8 %

2,718

2,766

– 1.7 %

32,307

30,088

+ 7.4 %

3,981

3,979

+ 0.1%

of which Passenger Airline Group
of which Logistics
of which MRO
of which IT Services
of which Catering
of which Service & Finance

Lufthansa Group: Jobs throughout the world in 2013
Employees as of December 31, 2013
Frankfurt am Main

36,257
9,552

Hamburg

10,408

Munich
Cologne

2,585

Berlin

1,456

Rest of Germany

6,537
23,345

Rest of Europe
thereof Vienna

5,309
7,621

thereof Zurich
Africa / Middle East

2,145
14,433

North / Central America
South America

Ú
Retirement benefits
are to be provided on a
more sustainable basis

66,795

Total in Germany

3,497

Asia / Pacific

7,999
118,214

Group total

Lufthansa Group:
Employees by group and gender
Employees as of December 31, 2013, in percent
Female employees   Male employees
Female
52,709
Male
65,505

44.6
55.4

Apprentices
1,403

28.6
71.4
38.0

Ground 1
82,245

62.0
61.0

Flight 2
34,566
Cockpit
8,973

39.0
5.4

Cabin
25,593

1 Without apprentices.
2 Consists of cockpit and cabin.

94.6
80.5
19.5

Providing employees and managers with
retirement benefits ranks high in importance
for the L­ ufthansa Group. And we have every
intention of keeping it that way. The L­ ufthansa
Group is cognizant of its responsibility for
managers, employees, and the company and
seeks to ensure that financing for company
retirement benefits for present and future
employees remains secure for the long term.
The goal is to offer a modern system of benefits that has more flexibility and is based on
developments in the capital markets.
When L­ ufthansa’s company pension scheme
was introduced in 1994, the employer pension
contributions accrued interest at a rate of
6–7%. In today’s interest rate environment,
however, such yields are expected to remain
unachievable for the foreseeable future. This
means that the costs of providing benefits are
significantly higher for the L­ ufthansa Group
today than the two sides to the negotiations
jointly assumed when the model was implemented in 1994. Moreover, the underlying
economic and demographic conditions have

Arbeitsklima

Führungskräfte

Programm

[Ú 07]

Passagemagazin

negativ

Medien
Sicherheit

Bord
Kosten
Kritik Feedback

Kunden
Airline

stark

Team

Kommunikation

Veränderung

Unzufriedenheit

Lufthansa
Information

verschlechtern

Germanwings

Unternehmen
Management
Gehalt

Verbesserung

EFM
Wirgefühl

Einsparung

Führung

gut

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 93

Mitarbeiter
Kündigung

Konkurrenz

Vorstand
Warum Motivation

Zukunft

Tarifverhandlungen

changed as well. The Group therefore gave
notice in September 2013 that it was terminating the collective agreements governing
­Lufthansa’s company pension scheme so that
it could work with the unions to convert its
retirement benefits to a more sustainable
model. Existing entitlements to retirement
benefits are guaranteed and remain unaffected.

Ú
Managing change in a
socially responsible way
The ­Lufthansa Group takes responsibility for its
employees even in times when major changes
are afoot. The COMPASS program launched
by the Group in January 2013 is an expression
of this long-term personnel policy. It helps
employees and managers successfully reposition themselves professionally. For this purpose, Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG works closely
with prominent, internationally active personnel
consulting firms. COMPASS is designed not
only for employees and managers whose jobs
are at risk, but also for those looking for a new
career challenge. This may be a desire either
for a change within the Group or for employment outside the company.

Entscheidung

Engagement

Kollegen
schlecht
Marke

Altersvorsorge
Businessclass

Kapitän

ID

sorgen

Passage

Verhalten

Crew

Verbundenheit

Bodenmitarbeiter

Wertschätzung

Maßnahmen

Qualität

Ziele

positiv

Unternehmensklutur

Firstclass

Cockpit

Verantwortung

07
Tag cloud showing 3,790 open
comments. The font sizes represent the frequency with which the
words were used. (Example of
employee feedback in Germany.)

Geld

Dialog

Umgang

teuer

Markt

Vertrauen Personal
Angst
Stimmung

Problem

Menschlichkeit

Konzern

zufrieden

Weiterentwicklung

The COMPASS program comprises mainly the
following package of services: a confidential
initial interview, comprehensive career change
advice, and a company-related job market
based on current contacts in the ­Lufthansa
Group and available exclusively to program
participants. To date, more than 7,000
employees have consulted the job listings.
Two out of three applications submitted
through the job listings have led to invitations
to a job interview from a partner company.
Contact with the COMPASS office is voluntary
and is treated confidentially. Employees and
managers wishing to avail themselves of the
program incur no costs. The placement service is offered for up to six months and comprises, in addition to the personal and professional location-matching assessment, an
analysis of the applicant’s strengths and
opportunities. Furthermore, the experts identify the available options and assist COMPASS
participants through all phases of the application process.
The COMPASS program is making an important contribution to our efforts to make the
adjustments necessary under our current
program for the future compatible with social
policy.

Ú
Employee satisfaction
With its Employee Feedback Management
(EFM) program, the L­ ufthansa Group has
created an efficient process designed to
maintain a continual dialogue between managers and employees company-wide. In
2013, under the mottos Your voice counts
and Take part, the Group conducted its ninth
worldwide EFM employee survey at ­Lufthansa
German Airlines and in the Group functions.
More than 36,000 employees were called
upon to take part in the survey, which contained questions concerning employee commitment, their identification with the company,
and aspects of employee satisfaction. While
the total participation rate of 51% was nine
percentage points lower than in 2012 (60%), it
did reflect a relatively high level of participation, especially for a survey conducted in
economically difficult times. The decline may
be attributable also to the fact that, for the first
time, the only way to submit responses was
online. Paper questionnaires were no longer
available, which made participation more
difficult for certain categories of employees
lacking a fixed workplace with a network
connection.

94 // Social Responsibility

Employee Feedback
Management (EFM) allows us
to give greater consideration
to employees’ opinions in our
corporate management.

Employee Feedback Management (EFM)
allows us to give greater consideration to
employees’ opinions in our corporate management. The 2013 EFM was conducted as a
brief interview for the purpose of enhancing
the sustainability of the measures derived
from the 2012 EFM and bringing transparency to their implementation. The company
uses the EFM survey to measure, in particular,
levels of employee attachment to the company, employee satisfaction, and employee
commitment. The results reflect challenges
that are being driven by the changes currently
taking place. Attachment to the company
improved by 2 percentage points in the
reporting year, while satisfaction reached the
same level as in the previous year.
The written comments received from 3,790 of
the employees surveyed have provided the
management with an additional source of
valuable information and suggestions.
A special plus point for the EFM in the reporting year: For every questionnaire that was
filled in, the company is donating one euro to
the charitable aid initiative help alliance, which
is supported by employees of the L­ ufthansa
Group (see page 106).
The Group assigned the analysis of the survey
to an external institute. The results for 2013
are available as 1,430 individual reports. In
the interests of maintaining an open and
constructive dialogue and making improvements, employees and their superiors also
met for talks to review the results. Employee
surveys are conducted in the other divisions
of the ­Lufthansa Group as well, not just at
Lufthansa German Airlines or in the

administrative offices. Using the standardized
Employee Commitment Index (ECI), an internal benchmark can be established Groupwide. The ECI is employer-independent and
calculated on the basis of four questions
which must be a constituent part of every
employee survey. Encouraged by the positive
response to the employee feedback, the
­Lufthansa Group also plans to implement a
uniform survey process across all business
segments in the coming years. “We have
received word from nearly 90% of EFM participants that they are familiar with the EFM
results for 2012 and have even been discussing them with their managers. Nearly half of
those surveyed also reported that there had
been an improvement as a result of the EFM,”
says Lars Ottmer, Vice President for Personnel
Development at Lufthansa German Airlines.
The EFM results are naturally of relevance to
the Executive Board as well. “The Executive
Board has discussed them in depth, and we
have agreed to seek further improvement in
2014 in the following three areas where action
is needed: communication, attachment, and
leadership,” comments Dr. Bettina Volkens,
the ­Lufthansa Group’s Chief Officer for Corporate Human Resources and Legal Affairs.
While discussions do not automatically translate into change, it is evident that concrete
action towards change is most likely to succeed when employees are involved. That is
precisely what the EFM is all about, and what
makes the survey sustainable. ß

08
Employee Feedback Management: In
2013 the Lufthansa Group once again
used attractive posters to encourage
participation in the employee survey.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 95

[Ú 08]

96 // Social Responsibility

09
Training and continuing education traditionally have high priority at
the L­ ufthansa Group.

[Ú 09]

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 97

Training and continuing education
Employees make the crucial difference

The ­Lufthansa Group is one of Germany’s most fascinating and multifaceted
employers. We are convinced that our investments in training and continuing education for our employees and managers will pay off handsomely. Our
company stands for open communication, attractive working conditions, and
ideal opportunities for further development. The more qualified an individual
is, the greater his or her contribution towards enhancing the innovativeness
and competitiveness of the ­Lufthansa Group.
In 2013 we once again invested heavily in
training and continuing education. This was
an acknowledgment of our role as a socially
responsible employer. In the reporting year we
offered 65 different job entry possibilities for
students with an interest in working for the
­Lufthansa Group. In addition, the ­Lufthansa
Group once again offered traditional training
in 36 occupational subject areas. 62 trainees
began a dual course of studies with the help
of the ­Lufthansa Group. In addition to the traditional training courses, the aviation company
also offers entry-level positions in flight crews.
In 2013 we qualified 313 new employees for
cabin crew work. In addition, we hired 29 new
pilot trainees, 6.8% of whom were women.
Student pilots will be “ready for takeoff” again
in 2015 as they begin their training at our flight
training academy in Bremen. A joint training
platform for flight operators in the ­Lufthansa
Group was launched as early as 2012. The
goal is to harmonize training standards and
approaches for cockpit and cabin crew
among the Group’s companies, for example
by having flight operators in the ­Lufthansa
Group develop future training programs jointly
and exchange training personnel among
themselves.

Ú
Identifying talents—­
fostering potentials
The ­Lufthansa Group is constantly on the
lookout for highly qualified recruitment prospects and maintains close ties with universities
and other institutions of higher learning. For
this reason, the Group regularly visits training
and job fairs and presents a broad portfolio of
opportunities for entry into employment with
the Group. For example, L­ ufthansa Technik
was represented in the reporting year with an
information stand at the Women in Technology
career fair for the purpose of getting more
women interested in the wide variety of career
options offered by the L­ ufthansa Group’s
maintenance specialist.
In addition, the L­ ufthansa Group has a variety
of programs designed to attract talented
prospects with academic degrees to the
company. The ProTeam General Management
trainee program, for example, allows university graduates to form a comprehensive picture of their professional prospects in the
­Lufthansa Group over the course of a twoyear program that includes, among other
things, project assignments in Germany and
abroad. In 2013 we filled this trainee program

for the first time Group-wide. In addition,
Swiss has offered the one-year trainee program Swiss Experience since 2013. This
program is designed for BA graduates specializing in avionics and aviation.
The English-language trainee program International Airline Professional (IAP) is intended
specifically for international applicants who
are trained for later deployment in their home
countries. In this custom-designed program,
young persons of talent become acquainted
over the course of 18 months with a broad
range of departments in the company at
various locations. The IAP program is currently undergoing revision and therefore will
not be offered next year.
We once again enabled participants in the
st.i.p (study and intensive practice) program to
combine their studies with structured internships in the L­ ufthansa Group. The ­Lufthansa
Group received 10,700 applications in all for
the various trainee programs.
In addition to the trainee programs already
mentioned, individual companies in the
­Lufthansa Group have other, likewise extremely
successful programs that are specific to particular business segments. On May 21, 2014,
for example, ­Lufthansa Cargo’s StartCargo
trainee program became the first in the Group
to receive a prestigious stamp of approval from

98 // Social Responsibility

the Absolventa job portal. It is the first and only
stamp of its kind and is the mark of a careerpromoting and fair trainee program.

Ú
Keen interest: 120,000
applications in 2013
The ­Lufthansa Group received in all more than
120,000 applications in response to its job
advertisements. This shows that interest in the
­Lufthansa Group as an employer remains
high. In 2002 L­ ufthansa launched the online
career portal www.Be-­Lufthansa.com, which
has since been used by the majority of job
applicants for their first contact with the
­Lufthansa Group. The Group-wide portal
offers an overview of the broad variety of
positions within the aviation company. What
our various occupational groups have in
common is a fascination with both flight and
the possibilities for connecting countries,
cultures, ideas, people, and sources of trade.

Those interested can also find information on
career prospects through Facebook, Twitter,
YouTube, and, since December 2012, our
new career blog, Be ­Lufthansa. In the career
blog, interns, trainees, students, and employees from different occupational categories
report on their work environments. We know
from the numerous dialogues on our Facebook portal that the content and information
we provide are highly valued. And we regard
­Facebook, with our now more than 45,000
fans, as a dialog box for our career portal
www.Be-­Lufthansa.com where we also offer a
career orientation game providing an exciting
and innovative means by which to find the
right position within the company. The goal is
to explore one’s own strengths by playing a
game and to find suitable training options
within the Group. Use of the game is free of
charge and anonymous. The Web Excellence
Forum, in its Career Fanpage Monitor 2013
study, ranked our career fan page on Facebook first among all DAX 30 companies in the
category of dialogue quality.

[Ú 10]

Ú
­Lufthansa School of
Business: Germany’s
first corporate university
With the ­Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB),
the ­Lufthansa Group is operating Germany’s
first corporate university. The focus of the
LHSB and the programs it offers are aligned
with t­he Lufthansa Group strategy. As
instructed by the Executive Board, the LHSB
actively assists in the further cultural development of the company through various networking and dialogue platforms for employees and
managers. In addition, the LHSB offers all
employees a large variety of target groupcompatible and hierarchy-transcending seminar options and management programs. And
ever greater use is being made of blended
learning concepts (face-to-face events combined with e-learning). The training institution
cooperates with selected international organizations, business schools, and academic
institutions. It has received multiple awards for
the worldwide standards it has set for the
development and training of professionals and
managers. In 2013 the internal business
volume for continuing education and development programs in the L­ ufthansa Group
amounted to EUR 136 million, 6 percentage
points below the previous year’s figure. Nevertheless, the number of participant days
increased slightly to 771,000.

10
The Lufthansa Group is an attractive
employer and offers a broad range of
training opportunities.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 99

Ú
The Training & Conference Center in Seeheim
celebrates its 40th
anniversary
The ­Lufthansa Training & Conference Center
in Seeheim is our seminar and conference
center. Managers, employees, and politicians
have been assembling here, in a facility
equipped with a first-class infrastructure,
since 1973. For employees of the L­ ufthansa
Group, Seeheim has been an important point
of reference from time immemorial. The
­Lufthansa world meets here regularly for
management conclaves and training sessions. Even managers and employees from
other companies, in the region and beyond,
continue their education in Seeheim. The
­Lufthansa Training & Conference Center is
also an important regional employer. Some
270 employees from 15 countries take care
of the services and see to it that everything
runs smoothly, including more than 20 career
entrants who have found in Seeheim a
trainee position with ­Lufthansa for a career
as, for example, a hotel manager or cook.
Careers are promoted in Seeheim. In 2012,
for example, Christina Merz was awarded the
distinction of being the world’s best young
chef by the Concours International des
Jeunes Chefs Rôtisseurs 2012.

Ú
­Lufthansa Flight Training: Success in the
market for training and
continuing education of
flight crews
L­ ufthansa Flight Training GmbH (LFT) has
been operating since 1997 as an independent
provider of training and continuing education
for flight crews within the ­Lufthansa Group.
Today its list of clients includes, in addition to
the flight operators in the ­Lufthansa Group,
more than 200 other airlines from all over the
world. LFT’s portfolio of services includes

Top placements in employer
rankings Ú
The most recent employer rankings have confirmed the powerful
attractiveness of the ­Lufthansa Group as an employer in Germany. In
the Trendence Graduate Barometer 2014, for instance, university graduates with degrees in economics put the aviation company in fourth
place in the top employer rankings. This reflects an improvement by
five places in comparison to its ranking for 2013. Among engineering
graduates the company is in ninth place in the 2014 rankings (PY: 11th
place). The ­Lufthansa Group likewise placed among Germany’s top 10
employers in the Universum Student Survey 2014, just as it had done
in 2013.

“We are pleased to make the acquaintance
of talented and motivated young people
and to work with them to further develop
their potential. Investing in training and
­further educating people is a perfectly natural thing for us to do. We gladly assume
responsibility for it.”

Dr. Bettina Volkens
Chief Officer Corporate Human Resources and Legal Affairs
Deutsche ­Lufthansa AG

basic training for pilots and flight attendants,
simulator training, emergency and service
training, and a broad spectrum of e-learning
products. With a total of 40 cockpit simulators
in Frankfurt, Berlin, Essen, Munich, and
Vienna and flight schools in Bremen, Rostock,
and Phoenix, Arizona, the company is one of
the largest European training academies for
pilots and flight attendants. The L­ ufthansa
Group plans to concentrate its manpower in
the flight training segment. By July 2015,
­Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH and Swiss

Aviation Training AG (SAT) are to be merged
into one company as equal partners. ß

100 // Social Responsibility

Employee safety and health protection

The healthier and more motivated our employees are, the better they are able
to perform. Safe working conditions that are conducive to health and wellbeing are, therefore, an integral element of the ­Lufthansa Group’s job safety
and health protection programs. As the business activities of the individual
Group companies vary significantly, the requirements for job safety and health
management vary as well. So it is only logical that these call for fundamentally
decentralized organization.

The Medical Service, with its physicians
specializing in occupational, aviation, and
tropical medicine, takes care of all healthrelated concerns that ­Lufthansa Group
employees might have. This department
works in close contact with Group Employee
Safety, ­Lufthansa’s Social Counseling Service,
and the health experts at the various Group
companies. The Health working group has
established itself as a forum for regular
interdepartmental exchange; it meets four
times a year. In order to fulfill even more
effectively the steadily increasing legal
requirements for health care, the Medical
Service sought and received certification in
2012 to DIN EN ISO 9001. The certification
applies to the locations in Frankfurt, Munich,
Hamburg, and Cologne and covers the following areas: occupational, aviation, and
tropical medicine; the Aero Medical Center;
administrative control; Passenger Medical
Care; and the Social Counseling Service.
With the goal of securing and further improving upon the standards already achieved in
quality management (QM), the Medical Service trains internal QM commissioners. In
addition, the Medical Service assumes

responsibility for the medical supervision and
quality management of all medical transports,
including those that require the use of
­Lufthansa’s globally unique flying intensivecare unit, the Patient Transportation Compartment (PTC) (cf. page 75).

Ú
Social Counseling
The ­Lufthansa Social Counseling Service has
served the Group’s employees as a central
contact point for private, financial, and familyrelated problems and workplace conflicts
since 1985.
This is offered as a voluntary social service
by the L­ ufthansa Group and serves an important function in fulfilling the company’s duty to
provide for the welfare of its employees for
purposes of employee safety and health
protection. The Social Counseling Service is
provided at numerous locations in Germany,
including Frankfurt, Munich, Cologne,
Nuremberg, Hanover, Berlin, Düsseldorf,

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 101

and Stuttgart. Its portfolio of services comprises five areas:
Individual psychosocial counseling
Coaching and counseling of managers and
officeholders
Training, workshops, and informational
events
Team counseling and conflict moderation
Prevention and corporate health
management
The Social Counseling Service publishes an
annual activity report. In addition, it works
actively for the L­ ufthansa Group’s various
health campaigns.
In 2013, numerous campaigns to promote
employee health took place again at
­Lufthansa’s German locations. The Social
Counseling Service conducted a total of 164
seminars, workshops, training courses, and
informational events. The overall score in the
customer satisfaction survey stood at 1.86 in
the reporting year. The range of topics
included:
Resilience—Building strengths (during
times of change); How do I strengthen my
mental resistance during periods of mounting stress?
Healthy management practices
Team and conflict management
Introduction of the mental health guidelines
Substance abuse in the workplace
Dealing with stressors in the daily routine
of a flight attendant
Participation again in Germany’s national
“Alcohol? Less is better!” campaign week
Under the slogan “Alcohol? Less is better!”
the nationwide week-long campaign launched
by the association Deutsche Hauptstelle für
Suchtfragen (“German Center for Addiction
Issues”) took place this year from May 25 to
June 2, 2013. Our company was once again
a participant.
The ­Lufthansa Group’s Social Counseling
Service conducted informational events and
events relating to addiction prevention all
across Germany with the support of the
Group’s Medical Service and some health
insurance funds. On the topic of Residual
alcohol as a risk factor in particular, visitors

were presented with findings that were often
new and surprising to them.

Ú
Effective management
of employee safety
The Group Employee Safety department
works closely with physicians, social counselors, employee representatives, and responsible staff in the companies of the L­ ufthansa
Group. Its goal is to ensure and enhance the
long-term health and employability of all
employees, in particular by regularly identifying and evaluating hazards in the workplace
and implementing measures to achieve a
lasting reduction in the number of workrelated accidents and illnesses. In addition,
the department’s experts work to identify risk
factors for work-related illnesses early on and
ward them off. Their responsibilities also
include counseling to promote health, training in safety matters, instructing employees in
the noise laboratory, and developing and
updating health-related information on the
company’s intranet.

Ú
Networked health
management:
Passenger Medical Care
The services provided by the Passenger
Medical Care department expand our work in
the area of health management. Among other
things, Passenger Medical Care works
together with the Medical Operation Center
and our network of panel physicians to care
for acutely ill crew members. This involves
coordinating ground processes, medical
transports, and flight operations and making
use of the Medical Service’s expertise as well
as continually dealing with on-board medical
emergencies in the background. In this way
we ensure that the medical safety of both
passengers and crew members meets the
highest international quality requirements. ß

Numerous health management
activities Ú
In 2013 we once again initiated numerous health campaigns at our various company
locations. For example, ­Lufthansa’s Flight Attendants’ Health Management service, in
cooperation with the Volkshochschule Frankfurt, planned an educational leave program
on the topic of Staying healthy on the job and in daily life. The focus of this program was
a holistic approach to health, and it helped the participants identify and take advantage
of the options and resources available to them in their efforts to remain healthy, resilient,
and productive. At the instigation of the Medical Service in Hamburg, Lufthansa Technik
has been participating in the University of Hamburg’s long-term, multicenter scientific
study on metabolic syndrome, a complex of symptoms consisting of high blood pressure, obesity, and high blood fat, all of which are particularly significant as risk factors
for secondary illnesses such as heart disease or strokes. The 10-year study has been
conducted in phases or legs in the Medical Service. The last leg took place between
November 2013 and January 2014 and again had an excellent response, with over
1,500 subjects taking part in the study. L
­ ufthansa’s Hamburg base, meanwhile, held its
annual Health Day in cooperation with the Medical Service and with the support of the
health insurance fund Techniker Krankenkasse. The extensive informational services on
offer for ­Lufthansa employees ranged from a cardiovascular check-up and relaxation
coaching to nutritional counseling. The ­Lufthansa Group’s Social Counseling Service
also was present with a market stall.

Photo shoot of musicians from
the Gürzenich Orchestra Cologne
in a Lufthansa hangar

Corporate
Citizenship
Corporate citizenship is one of the ways in
which we express such values as responsibility,
fairness, team spirit, precision, and excellence in
performance. These values are fundamental to our
core business as well.
30

80

40

15,000

years of ­Lufthansa’s
Festival of Baroque
Music in London

tonnes of relief supplies
flown to the Philippines

help alliance projects
providing “help for
self-help”

visitors per year to
the Crane Information
Center

104 // Corporate Citizenship

[Ú 01]

[Ú 02]

[Ú 03]

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 105

Humanitarian emergency aid

The ­Lufthansa Group has a long history of organizing aid flights to regions
experiencing humanitarian disasters quickly and professionally. Our main role
is to provide the logistical support for getting emergency aid to victims, and
our aid flights provide quick assistance without bureaucratic delays.

Ú
There is no alternative
to the use of aircraft
to transport supplies
quickly and safely.

01 / 02 / 03
Together with the emergency relief
alliance Aktion Deutschland Hilft,
Lufthansa Cargo transported roughly
60 tonnes of relief supplies to the
Philippines.

Special flights are usually organized in close
cooperation with the German government and
reputable aid organizations. Over the past
several years we have invested steadily in
humanitarian emergency aid.
L­ ufthansa Cargo is part of a professional
network of logistics companies and reputable
German aid organizations. In February 2013
this freight specialist signed an agreement with
the emergency relief alliance Aktion Deutschland Hilft and its partner World Vision Deutschland. This agreement gives relief organizations
direct access to ­Lufthansa Cargo’s logistics
capabilities for missions outside of Germany. It
also promises to deliver ad hoc aid even faster
and more ­professionally.
­ ufthansa and ­Lufthansa Cargo fly
L
more than 80 tonnes of relief supplies
to the Philippines
Just days after typhoon Haiyan wreaked
devastation on the Philippines, the L­ ufthansa
Group was already delivering emergency aid.
On November 10, 2013, we flew relief supplies to Manila in a wide-body Airbus A340600. These included 5,400 fleece blankets,
3,000 large plastic tarpaulins and tents, and
medical equipment. On the initiative of a
­Lufthansa pilot who had flown the empty
aircraft to the Philippines for maintenance, a
decision was quickly made to seize the
opportunity to use it for this life-saving

mission. What followed was an unparalleled
action by ­Lufthansa German Airlines,
­Lufthansa Cargo, and ­Lufthansa Technik in
cooperation with two other organizations,
World Vision e.V. and International Search and
Rescue Germany (I.S.A.R.). The Joint Reporting and Incident Center at the German Federal Office of Civil Protection and Disaster
Assistance coordinated the offers of assistance. Those involved in the effort assembled
the 25-tonne aid package at the Frankfurt hub
in less than 36 hours.
L­ ufthansa Cargo began another relief flight
bound for the Philippines on November 22,
2013. Working with the relief alliance Aktion
Deutschland, ­Lufthansa Cargo, in cooperation with other companies in the ­Lufthansa
Group, once again delivered aid quickly, and
without the usual red tape, to a population
hard hit by the typhoon. On board the freight
aircraft were some 60 tonnes of relief supplies, including urgently needed food packages, medical equipment, water treatment
units, and tents. We also set up an account
with our employee organization help alliance
for donations. The EUR 120,000 in donations
that was raised was doubled to EUR 240,000
by the ­Lufthansa Group’s Executive Board.
This money is going mainly towards rebuilding destroyed villages in the Philippines. ß

106 // Corporate Citizenship

Social commitment

The companies of the L­ ufthansa Group and their employees are not l­imiting
their humanitarian commitment to emergency aid. A range of initiatives
­founded by Group employees supports numerous long-term aid projects.

alliance
Ú
help alliance:
“Help for self-help”
The help alliance, established in 1999 by
employees from all segments of the
­Lufthansa Group, is currently supporting
some 40 long-term aid projects worldwide.
The members of this aid initiative work on
these projects on a voluntary basis, are
politically and denominationally independent,
and collect donations for use in meaningful
ways in social aid projects all over the world.
Their humanitarian activities are focused on
nutritional and health programs, schools and
educational institutions, orphanages, and
street children projects in Africa, Asia, and
South America. In all of its projects, the help
alliance pursues the objective of helping
victims help themselves, thereby enabling
them to improve their living conditions by
their own efforts. Cooperation with experienced partners and regular visits by project
managers to the project sites ensure that the
projects maintain a high standard of quality.
The help alliance also provides disaster relief.
The ­Lufthansa Group provides the organization with financial, logistical, and communication support. The help alliance publishes
detailed information on its activities and the

[Ú 04]

progress of its various projects in its Annual
Report and on its website.
Swimming, cycling, and running
for a good cause
What the two ­Lufthansa A320 pilots Sebastian
Bartel and Lars Heurich accomplished during
the reporting year went far beyond a race for
water in Gambia. Independently of one
another, the two came up with the idea of
taking part in the Ironman and Ultraman
competitions in Hawaii for the benefit of a
help alliance aid project. For each one of the
more than 700 kilometers covered in the

competitions, EUR 50 could be donated on
www.betterplace.org, the help alliance’s
online fundraising partner. In this way the two
extreme athletes succeeded in raising more
than EUR 40,000 for a water project in Gambia. Managed by the Sabab Lou Foundation,
a help alliance partner, the project aims not
only to provide a source of clean drinking
water by means of solar pump and irrigation
systems, but also to help the inhabitants of (to
date) three villages in Gambia achieve greater
economic self-sufficiency. Greater harvests
thanks to the availability of water mean more
income for the people—the calculation

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 107

seems simple enough. A ­Lufthansa employee
in Stuttgart has invested heavily of herself in
ensuring that it works out in practice as well.
Ultraman Lars Heurich, whose most fervent
wish from the outset was to be on hand to
see the water supply system operate for the
first time, was able to confirm first-hand that it
does.

[Ú 05]

A new brand presence for
the anniversary year
To mark its 15th anniversary, the help alliance
is rejuvenating itself with a new public image.
This includes, in addition to a new website
and a new logo—both designed by the
agency meerdesguten Brand Identity—an
improved system for online donations on the
website, and it aims above all to bring the
various actors closer together. The new presence is designed to reflect the unique level of
commitment demonstrated by ­Lufthansa
Group employees and their solidarity with the
people they seek to help. At the same time, it
makes clear that the help alliance is not a
closed initiative within the ­Lufthansa Group.
www.helpalliance.org

The first non-airline company to partner
with the help alliance
Following a trip to Vietnam and a visit to
the help alliance project Saigon Children’s
­Charity, the franchise company L­ ufthansa City
Center Reisebüros decided to integrate the
help alliance as a partner into its own corporate responsibility strategy. As a first step, the
company assumed the costs of printing 1.3
million donation bags for on-board collections, a portion of which were retained for use
in its own travel agencies. This year one of the
travel agencies affiliated with the chain and
located in Schwalbach near Frankfurt will be
making the help alliance one of the beneficiaries of its Sports against Poverty campaign.
Other campaigns are being planned.

04
Sebastian Bartel (left) ran the Ironman
in Hawaii to benefit the water project in
Gambia. Lars Heurich then followed up
at the Ultraman.
05
Mariama Diba and Edith Lanfer (help
alliance) are delighted as the water
supply system successfully begins
operation.

Small change—
it’s a big help Ú
To give ­Lufthansa Group passengers the
opportunity to help build a bridge to a better life for people in need, the help alliance
launched the on-board collection program
Small change—it’s a big help in 2001. This
allows passengers to donate coins and
banknotes in any currency they may happen
to be returning with on long-haul flights. Small
sealable collection bags are provided for this
purpose in the seat pockets aboard the aircraft. These are collected by flight attendants
and turned over to the help alliance. Valuable
leftover cash can also be deposited in the
donation pillars located in airport employee
areas, the ­Lufthansa Lounges at all German
and selected international airports, and in
the public areas of the Frankfurt and Munich
hubs. Following Condor and Brussels Airlines,
Austrian Airlines joined the on-board collection program on July 1, 2012. Since March
15, 2013, all Germanwings aircraft also have
been provided with donation bags. More than
EUR 3 million has been collected for the aid
initiative since on-board collection began.
Swiss also has been collecting leftover cash
aboard its flights for many years, and it supports the aid organization SOS Children’s Villages and the independent employee foundation Swiss Children’s Foundation.

On-board collection program
Development of donations
in EUR 1
2013

301,566
318,380

2012
2011
2010

205,362
286,184

2009

224,053

2008

230,433

2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001

260,939
279,575
294,870
238,023
216,539
232,692
207,175

October 2002:
Start of Condor’s participation
September 2011:	Start of Brussels Airlines’
participation
July 2012: 	Start of Austrian Airlines’
participation

1 As the final figures were not yet available at the
close of copy, all figures mentioned for 2013 in
this article are preliminary.

108 // Corporate Citizenship

[Ú 06]

06 / 07
Cargo Human Care provides speedy
and non-bureaucratic aid for the
needy and sick in Nairobi and
­outlying areas.
08
With its support for the Life Ball in
Vienna, Austrian Airlines underscores
its social commitment in a matter of
worldwide relevance.

[Ú 07]

Ú
­Lufthansa Cargo works
with Cargo Human Care
to alleviate poverty in
Kenya
Cargo Human Care (CHC) is an aid organization comprising L­ ufthansa Cargo and German
physicians. It provides speedy and nonbureaucratic aid for the needy and sick in
Kenya’s capital city, Nairobi, and the areas
surrounding it. This charitable association was
established in 2007. During the reporting year
it broadened its range of medical services,
and once a month it offers medical consultations specifically for cervical cancer. This
disease has become a common affliction in
developing countries in particular. It is curable
if it is detected early and treated with the
proper therapy.
The consultations and medical examinations
take place at CHC’s Medical Center, where
the association is already offering vaccinations and prenatal care counseling. The Medical Center devotes much of its resources to
treating children living in the neighboring CHC
orphanage, Mothers’ Mercy Home, along with
people from outlying areas who otherwise
lack access to medical care.
A total of 40 German physicians with various
specialisms work on a voluntary basis for
CHC. Three times a month they fly to Kenya
to spend three days treating impoverished

patients. Since 2008 they have logged some
1,700 working days on such missions. Every
month approximately 2,000 medical treatments are performed. ­Lufthansa Cargo provides the flight tickets for the German physicians, in addition to which it has supported
CHC since its inception by making cargo
capacity available at no charge.
Since 2011 CHC has also offered sponsorships for sick, handicapped, and neglected
children living in proximity to the Mothers’
Mercy Home orphanage. These cover school
fees, medical care, and aid to the parents to
help with living costs and other necessities.
Further information can be found at
www.cargohumancare.de

Cargo Social Care—Close cooperation with
Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main e.V.
For more than 30 years ­Lufthansa Cargo has
maintained a close cooperative relationship
with Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main
e.V., thereby guaranteeing jobs for people with
disabilities. Some 280 employees, for example, manufacture new restraining straps for
securing air freight at a rate of more than
6,300 units per month. Roughly 11,000 straps
are repaired per month at three locations. All
of the products satisfy L­ ufthansa Cargo’s high
quality standards, which follow ISO specifications. Werkstätten für Behinderte RheinMain e.V. is a recognized workshop for persons with disabilities and is dedicated to
bringing them into the workforce and allowing
them to take part in working life.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 109

[Ú 08]

Switzerland. During the reporting year, 25
Japanese children received invitations to
Switzerland.
Austrian Airlines flies for a good cause and
takes off with the Life Ball plane
For its social projects, Austrian Airlines works
primarily with reputable organizations such as
Global 2000 or Hilfe für Kinder aus Weißrussland (“Aid to Children from Belarus”), which
organize vacations for children. The airline
covers the costs of flying the children and
offers their adult escorts flight tickets at
reduced rates. In addition, Austrian Airlines
assists directly affected persons who must go
to Austria for medical treatment or surgical
procedures by giving them free flight tickets.

Ú
Social commitment from
Swiss, Austrian Airlines,
and Brussels Airlines
Swiss—Strengthening the partnership
with SOS Children’s Villages
Swiss has supported the international aid
organization SOS Children’s Villages for many
years. One example of such support is the
airline’s practice of collecting spare change in
all currencies from passengers aboard its
flights and donating it to SOS children’s villages. In 2013 Swiss further solidified its partnership with the aid organization. Swiss is
supporting SOS Children’s Villages with a new
package of measures comprising communication and flight services along with fundraising. More than 150,000 Swiss francs were
collected on board Swiss aircraft in 2013.
In addition, the airline has committed financial, infrastructural, and logistical support to
the independent Swiss Children’s Foundation.
Employees have the option of donating a
portion of their salaries on a monthly basis.
This money, along with the donations from
passengers, is used to finance houses and
living costs for families in SOS Children’s
villages, such as the one in Phuket, Thailand.
In 2013 the Swiss Children’s Foundation
donated more than 112,000 Swiss francs to
SOS Children’s Villages.

As one of Switzerland’s largest employers,
Swiss has increased its social outreach activities at the local level as well. With the cooperation of the Pro Juventute foundation, three
children’s days were held at Zurich Airport in
the summer of 2013 as part of the airline’s
support program for children and young
people. One hundred school children were
given an opportunity to explore the airport and
afforded an exciting inside view of its complex
operations. The program also included a visit
to a Swiss long-haul Airbus A340.
Swiss and Edelweiss Air support
Wings for Japan
The two Swiss airlines in the ­Lufthansa
Group, Swiss and Edelweiss Air, are supporters of the Wings for Japan aid project. This
project was launched in 2011 by current and
former Swiss employees following publication
of the book Tsunami by the Japanese journalist Ken Mori. In this book, some 80 children
between the ages of five and 17 describe, in
narrative form and in pictures, their experiences and fates during and after the environmental disaster in Fukushima. Wings for
Japan set itself the goal of gradually taking all
80 children for a visit to Switzerland, both to
afford them a positive change from what in
many cases continues to be the harsh reality
of their everyday lives and to give them a
chance to have fun with Swiss children of the
same age. Swiss and Edelweiss Air have
supported the project since its inception with
flight services between Japan and

With financial support from the Vienna Tourist
Board, Austrian Airlines repainted a Boeing
777 with a livery design specially created for
the Life Ball 2014 charitable event. The aircraft
has been flying around the world with this
special design since April 1, 2014. On May
30, 2014, Austrian Airlines used the official
Life Ball plane to take famous guests of this
charitable event from New York to Vienna. The
Life Ball in Vienna is an event organized to
benefit people infected with HIV or suffering
from AIDS. This support is a demonstration of
the airline’s social commitment in response to
an issue of worldwide relevance.
Brussels Airlines—Off-road for a
good cause
Employees of the L­ ufthansa affiliate Brussels
Airlines who participated in the Bike for Africa
campaign swapped aircraft for bicycles for
the 240-kilometer tour. At the end of the tour
through Uganda, which took place in January
2014, the cyclists donated about EUR 100,000
to a Ugandan aid organization and a Belgian
nongovernmental organization. The money
had been collected in advance through
various sponsoring activities. Brussels Airlines contributed to the initiative by taking
charge of logistical matters, which included
transporting the bicycles. Bike for Africa is a
campaign organized by Brussels Airlines’
b.foundation for Africa, which supports
employees involved in various charitable
programs. ß

110 // Corporate Citizenship

Environmental sponsorship

A stylized flying crane—a bird that traditionally symbolizes luck—is the
trademark of the L­ ufthansa Group. The Group has made a commitment to
protecting the crane. At least 10 of the 15 species of crane found in the
world today are threatened with extinction as their brooding, roosting, and
wintering habitats continue to be destroyed.

Ú
The ­Lufthansa Group
protects the bird of luck

In 1991, to ensure the survival of these majestic birds, L­ ufthansa established the Kranichschutz Deutschland (“Crane Protection
­Germany”) working group in collaboration
with the Nature Biodiversity Conservation
Union (NABU) and WWF Germany. A central
element in this project is the Crane Information Center in Gross Mohrdorf, located in the
Rügen-Bock region of Mecklenburg-Western
Pomerania. With its various exhibitions,
events, and guided tours, it serves as an
information center, research facility, and meeting place for scientists, conservationists, and
bird lovers. In 2013 more than 15,000 visitors
to the Crane Information Center were able to
learn about the activities of those who are
working to protect the birds. The center is part
of a pan-European crane protection network.
Up to 70,000 gray cranes migrate annually to
the area, which counts as one of the most
important roosting areas for cranes in Europe.
In the information center itself, ­Lufthansa
employees work for several weeks at a time
as voluntary crane rangers, investing of
themselves in a very practical way in the
preservation of the airline’s heraldic bird. In
2014 the Crane Information Center continues

70,000
Up to 70,000 grey
cranes migrate annually to the Rügen-Bock
region of MecklenburgWestern Pomerania.

to offer positions for voluntary crane rangers
in collaboration with ­Lufthansa. The Group is
also helping the information center with the
development of modern information channels.
The new Facebook page Kranichschutz
Deutschland is attracting more and more
visitors, and the cranes are also acquiring an
enthusiastic following on Twitter. ß
Further information can be found at
www.kraniche.de
www.facebook.com/kranichschutz

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 111

Western European and
Baltic migratory routes
Roosting area
Hibernation area

Vaasa

Lake Kvismaren
Lake Hornborga

Lake Tåkern
Matsalu Bay

Crane Information Center
Gross Mohrdorf
Linum / Nauen

Lake Der-Chantecoq

Hortobágy
Arjuzanx

Gallocanta Lake

Extremadura
Andalusia

112 // Corporate Citizenship

Cultural commitment

The ­Lufthansa Group has been supporting outstanding cultural events and
institutions in the field of music for many years. The universal language of
music functions as an intermediary through which we allow our common
bonds to engender understanding.

[Ú 09]

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 113

Ú
The ­Lufthansa ­Festival
of Baroque Music
reaches 30
The ­Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music in
London celebrated its thirty years of existence
in May 2014. With The Year 1714 as its
theme, the festival highlighted the historical
connection between England and Germany.
Celebrations are underway in 2014 in both
England and Germany to mark the 300-year
anniversary of the ascension to the British
throne of Georg Ludwig, elector of Brunswick-Lüneburg, in 1714. As King George I,
Georg Ludwig ruled over both Hanover and
Great Britain. George Frideric Handel wielded
the musical scepter as director of the court
orchestra in Hanover and composer at the
royal court in London. It was therefore fitting
that the 30th ­Lufthansa Festival of Baroque
Music opened with the majestic strains of
Handel’s Coronation Anthems.
With Westminster Abbey, St. John’s Smith
Square, and St. Peter’s Eaton Square as its
venues, the festival included 12 concerts,
several festival walks, and a lecture. Performing were The Sixteen, Pierre Hantai, The
Hilliard Ensemble, Laurence Cummings,
Rachel Podger, La Risonanza, Dorothee Oberlinger, St. James Baroque and The Choir of
Westminster Abbey. This 30th festival brings
our involvement to an end, as we will be
shifting our attention in relation to corporate
citizenship to other issues in the future.
www.lufthansafestival.org.uk

Ú
First Global Partner to
Cologne’s Gürzenich
Orchestra
The ­Lufthansa Group has supported the
acclaimed Gürzenich Orchestra as a First
Global Partner since 2010. The Gürzenich
Orchestra counts as one of Germany’s leading opera orchestras and, like Deutsche
­Lufthansa AG, it is based in Cologne. Since
1986 the ensemble has been one of the
house orchestras of Cologne’s Philharmonic

Hall, where it gives some 50 concerts a year.
The orchestra also performs in Cologne
Opera productions more than 160 times a
year. In 2014, under the leadership of
Gürzenich music director Markus Stenz, the
orchestra, in keeping with the richness of its
tradition, boarded a ­Lufthansa plane bound
for Hong Kong, Seoul, Shanghai, and Peking.
Among the items the 130 musicians carried
in their luggage were the parts to Richard
Strauss’s monumental An Alpine ­Symphony,
a fitting choice to mark the composer’s 150th
birthday. Cologne’s Gürzenich Orchestra
delighted classical music fans from all over
the world during its Asia tour—including the
many employees of the L­ ufthansa Group
who seized the opportunity to hear Cologne’s
most sought-after brand on the concert
circuit in the company of top customers
and partners.
www.guerzenich-orchester.de

Ú
A traditional New Year’s
concert in Berlin
On January 27, 2014, the ­Lufthansa Group
treated more than 1,000 invited guests to its
traditional New Year’s concert in Berlin. On
the program was a mix of traditional classical
works, big-band selections, and musical
comedy numbers performed by various
artists. Among the performers were the new
crop of young musicians in the Junge Philharmonie Brandenburg and the Youth Jazz
Orchestra of Brandenburg. Also taking part
was the music class of a primary school
located in Schulendorf in the vicinity of
Schönefeld Airport.

Ú
­Lufthansa Technik’s
benefit concert for two
Hamburg institutions
On August 24, 2013, L­ ufthansa Technik AG
staged for the 11th time, in hangar 7 in Hamburg, the benefit concert billed as Faszination
Musik und Technik (“The Fascination of Music
and Engineering”). The proceeds, which
came to roughly EUR 60,000, were donated

09
The concert in Westminster Abbey was
again one of the highlights of the 30th
Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music.

to the phönikks foundation and to the Stiftung
der Freunde der Hamburger Hochschule für
Musik und Theater. ß

The ­Lufthansa Group
supports virtual
research travel and
online fundraising Ú
The ­Lufthansa Group supports the Lab
around the world research project undertaken by the online fundraising platform
betterplace.org. The goal of the project is to
use digital hotspots all around the world to
link with people who have already successfully mobilized others for action in the realm
of civil society. The virtual research travelers will ultimately summarize their analyses
and findings in a global study. It is hoped
that this will help the social sector work
more effectively through the Internet.
The ­Lufthansa Group’s employee initiative
help alliance also uses the digital network
for numerous aid projects. And it, too,
works closely with betterplace.org.
www.betterplace-lab.org

114 // Corporate Citizenship

Sports sponsorship

L­ ufthansa is the airline of sports and as such has served as a reliable partner
to numerous prominent institutions, associations, and clubs. The values of
fairness, team spirit, precision, and excellence in performance are not, after
all, unique to competitive athletics, but are also a source of motivation for the
­Lufthansa Group and its employees. For this reason, sports sponsorship has
been a part of the aviation company’s corporate citizenship for a long time.

Ú
The ­Lufthansa Group
supports the German
Sports Aid Foundation’s Springboard to
the Future initiative

Since 2007 the L­ ufthansa Group has been a
national sponsor of the German Sports Aid
Foundation, which currently supports some
3,800 athletes from all Olympic disciplines,
traditional non-Olympic sports, and sports
organized for deaf athletes and athletes with
disabilities. More than 90% of all German
athletes who participated in the 2014 Olympic
Games and Paralympics in Sochi were sponsored by the German Sports Aid Foundation.
But no one hoping to make it to first place in
international competition can avoid making
certain sacrifices. Many athletes therefore
decide in favor of a professional career path

[Ú 10]

despite outstanding athletic prospects. The
German Sports Aid Foundation launched the
Springboard to the Future initiative to keep the
two paths mutually compatible. A package of
measures has been put together that includes
short-term internships lasting four to six weeks
and a mentoring program, all designed to
eliminate the disadvantages that those who
pursue an athletic career face when making
post-athletic career choices. The L­ ufthansa
Group is leading the way as a positive example and supports Springboard to the Future. A
total of 100 German commercial enterprises
have already joined the initiative.

Ú
­Lufthansa flies German
Olympic and Paralympic
teams to Sochi
As the official airline of the German Olympic
team and the National Paralympic Committee
Germany, ­Lufthansa took care of flying the
German teams to Sochi. These teams have
been flying with L­ ufthansa to athletic venues
since 1972. Since the airline does not normally include the city on the Black Sea in its
itinerary, we published a special flight schedule just for these international athletic events,
one that would allow the athletes to fly directly

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 115

[Ú 11]

and with minimal stress. This left them free to
devote their energy to preparing for the competitions. But many other nations and fans
also availed themselves of this service, so that
activity at the specially-marked Sochi gate at
the Frankfurt airport and aboard the Airbus
A321 used on this route had an atmosphere
every bit as international as in the Olympic
and Paralympic villages. A special highlight
was the Olympic team’s arrival in Munich
aboard the special ­Lufthansa flight. German
President Joachim Gauck received the athletes right on the ramp and congratulated
them on their performance.

Ú
European Wheelchair
Basketball Championships in Frankfurt
Frankfurt is L­ ufthansa’s main hub. As a partner of the National Paralympic Committee
Germany, it was only natural that L­ ufthansa
would also support the European Wheelchair
Basketball Championships in Frankfurt. Our
service professionals took charge of assisting
the teams arriving at the airport en route to
Frankfurt. We also beat the drum for the
European Championships, because the
athletes with disabilities accomplish extraordinary things and serve as models for all segments of society. In the final, the German
women’s team, who were Olympic champions
in London, were ultimately forced by the
Dutch team to admit defeat before more than
3,000 enthusiastic spectators. ß
www.lufthansagroup.com/sports

10
Participants in the Sochi Olympics arrive in Munich, where
they are welcomed by Germany’s President Gauck.
11
Fanhansa: Lufthansa is the airline of sports and that of
sports fans as well. Our planes make this clear during the
2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil.

Outlook Ú
As good corporate citizens, the ­Lufthansa Group and its individual companies are
involved in numerous and diverse projects dealing with a broad range of issues. In
recent years there has been a marked change in the expectations of our stakeholders where social commitment is concerned. This change reflects the rapid transformations taking place in our globalized world and the associated issues and problems
encountered across broad segments of our own business environment. How to
approach social commitment with a compelling, intelligible, and goal-oriented plan of
action is one that arises with ever greater prominence and urgency.
For this reason we are working towards a reorientation and consolidation of our
commitments. One point of emphasis in this reorientation, apart from more active
involvement of both executives and employees, will be a thematic focus on social and
humanitarian projects. Our paramount goal has been and continues to be to ensure
that our efforts have an enduring impact. With the employee initiatives help alliance,
Cargo Human Care, and Swiss Children’s Foundation, we already have in our possession within the Group established and recognized aid organizations. They constitute
a valuable foundation for further development of the ­Lufthansa Group’s corporate
­citizenship commitments.

Service
and Information
Glossary / Editorial information / Contact
persons / Methodology of calculations / Overview
of the fleet of the ­Lufthansa Group

118 // Service and Information

Glossary

A
à AEA—Association of European Airlines
www.aea.be

à Aerosols
Aerosols are solid and/or liquid particles that
are suspended in the air. They reach the
atmosphere by means of natural processes
(wind, desert storms, volcanic eruptions) or
human activities (combustion of biomass and
fossil fuels). The most important aerosols are
mineral dust, sea salt, cellular (biological)
particles, soot, organic compounds, and
sulfates. From a climatic perspective, aerosols
are the opponents of greenhouse gases, as
they can reflect incident light and thus have a
cooling effect.
à aireg e.V.—Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany
aireg is a registered association of leading
German research institutions, L­ ufthansa and
other companies in the aviation industry, and
bioenergy producers. The goal of this initiative, which was founded in 2011, is to
advance the development and introduction of
regenerative aviation fuels in Germany and to
inform the public at large about this topic.
www.aireg.de

à ATM—Air Traffic Management
Air traffic management ensures both the safe
and efficient movement of aircraft in all
phases of operations.
à Atmosphere
The whole mass of air surrounding the Earth.
It is divided into various layers, distinguished
from one another by distinct differences in
vertical bands of temperature. Important for
air traffic are the two lower layers: the troposphere and, above it, the stratosphere. The
troposphere’s upper boundaries vary

depending on season and latitude. They lie
at altitudes of 16 to 18 kilometers above sea
level at the equator, and at eight to 12 kilometers above sea level at the poles. The
temperature in the tropopause, the transition
layer between troposphere and stratosphere,
drops to about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It
rises again in the stratosphere. The so-called
ozone layer is also located in the stratosphere at altitudes of about 25 to 30 kilometers. Today’s commercial aircraft fly at cruising altitudes of between eight and 13 kilometers.
According to the latest research, air traffic
emissions do not contribute to the reduction
of the ozone layer.

B
à B.A.U.M.—Bundesdeutscher Arbeitskreis
für Umweltbewusstes Management e.V.
(Federal Working Group for Environmentally-Aware Management)
B.A.U.M. was founded in 1984 as the first
independent environmental initiative of German business. With roughly 550 members, it
is the largest of its kind in Europe today.
­Lufthansa has been a member of the Working
Group since 1997.
www.baumev.de

à BDL—Bundesverband der Deutschen
Luftverkehrswirtschaft (Federal
Association of the German Air
Transport Industry)
­Lufthansa is a founding member of the Federal Association of the German Air Transport
Industry (BDL), which has represented the
interests of the German aviation industry with
a single voice since December 2010. Its main
goals are to make politicians and journalists
more aware of aviation’s economic and
employment-related importance and to

strengthen Germany as a business location
for aviation in general.
www.bdl.aero

C
à Carbon dioxide (CO2)
Gas resulting in nature from the burning or
decomposition of organic substances (e.g.
plant material) and from human or animal
respiration. The greenhouse gas CO2 remains
in the atmosphere for about 100 years. Scientists attribute the increase in atmospheric CO2
over the last 100 years to the burning of fossil
fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural gas) by humans.
Per tonne of fuel, 3.15 tonnes of CO2 result
from the combustion process. Currently, about
2.5% of the CO2 emissions due to human
activities are caused by global air traffic.
(Source: International Energy Agency (IEA)
2012, 2010 values)
à Carbon monoxide (CO)
Chemical compound consisting of one carbon and one oxygen atom, formed in the
incomplete combustion process of substances containing carbon. For aircraft
engines, the level of CO emissions depends
greatly on the thrust level: The emissions per
kilogram of fuel burned are higher at idle
settings, while taxiing, and on approach than
during the climbing and cruising phases.
à CDA—Continuous Descent Approach
Procedure for a flight’s approach phase that
requires less engine thrust and is therefore
quieter and more fuel efficient. However, this
type of approach is possible only if there are
no constraints due to heavy air traffic in the
airspace concerned.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 119

à CDP­—Carbon Disclosure Project
The CDP is an independent organization
working for public welfare, whose members in
2014 comprise more than 760 large-scale
investors worldwide. The goal of this initiative,
which was founded in 2002, is to motivate the
world’s largest publicly quoted companies to
make their greenhouse gas emissions transparent and to bring about lasting reductions in
them. For this purpose, CDP and its partners
developed two indexes: the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, which lists companies
that have made their emissions particularly
transparent, and the Carbon Performance
Leadership Index, which takes into account
concrete climate protection performance.
à Chapter 4 aircraft
Aircraft that comply with the strictest noise
protection standard currently in force—the
Chapter 4 noise standard. The Environmental
Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO agreed on this
standard in September 2001. As a result, all
aircraft newly certified since 2006 must
remain cumulatively below the Chapter 3
noise levels by 10 decibels or more. The
maximum noise emission values for aircraft
were introduced by the ICAO under Annex 16
to the Convention on International Civil Aviation. Noise levels depend on the aircraft’s
maximum takeoff weight and number of
engines.
à CO
see Carbon monoxide
à CO2
see Carbon dioxide
à Codeshare
A codeshare is a flight segment that is sold
under the flight number of one airline while
being operated either partly or entirely by
another airline. Both companies maintain their
independent profiles in the market.

à Compliance
Compliance describes the entirety of all measures that ensure the lawful conduct of companies, their management bodies, and their
employees with regard to legal directives and
interdictions.
à Corporate responsibility (CR)
Corporate responsibility expresses the degree
to which a company assumes accountability
for the effects its business activities have on
employees, customers, society, and the
environment.
à Corporate university
Corporate education institution for professionals and managers. See also L
­ ufthansa School
of Business (LHSB).
à CPI—Customer Profile Index
­Lufthansa German Airlines, in cooperation
with renowned institutes, continually conducts
worldwide surveys to assess the level of
customer satisfaction. These data are compiled in the Customer Profile Index, which
informs the entire company, in the form of a
single figure, of the current status of customer
satisfaction.
à CVA—Cash Value Added
A measure of company performance in terms
of cash generated through operations. If
the cash flow generated during a period
(EBITDAplus) is greater than the minimum
cash flow needed to cover capital costs, then
the CVA figure is positive, and value is
created.

D
à Decibel (dB)
Measuring unit for the intensity and pressure
of sound. The difference in intensity between

the softest sound the human ear can perceive
and the pain threshold is 1:10 trillion. To
depict this enormous range objectively,
acoustics uses the logarithmic decibel scale.
On this scale, the value “0” is assigned to the
perception threshold (for a sound of 1,000 Hz)
and the pain threshold at the value “130”. An
increase of 10 dB corresponds to a tenfold
increase in sound intensity. For the perceived
volume, a difference of 10 dB corresponds to
half or double the volume. However, the
human ear is not equally sensitive across the
entire range of frequencies. Low and high
sounds are not perceived as being equally
loud even at the same intensity. For measurements, this difference is equalized and noted
accordingly. The best known such notation is
the A value, marked by the index dB(A). To
measure aircraft noise, the EPNdB (Effective
Perceived Noise Decibel) unit is used
internationally.
à Diversity
In a corporate context, diversity refers to all
characteristics that distinguish employees
from one another. Diversity management
offers approaches for handling human differences for the benefit of company and employees alike.
à DLR—Deutsches Zentrum für Luft- und
Raumfahrt (German Aerospace Center)
The DLR serves scientific, economic, and
social purposes. It maintains 35 institutes and
research centers. Its declared goal is to
help—using the means of aviation and space
flight—to secure and shape the future. In its
work, the DLR also seeks cooperation and
allocation of research tasks among European
partners.
www.dlr.de

à DNWE—Deutsches Netzwerk
Wirtschaftsethik (German Network for
Business Ethics)

120 // Service and Information

DNWE is a nonprofit organization of which
­Lufthansa has been a member since January
1998. DNWE has about 600 current members, including many from German business,
politics, religion, and science. At the same
time, DNWE is a national association of the
European Business Ethics Network (EBEN).
www.dnwe.de

E
à econsense—Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der Deutschen Wirtschaft e.V.
(Forum for Sustainable Development of
German Businesses)
An association of globally active corporations
and organizations in German industry that have
integrated the guiding principle of sustainable
development into their corporate strategies.
­Lufthansa is a founding member of this crossindustry network, which was set up in 2000.
www.econsense.de

à EMAS—Environmental Management
and Audit Scheme
European regulations concerning environmental management and certification; colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit
regulations.
à Equivalent continuous noise level (Leq)
The Leq is a measure for the energetic average of all sound pressure levels over a
defined period of time. All sound events that
differ in intensity and duration are summarized
according to mathematical rules. The resulting
average value is an accepted and proven
measurement of the noise quantity occurring
over an observed time interval.
à Ethibel—Ethibel Sustainability Index
The independent Belgian agency Ethibel has
listed ­Lufthansa in its Ethibel Investment

Register and the Ethibel Sustainability Index
(ESI). The ESI offers institutional investors,
asset managers, banks, and private investors
a comprehensive overview of the financial
results of companies that distinguish themselves by pursuing sustainable business
practices. Since the merger with Vigeo and
Stock at Stake in 2005, this index has been
part of Vigeo. However, Forum Ethibel continues to be responsible for the ethical criteria
and the composition of the ESI. Updates of
and calculations for the index are performed
by the internationally renowned index provider
Standard & Poor’s.
www.ethibel.org

passenger illness) to decrease the aircraft’s
weight to the maximum permissible landing
weight. In the event of a fuel dump, special air
space is assigned to the aircraft, if possible
above uninhabited or thinly populated areas.
Fuel is usually dumped at altitudes of 4–8
kilometers. A minimum altitude of 1,500
meters and a minimum speed of 500 km/h
are required. The aircraft may not fly a fully
closed circle. The dumped kerosene forms a
fine mist in the turbulence behind the aircraft.
Despite the use of highly sensitive methods of
analysis, no contamination has been detected
so far in plant or soil samples after fuel
dumps.

F

G

à Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT)
Airlines distinguish between freight performance offered (FTKO, freight tonne kilometers
offered) and its sold freight performance
(FTKT, freight tonne kilometers transported).
See also Tonne kilometers.

à Global Compact
see UN Global Compact

à FTSE4Good
The index was introduced in 2001 by FTSE, a
wholly owned subsidiary of the London Stock
Exchange. It lists only those companies that
meet the internationally accepted standards
for corporate responsibility in the following
dimensions: environmental management,
climate change, human and labor rights along
the supply chain, corporate governance, and
anti-corruption efforts. L­ ufthansa has been
listed since 2001.
www.ftse.com

à Fuel dump
Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency
situations. A procedure used on long-haul
aircraft before unscheduled landings (e.g. in
the event of technical problems or serious

à Great-circle distance
The shortest distance between two points on
the Earth’s surface, measured in kilometers
(great circle kilometers) or nautical miles. The
center of a great circle is the center of the
Earth.
à Greenhouse gases
Gaseous substances that contribute to the
greenhouse effect and have both natural and
human (anthropogenic) causes. The most
important natural greenhouse gases are water
vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4); the most important anthropogenic
greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide from
the combustion of fossil fuels and methane,
primarily from agriculture and industrial livestock farming. Other artificial greenhouse
gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons
(FCs and HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 121

H
à Hub
In air transport, a hub is a central traffic point
or an airline’s transfer airport. Passengers and
freight are transported from their point of
departure to one of the airline’s home airports
(hub). From there, they are carried to their
destination by a second flight alongside passengers and freight from other departure
points, but with the same destination.

discrimination as well as the fundamental right
of freedom of association for employees.
à ISO 14001—International environmental
management system
Companies thereby receive an effective instrument that allows them to take environmental
aspects into consideration in decisions relating to corporate policies and to continuously
improve the situation of environmental care in
relation to all daily tasks.

à IATA—International Air Transport Association
The umbrella organization of international
commercial aviation.
www.iata.org

à ICAO—International Civil Aviation
Organization
A United Nations agency that develops internationally binding norms for civil aviation.
www.icao.int

à ICC—International Chamber of
­Commerce
The ICC was founded in 1919 as the World
Business Organization. More than 1,500
business organizations and over 5,000 corporations are organized in the worldwide framework of the ICC. L­ ufthansa has been a member since 1955.
www.icc-deutschland.de

à ILO standards
Work standards of the International Labor
Organization, which include, among others,
the bans on child labor, forced labor, and

à Mentoring
Instrument for targeted support of junior
employees. Focuses on regular personal
contacts between mentor and mentee.
à MRO
Acronym standing for maintenance, repair,
and overhaul of aircraft

www.iso.org

K

I

M

à Kerosene
Fuel for jet and propeller engines that is
chemically similar to petroleum. Like diesel
fuel or gasoline, kerosene is produced by
distilling crude oil; unlike these fuels, kerosene
does not contain halogenated additives.

L
à LHSB—­Lufthansa School of Business
Germany’s first corporate university. It has
received multiple awards for the worldwide
standards it establishes for the development
and training of professionals and managers.
The LHSB supports processes of change
within the Group and promotes a shared
management culture.
à Low-cost segment
Airlines offering predominantly low fares, but
featuring reduced or separately charged
services on the ground and in the air. Flights
are most often operated to/from airports
outside of major population centers.

à MTOW
Acronym standing for maximum takeoff
weight of an aircraft

N
à Nitrogen oxides (NOX)
Chemical compounds consisting of one
nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX is
defined as the sum of NO and NO2 compounds. Natural sources include lightning and
microbes in the soil. Nitrogen oxides are also
generated in combustion processes under
high pressures and temperatures. Both of
these parameters have been increased in
modern aircraft engines to significantly reduce
fuel consumption as well as emissions of
carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons. However, future combustion chambers
of an advanced design could help reduce
NOX emissions by 85%. Depending on the
type of aircraft and operational conditions, this
value varies between six and 20 kilograms per
tonne of fuel burned. Air traffic contributes
2–3% of man-made NOX emissions. Climate
models show that nitrogen oxides have
increased the concentration of ozone at cruising altitudes by a few percentage points.
à NOX
see Nitrogen oxides

122 // Service and Information

O
à OHSAS 18001—Occupational Health
and Safety Assessment Series
Job safety management system developed by
the British Standards Institution in cooperation
with international certification organizations.
à Ozone
Molecule formed in the stratosphere and
consisting of three oxygen atoms. The ozone
layer located in the stratosphere has an
important protective function, as it absorbs
harmful ultraviolet light. While ozone at higher
altitudes is broken down massively by chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), it develops close to the
ground under the influence of sunlight from
numerous precursor substances (summer
smog) and irritates the mucous membranes.
At current levels, nitrogen oxide emissions
from air traffic at cruising altitudes cause an
increase in atmospheric ozone, analogous to
the generation of summer smog, estimated by
scientists at 3–4% on the heavily-flown North
Atlantic routes.

P
à Passenger kilometers (PKO/PKT)
Measure for transport performance in passenger carriage (number of passengers multiplied by distance flown). A distinction is made
between available transport performance
(PKO, passenger kilometers offered, or, synonymously, SKO, seat kilometers offered) and
actual transport performance (PKT, passenger
kilometers transported).

à Pro Recycling Paper Initiative
Founded in 2000, the initiative unites various
industries and aims at promoting intensive use
and the acceptance of recycling paper.
­Lufthansa is one of the initiative’s founding
members.
www.papiernetz.de

R
à RSB—Roundtable for Sustainable
Biofuels
International initiative to develop a global
standardization and certification system for
agrofuels.

S
à SAFUG—Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Users Group
Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufacturers,
and providers of refinery technology whose
goal is to accelerate the development and
commercialization of sustainable fuels for the
air transport industry.
à Seat kilometer
Measure for the transport capacity available
(SKO, seat kilometers offered).
à Seat load factor (SLF)
Passenger-related measure of aircraft capacity utilization: the ratio of transport performance (PKT, passenger kilometers transported) to capacity (PKO, passenger
kilometers offered).

à SES—Single European Sky
Describes the efforts of the European Commission since the late 1990s to restructure
European airspace for the purpose of optimizing traffic flows and dissolving the airspace’s
fragmented structure, which is defined by
national borders and interests, by creating a
limited number of Functional Airspace Blocks
(FABs).
à Slot
Designated point in time at which an airline
may use an airport’s runway for takeoff or
landing.
à Stakeholder
Groups or individuals who formulate their
demands on a company (e.g. attainment of
corporate goals) and pursue these either
personally or through representatives. This
includes shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, and others.
à Sustainable development
According to the guiding principle of sustainable development formulated in 1987 by the
World Commission for Development and the
Environment (Brundtland Commission), “sustainable development is […] a form of development that meets the needs of today’s generation without jeopardizing the abilities of
future generations to satisfy their own.” For
businesses, this means acting responsibly not
only in economic matters but also in environmental and social issues. All three aspects—
economic, ecological, and social—must be
kept in balance.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 123

T

V

à Tonne kilometer (TKO/TKT)
Measure of transport performance (payload
multiplied by distance). A distinction is made
between available transport performance
(TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and the actual
transport performance (TKT, tonne kilometers
transported). In calculating payloads, passengers are taken into account by means of a
statistical average weight.

à VOC—Volatile Organic Compounds
Volatile organic substances that are characterized by high steam pressure and thus
evaporate easily into the atmosphere at room
temperature. VOCs are present in solvents,
cleaning agents, fuels, and other substances.
In the presence of nitrogen oxides and intense
sunlight, VOCs lead to the generation of
ozone.

à Town meeting
Information event for employees at different
locations of a company.

W

à Transparency International
Anti-corruption organization, of which
­Lufthansa has been a member since 1999.
www.transparency.de

U
à UHC—Unburned hydrocarbons
Organic mixture of carbon and hydrogen that
results from the incomplete combustion of
fuels containing hydrocarbons or from the
evaporation of fuel.
à UN Global Compact
Global network in whose context the United
Nations cooperates with private-sector corporations and civil action organizations to
advance human rights, labor standards,
environmental protection, and anti-corruption
measures. Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG has been
a member since 2002.
www.unglobalcompact.org

à Water vapor
The most important greenhouse gas, even
ahead of carbon dioxide. Without water vapor
from natural sources, the Earth’s surface
would be around 22 degrees Celsius cooler.
This makes water vapor responsible for twothirds of the natural greenhouse effect (33
degrees Celsius). For each kilogram of kerosene burned, 1.24 kilograms of water vapor
are released. Concerns that air traffic might
increase the concentration of water vapor in
the stratosphere and thus change the climate
have been refuted by scientific research. The
German Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded
that even a one hundred-fold increase in the
quantity of water vapor emitted by air traffic
would not result in a detectable climatic
signal.
à Work-life balance
Refers to a healthy equilibrium between work
and private life.

124 // Editorial information and Contact persons

Editorial information
Published by
Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG
­Lufthansa Group Communications
Senior Vice President: Barbara Schädler
Concept, text, and editors
Media Relations ­Lufthansa Group
Director: Christoph Meier
Bernhard Jung
Claudia Walther
Design and production
Strichpunkt, Stuttgart / Berlin
Copy deadline
June 27, 2014
Paper
Contents: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper made
from 100% recycled paper. Produced without
optical brightening agents or chlorine bleach.
Certified with The Blue Angel environmental
label—RAL-UZ 14.
Cover: Hello Fat Matt (FSC-certified)
Reprints, including excerpts, only with written
permission from the publisher and by citing
Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the source (text
and images). In this case we ask that you
send us a copy or clipping.
Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany
ISSN 1612-0892

Photo credits
Matthias Just (title page, pp. 22 / 23, 44 / 45,
68 / 69)
Christian Schlueter (p. 3)
Prof. Dr. Schulte-Fortkamp (p. 10)
Jens Görlich / CGI MO CGI GbR (pp. 15,
34 top)
Uwe Schoßig (p. 18 top)
DVWG e.V. (p. 33 top right)
Fraport AG (p. 41)
Flughafen München GmbH (p. 42)
Flughafen Zürich / smartmedia (p. 43 top)
Sonja Brüggemann (pp. 58, 87)
myclimate (p. 78)
Gregor Schläger (pp. 80 / 81)
Jens Görlich (pp. 96, 116 / 117)
Elisa Lintin (p. 100)
Matthias Baus (pp. 102 / 103)
Dr. Friedrich Keller-Bauer /
Stiftung Sabab Lou (p. 107)
Dr. Günter Nowald (p. 111 background)
betterplace.org (p. 113)
Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive

Contact persons
You can find contact partners in the area of
Corporate Responsibility at
www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

Please note that www.LH.com is the central
contact point for all inquiries concerning
customer service
www.LH.com

Under the header Help you will find full information on how to contact Lufthansa.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 125

Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for calculating
absolute and specific consumption and emissions
Scope of consolidation
Reporting on transport performance, kerosene consumption, and emissions from flight
operations in 2013 is—unless noted otherwise—based on the following scope of consolidation:
	­Lufthansa (including its regional partners *
­Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Augsburg Airways), Germanwings,
Swiss (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian
Airlines, and L­ ufthansa Cargo. Not
included are services performed by third
parties, as their performance and the
aircraft they use are beyond our control.
	Types of flight service: all scheduled and
charter flights.

Ú
Methodology of
calculations
Kerosene in absolute terms
Kerosene consumption is calculated on the
basis of actual flight operations (i.e. using
actual load factors and flight routings) according to the gate-to-gate principle. This covers
all phases of a flight, from taxiing on the
ground to flying detours and holding patterns
in the air.
Emissions in absolute terms
The emissions from flight operations are
calculated on the basis of actual transport
performance and hence on actual load factors and the actual absolute quantity of kerosene consumed in the reporting year. Transport performance is measured in tonne
kilometers; i.e., payload transported over a
distance. For passengers and their luggage,
an average of 100 kilograms is the standard
estimate; for freight, it is its scale weight. Each

aircraft/engine combination present in the
fleet is considered separately, and the associated values are calculated with the aid of
computer programs provided by the aircraft
and engine manufacturers. The annual average flight profile for each subset of the fleet is
then fed into these programs. This allows us
to determine emissions in relation to flight
altitude, distance flown, thrust, and load. This
approach is necessary for nitrogen oxides
(NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), and unburned
hydrocarbons (UHC) in particular. Carbon
dioxide (CO2) emissions do not require special calculation methods, as they are generated in a fixed ratio to the quantity of kerosene
burned. The combustion of 1 tonne of kerosene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2.
Specific consumption and emission values
Calculating specific consumption and emissions entails expressing absolute values in
relation to transport performance. For example, the ratio liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm) is calculated on the basis of
actual load factors along with the quantity of
kerosene actually consumed. The distances
used in the calculations are great-circle distances. In combination flights (freight and
passenger transport in one aircraft), fuel
consumption is attributed on the basis of its
share of the total payload to calculate the
passenger- and freight-specific figures.
Since 2013 the DIN EN 16258 standard has
provided a guide for standardized calculation
of greenhouse gas emissions for transport
processes. This guide uses the same estimates for calculating payload as the
­Lufthansa Group. When traveled distances
are calculated, 95 kilometers must be added
to the great-circle distance according to the
guidelines of the EU emission allowance
trading scheme. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has separately developed its own calculation proposals, which
deal with the division of fuel consumption

between freight and passengers and attribute
a larger share of fuel consumption to passengers because of the passenger-specific
infrastructure. Although this method has no
effect on the overall efficiency of a flight, it
changes the apportionment between passengers and freight. There are still divergences between the two methods (including
from the method used up to now by
­Lufthansa). We would welcome a standardized, internationally harmonized and
accepted method.
Environmental management system
The ­Lufthansa Group collected the environmental data used in this report with the aid
of its environmental management system.
This system also defines how data are verified and transmitted to the Group Environmental Issues division. The basis for data
collection is ­Lufthansa’s own environmental
database.
Accuracy
For presentation purposes the figures in the
charts and tables are rounded. Changes from
the previous year’s figures and share percentages refer in each case to precise figures,
however. For this reason it is possible that a
reported value may remain the same from one
year to the next even though a relative change
is reported. Because of the rounding of share
percentages, it is also possible that the sum of
their addition may differ from the sum of the
unrounded percentages. For example, as a
result of rounding, share percentages may not
add up to 100% even though it would be
logical to expect them to.

* Augsburg Airways flew in the service of ­Lufthansa until the
end of the 2013 summer flight schedule. The cooperation
with Contact Air ended in September 2012. Beginning with
the 2013 reporting year, therefore, the consumption figures
for Contact Air are no longer included in the key performance
figures.

Most stringent noise standards
for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet
Margins below the noise limit of ICAO Chapter 3 and Chapter 4
Active fleet of the Lufthansa Group on December 31, 2013
in EPNdB

0

– 10.0 *

A330-300 LH

– 18.4/– 18.8

A330-300 LX / WK

– 18.4

A330-200 WK

– 14.5

A340-300 LH

– 22.6/– 22.9

A340-300 LX

– 22.1

A340-600 LH

– 23.0

A380-800 LH

– 26.7

B747-400 LH

– 12.7/– 13.3

B747-830 LH

– 25.6

B767-300 OS

– 16.6/– 16.8

B777-200 OS

– 20.4/– 20.6

B777F LH

– 17.0

MD-11F LH

– 13.4/– 13.5

A319-100 LH

– 15.3/– 19.3

A319-100 LX

– 18.2

A319-100 OS

– 19.3

A319-100 4U

– 17.4/– 19.4

A320-200 LH

– 13.4/– 15.9

A320-200 LX

– 13.7/– 15.9

A320-200 WK

– 13.7/– 14.1

A320-200 OS

– 14.1/– 15.3

A320-200 4U

– 13.4

A321-100 LH
A321-100 LX

– 15.5
– 10.2/– 10.8

A321-100 OS

– 11.5

A321-200 LH

– 14.1/– 14.7

A321-200 LX
A321-200 OS
B737-300 LH
B737-500 LH

– 14.4
   – 9.0
– 13.8
– 14.3

AVRO RJ-100 LX

– 16.4

CRJ-700 CL

– 16.3

CRJ-900 CL

– 16.6

CRJ-900 EW

– 16.6

DHC8-400 OS

– 24.5/– 25.9

ERJ-190 CL

– 15.1

ERJ-195 CL

– 14.9

ERJ-195 EN

– 14.9

Fokker F-70 OS
Fokker F-100 OS

– 24.3/– 25.9
– 16.2

* New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since 2006:
– 10 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3.

Of the 596 aircraft in the Lufthansa
Group’s active fleet, 593 fulfil the stringent Chapter 4 noise standard of the
International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO). The most important element of
Chapter 4 is the minus 10 EPNdB criterion (Effective Perceived Noise dB); see
the vertical broken line in the overview
on the left. The limits depend on the
aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight and
number of engines.
The bar chart indicates the sum of the
differences between the measured value
and the threshold value at the three
measuring points by type of aircraft
(cumulated margin). Where necessary, the values based on the reduced
maximum takeoff weight prevailing
in flight operations are indicated. To
allow a more transparent depiction, an
improved method of analysis was developed for the previous issues of Balance,
which include the individual noise certificate data of all Group aircraft. Different
versions of an aircraft and its engines
by year of construction are thus better
taken into account. While the conservative approach used until reporting year
2008 meant that only the values of the
sub-fleet with the lowest cumulated margin were reported to describe an aircraft
fleet, the new analytical method used
since reporting year 2009 means that
the value ranges from the lowest to the
highest cumulated margin are now indicated for many fleets. The analysis also
takes into account any modifications
to aircraft or engines that have been
made in the meantime, thereby leading
to modified noise data and cumulated
margins in certain cases. In addition,
numerous additions and withdrawals in
individual fleets lead to changes in the
value ranges reported.

Grouping of aircraft types according to
MTOW (maximum takeoff weight):
less than 50 t  
50 to 150 t  
more than 150 t
This division generally corresponds to a
grouping of regional, continental, and intercontinental aircraft
4U
CL
EN
EW
LH
LX
OS
WK

= Germanwings
=	­Lufthansa CityLine
= Air Dolomiti
= Eurowings
=	­Lufthansa, ­Lufthansa Cargo
= Swiss
= Austrian Airlines
= Edelweiss Air

Prizes and awards
In 2013 the Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries
once again received numerous prizes and awards.
Here is a selection:

Lufthansa’s ﬁrst-class service is
awarded ﬁve stars in the 2013 Skytrax
Star Rating.
Best Brands 2013 brand ranking:
Lufthansa is among the top 10
corporate brands.
Austrian Airlines’ Waliclean project
receives the city of Vienna’s
environmental prize for a revolutionary
method of cleaning aircraft toilets.
Lufthansa Cargo is voted Best
International Freight Carrier by the
Airforwarders Association in the U.S.
2013 MobileTech Award for the
Lufthansa app.
Lufthansa Technik wins the MRO
Company of the Year prize in the 2013
Air Transport News Awards.
As in previous years, Lufthansa Cargo
is voted Best European Air Freight
Carrier by Air Cargo Week in the Cargo
Airline of the Year Awards.
The magazine Business Traveller Middle
East gives Lufthansa the Best European
Airline in the Middle East award in 2013.
Lufthansa Technik receives two awards
in publisher UBM Aviation’s Aircraft
Technology Engineering & Maintenance
Awards: Best MRO Provider in Europe
and Best Engine MRO Provider.
For the eighth time in a row, Lufthansa’s
Corporate Fuel Management wins the
Best International Fuel Department
prize.

The German federal government
awards the Leuchtturm Elektromobilität
(“Electro-Mobility Beacon”) title to
the E-PORT AN electro-mobility
initiative at Frankfurt Airport, in which
the Lufthansa Group is a participant.
The portal LH.com receives the
Business Traveller Award in the
category Best Internet Page for
Business Travelers.
The Lufthansa Group receives the 2013
Airline Business Technology Award.
For the third time in a row, the
Lufthansa Group is named Europe’s
Leading Airline in the World Travel
Awards.
Lufthansa receives the Skytrax Award
for the Best First-Class Terminal.
Lufthansa wins top honors in the 2013
World Airline Awards in the Best FirstClass Airline Lounge, Best Western
European Airline, and Best Transatlantic
Airline categories.
Lufthansa receives three GlobeRunner
Awards in 2013 from the American
travel magazine Frequent Business
Traveler: In the Best First-Class Lounge
category and, for the second time,
in the Best Frequent Flyer Program
category with Miles & More. Lufthansa
also receives, on behalf of the Star
Alliance, and as one of its founding
members, the award for Best Airline
Alliance.
International 5-Star Diamond Award
for Lufthansa’s ﬁrst-class service
to New York. Altogether, Lufthansa
Services receives three awards from
the American Academy of Hospitality
Sciences (AAHS): for Lufthansa’s

ﬁrst-class services aboard its longhaul ﬂeet, for its ﬁrst-class terminal in
Frankfurt, and for its ﬁrst-class lounge
at JFK Airport in New York City.
Lufthansa Munich receives the
International 5-Star Diamond Award in
2013. This is the third Lufthansa ﬁrstclass lounge, after those in Frankfurt
and New York, to be awarded this prize.
Swiss receives the Europe’s Leading
Airline Business Class award in the
World Travel Awards.
Swiss receives the Best Airline in
European Air Trafﬁc award in the
Business Traveller Awards (Germany)
and the Best Business-Class Lounge
award in Frequent Business Traveler’s
GlobeRunner Awards.
Current awards in 2014
Lufthansa receives award as an
exceptionally sustainable airline:
The Mit gutem Gewissen (“In Good
Conscience”) focus study awards
Lufthansa the Gold Seal.
The joint E-PORT AN project at
Frankfurt Airport wins the prestigious
GreenTec Award in the aviation
category. The jury was impressed
with projects of the Lufthansa Group,
Fraport AG, the State of Hesse and
the Rhine-Main Model Electro-Mobility
Region for a green apron.
StartCargo, the trainee program at
Lufthansa Cargo AG, receives the
Absolventa job portal’s prestigious
seal of quality. This is the ﬁrst and only
seal of its kind and stands for careerpromoting and fair trainee programs.

The operating ﬂeet of the Lufthansa Group
(as of December 31, 2013)

Lufthansa and regional partners
Boeing 737-300

LH: 9 aircraft, 140 seats, 2,000 km range

Airbus A380-800

LH: 9 aircraft, 526 seats, 12,000 km range

Embraer 195

CL: 24 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range
EN: 10 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range

Boeing 747-8

LH: 9 aircraft, 362 seats, 13,100 km range

Embraer 190

CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,390 km range

Boeing 747-400

LH: 18 aircraft, 352 * seats, 12,500 km range

CRJ900

CL: 12 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range
EW: 23 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range

Airbus A340-600

LH: 24 aircraft, 306 seats, 12,600 km range

CRJ700

CL: 16 aircraft, 70 seats, 2,310 km range

Airbus A340-300

LH: 21 aircraft, 266 * seats, 11,100 km range

Airbus A330-300

LH: 18 aircraft, 221* seats, 10,000 km range

Airbus A319-100

4U: 39 aircraft, 150 * seats, 3,500 km range

LH: 62 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,900 /4,350 km range

Airbus A320-200

4U: 5 aircraft, 174 seats, 3,020 km range

Germanwings

Airbus A321-100 / 200

Lufthansa Cargo
Airbus A320-200

LH: 57 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,020 km range

Airbus A319-100

LH: 32 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,260 km range

Boeing MD-11F

Boeing 737-500

LH: 14 aircraft, 120 seats, 1,950 km range

Boeing 777F

LH: 17 aircraft, 516 m3/ 89.4 t, 7,000 km range

LH: 2 aircraft, 639.1 m3/102.9 t, 9,045 km range

Swiss and Edelweiss Air

Austrian Airlines

Airbus A340-300

LX: 15 aircraft, 219 seats, 10,500 km range

Boeing 777-200

OS: 4 aircraft, 309 * seats, 11,500 km range

Airbus A330-300

LX: 14 aircraft, 236 seats, 8,400 km range

Boeing 767-300

OS: 6 aircraft, 240 * seats, 9,800 km range

Airbus A321-100 / 200

LX: 8 aircraft, 200 * seats, 3,200 km range

Airbus A321-100 / 200

OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,360 / 3,500 km range

Airbus A320-200

LX: 24 aircraft, 168 * seats, 3,650 km range

Airbus A320-200

OS: 16 aircraft, 174 * seats, 4,300 km range

Airbus A319-100

LX: 5 aircraft, 138 * seats, 3,000 km range

Airbus A319-100

OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 4,500 km range

Avro RJ100

LX: 20 aircraft, 97 seats, 3,000 km range

Airbus A330-300

Fokker 100

OS: 15 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,000 km range

WK: 1 aircraft, 332 seats, 10,000 km range

Fokker 70

OS: 6 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,085 km range

WK: 1 aircraft, 285 seats, 11,500 km range

DHC 8-400

OS: 14 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,630 km range

HB-IQZ

Airbus A330-200

HB-IHX

Airbus A320-200

WK: 4 aircraft, 168 * seats, 4,950 km range

Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload,
respectively.

* Maximum number of seats, different versions in operation

Legend
4U = Germanwings
CL = Lufthansa CityLine
EN = Air Dolomiti

EW = Eurowings
LH = Lufthansa,
Lufthansa Cargo

LX = Swiss
OS = Austrian Airlines
WK = Edelweiss Air

5 years
of the strategic
environmental program
15 years
of involvement in
noise research
15 years
of cross-company
mentoring
15 years
of help alliance
20 years
of support for
climate research
20 years
years of reporting
on the environment
and sustainability—
20 years of Balance

Deutsche Lufthansa AG
Lufthansa Group Communications
Lufthansa Aviation Center
60546 Frankfurt am Main
Germany
E-mail: lufthansa-group@dlh.de
Balance is a registered title.
© June 2014
www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

