Issue 2015

Balance
Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group

Innovation –
The key to a
successful future

Contents

/
1/

2/

3/

4/

5/

6/

1
2
4

About this report
At a glance
The Lufthansa Group

6

Innovation – The key to a successful future

16	Sustainable Business Practice
18 Doing business responsibly and sustainably
20 “The environment always flies with us.” – Interview with Carsten Spohr
23 Stakeholder dialogue
26 Corporate governance and compliance
28 Fleet development
31 Sustainability in the procurement process

32
34
39
50
54
57

Climate and Environmental Responsibility
Strategy and management
Fuel consumption and emissions
Energy and resource management
Active noise protection
Commitment to science

58
60
62
64
67
68

Product Responsibility
Safety, health, satisfaction
Customer satisfaction
Flight safety and health protection
Data protection and data security
Offsetting carbon emissions

70
72
74
75
80
83
88

Social Responsibility
Seizing the opportunities of change: Thinking the future,
meeting new challenges, living out responsibility
Interview with Åsa Lautenberg
Diversity and equal opportunity
Employment policy based on partnership
Talent management
Employee health and safety protection

90
92
93
95
101
102
103

Corporate Citizenship
Lufthansa Group Social Care – For a culture of shared responsibility
Humanitarian emergency aid
Social commitment
Environmental sponsorship
Cultural commitment
Sports sponsorship

104
106
112
113

Service and Information
Glossary
Editorial information
Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for
calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions
114 Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet
115 The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group
116 Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices

About this report

// 1

Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, informs stakeholders
and the interested public about the Group’s goals, activities and advances
in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment, product and
corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report refer to the financial
year 2014.

Across the Lufthansa Group, Corporate
Responsibility is understood to comprise the
following dimensions:
Economic sustainability
Corporate governance and compliance
Climate and environmental responsibility
Social responsibility
Product responsibility
Corporate citizenship
Scope of consolidation and comparability
You will find explanations concerning the
scope of consolidation and calculation
methods used to determine the absolute
and specific resource consumption at the
Lufthansa Group on page 113. Due to
changes in the portfolio over the past
years, the figures for personnel and environmental performance cited in this report
are only to a limited extent comparable with
those reported for previous years. There
are also certain differences in approach
compared to the Annual Report when
calculating passenger numbers and their
derivative performance indicators (see
explanations relating to the overview on
page 2, At a glance).
Publication dates of this report
Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, is published once
a year in German and in English. The
preceding edition was published at
the end of June 2014.

Additional information on the Internet
In addition to this report, the Lufthansa
Group also informs readers via the Internet
about its activities in the area of sustainability:
www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

Disclaimer in respect of
forward-looking statements
The data included in this report has been
collected and processed with the utmost
care. Nevertheless, errors in transmission
cannot be ruled out entirely. Information
published in this report with regard to the
future development of the Lufthansa
Group and its subsidiaries consists purely
of forecasts and assessments and not of
definitive historical facts. Its purpose is
exclusively informational, identified by the
use of such cautionary terms as believe,
expect, forecast, intend, project, plan,
estimate, count on, or endeavor. These
forward-looking statements are based on
all the discernible information, facts and
expectations available at the time. They
can, therefore, only claim validity up to
the date of their publication. As forwardlooking statements are by nature subject
to uncertainties and imponderable risk
factors – such as changes in underlying
economic conditions – and rest on
assumptions that may not or divergently
occur, it is possible that the Group’s actual
results and development may differ materially from those implied by the forecasts.

The Lufthansa Group goes to great
lengths to check and update the information it publishes. It cannot, however,
assume any obligation to adapt forwardlooking statements to accommodate
events or developments that may occurat
some later date. Accordingly, it neither
expressly nor conclusively accepts liability,
nor does it give any guarantee for the
actuality, accuracy and completeness of
this data and information.

1 Taken from the Annual Report 2014 of the Lufthansa
Group. 2 Previous year‘s figures have been adjusted due
to IFRS 11. 3 For the reporting year 2014, the following
companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa
(including Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti and Eurowings),
Germanwings, Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss (including Edelweiss
Air) and Austrian Airlines. Excluding the services of third
parties as Lufthansa can influence neither performance
nor the equipment operated (see also table “Share of
third parties“ on page 44). 4 Types of flights taken into
account: all scheduled and charter flights. 5 See also table
“Fuel consumption“ on page 44. 6 Balance: segments
(operational perspective); Annual Report: Distance (customer
perspective). One distance can include several segments,
e.g. in the event of stops en route. 7 Balance: on the basis
of all passengers aboard; Annual Report: on the basis of all
revenue passengers. 8 Companies referred to as in 3, but
including the services of third parties, as these contribute to
the Group’s results. Types of flights as in 4, but including ferry
flights, as these represent costs.

At a glance

// 2

Business performance data 1

2014

2013 2

Change
– 0.1 %

million €

30,011

30,027

million €

24,388

24,568

– 0.7 %

Operating result

million €

954

699

+ 36.5 %

Profit/loss from operating activities

million €

767

851

– 9.9 %

Net profit/loss for the period

million €

55

313

– 82.4 %

Total assets

million €

30,474

29,108

+ 4.7 %

Cash flow from operating activities

million €

1,977

3,290

– 39.9 %

Capital expenditure (gross)

million €

2,777

2,499

+ 11.1 %

percent

13.2

21.0

– 7.8 PP

Revenue
of which traffic revenue

Equity ratio

Personnel data

2014

2013

Change

118,781

118,285 2

+ 0.4 %

of these, in Germany

67,155

66,866

+ 0.4 %

of these, outside Germany

51,626

51,419

+ 0.4 %

7,335

7,356 2

– 0.3 %

Number of employees (on December 31, respectively)

Staff costs

million €

Revenue/employee

thousand €

252

256

– 1.4 %

Staff costs/revenue

percent

24.4

24.5

– 0.1 PP
+ 0.4 years

years

42.3

41.9

Part-time ratio, absolute

percent

28.0

28.1

– 0.1 PP

Part-time ratio, men

percent

14.3

14.1

+ 0.2 PP

Part-time ratio, women

percent

45.0

45.6

– 0.6 PP

Share of women in management (Germany)

percent

16.0

16.7

– 0.7 PP

Share of women in management (worldwide)

percent

14.2

14.5

– 0.3 PP

2014

2013

Change

tonnes

8,825,774

8,764,774

+ 0.7 %

l /100 pkm

3.84

3.91

– 1.6 %

g / tkm

221

223

– 0.8 %
+ 0.7 %

Average age

Environmental data 3, 4
Resource consumption
Fuel consumption 5
Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation
Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport
Emissions
Carbon dioxide emissions
Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation
Nitrogen oxide emissions
Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation
Carbon monoxide emissions
Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation
Unburned hydrocarbons
Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation

tonnes

27,801,092

27,609,039

kg /100 pkm

9.69

9.84

– 1.6 %

tonnes

132,257

131,091

+ 0.9 %

g /100 pkm

45.8

46.7

– 2.0 %

tonnes

19,251

18,976

+ 1.5 %

g /100 pkm

7.3

7.4

– 1.9 %

tonnes

1,952.5

1,990.8

– 1.9 %

g /100 pkm

0.7

0.7

– 3.6 %

Transport performance data
Flights 6

Balance 3, 4

± 2013

Annual Report 8

± 2013

953,669

– 1.5 %

1,001,975

– 2.6 %
+ 1.3 %

104,018,126

+ 1.3 %

105,988,268

tonnes

1,920,328

– 2.2 %

1,923,529

– 2.1 %

million pkm

266,397

+ 2.6 %

268,105

+ 2.1 %

Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO

million tkm

14,310

– 1.7 %

14,659

– 1.6 %

Tonne kilometers offered, TKO

million tkm

40,917

+ 1.8 %

41,548

+ 0.8 %
+ 2.4 %

Passengers carried

7

Freight and mail carried
Seat kilometers offered, SKO

million pkm

219,372

+ 2.8 %

214,641

Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT

million tkm

9,408

+ 0.1 %

10,249

– 0.4 %

Tonne kilometers transported, TKT

million tkm

31,408

+ 1.9 %

31,308

+ 1.4 %

Passenger kilometers transported, PKT 7

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 3

Dear Readers,
During the production phase of this Sustainability Report, the tragic accident involving one
of our Germanwings aircraft occurred on March 24, 2015. We immediately did everything in
our power to assist the family members of the accident victims quickly and unbureaucratically at that terrible time. And we continue to do so today. The suffering caused by this tragedy is immeasurable. For us, March 24 marked a break in the history of our Company. Even
though we are now looking ahead again, it will still take a long time for us to work through
the shock caused by the worst accident since the foundation of the new Lufthansa.

“After safety it is future
viability that has the
highest priority for us.”

In the aviation industry, we have always learned from accidents and have taken measures to
make flying even safer. This is what we have done in this situation as well. Safety remains our
highest priority. We will continue to strengthen our leading position in air safety by further
developing our safety structures, even if Group-wide we currently score significantly above
the legally required standards.
After safety it is future viability that has the highest priority for us. In the reporting year 2014,
we defined seven central action fields by means of our strategic program “7to1 – Our way
forward” and thus created the basis for a sustainable improvement of results and a successful evolution of the Lufthansa Group. For us, entrepreneurial responsibility means not only
cultural and social commitment, but above all future-oriented action. With this program, we
also set the course for an even more climate-compatible form of air transport. And this is
paying off. Last year, our passenger airlines needed only 3.84 liters of kerosene on average
to carry one passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers – a new efficiency record! We
continuously invest in environmentally friendly technologies and currently have 272 quiet and
highly efficient aircraft on order (as of December 31, 2014). In early 2015, we received the
“Eco-Airline of the Year” award for the second time for our role as a front-runner in the area
of climate protection.

Carsten Spohr

Environmental and climate protection are a central part of our entrepreneurial responsibility.
With our membership in the UN Global Compact, we pledge ourselves further to the principle of sustainable entrepreneurial leadership that aims at enabling people to achieve a
shared performance and to react to changes by means of shared values, goals and structures as well as training and continuing education. In this context, we have also evolved our
personnel strategy. Through new instruments and processes, we wish to ensure that we will
have the very finest employees on board in future as well. And in the area of corporate citizenship, to address a remaining important area, we will focus much more strongly than
before on social issues.
You will find more in-depth information about these and other subjects in this issue of
Balance. The special section “Innovation Management” leads this year’s report. It gives you
a well-founded overview of one of our most important action fields, which is closely associated with our commitment to applying sustainable principles.
I wish you a sustainably captivating read.

Carsten Spohr
Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

The Lufthansa Group
At a glance
The Lufthansa Group is the world’s leading aviation group. The Company’s
portfolio comprises network airlines, low-cost airlines and aviation service
companies. In the financial year 2014, the Company was organized in five
business segments: Passenger Airline Group, Logistics, MRO, Catering and,
until the end of 2014, IT Services. Each of these business segments occupies
a leading position in its respective market. Overall, the Lufthansa Group
includes about 540 subsidiaries and equity investments.
www.lufthansagroup.com

At a glance

North America
367 weekly frequencies
to 22 destinations
in 2 countries

Cologne

Corporate headquarters

118,781
employees*

Passenger Airline Group
flight destinations
Frequencies per week by Lufthansa German
Airlines, Swiss and Austrian Airlines

143

nationalities*

105.9 million
passengers in 2014

Frankfurt,
Munich, Zurich,
Vienna, Brussels
hubs

615

aircraft in the fleet*

> 1.9 million tonnes
freight/mail in 2014

* as of December 31, 2014

Central and South America
63 weekly frequencies
to 8 destinations
in 7 countries

A day in the life of the Lufthansa Group

2,745

1,700

290,379

1.6 million

takeoffs/landings
a day

aircraft are maintained
by us every day.

passengers a day

meals a day

5,270

tonnes of freight a day

Asia / Pacific
261 weekly frequencies
to 24 destinations
in 11 countries

Europe
7,405 weekly frequencies
to 160 destinations
in 42 countries

The business segments of the Lufthansa Group
Africa
140 weekly frequencies
to 21 destinations
in 13 countries

Middle East
184 weekly
frequencies
to 15 desinations
in 11 countries

Passenger Airline Group
The largest business segment is the Passenger Airline Group. All Lufthansa Group airlines position themselves as
quality carriers within their respective industry segments.

Lufthansa
www.LH.com

Germanwings
www.germanwings.com

Eurowings
www.eurowings.com

Austrian Airlines
www.austrian.com

Brussels Airlines
(equity investment: 45 %)
www.brusselsairlines.com

SunExpress
(equity investment: 50 %)
www.sunexpress.com

Swiss
www.swiss.com

Logistics
The Lufthansa Cargo AG, headquartered in Frankfurt, is one
of the leading providers of services for standard, express
and special freight worldwide. The company offers a comprehensive route network with more than 300 destinations in
about 100 countries. www.lufthansa-cargo.com

Lufthansa Cargo AG

AeroLogic
(equity investment: 50 %)

MRO

Catering

The Lufthansa Technik AG, headquartered in Hamburg, is
the world market leader in the areas of MRO of passenger
aircraft. Its product offering ranges from the repair of a
single component to global maintenance support for an
entire fleet of aircraft. www.lufthansa-technik.com

LSG Sky Chefs is the largest provider worldwide of services in the area of airline catering and in-flight management. The Group’s parent company, LSG Lufthansa Service
Holding AG, is headquartered in Neu-Isenburg.
www.lsgskychefs.com

6 // Innovation – The key to a successful future

Innovation – The key to a successful future
The Lufthansa Group is making a concerted
effort to make flying even more efficient,
sustainable and attractive.

The automobile, the aircraft, the Internet – each of these innovations has
changed the world. The word innovation is derived from the Latin verb innovare and means renewal and change. Without innovation and research, there
can be no progress. Ideas become innovations when they evolve into new
products, services, processes or business procedures that permeate the market and perceptibly change it. In the digital era, the ability to innovate is more
than ever a basic prerequisite for economic success. For a Company such as
the Lufthansa Group, that means thinking and acting strategically in a highly
competitive environment. As we do so, new materials, technologies and innovations offer significant opportunities to make the services we provide our
customers even more attractive and ecologically efficient. The ability to identify trends and customer needs early on and to develop corresponding new
services will become ever more important in future. Therefore, innovations
secure the Group’s competitiveness and guarantee its future viability.

@

8 // Innovation – The key to a successful future

92

innovation projects
competed in 2014 for the
Lufthansa Group’s first-ever internal
Innovator Award.

500

million euros
are to be invested by the Lufthansa
Group by 2020 for internal and external
innovations.

“For us, innovation means thinking and
acting strategically in an extremely competitive environment. That is something
we’ve done before very successfully, as
the foundation of the Star Alliance and
the very first formations of joint ventures
in the airline industry show.”

Sadiq Gillani
Senior Vice President, Group Strategy
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Innovation@Lufthansa Group
The Lufthansa Group has a proven track record
of turning new ideas into successful products
and services. Yet innovation management is to
receive even greater importance in future. The
goal: To be the industry’s pacesetter.
To secure the Lufthansa Group’s competitiveness, to guarantee
its future viability and to expand its position in the growing market
of civil aviation, the Company has launched the strategic program
“7to1 – Our way forward”. One of the seven key action areas defined by this internal initiative is “Innovation and digitalization”. The
campaign aims to make the Lufthansa Group the benchmark again
and thus the first choice in aviation for customers, employees,
shareholders and partners.
Group-wide, the aviation company will invest 500 million euros
by 2020 in innovations aimed at further improving products and
services. For example, a newly-established innovation fund, endowed with a double-digit million euro amount, is to help ideas
take flight in the future. An expert committee of top managers can
allocate up to 500,000 euros per project in an unbureaucratic way
to ensure that especially promising ideas are able to progress
especially swiftly. For the Lufthansa Group, innovation means both
aligning its internal culture appropriately and incorporating impulses from the outside. It is particularly important in this context
to correctly structure and steer innovations within the Company.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 9

How we strengthen the innovative force across the Company:
To coordinate the numerous innovation-related activities within
the Company and to develop even more new ideas, the Lufthansa
Group has set up a cross-business segment Innovation Unit
within its Group Strategy Department. This unit also ensures that
existing projects are advanced and supported in a concentrated
and consistent manner.
In 2014, the Lufthansa Group presented its ﬁrst-ever Innovator
Award. The innovation prize not only promotes the spirit of
innovation within the Company but is also an important building
block for establishing a Group-wide innovation network. Award
categories were preset as follows: Sustainability, Efﬁciency,
Customer Orientation, Partner Solutions, and a Special Jury
Prize. All employees were able to vote in the preliminary phase;
after that an expert jury examined the ideas entered
by 14 business segments. In 2015, the Innovator Award will
enter its second edition.
A recognizable symbol for the growing culture of innovation at
the Lufthansa Group is the Red Box. In 2014, it made its way
around the Company for several months to make the topic of
innovation within the Group even more visible. Each time the
mysterious box was opened as a part of an event, it revealed a
groundbreaking development from within the Lufthansa Group,
such as the environmentally friendly TaxiBot system (see
page 11). At the same time, an exhibit provided information
on 20 successful innovations from various Lufthansa Group
companies.
Further building blocks of innovation management are the Innovation Lunch, Innovation Days and digital platforms.

How we channel external impulses into the Lufthansa Group:
In September 2014, the Lufthansa Group opened an Innovation
Hub in Berlin to move closer to the world of start-ups and the
digital technology scene. The new hub’s task is to feed additional impulses into the Group and above all to develop digital
contents for products, services and processes along the entire
air travel chain (see page 14).
Additionally, the Lufthansa Group is establishing close cooperations and partnerships in Silicon Valley. They are designed to
help gain access to future-oriented ideas.

“Strengthening the culture of change
is an important building block for promoting innovations within the Lufthansa
Group. Good ideas must prevail. We’re
laying the foundations for this through
the Innovation Fund, the Innovator
Award and other platforms.”

Doris Krüger
Director Group Innovation Unit
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

10 // Innovation – The key to a successful future

From “sharkskin” to TaxiBot: Innovations at Lufthansa Technik
When it comes to innovation within the Lufthansa Group, Lufthansa Technik plays an important
role through its participation in numerous research and development projects. Innovation is
part of everyday business for the world’s leading provider of maintenance, repair and overhaul
(MRO) services. To implement more innovations between now and 2018, the Executive Board of
Lufthansa Technik has approved a budget of 200 million euros, as part of the 500-million-euro
Group-wide package. To date the engineering specialist already has about 70 new projects in the
pipeline. The focus is on innovation that provides both economic and ecological advantages, as
the following examples illustrate.

01

Learning from nature: “Sharkskin” for aircraft
In the framework of the research project FAMOS, Lufthansa
Technik – together with its partners Bremer Werk für Montagesysteme (bwm) and Airbus – is working to develop a
highly automated system to clean, strip, paint and apply
low-drag aircraft surfaces by 2017. According to the latest
findings, these surfaces, which are modeled on the surface structure of sharkskin, can lead to fuel savings of
around one percent. Hence they lower operating costs
and reduce the burden on the environment. If the paintbased riblet-structured surface coating proves marketable,
it will be a quantum leap for civil aviation in terms of fuel
efficiency and environmental friendliness. In an earlier
project, the experts of Lufthansa Technik tested and
proved the durability of technically simulated sharkskin
under operating conditions on the fuselages and the wing
leading edges of two Lufthansa Airbus A340-300s.

70

new research projects
are being planned at Lufthansa Technik.

02

Improved aerodynamics:
Vortex generators reduce noise emissions
Besides the sharkskin coating, Lufthansa Technik has set
in motion several other aerodynamic improvements
aimed at reducing kerosene consumption and noise
emissions while flying. Since fall 2014, the Company has
fitted Lufthansa’s Airbus A319, A320 and A321 aircraft
with noise-reducing vortex generators in front of the circular fuel-tank pressure equalization vents on the underside
of the wings. These components are based on research
results produced by the Lufthansa Group and the German
Aerospace Center (DLR) (see page 54, Active noise
protection). In addition, Lufthansa Technik is developing
vortex generators for the upper wing surface. These are
likewise to be used for refitting Airbus A320 aircraft.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 11

03

Environmentally sound solutions:
Taxiing and towing with electrical power
Lufthansa Technik is ahead of the game in the area of
electrically-powered mobility as well. Given the enormous ecological and economic savings potentials, the
company has been researching alternative power concepts for aircraft movements on the ground since 2008.
The goal is to significantly reduce an aircraft’s kerosene
consumption and thus its emissions of CO2 and noise
during taxiing and towing at airports. To this end the
hybrid aircraft tug TaxiBot, which was developed with
extensive support from Lufthansa Technik and its subsidiary Lufthansa LEOS, has been deployed in real flight
operations at Frankfurt Airport ever since its certification
by the European Aviation Safety Authority (EASA) (see
page 50, Energy and resource management).

05

DishwashAir: The flying dishwasher
DishwashAir is the name of a new minimal-water-consumption dishwasher specially designed for use aboard
passenger aircraft. Developed by a consortium headed
by Lufthansa Technik, this innovation lets airlines load
only as much cutlery and dishware aboard aircraft as is
actually needed for in-flight service. The appliance, which
is equipped with complex safety mechanisms, allows the
crew to wash a load of dirty dishes and cutlery in only six
minutes with a mere three liters of water. The first VIP
clients of Lufthansa Technik have already decided in favor
of installing the DishwashAir aboard their aircraft.

04

Cyclean®: The revolution in engine washes
Cyclean® Engine Wash, developed by Lufthansa Technik,
is a particularly efficient way to clean aircraft engines. In
this way, airlines can save about 0.5 percent of their kerosene requirements. The water-based procedure can now
be used at temperatures down to minus ten degrees
Celsius. In a parallel move, Lufthansa Technik is researching the use of alternative blasting materials, such as CO2
dry ice pellets, to make engine cleanings possible in
permafrost regions as well. Lufthansa Technik also offers a
dry washing method for aircraft fuselages using a cleaning
paste; this alternative takes more effort than wet washes
but consumes significantly fewer natural resources.

“Our capacity for innovation gives us
enormous drive. It is getting room to
develop, so that we can offer our clients
added value through new products. In
this way, we have created all the prerequisites for further growth.”

Dr. Helge Sachs
Head of Corporate Innovation
Management and Product Development
Lufthansa Technik AG

12 // Innovation – The key to a successful future

Tapping the green potential of flying
All business segments and companies within the Lufthansa Group continuously work to develop
innovative technologies and concepts that reduce the environmental effects of their business
activities at all levels. In this way, the Group companies have already set numerous pioneering
developments in motion. Here is a selection:

01

Even higher fuel efficiency
One of the Lufthansa Group’s most important goals is
to use the kerosene it needs as efficiently as possible
and to fly into the future in environmentally friendly
ways. The Group has bundled all measures serving to
improve fuel efficiency together in a special department. Fuel Efficiency’s interdisciplinary team of experts
works on identifying and utilizing economic and ecological savings potentials. With all its fuel efficiency innovations and projects, the Company is aiming to save
about 148 million euros by the end of 2015 (see page
39, Fuel consumption and emissions).

02

En route to the paperless cockpit
Lufthansa German Airlines, Lufthansa CityLine and
Lufthansa Cargo first equipped their pilots with in-house
developed Electronic Flight Bags (EFBs) as long ago as
1999. In 2006, further development was begun on an EFB
to be used during all flight phases. These “electronic
pilot’s cases” have since largely replaced route maps and
technical manuals weighing several kilos in the cockpit.
At the end of October 2014, the rollout of the EFB’s third
generation, called EFB 2.2, was initiated. This project
provides the necessary infrastructure aboard aircraft and
on the crews’ new tablets to digitalize all processes and
with time to introduce the fully paperless cockpit. EFB 2.2
is part of the e-Enabling Program, in which Lufthansa
coordinates a number of individual projects and innovations in the area of digitalization.

03

Pioneering achievements for alternative fuels
Alternative fuels with a significantly lower net carbon
footprint are an important building block in reducing
emissions sustainably. In 2011, Lufthansa became the
first airline worldwide to test the use of biosynthetic fuel
in routine operations as part of a long-term study. On
September 15, 2014, the Company laid the next milestone: Lufthansa flight LH190 from Frankfurt to Berlin’s
Tegel airport was the first European scheduled flight to
run on a 10 percent blend of the new sugar-based
biofuel component “Farnesan”. Alongside this step
forward, the Lufthansa Group is committed to many
other future-oriented projects that focus on alternative
fuels. (see page 39, Fuel consumption and emissions).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 13

04

Ever-lighter containers and pallets
In 2014, Lufthansa Cargo completed the replacement
of its more than 5,500 standard aluminum freight containers with a nearly 14-kilogram lighter version made
from composite materials. To conserve even more
kerosene, the company and its subsidiary Jettainer,
together with partners from business and science, are
advancing the development of the next generation of
lightweight containers and pallets. Tomorrow’s standard
lightweight pallets are expected to weigh as much as
25 percent less than their predecessors, which tip the
scales at about 100 kilos each. Should the current test
series yield positive results, the first standard pallets
could be replaced at the end of 2015.

05

Crunching numbers for the environment
Swiss has developed a new process to optimally
calculate the daily arrival times of its long-haul flights in
Zurich. Both its passengers and the environment benefit
from this procedure: Not only do 10 percent more passengers reach their connecting flights, but the airline also
conserves about 500 tonnes of kerosene and avoids
about 1,500 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. This
leading-edge process received a Lufthansa Group
Innovator Award in 2014.

06

Clean as a whistle
With Waliclean, Austrian Airlines has revolutionized the
cleaning of low-pressure toilet systems: A solution of citric
acid and warm water circulates at low pressure through
an aircraft’s wastewater system. The flushed water can be
conveniently disposed of via the public sewage system.
This new method eliminates the purchase, storage and
disposal of special cleaning fluids as well as an involved
cleaning process. The airline received the Environmental
Award of the City of Vienna for this innovation.

14 // Innovation – The key to a successful future

Digital innovations for a perfect travel experience
Innovative developments – and above all digitalization – produce ever more new services along
the entire air travel chain, further enhancing the travel experience. In the front line of innovation:
the Lufthansa Group. Apps, electronic baggage receipts, in-ﬂight entertainment and super-fast
WiFi are only a few examples of such improvements. A clear advantage for passengers, who
beneﬁt from the wide variety of new digital innovations.

01

Ideas for the future: The Innovation Hub
To ﬁnd responses to the digital era’s rapid market changes
is the task of the new Innovation Hub. Comprising internal and external employees with start-up experience, the
Lufthansa Group founded the Hub in 2014 in Berlin. The
Hub’s team – together with partners – has the speciﬁc
aim of advancing the development of digital contents
for products, services and processes along the service
chain from reservation to arrival. Among the other objectives for these creative thinkers is to ensure that the
Group identiﬁes future customer needs and trends at an
early stage and participates in shaping them. The longterm goal: Each traveler is to come into contact during
his or her trip with a product initiated by the Innovation
Hub – and this worldwide. The Hub’s team also counts
on external partners: Start-ups can use the internet page
http://hub.lh.com to propose their ideas for cooperating with the Lufthansa Group.

02

Standardized reservations: The airline.com program
In the future, airline.com will give passengers access to
the Lufthansa Group’s entire offer of ﬂights and additional
products via a digital marketplace in a personalized
format. In addition to the sales process, digital service
processes such as Group-wide check-in and rebooking
will be further simpliﬁed. Lufthansa German Airlines,
Swiss, Austrian Airlines and Brussels Airlines will participate in this Group-wide program.

03

Personalized offers: The SMILE program
New technologies and social media are increasingly
changing passengers’ expectations. Lufthansa has
launched the SMILE program to view its own processes
and products more intensively from a customer perspective and to move the holistic passenger experience
more to the fore. The aim is to serve and exceed changed customer needs with personalized products, services
and communications and thus create added value
for passengers over the long-term. The goal is to make
Lufthansa the leading customer-centered airline.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 15

04

Lightweight and wireless: The in-flight entertainment
Lufthansa is equipping its long-haul fleet with the new
in-flight entertainment system RAVE. Depending on the
type of aircraft, the airline saves 30 to 40 percent of
weight when compared with previous on-board entertainment systems. This reduces kerosene consumption
and CO2 emissions correspondingly. Additionally, a
wireless in-flight entertainment system will initially be
installed on 20 selected medium-haul aircraft, making
entertainment contents available on the passengers’ own
devices by means of WLAN streaming. This system is
based on Lufthansa Systems’ BoardConnect entertainment product, which received the Crystal Cabin Award,
and for which Lufthansa Technik specifically developed
and certified parts.

06

Saving printing and paper:
The electronic baggage receipt
Since October 2014, Lufthansa has offered its customers electronic baggage receipts, a move that has
advantages for both sides. The airline saves printing
and paper costs, while passengers benefit from greater
convenience when checking in baggage. Thus, electronic
baggage receipts give quick access to additional services, such as baggage tracking and information in the
event of delayed delivery.

05

Faster than everybody else:
The WLAN access from Lufthansa Technik
Lufthansa Technik has developed the fastest WLAN
access in civil aviation. It takes full advantage of the
performance of latest-generation computers, tablets
and smartphones. Additionally, integrated antennas
reduce cabling and thus installation work. The first of
Lufthansa’s Airbus A321s have already been equipped
with this access, so that customers on short- and
medium-haul routes can use their own mobile devices
to watch movies, for example. At the Aircraft Interiors
Expo 2014, Lufthansa Technik received the Crystal
Cabin Award as well as a Lufthansa Group Innovator
Award for this WLAN access.

“Quality, efficiency and innovation are
the prerequisites for our future success.
We want to be pacesetters among the
competition rather than follow others.
To achieve this, the Lufthansa Group
needs to identify trends earlier than the
competition.”

Alexander Schlaubitz
Vice President Marketing
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Sustainable
Business Practice
Sustainable business practices are firmly anchored
in our Company strategy. We actively seek an open
dialogue with our stakeholder groups to jointly shape
the future.

7

500

272

action fields comprise our new strategic
program “7to1 – Our way forward”.

million euros to be invested in innovations
by the Lufthansa Group by 2020.

quiet and efficient aircraft to join the
Group fleet between 2015 and 2025.

18 // Sustainable Business Practice

Doing business responsibly and sustainably

The Lufthansa Group assumes its entrepreneurial responsibility in a comprehensive manner. It has set itself the goal of conducting business across all
areas according to sustainable and responsible principles and thus securing
its future viability. Sustainability – along with corporate value creation, market
leadership and customer satisfaction – is an important pillar of the Lufthansa
Group’s strategy.

Social developments and megatrends
influence the business activities and the
sustainability agenda of the Lufthansa
Group in significant ways.

Among the present and
future challenges figure
not only global population growth, increasing
mobility and demographic changes, but
also the trend towards
service-based societies,
the spread of the Internet and people’s rising
need for security.

At the same time, environmental protection
is also becoming even more important in
the face of climate change and the growing
scarcity of resources.
The Lufthansa Group meets these challenges with a comprehensive sustainability
agenda. It comprises the following action
fields of entrepreneurial responsibility:
Economic sustainability
Corporate governance and compliance
(see page 26),
Climate and environmental responsibility
(see page 32),
Social responsibility (see page 70)
Product responsibility (see page 58)
Corporate citizenship (see page 90).
By maintaining memberships in the UN
Global Compact, the International Chamber
of Commerce, Transparency International,
the German Network for Business Ethics
and in various institutions supporting individual aspects of human rights, the Group
specifically acknowledges its intent to
respect the standards set by each of these
organizations and thus human rights as
well (see page 27, Balance 2014).

Risk and opportunity
management
To secure economic success, the Lufthansa
Group identifies risks and opportunities
relevant for its business at an early stage
and at regular intervals – and incorporates
them into the process of steering the Company. The management of risks and opportunities is integrated into all business processes. This allows the Company to be
prepared for positive and negative influences, so that it can react in a proactive
and flexible manner (see from page 100,
Annual Report 2014).

Sustainability parameters part and parcel of
variable remuneration
At the Lufthansa Group, the remuneration
of members of the Executive Board and
managers is tied to the Company’s sustainable success. Therefore, the variable part
of remuneration is also influenced by sustainability parameters such as environmental protection, customer satisfaction and
employee commitment (see page 132,
Annual Report 2014).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 19

Strategic program
In July 2014, the Lufthansa Group launched
its new strategic program “7to1 – Our way
forward”. It aligns the Company with the
requirements of the future by depicting the
most important higher-level fields of action
for its successful further development:
towards a globally unique integrated aviation group that generates important synergies from its broad setup and thus creates
added value for its customers, employees,
shareholders and partners. The goal is to
make the Lufthansa Group the first choice
for its stakeholders and to live up to these
ambitious standards for many years to
come (see from page 24, Annual Report
2014).
To achieve this goal, the Group has identified seven fields of action covering three
thematic areas of focus: continuous quality
improvement, efficiency and the ability to
innovate. At the same time, these fields of
action ensure the Lufthansa Group’s future
viability while taking into account the key
success factors of financial stability, market
position and average fleet age:
1. Customer centricity and quality focus
2. New concepts for growth
3. Innovation and digitalization
4. Effective and lean organization
5. Culture and leadership
6. Value-based steering
7. Constantly improving efficiency

The 10 principles of the
UN Global Compact
The Lufthansa Group is committed to the principles of the UN Global
Compact, the largest initiative worldwide for responsible corporate
management. In 2002 Lufthansa was the first aviation company to
become a member of the initiative that had been set up two years earlier
by the then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan.
The participating companies have agreed to align their business activities
and strategies with ten universally accepted principles:
Human rights
Businesses should support and respect the protection of international
human rights within their sphere of influence and
make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked to human
rights abuses.
Labor
Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective
recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor;
effectively abolish child labor; and
eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Environment
Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental
challenges;
undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility;
and
encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly
technologies.
Anti-corruption
Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including
extortion and bribery.
www.unglobalcompact.org

20 // Sustainable Business Practice

“The environment always flies with us.”
Interview with Carsten Spohr,
Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Mr. Spohr, a year ago you presented
the strategic program “7to1 – Our way
forward”. In which of these action fields
is the topic of sustainability to be found?
Sustainability is actually present in all seven
action fields. Here’s an example: Over the
next five years we will invest 500 million
euros across the Group in innovations. As
a result, we will be making flying even more
efficient, more environmentally compatible
and more attractive. Innovations also help
us break into new markets. I’m thinking
here for example of Lufthansa Technik’s
new procedures for efficient engine washes
or the research projects in which the aircraft surfaces with structures modeled on
sharkskin were developed.
Or think of the dynamic developments in
the area of digitalization. These are opening up entirely new opportunities for communicating with our customers. In future,
we would like to enthuse our passengers
with a broad spectrum of digital services
along the entire service chain and offer
them a perfect travel experience. It was
from this point of view that we founded our
Berlin-based “Innovation Hub” in September 2014. When it comes to developing
new ideas, we’re counting on close links
with the global start-up scene so strongly
present there. It is especially important for

me to take advantage of the innovation
potential of the entire Group. This is why we
created a number of new internal formats
last year, including the Innovator Award.
Ninety-two pioneering projects from eleven
countries were presented to the jury last
year. It was quite impressive to see what
our employees produced!
What role do climate and the environment play in the daily business of an
airline?
At Lufthansa, the environment always flies
with us. So far, our employees have developed over 1,300 ideas and projects for
boosting fuel efficiency. Our specialists in
the areas of aerodynamics, flight operations and network planning are all on a
highly innovative path here. The figures
demonstrate this as well. We established
another round of record lows in fuel consumption last year. Our passenger fleets
now only need 3.84 liters of kerosene per
passenger and 100 kilometers on average.
In other words, we were able to reduce the
specific kerosene consumption by another
1.6 percent compared with the year before.
And we are continuing our investments in
fuel efficiency – more intensively than ever.
At the moment, we’re carrying out the
largest fleet modernization program in the

history of our Group. Every day we test
anew what we could do better, such as
reducing aircraft weight. In our initiative
“Fly Greener” we’re investigating how we
might avoid even more waste on board.
We’ve developed lightweight freight containers, onboard trolleys and a wireless
entertainment system. All of this saves
weight, conserves kerosene and reduces
CO2 emissions. We get better every year.
Our new long-haul aircraft, the A350-900s
and Boeing 777-9Xs to be delivered to us
in the years ahead, will consume less than
three liters per 100 passenger kilometers.
And a lot has changed at Lufthansa Cargo
as well: Our freight airline now flies five
new Boeing 777Fs. These freighters are
especially efficient and quiet. This gives our
customers yet another reason to rely on the
services of Lufthansa Cargo. And for people
living near airports that is a perceptible, or
better an audible relief.
Are there also environmental measures
taken on the ground?
Indeed there are. At our largest hub in
Frankfurt we’ve launched together with
partners a number of projects in the electromobile handling of aircraft. We currently
have three “TaxiBots” in operation. With
these hybrid aircraft tugs, our pilots can tow
their aircraft all the way to the runway with

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 21

The essence of “7to1 – Our way forward”
is to expand the strengths of the service
companies while openly identifying and
harnessing the improvement potentials in
the passenger business. In a parallel move
all current initiatives, such as the successfully established steering logic of SCORE,
are being transferred into the new strategic
program. The future-oriented SCORE program, which was launched in 2012 and is
scheduled to run through 2015, has served
to utilize synergies within the Group, lower
costs, increase revenues and optimize
processes.
the engines turned off – without emissions
and noise. In the case of our office buildings or our training center in Seeheim,
we’ve also paid attention to obtaining the
highest-possible levels of energy efficiency.
What do you think? How important will
the topic of sustainability be for the
aviation industry in the future?
The worldwide need for mobility increases
year after year – in 2014 alone, passenger
numbers rose by 5.9 percent. Sustainability, climate protection and environmental
responsibility are becoming ever more
important because of this growth. As the
world’s largest aviation group, we are an
essential part of this development. With
innovative products, we want to set new
standards and to make our contribution
toward an environmentally compatible
type of air transport in the future.
The largest lever available to us is the
investment in new technologies as aircraft
will continue to depend on the use of
kerosene for the foreseeable future. The
aviation industry has set itself ambitious
fuel efficiency goals. We are all doing a lot
to reach these. But I also recognize the
responsibility of policy makers to create
the necessary framework of conditions.
For example, by implementing the Single

European Sky, one of Europe’s largest
climate protection projects. Unfortunately,
there hasn’t been any progress worth
mentioning for 20 years. We’ve just reiterated – together with other airline CEOs –
our demand in Brussels to accelerate and
to realign the implementation of a standardized air space over Europe. Shorter and
more direct flight routings without unnecessary detours could reduce the CO2
emissions of European air transport by ten
percent a year.
And what significance will sustainability
have for the Lufthansa Group in the
future?
I’m convinced that only a sustainable way of
steering our Company will secure our longterm success. But the basic condition for all
of our activities is economic success. I’ll
repeat it here as well: After safety, it’s future
viability that has the highest priority for us.

New concept for valuebased management:
EACC replaces CVA
Since 1999, the Lufthansa Group’s corporate management has been guided by the
goal of increasing the Company’s value
sustainably and thus across industry cycles.
This approach has become an integral part
of all planning, steering and control processes. Since the introduction of this valueoriented management system, the Lufthansa
Group has used Cash Value Added (CVA)
as the main performance indicator. In order
to anchor this value-based orientation even
more firmly in the Company, Earnings After
Cost of Capital (EACC) replaced CVA as the
main performance indicator at the beginning
of the financial year 2015 (see from page
30, Annual Report 2014). The calculation of
EACC is less complex and thus more readily
comprehensible for all stakeholder groups.
EACC therefore reflects shareholder
demands for an appropriate return on capital and sustainable increases in the value of
the Company now and in the future.

22 // Sustainable Business Practice

Materiality analysis
In order to strike a balance between key
fields of action in the area of sustainability
from the stakeholder and Company perspectives respectively, the Lufthansa Group
conducted its second survey of interest
group representatives at the beginning of
2014. It thus gained important insights with
regard to the sense of responsibility within
the Company and the further development
of its sustainability agenda. For example,
against the backdrop of demographic
change, the stakeholders advocated that
management place even greater emphasis
on training, continuing education (see page
83) and work-life integration (see page 79)
in future. Moreover, the Group had the
impulses from this survey analyzed by

external experts in order to reveal weak
points and to explore further potentials for
optimization.
Furthermore, LSG Sky Chefs commissioned a team within the Group-wide talent
management program “explorers” to evaluate some of its worldwide activities with
regard to corporate responsibility and to
develop an action plan. The basis for this
work were an international stakeholder
survey and best-practice examples from
inside and outside the Lufthansa Group.
A senior management team selected focus
topics adapted to the catering business
segment from the suggestions made by
the explorers team. These topics are now
being further developed.

“The insights we gained from our materiality analysis give us important impulses
for future areas of emphasis in our corporate responsibility activities. The dialogue with our stakeholders is an important building block in this process.”

Astrid Messmer Rodriguez
Director Segments, Group Strategy
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Awards for commitment
to sustainability
External experts and rating agencies again
honored the Lufthansa Group’s commitment to sustainability in 2014. For example,
the Company was again represented in the
sustainability indices FTSE4Good and
Ethibel Excellence Investment Register. In
addition, the Lufthansa Group is listed on
the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe, which comprises European
companies that received top grades in the
area of corporate responsibility. In 2014,
the Group managed again to achieve an
improved evaluation from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) compared with the
year before. Similarly, oekom research, a
globally leading rating agency in the market
for sustainable investments, awarded the
Lufthansa Group its Prime Status as a
particularly sustainable company. Since
June 1, 2015, the Group has also been
part of the MSCI Global Sustainability Index
Series. In addition, the companies of the
Lufthansa Group received numerous prizes
and awards in the course of the reporting
year – including several with regard to
corporate responsibility (see cover page,
Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards
and indices).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 23

Stakeholder dialogue

The Lufthansa Group actively seeks an ongoing exchange with its numerous
stakeholder groups with the goal of incorporating their experiences, expectations and wishes into its business practices and principles. Besides customers,
employees, shareholders and suppliers, the aviation company’s stakeholder list
includes legislators, municipalities, neighbors, NGOs and scientific researchers.

The basis for the dialogue with stakeholder
groups on the subject
of sustainability is the
present report, Balance,
which provides comprehensive information
about activities and
advances in the area of
corporate responsibility
at the Lufthansa Group.

In 2014, the Company also carried out a
qualitative stakeholder survey, which provided important impulses for the further
development of its sustainability agenda.
Below is a selection of activities in 2014/15:
Customers
The continuous dialogue with its customers
is a central concern for the Lufthansa
Group (see page 62, Customer satisfaction). A key function in customer relations
care is carried out by “Discover Lufthansa”,
the visitors’ service in Frankfurt, the
Company’s largest location. Aimed in part
at top German and international customers,
its offers also include tailor-made visitor

programs for the Lufthansa partner
universities, people living near the airport,
citizen’s initiatives, associations and
research institutions. In 2014 alone, the
Lufthansa visitors’ service organized 481
events for 4,833 guests. The Group airlines
Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss and Austrian Airlines offer their own visitors’ services. Furthermore, Swiss conducted a passenger
survey in 2014 to assess the potential of
“green products” such as carbon emissions
offsetting as a meaningful way to expand
its current offers.
Also in 2014, the Lufthansa Group took
part once again in “Kunst privat!”, an
initiative in which over 30 companies in
the federal state of Hessen make their
private art collections public for two days
each year. In this context, the Lufthansa
Aviation Center in Frankfurt opened its
doors on 10 and 11 May to visitors interested in art and architecture.

The Lufthansa Aviation Center at Frankfurt Airport
was inaugurated in 2006. It is also a venue for works
of art – which many art and architecture enthusiasts
came again to admire in 2014 in the context of
“Kunst privat!”

24 // Sustainable Business Practice

“Speaking openly ...” is the Lufthansa Group’s new internal dialogue format.

Employees
Since summer 2014, internal communications at the Lufthansa Group have featured
a new core element: the news app. By
introducing this new application, the
aviation company stays abreast of the
trend driving more and more people to
use mobile devices such as smartphones
and tablet PCs to access information.
Thanks to this innovation, employees are
now able to stay informed anywhere and
at any time. Many employees in operative
areas draw a special benefit from this
change, as previously they were unable to
access the intranet and company news at
certain times.

In 2014, the Lufthansa Group also launched
“Speaking openly ...”, a new internal dialogue series in which the Company’s chief
executive responds in person to questions
from employees during a live videocast
on the intranet. Before the transmission,
employees may address their questions
directly to CEO Carsten Spohr via eTeaming, the Group-wide platform for communication and cooperation. He then answers
the questions with the highest number of
“Likes”. Other formats such as “Dialogue
Cockpit”, town meetings and live chats with
members of the Executive Board complement the aviation company’s internal communications offer.

Investors
Continuous dialogue is a crucial prerequisite for the shareholders’ trust in the Company. Therefore, in 2014 the Lufthansa
Group again informed institutional shareholders promptly, extensively and factually
by means of quarterly conference calls,
26 road shows, 13 investor conferences
and six special forums organized for private
investors. Detailed information is also
provided by annual and interim reports,
the monthly “Investor Info”, the annual
“Creditor Info” for creditors and bondholders, as well as the “Shareholder Info”
published twice a year especially for private shareholders. The Group makes all
publications, financial reports, presentations, background information, speeches,
news updates and a financial calendar
available at www.lufthansagroup.com/
investor-relations (see page 17, Annual
Report 2014).

The Lufthansa Group’s “news app” now
allows employees to get up to date anywhere
and at any time.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 25

The diverse stakeholders of the Lufthansa Group

Suppliers
Contractual partners
Lawmakers and public administrations
The Lufthansa Group has maintained an
intensive and uninterrupted exchange with
representatives from politics and public
administrations for many years. In addition,
the “Lufthansa Policy Brief” regularly provides information for decision-makers in
politics, business and the media about
current developments in the aviation industry and the Company’s concerns and positions. Since 2014, Swiss has familiarized
these target audiences with aviation-related
topics by means of its quarterly publication
“Aeropolitics”. Austrian Airlines likewise
informs policy-makers in detail about its
activities and participates actively in the
“Vienna Airport Dialogue Forum”, of which
it is a founding member.
Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group places
great emphasis on open and permanent
exchange with the municipalities and
neighbors at all its Company locations.
A symbol for this local dialogue at the
Frankfurt location is the “Environment and
Neighborhood House” in Kelsterbach. In
Frankfurt, the Group has also been actively
involved in the “Forum Airport and Region”
since 2008 (see page 54, Active noise
protection).
Cargo Climate Care
Environmental Conference
The fourth Cargo Climate Care Environmental Conference organized by Lufthansa
Cargo took place on June 10, 2015. More
than 150 experts from business and science gathered at Frankfurt’s Städel Museum
to discuss environmental strategies in the
air freight industry under the title “More
logistics with less CO2”. The event’s focus
was on alternative fuels in aviation as well
as the role of customers and consumers in
environmentally friendly air freight.

“More logistics with less CO2” was the motto of the
fourth Cargo Climate Care Environmental Conference, organized by Lufthansa Cargo in 2015.

Customers
Consumers
LOHAS (Lifestyle
of Health and
Sustainability)

Employees
Employee
representatives

Science
Research
Education

Capital market
Investors
Shareholders
Analysts
Rating agencies

Governments
Legislators
Politicians
Authorities

Nongovernmental
organizations
(NGOs)
Organizations
Consortia

Neighbors
Local communities
Society
Publicity
Social networks

26 // Sustainable Business Practice

Corporate governance and compliance

Corporate Governance at the Lufthansa Group is expressed as responsible
corporate management and control which targets sustainable value creation
in accordance with the highest international standards. Such corporate governance is of central importance for the Company’s transparency vis-à-vis its
shareholders and for continuously increasing trust in its management.

The German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
and the German Corporate Governance
Code are key elements in this context.
The Company’s declaration of compliance
with the German Corporate Governance

Code was updated in December 2014
and is published on the Internet at
www.lufthansagroup.com/
declaration-of-compliance.

Ombudsman system
A further basic component of the Lufthansa Compliance Program is the
globally implemented and proven ombudsman system. Introduced on
December 1, 2007, it serves as an additional preventive measure against
economic crimes. Relevant information can be given by employees or
by third parties to an ombudsman outside the Company, by telephone,
in writing or in person. The ombudsman function is fulfilled by Frankfurtbased lawyer Dr. Rainer Buchert, who is fully bound by the professional
obligation of secrecy and also has the legal right to refuse to give evidence to public investigative authorities. The ombudsman communicates
any information he receives to Lufthansa while respecting absolute confidentiality concerning the name and identity of the informant. In this way,
the disclosure of an informant’s identity to Lufthansa or to third parties
without his or her consent is ruled out.
Furthermore, Lufthansa is listed in the joint transparency register of
the European Commission and the European Parliament. The goal of
this public register is to increase the transparency of decision-making
processes within the EU on a voluntary basis and to ensure that the
interactions between EU institutions and organizations, associations or
companies are in conformity with current law and are carried out on the
basis of ethical principles.

Compliance program
Compliance describes all measures that
ensure the lawful conduct of companies,
their executive bodies and employees with
regard to adhering to legislation. The
Lufthansa Compliance Program, established in 2004, aims at helping its employees adhere to legal norms and keeping
them from breaking the law. As an aviation
company with global activities, the Lufthansa
Group advocates fair competition, integrity
and responsible action.
Group Compliance Office
The Compliance Office, which was set up on
October 1, 2007 within the central legal
department, is responsible for the implementation, development and communication of
the Lufthansa Compliance Program. In
addition, there is a network of Compliance
Commissioners and Compliance Managers
across the various Group companies.
The Compliance Office coordinates the
investigation of circumstances relevant to
compliance and in this context serves as a
contact point for cartel and investigative
authorities. In such cases, Lufthansa
cooperates fully with the authorities. The
core components of the Lufthansa Compliance Program are its compliance guide-

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 27

lines. These are binding internal regulations
that give employees a precise framework for
action which guarantees a standardized and
law-abiding external conduct for Lufthansa.
The Company is not willing to tolerate
possible violations of law on the part of its
employees. Culpable breaches of law lead
to consequences under labor law and may
also entail personal liability. The Lufthansa
Compliance Program currently comprises
four building blocks: Competition, Capital
Market, Integrity and Embargo.
Competition Compliance
The module Competition Compliance introduces employees to the relevant regulations
of competition and cartel legislation, so as
to minimize or exclude risks for Lufthansa in
this area. All employees handling issues
relevant to competition or cartels are trained
in the fundamental regulations of German
and European antitrust legislation.
Capital Market Compliance
The module Capital Market Compliance
gives employees an overview of current
capital market law, such as regulations
relating to insider trading or ad hoc publicity.
Accompanied by specialized training, this
module assures that all employees and

Company bodies concerned receive indepth insight into the regulations of the
German Securities Trading Act (WpHG).
Integrity Compliance
With the module Integrity Compliance,
Lufthansa documents its fundamental
approach of law-abiding conduct in business relationships. The obligation to adhere
to non-corrupt and ethically correct conduct flow naturally from current law, the
internal compliance guidelines and
Lufthansa’s memberships in relevant national and international organizations. Examples of the latter include Lufthansa’s commitment to the principles of the UN Global
Compact and its membership in Transparency International. The Integrity Compliance Guideline provides support in handling invitations, gifts and other attentions.
Embargo Compliance
The module Embargo Compliance serves
to ensure that the Lufthansa Group, as a
globally active corporation, adheres to
country- and person-specific sanctions
regulations in the area of foreign trade. The
Embargo Compliance guideline provides
the employees concerned with a binding
framework of conduct.

Compliance training
Automated IT processes ensure that all
employees participate regularly in those
Web-based Compliance trainings (e-Learning courses) that are relevant for them. The
employees of the subsidiary companies also
have access to these e-Learning courses
and are either included in automatic mailings of materials or have their own company-specific processes. To complement
such online courses, the Compliance
Office regularly carries out trainings requiring the participants’ physical presence.
Compliance trainings are also an integral
part of leadership seminars, management
courses and other internal continuing education and training events at Lufthansa.
Monitoring and reporting
In keeping with current requirements in
the framework of the German Accounting
Law Modernization Act, self-audits and
external audits take place to evaluate the
effective implementation of the Compliance
Program. Furthermore, the Supervisory
Board’s Audit Committee is informed twice
a year about current developments relevant
to compliance issues and the current state
of the program’s implementation within
the Group.

The Lufthansa Compliance Program

Competition

Capital Market

Integrity

Embargo

Program consisting of four modules
The Group Compliance Office is responsible for implementation, development and communication.

28 // Sustainable Business Practice

Fleet development
272 new aircraft by 2025

The fleet operated by the Lufthansa Group is by far the Company’s largest
asset. Modern aircraft that are both economically and ecologically efficient
are the basis for business success and secure the Group’s competitiveness
in an extremely demanding market environment.

Currently, the Lufthansa Group’s fleet is
undergoing a fundamental modernization.
As of December 31, 2014, the aviation
company had a total of 272 aircraft with a
list-price value of 38 billion euros on its order
list, all for delivery by 2025. In 2014 alone,
the Group integrated into its fleet 23 new,
highly efficient aircraft, including 11 longhaul aircraft. Also in 2014, orders were
placed for 15 Airbus A320neo (new engine
option) and ten Airbus A320ceo (current
engine option) aircraft. The Lufthansa Group
will take delivery of 17 new aircraft in 2015.

The Group has ordered a total of 116
aircraft from the A320neo family and has
chosen both the LEAP-1A engines manufactured by CFM International and the
PW1100Gs by Pratt & Whitney. Both types
are highly efficient and set new standards
concerning noise reduction by cutting in
half the usual noise footprint an aircraft
generates during takeoffs and landings.
Furthermore, both engines types burn
15 percent less fuel than other types.
Delivery of these Airbuses will start at the
end of 2015.

On December 31, 2014, the Lufthansa
Group’s fleet comprised 615 aircraft with an
average age of 11.5 years. Thus, the Company operates one of the largest aircraft
fleets worldwide. Here is an overview of the
fleet development at the Group airlines:

Lufthansa German
Airlines
During the reporting year, Lufthansa German
Airlines took delivery of two Airbus A380s,
six Boeing 747-8s and one Airbus A330. In
addition, the last two of 14 Airbus A380
wide-body jets on order were delivered to
the airline in early 2015. At the end of April
2015, the last Boeing 747-8 of 19 ordered
aircraft was delivered.

The Boeing 747-8 is an entirely newly-developed
aircraft that delivers palpable improvements in terms
of ecological efficiency. For example, the aerodynamic properties of the wings have been significantly
improved and the new wing tip design is now raked.
The highly efficient GEnx-2B67 engines cut fuel burn
and CO2 emissions per passenger by 15 percent. To
mark its 60th anniversary, Lufthansa took delivery of
one Boeing 747-8 painted in a 1970s retro livery.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 29

Austrian Airlines
Austrian Airlines received one Fokker 70
during the reporting year. In mid-2014 the
airline also put into service another Boeing
777-200ER, which flies extremely efficiently
and quietly while offering the highest levels
of customer comfort.

Swiss
Starting in 2019, Swiss International Air
Lines will receive 15 Airbus A320neo aircraft, for which the Lufthansa Group placed
an order in 2014. They are to replace older
aircraft of the same type. Moreover, in
March 2015 the Group approved the
acquisition of another three Boeing 777300ERs, which will be delivered to Swiss
from 2017 and are to replace older Airbus
A340-300s. Overall, Swiss will put nine
Boeing 777-300ERs into service from
2016. In the first half of 2016, the airline is
also set to receive the first of 30 Bombardier CSeries aircraft on order, which will
replace the Avro RJ100 aircraft step by
step. Swiss is the launch customer for the
CSeries. Above all, this generational
change means an audible reduction of
noise for people living near airports, as the

new CS100s, which are set to operate on
European routes, will be 10 to 15 decibels
quieter on average than the currently operated Avro RJ100s.

Eurowings
Under the brand name “Eurowings”, the
Lufthansa Group airlines Eurowings and
Germanwings, along with other flight operators in Europe, are to offer a quality product
at advantageous prices from winter 2015
onwards. With this “New Eurowings” concept, which comprises both short- and
long-haul flights, the Lufthansa Group is
responding in a customer-oriented manner
to price-sensitive demand for point-to-point
flights. By the end of 2017, Eurowings will
take delivery of up to 23 new A320ceos,
which are set to replace older Bombardier
CRJ900s. In 2014, Germanwings received
two new Airbus A319s.

Lufthansa Cargo
In 2014, Lufthansa Cargo took delivery of
two Boeing 777Fs. The last of five freighters
of this type on order was delivered to

“In civil aviation, investments in new
technologies are the best strategy to
lessen the burdens on people and the
environment.”

Nico Buchholz
Executive Vice President Group Fleet Management
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Europe’s leading freight airline in February
2015. In addition, Lufthansa Cargo has
already secured options for a further five
“Triple Sevens” with staggered delivery
dates until 2020. The Boeing 777F is considered the most efficient and quietest
freight aircraft in its class.

More fuel-efficient and
quieter – The Airbus
A350-900
In 2013 the Lufthansa Group placed orders
for 59 highly advanced long-haul aircraft:
34 Boeing 777-9Xs and 25 Airbus A350900s. The first A350-900 is slated for delivery to Lufthansa as early as the end of
2016 and will be stationed at the Munich
hub. Both types of aircraft consume about
25 percent less kerosene than today’s
aircraft; their CO2 emissions are also correspondingly lower. The A350-900’s noise
footprint will be at least 30 percent smaller
as well – an important step in the direction
of active noise protection. Moreover, the
aircraft’s structure will feature a more than
70 percent share of state-of-the-art materials. Its robust, latest-technology systems
will also help to lower future MRO costs.
Important impulses for the preparation of
processes and cabin fittings came from a
test flight with the A350 on June 3, 2014.
In addition, Lufthansa German Airlines,
Lufthansa Technik and Airbus extensively
checked the onboard and ground processes related to the twin-engined wide-body
aircraft during its first visit to Frankfurt Airport on July 25, 2014. Finally, Lufthansa
Technik received the certification on January 14, 2015 from the European Aviation
Safety Agency (EASA) to carry out maintenance work on the new long-haul Airbus,
which the Company will offer in Frankfurt
and Munich initially.

30 // Sustainable Business Practice

The Lufthansa Group’s most advanced long-haul
aircraft: the Airbus A380 and the Boeing 747-8.

With the new Eurowings concept the Lufthansa
Group responds in a customer-oriented way to
price-sensitive demand for point-to-point flights.

Swiss will receive the first of 30 CSeries aircraft
ordered from Bombardier in the first half of 2016.

“My Austrian” – An Airbus A321 sporting
Austrian Airlines’ new livery.

The Lufthansa Group fleet
As of December 31, 2014 (changes compared to 2013)
In possession 1
Lufthansa
Lufthansa CityLine

Age 1

In operation 2

Age 2

362

(+ 2)

10.5

(± 0)

272

(– 1)

11.1

(– 0.6)

23

(– 7)

10.0

(+ 0.3)

49

(– 12)

5.7

(– 0.3)

Air Dolomiti

0

(– 5)

10

(± 0)

3.9

(+ 1.0)

Eurowings

0

(± 0)

23

(± 0)

4.7

(+ 1.0)

38

(+ 2)

60

(+ 16)

12.9

(+ 3.4)

Germanwings

7.8

(+ 0.6)

Swiss (including Edelweiss Air)

92

(– 2)

13.3

(+ 0.9)

92

(± 0)

13.3

(+ 1.0)

Austrian Airlines

80

(+ 3)

15.5

(+ 0.7)

80

(+ 6)

15.5

(+ 0.9)

595

(– 7)

586

(+ 9)

Lufthansa Cargo

20

(± 0)

19

(± 0)

12.5

(– 1.3)

Logistics business segment

20

(+ 9)

11.4

(+ 0.4)

Passenger Airline Group business segment

Lufthansa Group
1 Aircraft in the Group’s possession
2 Aircraft operated by the Group

615

13.0

(– 1.2)

19

(– 7)

11.5

(+ 0.2)

605

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 31

Sustainability in the procurement process

As a globally operating aviation company, the Lufthansa Group stands for
fair competition, integrity, and responsible action. The Group is unreservedly
committed to compliance with all applicable laws, directives, and regulations.
The Lufthansa Group expects this not only from its employees, but from its
suppliers and competitors as well.

Lufthansa assumes corporate responsibility
by integrating sustainability into the procurement process. At the
same time, we minimize
risks and thereby avert
potential damage to
the Company. For us
as a globally operating
Group with about 540
subsidiaries and affiliated companies, this is
a challenging task.

Group purchasing
­guidelines approved
In May 2013 the Executive Board approved
Group purchasing guidelines requiring
suppliers to enter into a commitment to
social and ecological responsibility. The
guidelines are meant as an umbrella
directive for all of the Group companies’
purchasing guidelines. They also serve as
a manual for purchasers and all employees with contacts in the procurement market. They are regularly updated and adjusted. The guidelines prescribe, among
other things, that the following duties be
included in contracts with suppliers:
Compliance with the 10 principles of
the UN Global Compact. The principles
range from respect for human rights
through commitments to labor standards
and environmental protection to working
against corruption. In 2002 Deutsche
Lufthansa AG became the first aviation
company to join this strategic United
Nations initiative for companies, thereby
agreeing to uphold the 10 principles formulated by it (see overview on page 19).

Compliance with the International Labour
Organization’s (ILO) four fundamental
principles for labor. These concern freedom of association, the right to collective
bargaining, the elimination of forced
labor and child labor, and prohibition of
discrimination in respect of employment
and occupation.
Consent to announced and unannounced audits of the supplier by companies of the Lufthansa Group.
Recognition of Lufthansa’s right to terminate the contractual relationship in
the event of a breach of the aforementioned agreements. Suppliers must also
observe the Lufthansa Group’s Environmental Protection Guidelines.
By including these commitments in contracts, the Group ensures that sustainability
is taken seriously as an issue and that it
becomes a way of life all across the supply
chain. To familiarize our purchasers with
the Group purchasing guidelines, we train
them in our Procurement Academy, which
provides continuing education opportunities
for employees from throughout the Group.

Climate and Environmental Responsibility
Climate and environmental responsibility is a guiding
principle of our value-oriented corporate management.
Fuel efficiency in flight operations is of major importance for our success according to economic and
ecological benchmarks.

3.84

1,300

100

liters of kerosene consumed on average
to carry one passenger 100 kilometers
in 2014.

ideas and projects for more fuel efficiency

aircraft in the A320 family are already
equipped with noise-reducing technology.

34 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Strategy and management
Keeping people, the environment and
mobility in balance
Environmental care has been one of the Lufthansa Group’s primary corporate
goals for many years. The Company has been working resolutely for a long
time to further reduce the effects of its business activities on the environment –
and thus on the Earth’s climate – and to use resources ever more efficiently.

The worldwide connections provided by air
transport are a central condition for economic growth, employment and individual
mobility. For 2015 alone, the International
Air Transport Association (IATA) forecasts an
increase in passenger numbers of 7 percent
worldwide (2014: 5.9 percent). Despite
these significant growth rates, air transport’s
share in worldwide CO2 emissions has
actually been declining for years. According
to the International Energy Agency (IEA),
this value reached 2.42 percent in 2011
(2000: 2.81 percent).

The Lufthansa Group
aims to make mobility
as environmentally
friendly as possible for
its customers – now and
in the future.

The Lufthansa Group’s
goals and strategy
The Group has a clear strategy to further
limit the environmental effects of flying
and to make traffic growth as environmentally compatible as possible. As long ago
as 2008, the Lufthansa Group adopted
a strategic environmental program (see
page 36). In addition, it supports the aviation industry’s goals of improving fuel
efficiency by 1.5 percent on average per
year until 2020 and to make all transport
growth CO2-neutral thereafter. By 2050,
net CO2 emissions are to be cut by 50 percent, compared with 2005. The generally
acknowledged basis for this approach is
the aviation industry’s established fourpillar strategy for climate protection (see
graphic 43).

Central fields of action
in climate and environmental protection
Passenger and freight transport is the
Lufthansa Group’s core business. Fuel
efficiency in particular is of fundamental
importance for the Company’s economic

and ecological success and therefore a
central field of action. The efficient use of
kerosene not only reduces costs, but also
improves flight operations’ ecological
balance sheet. The most significant
advances can be achieved by operating
aircraft with the latest technology. For this
reason, the Group is due at current order
status to take delivery of 272 new aircraft
by 2025 – all characterized by low fuel
burn (see page 28, Fleet development).
In May 2013, the Lufthansa Group set up
a Company-wide department which has
since coordinated all activities concerning
fuel efficiency. A significant potential for
improving the environmental balance sheet
is also opened up by alternative fuels low in
CO2 emissions, to whose development and
testing the Group has shown an ongoing
commitment (see page 43).
Another important field of action is active
noise protection. Here, the Lufthansa Group
counts on investments in new aircraft and
retrofitting the existing fleet with noisereducing technologies. Moreover, the Group
cooperates with partners in industry, public
administrations, universities and research
institutions to identify noise sources and
develop perceptible noise-reduction measures, such as the quietest approach and
takeoff procedures possible (see page 54).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 35

Energy and resource management in its
ground operations and catering processes
is also of great importance for the Lufthansa
Group. The key element in ground operations is the research into and operation of
electro-mobility for taxiing and towing of
aircraft (see page 50). Building management as well must satisfy clear, resourceefficient requirements when modernizing
existing buildings or planning new ones.
LSG Sky Chefs, the Group’s catering specialist, has set itself ambitious goals for
avoiding waste and using the resources
needed as efficiently as possible.
Moreover, the Lufthansa Group cooperates
with scientific and research institutions to
further optimize environmental protection
on the basis of sound data and facts. The
Company has been actively involved in
noise and climate research for many years
(see page 57). It thus participates in
research projects, such as those concerning the use of alternative fuels and propulsion systems as well as aerodynamics.

Over the past decades, Lufthansa has
repeatedly been involved in the development of new aircraft models and has also
contributed to new insights and perceptible
improvements in active noise protection as
a result of its commitment to research (see
from page 8, Balance 2014, More quietly
into the future). Important advances from
new materials and technical improvements
were also achieved in the area of reducing
aircraft weight.
In February 2015, the U.S. trade publication
Air Transport World awarded Lufthansa the
title “Eco-Airline of the Year” for the second
time in three years for the Company’s
commitment to climate and environmental
protection. The reasoning: “The Lufthansa
Group works not only for the most stringent
goals worldwide for environmentally-conscious air transport, but it also invests a
lot of time, money and effort in efficiencyimproving measures.”

Strategic environmental
program 2020
The Lufthansa Group adopted guidelines
for environmental protection as long ago
as 1996 and thus assumed the role of an
industry pacesetter. In 2008, the Group set
up a strategic environmental program,
aimed at achieving further progress in
climate and environmental responsibility
until 2020. Looking back shows that the
Lufthansa Group has made progress in all
areas. For example, the CO2 emissions of
the Lufthansa Group’s aircraft per passenger and 100 kilometers fell by 12.3 percent
between 2006 and 2014. Simultaneously,
the Group phased 203 more efficient and
quieter aircraft into the fleet between 2006
and 2014, while decommissioning 145
older aircraft over the same period. An
overview of the Lufthansa Group’s environmental program can be found on the next
double page.

60 years of Lufthansa –
60 years of progress
Since the start of flight operations by the
new Lufthansa on April 1, 1955, aviation has
achieved significant advances in climate
and environmental responsibility thanks to
technological quantum leaps. For example,
highly efficient jet engines have significantly
cut kerosene consumption in comparison
with earlier years. While aircraft in the
1970s needed about 12 liters of kerosene
to carry one passenger over a distance of
100 kilometers, the Lufthansa Group’s fleet
needed a mere 3.84 liters on average for
the same performance in 2014 (see page
39, Fuel consumption and emissions).
At the same time, today’s aircraft are 80
percent quieter than those of 60 years ago.

“Increasing eco-efficiency has been the
Lufthansa Group’s focus for many years
and will continue to have our undivided
attention in the future.”

Dr. Karlheinz Haag
Vice President Group Environmental Issues
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Strategic environmental program 2020

01 /

02 /

The Lufthansa Group has increased the
fuel efficiency of its passenger fleet by
12.3 percent since 2006. By 2020 the
specific CO2 emissions of the passenger
fleet are to be cut by 25 percent in
comparison with 2006. In addition, the
Group actively supports the aviation
industry’s ambitious efficiency goals
(see page 34).

Since 1991, emissions of nitrogen
oxides per tonne kilometer transported
within the Lufthansa Group have
already been cut by 26 percent. The
Lufthansa Group specifically supports
the goal set by the Advisory Council
for Aviation Research and Innovation
in Europe (ACARE), which calls for a
further 80-percent reduction of nitrogen
oxide emissions by 2020, relative to
2000. Furthermore, the Company
encourages aircraft and engine manufacturers to implement low-NOX technologies.

04 /

05 /

06 /

The Lufthansa Group is committed to
numerous future-oriented projects that
focus on alternative fuels. On September 15, 2014, Lufthansa flight LH190
from Frankfurt to Berlin’s Tegel airport
was the first European scheduled flight
operated with a 10-percent blend of the
new sugar-based biokerosene Farnesan
(see page 43).

The Lufthansa Group consistently
counts on operative measures as well
to further increase fuel efficiency. This
includes optimum flight routings and
flight speeds, efficient aircraft capacities,
programs for long-term weight reductions on board and optimum aircraft
loading procedures (see page 45).

Inefficient or lacking infrastructures in
the air and on the ground cause unnecessary fuel consumption. It is chiefly the
task of the political process to create an
appropriate framework of conditions.
This applies to the need-oriented expansion of airports and above all to the
introduction of the Single European Sky,
an area where Lufthansa supports the
implementation of technical components (see page 44).

Reduce CO2 emissions

Promote alternative fuels

Cut emissions of nitrogen oxides

Increase operational efficiency

03 /

Modernize the fleet
Investments in new aircraft and technologies are the most effective way to reduce
the environmental effects of flying further.
The Lufthansa Group’s fleet is currently
undergoing a comprehensive modernization. The Group will take delivery
of 272 new aircraft with a list price of
38 billion euros by 2025 (see page 28).

Improve infrastructure

08 /

09 /

The Lufthansa Group advocates a
globally-valid, market-based and competition-neutral system for climate protection charges and actively supports
this goal through its participation in
international bodies (see page 46).

Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines
offer their customers the option to
compensate the CO2 emissions unavoidably generated by their flights
with a voluntary donation. These funds
directly benefit climate protection projects (see page 68).

The Lufthansa Group supports ecologically oriented incentive systems designed to be revenue-neutral, such as
emissions-based airport fees. This
scheme eases the financial strain on
innovative airlines with low-emission
aircraft while placing higher charges on
fuel-intensive aircraft. The airports in
Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart, Dusseldorf,
Cologne, Hamburg and Hannover have
already introduced such fees in relation
to emissions of nitrogen oxides.

10 /

11 /

12 /

For many years, the Lufthansa Group
has been committed to active noise
protection. It invests in ever-quieter aircraft, retrofits its existing fleet and introduces noise-reducing flight procedures.
This commitment has produced lower
burdens on the communities surrounding
the main hubs (see page 54).

In order to reduce the noise emitted by
current aircraft, sources of noise need to
be researched in greater depth. Along
with research partners, the Lufthansa
Group’s experts analyze these noisegenerating mechanisms on a continuous basis and use their findings to
develop noise-reducing solutions, such
as the vortex generators for the A320
family (see page 54).

The Lufthansa Group advances the
development of low-noise flight procedures. In this context, it is important
that these new procedures take into
account the aspects of safety, capacities and economic viability. Therefore,
all system partners – airports, air traffic
controllers and airlines – must pull
together (see page 45).

13 /

14 /

15 /

The Lufthansa Group supports – wherever ecologically and economically sensible – measures that interconnect optimally different modes of transport. One
successful example is AIRail project, the
optimum combination of train and plane,
which has also existed in Austria since
December 2014. In addition, Lufthansa
has also expanded its airport bus offers.

When it comes to planning, modernizing and constructing Company buildings as well, the Lufthansa Group
places great emphasis on the careful
use of natural resources. For example,
Lufthansa Technik is planning to exceed
the requirements of Germany’s Energy
Saving Ordinance by 30 percent when
constructing its new wheel and brake
workshop in Frankfurt.

The department Group Environmental
Issues coordinates all Group-wide
goals, strategies and measures in the
area of environmental care. In the
years ahead, the Company is planning
to expand its environmental management at all levels and to have it evaluated by external experts (see page 38).

07 /
Implement emissions trading
on a global scale

Reduce aircraft noise

Develop comprehensive
mobility concepts

Continue to offer CO2 compensation

Improve aircraft

Build green

Develop further incentive systems

Optimize flight procedures

Expand environmental management

38 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

During the reporting year, Lufthansa Cargo included its subsidiary
Jettainer in the certification process for the first time.

Organization of climate
and environmental
management
The department Group Environmental
Issues assumes the leading role in coordinating the Company-wide goals, strategies
and measures in the area of climate and
environmental responsibility. Additionally,
all larger subsidiaries have environmental
departments and commissioners or coordinators. These experts meet twice a year at
the Environmental Forum to discuss current
topics and new ideas.
An overview of the Group companies’
environmental management systems:
In 1996, Lufthansa Technik became the
first Group company to be certified according to the international environmental
standard ISO 14001. Today, the company
also operates an integrated management
system, which was recertified in 2014 in
accordance with the quality standards
EN 9100 and 9110 as well as ISO 14001
and the international standard for job safety
and health protection OHSAS 18001.
All company locations worldwide will be
certified by the end of 2015 (see page 47,
Balance 2014).

Lufthansa Cargo has operated a certified
environmental management system since
2008 in accordance with ISO 14001.
All locations in Germany were recertified
during the reporting year. For the first time,
a subsidiary company – Jettainer, the specialist for stowage equipment management
– was successfully included in this certification. This system is set to be expanded to
locations in Europe, America and Asia in
2015 to achieve worldwide certification.
Lufthansa German Airlines is expected
to begin the introduction of an environmental management system in 2015. The
subsidiary’s Board of Management made
this decision at the end of 2014. Additionally, the Group-wide initiative “Fly Greener”
was launched, which aims at reducing the
quantities of waste materials on board and
avoiding waste whenever possible (see
page 50, Energy and resource management).
Lufthansa CityLine was recertified anew
in May 2015 for its company-wide environmental management system. The airline
received the certificates of the European
Environmental Management and Audit
Scheme EMAS for the 15th year in a row.
Additionally, the company was recertified
according to the international environmen-

LSG Sky Chefs operates a highly structured
environmental management system.

tal standard ISO 14001. Lufthansa CityLine
was the first airline worldwide to be certified
according to both environmental standards.
Austrian Airlines has successfully participated in the project ÖkoBusinessPlan
Wien since 2006 and thus already fulfills
certain aspects of an environmental
management system, which is expected to
be implemented in 2016.
LSG Sky Chefs operates a highly structured and comprehensive environmental
management system, which is guided by
the ISO 14001 standard and the leading
such system in the catering industry.
Among the central elements are a binding
environmental policy, goals set by region,
environmental managers, a database for
best-practice examples and an annual
environmental report.
Since July 2014, LZ-Catering has offered
at least one CO2-friendly main course every
day in a majority of its company restaurants. These are either vegetarian, poultry
or fish dishes. By contrast, red meat does
not belong in a climate-friendly meal due
to its high environmental impact.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 39

Fuel consumption and emissions
Lufthansa Group’s airlines achieve
new efficiency record
The Lufthansa Group again set a new efficiency record in 2014: On average,
the aircraft of the passenger fleets consumed only 3.84 liters of kerosene to
carry one passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers (3.91 l/100 pkm in
2013). This is an improvement of 1.6 percent compared with the preceding
year. Thus, the Lufthansa Group again met the aviation industry’s ambitious
goal of increasing efficiency by 1.5 percent per year.

3.8 l*

More
lightweight
design

Higher
efﬁciency

Less CO2

Better
aerodynamics

Lower
fuel
consumption

Be it Lufthansa, Swiss, Austrian Airlines
or Germanwings – all Group airlines
further improved their specific consumption values (see pie charts, page 40).
In the same way the freight aircraft of
Lufthansa Cargo flew more efficiently
than ever before with a fuel consumption
value of 0.183 liters/tonne kilometer. This
corresponds to a 5.2 percent improvement compared with 2013. Group-wide,
the efficiency in freight transport increased
by 0.8 percent in 2014.
The Lufthansa Group’s absolute fuel
consumption increased slightly by
0.7 percent during the reporting year,
while transport performance rose by
1.9 percent. Thus, the aviation company
successfully continued the trend of
decoupling transport performance and
fuel consumption. The Group’s transport
performance has increased by 347 percent since 1991, while fuel consumption
only rose by 182 percent (see graphic,
page 40).

Specific fuel consumption
Passenger transportation
40 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility
Definitions of traffic areas  

Active fleet in 2014, in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm)
Long-haul more than 3,000 km   Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km   Short-haul under 800 km
Lufthansa

Group fleet
Long-haul
(59 %)
3.45 l /100 pkm

Average specific fuel consumption in l /100 pkm (center of the circle) and proportion of the entire passenger
fuel consumption of the
active fleet contributed by
each traffic area (segments
of circle) in 2014

3.84

Medium-haul
(26 %)
3.99 l /100 pkm

l /100 pkm

Germanwings

Long-haul
(66 %)
3.60 l /100 pkm
Medium-haul
(18 %)
3.88 l /100 pkm

Medium-haul
(100 %)
4.18 l /100 pkm

3.91
l /100 pkm

4.18
l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(16 %)
6.11 l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(15 %)
6.32 l /100 pkm

Specific fuel consumption
of passenger transportation compared
in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm)

Group fleet
­Lufthansa
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Germanwings

2014

2013

Changes in %

3.84
3.91
3.48
3.87
4.18

3.91
3.98
3.54
3.93
4.22

– 1.6
– 1.8
– 1.5
– 1.7
– 0.9

Specific CO2 emissions of passenger transportation

Swiss

Austrian Airlines

Long-haul
(61 %)
3.03 l /100 pkm

Long-haul
(37 %)
2.92 l /100 pkm

Medium-haul
(30 %)
4.05 l /100 pkm

Medium-haul
(38 %)
4.08 l /100 pkm

3.48
l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(9 %)
8.56 l /100 pkm

Short-haul
(25 %)
6.38 l /100 pkm

Fuel Dumps

Active fleet in 2014,
in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg /100 pkm)

Long-haul Medium-haul

Short-haul

10.07
9.77
10.21
10.28
10.55

15.92
15.41
21.57
16.07

Group fleet
Lufthansa
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Germanwings

8.69
9.08
7.63
7.36

3.87
l /100 pkm

Active fleet in 2014

Overall
average
9.69
9.85
8.78
9.75
10.55

Events, total
thereof medical reasons
technical reasons
other reasons
Quantity, total

2014

Changes compared
to 2013

16
7
8
1
513 t

– 15
–  6
–  7
–  2
–  45.2 %

Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption
Change compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group
+ 347 %

360
340
320
300

Û

280
260

Efficiency gain

Transport performance

240

Ü

220
200
180

+ 182 %

160
140
120
100
80
60

Fuel consumption

40
20
  0
1991

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

1997

1998

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013 2014

Fuel consumption 1

Passenger transportation
2014, in tonnes
Passengers

Scheduled flights
Lufthansa
Germanwings
Swiss
Austrian Airlines

Freight

Total

Share

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 41
CO2 emissions
NOX emissions
in kilograms /100 passenger kilometers

2014

2, 3

4,701,726
372,027
1,094,037
577,847

1,588,703
0
402,411
88,992

49,764

1,754

Third parties 4
Other flights 5
All flights

2013

6,290,429
372,027
1,496,448
666,839
8,825,774
51,518

70.7 %
4.2 %
16.8 %
7.5 %
99.2 %
0.6 %

2009

22,668

0.3 %

2008

8,899,929

100.0 %

2007

Emissions 3, 6
2014, in tonnes

10.24
10.58
10.84
10.93
10.88

2006
2005

in grams /100 passenger kilometers

2014

CO2

21,248,759

+ 1.1 %

6,552,333

– 0.6 %

27,801,092

+ 0.7 %

2013

NOX

100,478

+ 0.7 %

31,779

+ 1.5 %

132,257

+ 0.9 %

2012

CO

15,918

+ 0.8 %

3,333

+ 4.5 %

19,251

+ 1.5 %

2011

1,569

– 0.9 %

383

– 5.8 %

1,952

– 1.9 %

2010

7.3
7.4
7.8

Flights
Passengers
Tonne kilometers transported, TKT 7 (tkm)
Fuel consumption (tonnes)
CO2 emissions (tonnes)

1.7 %
1.0 %
0.3 %
0.6 %
0.6 %

8.2
8.4

in liters /100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm)
4.39

4.38

4.32

4.34

4.30

4.20

4.18

4.06

3.91

3.84

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2005

2006

2007

2008

0.304

2009

2010

0.289

2011

0.287

2012

0.278

2013

0.87

8.6

0.91
0.96
0.99

2007

2006

8.4

2006

0.96

2005

8.4

2005

0.97

Freight transportation 8
CO2 emissions

NOX emissions

in grams /tonne kilometers

2014

0.70

2014

3.4

2013

0.70

2013

3.3

2012

0.72

2012

3.5

2011

0.73

2011

3.5

2010

0.73

2010

3.5

0.77

2009

3.7

0.74

2008

3.6

0.72

2007

2009

3.4

2006

0.58

2006

2.6

2005

0.58

2005

2.6

2013

0.289

0.87

2010
2008

2014

in liters / tonne kilometers
0.295

0.80

2011

2014

Specific fuel consumption
Freight transportation 8

0.285

0.74

8.5

in grams /tonne kilometers

0.228

0.72

2013

2008

CO emissions

0.231

2014

2009

2007

2006

in grams /100 passenger kilometers

8.5

2008

2005

50.8

UHC emissions

2009

in kilograms /tonne kilometers

Specific fuel consumption
Passenger transportation

50.5

2012

2007
2014

50.6
49.8

2007

11.07

CO emissions

50.0

2009
2008

11.05

± 2013

49.4
48.8

2010

2006

Total

48.4

2011

2005

± 2013

46.7

2012

10.53

2010

Freight

45.8

2013

2011

± 2013

Share of third parties 4

in grams /100 passenger kilometers

2014

9.84

2012

Passengers

UHC

9.69

0.276

2014

1 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events under the
respective operative flight number. Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e.
including taxiing on the ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air.
2 Scheduled flights, charter flights.
3 For the reporting year 2014, the following companies have been included in Balance:
Lufthansa (incl. Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti and Eurowings), Germanwings, Swiss (incl.
Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding the services of third parties
as the Company can influence neither their performance nor the equipment operated (see
table Share of third parties).

0.4
0.3

UHC emissions

in grams /tonne kilometers

2014

0.04

2013

0.04

2012

0.4

2012

0.05

2011

0.4

2011

0.05

2010

0.4

2010

0.05

2009

0.4

2009

0.06

2008

0.4

2008

0.06

2007

0.4

2007

0.06

2006

0.3

2006

0.05

2005

0.3

2005

0.05

4 Includes flights operated by airlines that do not belong to the Group, which carry out services
on Lufthansa’s behalf at short notice, e.g. in the event of capacity bottlenecks.
5 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights.
6 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter
flights). Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the
ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air (see notes on page 113).
7 Excludes road feeder service and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no fuel
consumption and emissions values are available for this performance.
8 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger
aircraft.

42 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

A view of the Pier A-Plus at Frankfurt Airport

New department
Operations Efficiency &
Strategy
Fuel efficiency is and will remain a central
action field for the Lufthansa Group, as the
cost of kerosene is the Company’s largest
individual cost item. Therefore, the Group
has an economic and ecological interest in
using the kerosene required as efficiently
as possible.
Since July 1, 2014 fuel efficiency has been
the responsibility of the new department
Operations Efficiency & Strategy, headed
by Flight Captain Jens Ritter. Under this
organizational umbrella, the department
Fuel Efficiency Lufthansa Group steers all
topics related to fuel efficiency Companywide. Its goal is to bundle the forces of
innovation and know-how to achieve an
even more efficient use of kerosene at the
Group level and to establish an innovation
management system at the same time.
One of the department’s tasks is to ensure
the continuous exchange of ideas between
the Group’s airlines and other companies

as well as with partners across the Star
Alliance. Therefore, the Company’s fuel
experts meet every two months to exchange knowledge in the context of the
Fuel Efficiency Group (FEG) meetings, while
FEG members will receive new information
about fuel efficiency and are updated about
new ideas, measures and goals.
According to current plans, fuel efficiency
measures are to contribute 148 million
euros to the Lufthansa Group’s 2015 result.
Lufthansa German Airlines is to have a
share of 93 million euros in this effort.
So far, fuel efficiency experts have already
developed more than 1,300 ideas and
projects in the areas of flight operations,
network planning, ground processes, aerodynamics, reduction of flight weight and
technical optimization of performance. In
the reporting year alone, the Group implemented 145 related projects, which takes
the number of projects in implementation to
more than 266. Their progress is monitored
by means of the ProFuel database.

Four pillars for climate
protection
The basis for the Lufthansa Group’s fuel
efficiency activities and further successes in
improving its environmental balance sheet
is the established four pillar strategy developed by the aviation industry for climate
protection purposes. This strategy interlinks
different measures with relevance for the
environment (see graphic on page 43). Its
scope ranges from technological progress
and improved infrastructure to operational
measures and economic measures.

Pillar 1: Technological
progress
Efficient aircraft and engine technologies
Investments in modern and efficient aircraft
and engine technologies are the most
effective way to further reduce fuel consumption. Currently, the Lufthansa Group is
in the process of implementing the largest
fleet modernization program in its history
(see page 28).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 43

Four pillars for climate protection

1

2

3

4

Technological
progress

Improved
infrastructure

Operational
measures

Economic
measures

3

30

12
15

24

E

W

6

33

N

S

21

Innovation in aircraft and
engine technologies
Alternative fuels

Improved use of airspace
Airport infrastructures
adapted to needs

More efficient aircraft sizes
Optimal flight routes
and speeds
Optimized processes on
the ground

A global, sensibly designed,
market-based system for
reducing emissions to complement the other three pillars

Four pillars for climate protection: The Lufthansa Group is constantly increasing its fuel efficiency by applying the industry’s four-pillar strategy for
climate protection. In pursuit of technological progress, it is continuously investing in the newest generation of fuel-efficient aircraft as well as testing
and using alternative fuels in flight operations. In addition, it strongly supports infrastructure improvements, such as the optimum use of airspace and
the needs-based expansion of airport capacity. Moreover, it is taking operational measures such as using more efficient aircraft sizes, introducing
improved procedures on the ground, making better use of aircraft capacity and flying optimum routes to increase fuel efficiency in flight operations.
To complement the three pillars already mentioned, it advocates the use of global market-based economic measures.

Alternative fuels
The use of alternative fuels is another
important lever for reducing air transport’s
CO2 emissions over the long-term. The
Lufthansa Group continuously works on the
further development of these environmentally friendly fuels. It is actively involved in
research projects for this purpose and in
numerous initiatives such as aireg (Aviation
Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany)
and SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Users Group). The research work also
includes testing newly-certified alternative
fuels in regular flight operations.
Thus, on September 15, 2014 Lufthansa
flight LH190 from Frankfurt to Berlin Tegel
became the first European scheduled flight
using fuel containing 10 percent of the
sugar-based biokerosene Farnesan. This
flight was preceded in fall 2013 by a rig test

at Lufthansa Technik in Hamburg, which
was part of the EU project Blending Study.
It proved that the emissions characteristics
could be improved by adding Farnesan. In
April 2014, the production of Farnesan was
certified as being sustainable by the
Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials
(RSB). Additionally, in June 2014 the fuel
was certified for blending with crude-oil
based kerosene.
Likewise, the Lufthansa Group, together
with the Bundeswehr Research Institute for
Materials, Fuels and Lubricants (WIWeB),
conducts research in the project Blending
Study concerning the blending properties of
conventional fossil kerosene and different
new biokerosenes (e.g. alcohol-to-jet, see
page 56, Balance 2014). This research was
concluded in February 2015 with an overview report of the blending properties of all

biokerosenes certified or undergoing certification (published at www.HBBA.eu).
Moreover, an estimated 5 percent of the
Lufthansa Group’s fuel requirements at
Oslo Airport is set to be covered by biokerosene from late 2015. The supplier Air BP
will feed the sustainably produced and
certified biofuel into the fuel supply system
at Oslo Airport. The launch of this project
was originally planned for March 2015.
A total of about 5,000 Lufthansa, Swiss,
Austrian Airlines, Germanwings and
Brussels Airlines flights will then be flying
on a biokerosene mixture. For the Lufthansa
Group, this is the next step from its previous test flights as part of the recently concluded burnFAIR Project (see page 67,
Balance 2012) toward the use of alternative
fuels in regular flight operations.

44 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

On September 15, 2014, Lufthansa flight LH190 from Frankfurt to Berlin’s Tegel airport was the first European
scheduled flight operated with a 10-percent blend of the new sugar-based biokerosene Farnesan.

Pillar 2: Improved
infrastructure
Single European Sky
The standardized European airspace, or
Single European Sky (SES), is planned to
be implemented by 2020 and is the largest
climate protection project in European
aviation. Currently, supervision of the EU’s
airspace is the fractured task of 27 different
national air traffic control systems and more
than 650 sectors monitored by about 60
control centers. The result is that flights in
Europe often cannot take a direct route and
have to fly a “detour” of 42 kilometers on
average. By contrast, the SES is intended to
steer traffic flows significantly more efficiently.

This would help Lufthansa alone to cut its
annual kerosene consumption by about
270,000 tonnes. Overall, airlines would emit
up to 10 percent less CO2.
To advance the SES, the EU is providing
3 billion euros. These funds go to airlines,
airport operators and air traffic control
organizations, so that they can jointly
modernize Europe’s air transport management. On December 5, 2014, the EU Commission signed a partnership agreement to
this end with the key participants of air
transport management assembled in the
consortium SESAR Deployment Alliance.
In 2008, the EU Commission and the European air traffic control agency Eurocontrol

launched the Single European Sky Air
Traffic Management Research Program
(SESAR) with the aim of realizing the standardized European airspace by 2020.
Currently, the companies of the Lufthansa
Group provide their expert knowledge from
different specialty areas in more than 50
SESAR projects. The spectrum ranges from
flight route planning to operations centers
and training divisions to information technology and finances.
For example, the specialists at Lufthansa
German Airlines and Swiss participate in the
EU research project Free Solutions, which
helps determine how more direct and more
flexible flight routes can be realized in
Europe. The airspace analyzed stretches

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 45

from France to Germany, Switzerland and
Italy to Malta. Another project in which
Lufthansa Passenger Airlines and Swiss
participate is iStream. It is working on
improving the approach management at
Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris and at
Zurich Airport in order to avoid late arrivals
and unnecessary holding patterns in the air
by optimizing planning, thereby reducing
the related fuel consumption. New procedures in this context are tested in “live
trials” in actual flight operations. Concepts
for optimized navigation and approach
procedures are applied under everyday
conditions in flight operations, aiming at
transferring future-oriented technologies
from SESAR into operation without delay.
Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group airlines
are participating in a new consortium within
the SESAR framework to develop optimized
descent profiles for the route section be-

tween cruising altitude in the upper airspace and the airports’ terminal control
areas by the end of 2016. The goal is to
increase the vertical flight efficiency and
environmental compatibility without ignoring
capacity aspects. For this purpose, the
consortium airlines are conducting test
flights in scheduled operations, among
other measures. In 2015, Lufthansa, DFS
Deutsche Flugsicherung and Eurocontrol
received the “IHS Jane’s ATC Award” in
the environmental category for their project “Free Route Airspace Maastricht and
Karlsruhe” (FRAMaK).
Apart from an improved utilization of airspace, it is also important to optimize conditions on the ground. There, it is above all
adapting airport infrastructures to actual
needs that allows efficient flight operations.

Pillar 3: Operational
measures
Among the operational measures are the
deployment of efficiently-sized aircraft, the
determination of optimum flight routes and
flight speeds, and improvements of processes on the ground. The experts in the
Lufthansa Group’s Operations Efficiency &
Strategy department are working on
numerous projects aimed at helping to
use kerosene ever more efficiently, as an
overview of the areas emphasized in 2014
illustrates:
Optimum flight routes and flight speeds
The Lufthansa Group airlines are currently
introducing software to analyze flight data,
called OMEGA (Operations Monitoring and
Efficiency Gap Analyzer). In the future, it will

The largest climate protection project in European aviation is the creation of a standardized
air space above Europe. The Single European Sky (SES) would help Lufthansa
alone to reduce its annual fuel consumption by about 270,000 tonnes.

46 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Further examples from
the Group companies
The overview on the following pages presents a selection from the multifaceted
activities implemented by the Group companies to reduce fuel consumption even
further.

Lufthansa
Prototypical display on the Electronic Flight Bag (EFB)

allow the experts at the Fuel Efficiency
department to analyze the current levels
of fuel consumption even more precisely
and to derive further optimization options
for processes and flight routes. The new
tool will allow the subsequent comparison
of planned, actual and optimum values
for different flight phases, so that data from
actual flight operations can be used to
improve the efficiency of future flights.

trajectory. Tests conducted to date have
proven a conservation potential of more
than 250 liters of kerosene per long-haul
flight.

E-enabling program
The Lufthansa Group uses the e-enabling
program to coordinate different digitalization projects, including the EFB 2.2 project, the rollout of the third generation of
the Electronic Flight Bag (EFB). With EFB
2.2 in 2014, the aviation company created
the necessary infrastructure aboard the
aircraft in its fleet to allow the digitalization
of all processes and the introduction of the
entirely paperless cockpit later on.

Among the economic incentive systems
and measures that the Lufthansa Group
advocates is a globally valid, market-based
and competition-neutral system for climate
protection charges. In October 2013 the
International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO), a United Nations agency, developed a globally valid system for climate
charges by 2016, which is to become
effective by 2020. This makes the aviation
industry a front-runner with regard to a
globally valid climate protection agreement.
By contrast, there is the EU emissions
trading system for civil aviation, which
creates a significant competitive disadvantage for European network airlines (see
page 59, Balance 2014).

Another new software being deployed is
electronic Flight Folder (eFF), which digitalizes and archives all briefing processes
and strategic flight processes. Moreover,
the Flight Path Optimizer allows long-haul
crews calculations to optimize a flight’s

Pillar 4: Economic
measures

An optimized approach management at
London’s Heathrow Airport has ensured
since 2014 that Lufthansa aircraft can avoid
holding patterns during times of dense
traffic. This type of cooperation with neighboring air traffic control centers – and thus
across air space boundaries – reduces
kerosene consumption and is an initial step
in the direction of cross-border arrivals
management.
In September 2014, Lufthansa introduced
the altered takeoff procedure “1,000-foot
acceleration” in Germany. The airline
expects to conserve more than 3,000
tonnes of kerosene per year, which would
reduce CO2 emissions by about 10,000
tonnes.
Likewise, Lufthansa optimized the vertical
approach profile at Munich Airport. Continuous Descent Operations (CDO) make
approaches more economical, which helps
the airline conserve about 600 tonnes of
kerosene per year. That the Continuous
Descent Approach indeed reduces kerosene consumption was confirmed by the
results obtained by the Task Group Optimized Flying, which were published at the
end of 2014. This management committee
joins the Federal Association of German
Airlines (BDF) and DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung (German air traffic control) to
develop solutions that help reduce costs,
fuel burn and CO2 emissions. Airlines and
DFS are planning to continue the success-

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 47

ful cooperation, to increasingly use CDO in
regular operations and to expand this
approach procedure to additional airports.
At the same time, Lufthansa works continuously on further reducing the weight of its
aircraft. One of these measures was to
adapt the number of magazines offered on
board closer to actual demand in the continental fleet’s Business Class cabins. From
February 2015, the compactors for plastic
waste aboard the Lufthansa Airbus A380s
started being removed and replaced with
two significantly more lightweight waste
trolleys. Another measure: By the end of
2015 the Company will replace the carpets
fitted in aircraft cabins with a more lightweight and more robust type. Additionally,
the Group-wide initiative “Fly Greener” is
working for a reduction of waste volumes
aboard, not only to conserve resources, but
also to further reduce weight (see page 53,
Energy and resource management).

Jörg-Stefan Fritz, Team Manager Fuel Efficiency Lufthansa German Airlines, and
Jens Ritter (right), Director Operations Efficiency & Strategy, with flight attendants
at the “Fly Greener” information stand at Lufthansa in Frankfurt.

Swiss
In fall 2014, Swiss put a new flight planning
software into operation. In the “Godwit”
project the participating experts develop
new planning options and strategies on the
basis of current technologies, which is
expected to lower fuel consumption by up
to 13,000 tonnes per year from 2017. For
example, the new software allows the more
efficient use of runways and more flexible
flight routings, among other features. It also
helps pilots to react even better to changing weather conditions in flight.
Moreover, with Strategic and Tactical Flight
Steering, Swiss developed a procedure that
guides the morning arrivals of long-haul
flights at Zurich Airport with down-to-theminute precision. During a flight’s planning
phase an arrival time is assigned to the
pilots, to which they have to adhere exactly
to avoid holding patterns. Operations control monitors the arrival time on the basis of

Information concerning the approach
sequence for the cockpit crew.

48 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

the latest data from the aircraft in flight and
adapts it if needed. In this way Swiss conserves 500 tonnes of kerosene per year
and avoids 1,500 tonnes of CO2 emissions.
The new method optimizes the assignment
of time windows practiced so far in the
context of the approach procedure “Greener
Wave” (see page 72, Balance 2012) and
received a Lufthansa Group Innovator
Award in 2014.

Swiss has developed a new process to calculate the optimum
arrival times of its long-haul flights in Zurich on a daily basis.

At New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK)
Swiss developed ways to reduce the energy
consumption and running times of auxiliary
power units (APUs) during ground handling
in the framework of a Kaizen workshop. The
use of ground power units (GPUs) was
extended for this purpose; a method that
has already been successfully implemented
at Zurich Airport. The insights gathered at
the workshop are to become the basis for a
new standard that can be applied at other
airports as well.

Austrian Airlines

Lufthansa Cargo has five Boeing 777Fs in its fleet. The “Triple Seven”
is considered the most efficient and quietest aircraft in its class.

In Vienna the airport, air traffic control,
Austrian Airlines and other carriers, as well
as handling operators have coordinated
their activities in the framework of Airport
CDM (Collaborative Decision Making) for
many years. Standardizing processes is
aimed at increasing punctuality and reducing fuel consumption.
The Fokker fleet operated by Austrian
Airlines has applied the modified takeoff
procedure “1,000-foot acceleration” since
June 2013. Optimized thrust reduction and
acceleration conserve kerosene and thus
reduce CO2 emissions.

Austrian Airlines‘ Fokker fleet has followed the modified takeoff
procedure “1,000-foot acceleration” since June 2013.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 49

Lufthansa Cargo
Above all by operating the new Boeing
777F freighters, Lufthansa Cargo now flies
more efficiently than ever before. Since
2005, the Company has successfully increased its fuel efficiency by 15.8 percent
and thus already achieved over half of its
long-term goal of 25 percent.
In order to reduce the weight of loaded
aircraft perceptibly, Lufthansa Cargo has
introduced freight containers made from
ultra-light composite materials. Furthermore, the freight specialist has continuously
optimized the loading of its Boeing MD-11F
aircraft in recent years. Distributing the
weight and volume of cargo optimally
improves aerodynamics and consequently
lowers fuel consumption by 494 tonnes
per year.
In addition, since April 2014 Lufthansa
Cargo has used empirical values to determine with greater accuracy the quantity of
kerosene its aircraft need for taxiing. The
ensuing lower takeoff weights have cut fuel
consumption by about 270 tonnes per year.
The freight airline also saves fuel by using
updated taxiing times and an optimized
selection of runways at Frankfurt Airport.
Yet the most significant contribution to fuel
conservation in the years ahead will come
from fan blade recontouring. The leadingedge contours of the thrust-producing
engine fan blades are progressively eroded
in daily operations. Polishing these contours
improves the fan blades’ aerodynamics,
which in turn increases an engine’s efficiency
by 0.4 percent. As a result, Lufthansa Cargo
will be able to conserve about 1,600 tonnes
of kerosene per year.

Cyclean®, the water-based engine wash developed by Lufthansa Technik, saves airlines time,
maintenance costs and above all fuel. The company is researching the use of alternative blasting
materials, such as CO2 dry ice pellets, to make engine cleanings possible in permafrost regions as well.

Lufthansa Technik
For many years, Lufthansa Technik has
worked on making flying more efficient
through its innovations. In this spirit the
company developed the Cyclean® engine
wash which saves time, maintenance costs
and above all fuel. At the beginning of
2015 the 40,000th engine wash was carried out. The water-based procedure can
now be used in temperatures down to -10
degrees Celsius thanks to further development (see page 10, From “sharkskin” to
TaxiBot: Innovations at Lufthansa Technik).
Another example of an innovative idea from
Lufthansa Technik that has found its way
into everyday aircraft maintenance is the
overhaul of turbine blades in CFM56-5C
and CF6 engines. The background is that
the turbine blades’ edges roughen with
time as a result of erosion. Their performance decreases due to wear, while kerosene consumption increases. The overhaul
of these parts involves computer-guided
abrasive finishing of the edges at Lufthansa
Technik, so that they function as efficiently
as new ones, which saves the airline the
expense of replacement blades.
In the framework of the research project
FAMOS, Airbus and Lufthansa Technik, in

cooperation with other partners, are developing a highly automated system for
cleaning, stripping, painting and applying
aerodynamic aircraft surfaces by 2017. The
surfaces, which are modeled on the structure of sharkskin, save about one percent
of kerosene, lighten the burden on the
environment and lower operating costs.

Lufthansa CityLine
As the first Group airline to do so, Lufthansa
CityLine systematically uses actual flight data
to improve efficiency in flight operations.
Among these in-flight data are location
information such as longitude and latitude
as well as central parameters such as
altitude, speed and fuel consumption.
Compiled, this data helps the airline to
operate flights more efficiently. To accomplish this goal, intelligent software interlinks
three dimensions: the characteristics of the
planned flight, the actual flight and the
most economical flight. On basis of this
broad scope of data, flight routings can be
further optimized or the required quantity of
reserve fuel can be calculated even more
accurately, for example.

50 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Energy and resource management
Numerous initiatives for greater efficiency

Sustainable business practices and the sparing use of natural resources are
not contradictions for the Lufthansa Group. Over the past years, the Group
has steadily delivered impulses for innovations which benefit not only the
environment, but also the entire aviation industry. In 2014, the Lufthansa Group
again advanced numerous initiatives to further increase its energy and
resource efficiency on the ground and in the air, as the following examples
from everyday practice show.

Environmentally compatible air transport
starts on the ground. Therefore, an effective
lever for more energy and resource efficiency is researching and implementing

electro-mobility for aircraft taxiing and
towing on the apron – an area in which the
Group is active in numerous ways. All initiatives support the goals of the International

The TaxiBot hybrid aircraft tug allows pilots to tow the aircraft to the runway
under their own command by using the Pilot Control Mode.

Air Transport Association (IATA) to reduce
CO2 emissions on the basis of the established four pillar strategy (see page 43).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 51

Electromobility at Frankfurt Airport

En route to green
handling: E-PORT AN
The Lufthansa Group is a partner of the
E-PORT AN initiative, which is committed to
a sustainable reduction of emissions at the
Frankfurt aviation hub. The goal in the area
of aircraft handling is to replace mobility
supported by internal combustion engines
with electro-mobility whenever it is sensible
and possible. For this purpose, E-PORT AN
considers all ground traffic, meaning aircraft taxiing to their takeoff and gate positions, as well as the movements of more
than 1,000 vehicles related to ground services, taking passengers, freight and catering to aircraft.
In addition to the Lufthansa Group, the
airport operator Fraport AG, the state
government of Hessen and the Model
Region Electro-Mobility Rhine-Main participate in E-PORT AN. The initiative, which
was awarded the “Lighthouse project
E-mobility” by Germany’s federal government in 2013, is supported by the Federal
Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure. Technische Universität Darmstadt and
others provide the scientific supervision of
this joint project. In April 2014, E-PORT AN
won the renowned GreenTec Award in the
aviation category. The Lufthansa Group
participates with the following projects in
E-PORT AN:
TaxiBot: Hybrid aircraft tug receives
EASA certification
An important contribution to reducing fuel
consumption and emissions in airport
settings comes from the TaxiBot. This diesel-electric hybrid tug can be controlled
from the cockpit and maneuvers aircraft to

The eSchlepper diesel-electric hybrid aircraft tug is
particularly suited for environmentally friendly maintenance
and positioning tows of large passenger aircraft.

the runway for takeoff without thrust from
their engines (see page 62, Balance 2014).
In 2014, the European Aviation Safety
Agency (EASA) certified this innovative
vehicle. One year after the start of the test
phase, three TaxiBots are in operation in
regular handling settings at Frankfurt Airport.
TaxiBot is based on technology patented
by Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI), in
whose development Lufthansa LEOS participated. In early 2015, the subsidiary of
Lufthansa Technik and IAI signed a declaration of intent for the certification tests with
wide-body aircraft. Initial tests with a Boeing
747-400 are expected to begin in January
2016 in Frankfurt.
eSchlepper: First prototype
arrived in Frankfurt
The eSchlepper is also a towbarless aircraft
tug equipped with diesel-electric hybrid
drive. It is particularly intended for environ-

mentally friendly maintenance and positioning tows of large passenger aircraft such
as the Airbus A380 or the Boeing 747-8.
It is expected that the eSchlepper will help
cut the related CO2 emissions by 70 percent. Simultaneously, fuel costs are to fall
by more than 60 percent and maintenance
costs by more than 50 percent. In May
2015, Lufthansa LEOS received the first
prototype of the tractor it developed jointly
with Kalmar Motor AB.
Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group is driving
the projects eTaxi and eLift forward. The
latter is a future-oriented catering lift truck
that is being developed under the supervision of Lufthansa Sky Chefs on the basis of
an electrically powered truck chassis (see
from page 61, Balance 2014).
www.e-port-an.de

52 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Other projects
In addition to its involvement in E-PORT
AN, the Lufthansa Group participated in
other initiatives to promote electro-mobility
in 2014. For example, LSG Sky Chefs now
operates ten gas-driven lift-trucks at
Frankfurt Airport that are based on the
Mercedes-Benz Econic model with Natural
Gas Technology (NGT). Moreover, the
Lufthansa subsidiary ensures that newly
acquired vehicles meet current emissions
standards (see page 83, Balance 2013).
And Lufthansa Cargo acquired another
ten energy-efficient electric forklifts of the
latest generation during the reporting year
(see page 64, Balance 2014).
First e-charging station for employees
with electric cars
Since early 2015, Lufthansa Group employees in Frankfurt benefit from a charging
station for their electric cars. This has
become possible thanks to a pilot project
in which Lufthansa cooperates with Süwag,
RWE and Goethe University. The new
e-filling station offers two charging bays.
Accompanying workshops ensure the link
between science and practice. The pilot
project will run until December 2015.
With the intention of facilitating the transfer
of know-how and best-practice examples
within the Company, the Lufthansa Group
set up an internal energy forum in February
2014. The event is aimed at energy experts
from all Company areas and in the future
will be held on a regular basis. In addition,
the Lufthansa Group’s environmental
experts regularly exchange information at
the Company-wide Environmental Forum.
In January 2015, participants discussed
the new EU Energy Efficiency Directive,
among other items (see insert at right).

Emphasis on waste
management
As the worldwide market leader in airline catering and the management of all
in-flight services, LSG Sky Chefs takes
advantage of all options to recycle as
much waste material as possible and to
reduce waste quantities. The base for
waste management is a comprehensive
system of performance indicators (see
page 63, Balance 2014).
Recycling on the ground
By implementing the “Zero Waste to Landfill” (ZLF) program the Lufthansa subsidiary
aims at recycling 100 percent of its waste
materials at all 41 stations in the United

States by 2015 (see page 63, Balance
2014). By the end of 2014, 35 LSG locations had recycled a total of 11,469.54
tonnes of waste materials. Since the start
of ZLF in spring 2013, this raised the overall total to 20,163.81 tonnes of waste.
Recycling on board
National laws and local regulations determine worldwide how waste materials are
handled on board and on the ground. LSG
Sky Chefs aims at exceeding legal requirements and reducing waste quantities to
the unavoidable minimum. The Company
distinguishes three types of waste worldwide: recyclable on-board waste materials, non-recyclable on-board waste materials and other waste materials (see page
84, Balance 2013).

Effects of the EU
Energy Efficiency Directive
On December 4, 2012, the EU Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) took
effect. It is to be ratified by EU member states to become national law.
In Germany, this step followed in April 2015. With help from the EED,
the European Union aims to lower the consumption of primary energy
by 20 percent by 2020. To this end, non-SMEs (small and mediumsized enterprises) in Germany are obligated to carry out energy audits
by December 5, 2015, and subsequently at least every four years. This
obligation applies to Deutsche Lufthansa AG and – depending on the
legal requirements in other EU countries – also to EU subsidiaries in
which the Group holds at least a 25-percent stake. Group-wide, this
affects about 250 companies. In Germany, exemptions from energy
audits apply to those companies that already have a certified energy
management system according to ISO 50001 or an environmental
management system according to EMAS III or will have started one by
December 2015. At Lufthansa, the timely implementation of the Energy
Efficiency Directive is managed by the energy experts of the department
Group Infrastructure Commercial in cooperation with the department
Group Environmental Issues and the business segments.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 53

Initiative “Fly Greener”
Concern for the environment was also the
inspiration for the Group-wide initiative “Fly
Greener”, which was launched in Munich in
2014 by Munich-based Cabin Crew Manager Rebecca Emmerling. “Fly Greener”
aims at avoiding waste in flight operations
in particular and considers the entire waste
chain – from loading to separating waste
materials on board to disposing of waste
on the ground. In addition, awareness of
how to conserve resources is to be further
raised among flight attendants by means
of communications and “Fly Greener”

Ambassadors. To generate synergy effects
during the implementation phase, the
Group airlines regularly exchange information on the subject. The initiative also maintains close contact with the department
Operations Efficiency and Strategy. For
example, on test flights between March
17 and April 30, 2015 in Munich, “Fly
Greener” checked the returns of beverages
in Economy Class together with LSG Sky
Chefs on two selected routes. The results
are to provide input for further optimization
measures.

Waste separation saves disposal costs
Remarkable ecological and economic
successes are also achieved by Lufthansa
Cargo. The logistics specialist managed to
cut its waste disposal costs from previously
up to 80,000 euros per year to zero. This is
due to consistent waste separation, which
generates higher revenues from materials
recycling. Active recycling has also been
a long tradition at Lufthansa Technik. The
Company has separated waste materials
for more than 20 years and achieves a
recycling quota of more than 70 percent.

The “Fly Greener” innovation workshop 2015 was held in green surroundings at the Allianz Arena in Munich.

54 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Active noise protection
Comprehensive commitment produces
audible successes
The airlines of the Lufthansa Group set milestones worldwide for responsible
mobility – also when it comes to active noise protection. They are active
in many ways to continuously reduce the inevitable noise emissions in the
vicinity of airports.

Noise contours compared
(B 747-400 vs. B 747-8 and B 777-9X)
For each of the contours shown, the intensity
of sound at takeoff is 85 decibels.

10 km

– 30 %
8 km

– 40 %
6 km

4 km

2 km

The Lufthansa Group’s activities span the
entire scope from investments in the most
modern aircraft to retrofitting of the existing
fleet with noise-reducing technologies to
noise research. In addition, there is the
development of new flight procedures for
approach and departure in cooperation with
system partners as well as a constructive
dialogue with people living near airports
and other interest groups (see page 8,
Balance 2014, More quietly into the future).
The largest fleet modernization program in
the history of the Lufthansa Group (see
page 28) contributes significantly to lowering noise emissions and lessening the
burden on people living near airports. 602
of 605 aircraft in the Lufthansa Group’s
active fleet fulfill the stringent requirements
of the Chapter 4 noise limits of the International Civil Aviation Organization, which
have been in force since 2006 for new
aircraft (see page 114).

Vortex generators:
Retrofit for the
A320 fleet
At the beginning of February 2014, Lufthansa
became the first airline worldwide to start
operations with a new Airbus A320 equipped with so-called vortex generators. Since
then, all newly delivered aircraft have been
equipped with this part, which reduces
noise by up to 5 decibels during the
approach phase between ten and 17 kilometers before touchdown. At greater distances from an airport the effect is even
more pronounced, according to Airbus.
Aircraft in the Airbus A320 family have two
fuel-tank pressure equalization vents on the
underside of each wing. In flight, the air
flow passing over these cavities generates
unpleasant whistling sounds, similar to
blowing across the opening of a glass
bottle. Vortex generators installed in front of

Point of
brakerelease

MTOW
First flight

Boeing
747-400
395 t
1989

Boeing
747-8
442 t
2012

Boeing
777-9X
351 t
~ 2020

The noise footprint of a Boeing 747-8 on takeoff is, despite its 10% higher maximum takeoff weight, about 30% smaller than that
of the Boeing 747-400. The Boeing 777-9X ordered by Lufthansa will have a noise footprint that is about 40% smaller than that of
the Boeing 747-400, according to the manufacturer’s specifications. The chart shows the 85 dB maximum level contours for
a takeoff according to standard Lufthansa takeoff procedures (modATA) and with the takeoff weights as shown.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 55

Flying more quietly: The vortex generators
produce an air ﬂow in front of the fuel-tank pressure
equalization vents that effectively prevents
sounds of an unpleasant frequency.

these cavities prevent the generation of
these sounds. Together with the German
Aerospace Center (DLR) Lufthansa developed such parts for the ﬁrst time and tested
them successfully. When the reﬁt kits
became available from Airbus in fall 2014,
Lufthansa – again as the ﬁrst airline – started updating its existing ﬂeet. Of these 150
aircraft, 100 had already undergone the
reﬁt by end of June 2015.
Thanks to this innovation, more than 200
Lufthansa aircraft will ﬂy even more quietly
in the future. Equipping these aircraft with
vortex generators is one of the most comprehensive voluntary measures in the area
of active noise protection by the Lufthansa
Group, lessening the burden in particular
on people and towns near the large hubs
in Frankfurt and Munich.

Improved procedures
for approach and
takeoff phases
New noise-reducing procedures for
approach and takeoff as well as changed
ﬂight routings have also contributed over
the past year to lighten the burden on
people near airports. A new precision
approach system, the Ground Based
Augmentation System (GBAS), promises
further improvements in Frankfurt, where
Lufthansa, Fraport and Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS) ofﬁcially inaugurated it

on September 3, 2014. For the ﬁrst time,
GBAS makes satellite-supported precision
approaches possible at an international
hub airport in Europe. Over the mid- and
long-term, this system opens up opportunities for the development of a myriad of new
approach routes that will further reduce
noise exposure.
Beyond that, the state government of
Hessen and the aviation industry have
agreed the voluntary introduction of noise
respites in an “Alliance for noise pauses”.
Accordingly, Lufthansa, Fraport and DFS
have implemented a seven-hour noise
pause at Frankfurt Airport since April 23,
2015. During west-wind operations, some
runways are not used between 5 and 6 a.m.
and between 10 and 11 p.m., giving up to
40,000 people living east of the airport a
respite from aircraft noise. Frankfurt is the
ﬁrst international hub airport to have introduced a noise pause in addition to the
six-hour curfew for night ﬂights. Experts at
the Lufthansa Group made a signiﬁcant
contribution to the development of this
concept. The trial operation, which will last

one year, is to see if the noise reductions
occur as forecasted and if punctuality in
ﬂight operations can be maintained. With
this joint voluntary agreement, airport, air
trafﬁc control, airlines, aviation associations and the state government of Hessen
intend to further reduce the burden of noise
emissions from ﬂight operations at the
Frankfurt hub on people living close by.
The “Alliance for noise breaks” complements the “Alliance for noise protection”
agreed in 2012 (see page 88, Balance
2013 and page 87, Balance 2012). At that
time, the state government of Hessen and
representatives of the aviation industry
jointly deﬁned a number of innovative
measures to protect people living near the
airport from aircraft noise. This includes
the retroﬁt of the A320 aircraft with vortex
generators and phasing out the Boeing
737 aircraft, planned to be completed by
mid-2016. At the beginning of 2015, more
than 50 percent of these aircraft had
already left the ﬂeet.

56 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility

Research for
quieter flying
The Lufthansa Group has been active in
noise research since 1999. The goal is to
continuously make air traffic more quiet
– also by measures applied to aircraft in the
existing fleet (such as vortex generators).
To achieve this complex and demanding
task, the aviation company closely cooperates with partners in industry, administrations, universities and research institutions.
For example, the Lufthansa Group heads
up the aviation research program that is
part of the MODAL project (Models and
Data for the Development of Active Noise
Protection Measures in Aviation) of
Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economics
and Technology. This research project
primarily serves to better understand the
noise emissions of different types of aircraft.
Furthermore, the participating experts
intend to improve the assessment of active
noise protection measures by means of
more accurate calculations. In the context
of MODAL, further flyover measurements
with two Lufthansa Cargo Boeing MD-11Fs
took place in late June 2015 at MagdeburgCochstedt Airport to test noise-reducing
modifications to engines and landing gear.
Moreover, the Lufthansa Group supports
the noise effect study NORAH (NoiseRelated Annoyance, Cognition and Health).
This research, designed with a broad
scope and based on scientific methods,
examines the effects of noise from air, rail
and road traffic on cognitive abilities, health
and quality of life for people living in areas
affected by such noise. Initial results were
presented in November 2014. The full
NORAH report will be published in the
second half of 2015.

The Lufthansa Group’s environmental experts
regularly exchange information at the Environmental
Forum, for example on active noise protection.

Ever fewer people affected by
aircraft noise
For many people, flying has long since become a matter of course. For
example, passenger numbers at German airports nearly tripled between
1991 and 2014 to 208 million per year. By contrast, according to new
noise maps produced by the Federal Ministry for the Environment, the
number of people affected by aircraft noise in Germany declined from
746,500 in 2007 to 738,000 in 2012. And that even though the Ministry
added data from two more airports in comparison to the first measurements made in 2007.
Information such as this and further comprehensive explanations of the
aviation industry’s commitment to noise protection have been available
since July 2014 on the new aircraft noise portal of the German Aviation
Association (BDL).
www.fluglaerm-portal.de

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 57

Commitment to science
The Lufthansa Group expands its support
for climate research

For more than 20 years, the Lufthansa Group has been a reliable partner for
climate research. Its aircraft are the ideal platforms for scientific measuring
instruments. The data they collect at cruising altitude around the world is of
particular importance for understanding the Earth’s climate. This year, the
Company has once again expanded its support for climate research. Through
its commitment to science, the Lufthansa Group contributes significantly to
establishing a worldwide measuring infrastructure for the observation of the
Earth’s atmosphere through civil aviation. Currently, the aviation group supports several important climate research projects.

IAGOS: Lufthansa
equipped second Airbus
with flying climate
research laboratory

In 1994, the Lufthansa Group began
its commitment to climate research
with the project MOZAIC (Measurement of ozone, water vapor, carbon
monoxide and nitrogen oxides aboard
Airbus in-service Aircraft). Since then,
the MOZAIC measuring devices have
been replaced by IAGOS instruments.
In March 2015, a second Lufthansa
Airbus was equipped as a “flying IAGOS
laboratory”.

To support the climate research project
IAGOS (In-service Aircraft for a Global
Observing System) managed by Forschungszentrum Jülich (Jülich Research
Center), the Lufthansa Group equipped
a second aircraft with special scientific
measuring instruments. Since March 2015,
the Lufthansa Airbus A330-300 with the
registration D-AIKO has collected data
concerning atmospheric trace elements
and cloud components at cruising altitude
on each flight. This data is used by
numerous research institutions around the
world. The first IAGOS aircraft, the Lufthansa
Airbus A340-300 “Viersen”, has been in
operation since July 7, 2011.
www.iagos.org

CARIBIC: Ten years of
support from Lufthansa
In addition, the Lufthansa Group supports
the research project CARIBIC (Civil Aircraft
for the Regular Investigation of the atmosphere Based on an Instrument Container).
Since December 2004, the Lufthansa Airbus
A340-600 “Leverkusen” has been equipped
for several days each month with a measuring container that is unique worldwide. It
simultaneously records data concerning
over 50 gases and particle compounds. In
2014, the experts at Lufthansa Technik
replaced the measuring probe for the first
time, after more than 340 measuring flights.
Previously stationed in Frankfurt, the
“Leverkusen” has been based in Munich
since August 2014.
www.caribic-atmospheric.com

Product
Responsibility
Continuously increasing customer satisfaction is one
of our strategic cornerstones. We constantly optimize
our products along the entire service chain.

1,000,000

9,000

16,000

euros a day on average have been
invested to refit the cabins of Lufthansa
long-haul aircraft since 2011.

medical doctors worldwide support the
Lufthansa program “Doctor on Board”.

tonnes of CO2 were offset voluntarily by
our passengers in 2014.

60 // Product Responsibility

Safety, health, satisfaction
Product Responsibility across the Lufthansa Group

Product Responsibility means for the Lufthansa Group that all business
segments and companies continuously review and improve their offers and
services along the entire service chain. It is of fundamental importance for
the Group’s business success to increase customer satisfaction continuously and to guarantee the safety and health of passengers, crews and employees in the most effective way. It is equally important to protect personal
data with the greatest of care.

Increasing customer satisfaction on a permanent basis is one of the Lufthansa
Group’s strategic cornerstones. In this area,
the Group counts above all on quality and
innovation, which are two of the central
action fields in the strategic program “7to1
– Our way forward” (see page 19, Doing

business responsibly and sustainably). The
aviation company’s goal is to become the
recognized quality leader in all markets
and business segments and to develop
Lufthansa German Airlines into the Western
world’s first five-star airline. To this end, the
airline will have completed the most com-

prehensive modernization of cabin interiors
in its history by fall 2015. Regular customer
surveys and the further development of the
feedback management processes also play
an important role in increasing passenger
satisfaction (see page 62).

The aspect of “Service and Hospitality”
in customer orientation will be given even
more emphasis in the future.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 61

For the Lufthansa Group, flight safety and
health protection have the very highest
priority. With the crash of Germanwings
flight 4U9525 on March 24, 2015, an
emergency situation arose for the Lufthansa
Group. In response, the Lufthansa Group
airlines introduced a new procedure for
cockpit occupancy directly following the
accident. Under the new procedure, two
authorized persons must now be present in
the cockpit at all times for the duration of a
flight. As a further precautionary measure,
the Lufthansa Group immediately expanded
its internal flight safety structures. Beyond
this, the aviation company has continuously

extended its health-related offers for passengers for many years and has successively set benchmarks in the area of cabin
air quality (see page 66).
Data protection and data security are the
basis for a trusting business relationship.
Daily, the Lufthansa Group companies process enormous volumes of data and in so
doing always handle personal data with the
utmost care. In addition, such data are
protected and secured in accordance with
the most stringent standards and the very
latest technical norms (see page 67).

The Lufthansa Group’s commitment in the
area of voluntary CO2 compensation is
firmly anchored in the Group-wide Strategic
Environmental Program 2020; moreover, it
is an integral part of the aviation industry’s
four-pillar strategy for climate protection
(see page 42). The options offered by the
Group airlines Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian
Airlines and by the Lufthansa subsidiary
AirPlus all do their part to keep the environmental impact of flying as low as possible
(see page 68).

62 // Product Responsibility

Customer satisfaction

The Lufthansa Group will place an even greater emphasis on its customer
orientation in all business segments. On this path, a key role is given to
the topics of innovation and quality, which are central action fields in the
strategic program “7to1 – Our way forward”. Carsten Spohr, in his role as
Chairman of the Executive Board, has assumed direct responsibility for the
Group’s planned innovation and quality offensive.

Important building blocks in this strategy
are continuous investments in quality as
well as products and services that are even
more clearly aligned with individual customer
preferences. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group
will invest 500 million euros for innovations
by 2020 in order to further optimize the
quality of its product and services portfolio
(see page 6, Innovation – The key to a
successful future). Likewise, the aviation
company is consistently pursuing its fleet
modernization with investments in modern
and efficient aircraft with low fuel-burn
profiles (see page 28).

The Lufthansa Group’s goal is to achieve
quality leadership in all market and business
segments. At the same time, the Company
is working on personalizing its offers more
clearly as part of its quality offensive, for
example with the project SMILE (see page
14, Digital innovations for a perfect travel
experience).
The initiatives to improve quality are already
advancing successfully at all airlines and
companies. For example, Lufthansa German Airlines stresses its commitment to
becoming the first five-star airline in the
western hemisphere and to offering all

The new travel class Premium Economy aboard Lufthansa’s long-haul aircraft:
In comparison with Economy Class, this seat offers up to 50 percent more space.

passengers an excellent service and a
significantly improved travel experience.
Skytrax, the industry-leading airline rating
system, will be evaluating this aspiration
by means of a comprehensive audit until
early 2016. In this context, Lufthansa
has launched the most far-reaching cabin
modernization program in its history and will
refit its entire long-haul fleet by fall 2015.
On its more than 100 long-haul aircraft
about 39,000 seats are being replaced,
modified or in the case of new aircraft
installed at delivery – in Economy Class,
the new Premium Economy Class,
Business Class and First Class.
New travel class Premium Economy
Since November 22, 2014, Lufthansa has
offered its customers a new travel class:
Premium Economy. Its central feature is a
new, wider and more comfortable seat that
gives passengers up to 50 percent more
space. Additionally, each seat has its own
armrests, which ensures a more private
sphere. The new product is complemented
by more comfort and higher-quality service.
Premium Economy class seats will in the
future represent about 10 percent of the
total seat capacity on long-haul aircraft.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 63

Lufthansa is installing between 21 (Airbus
A330-300) and 52 (Airbus A380-800) new
seats per aircraft. Aboard the Boeing 747-8
the Company is dedicating 32 seats to
Premium Economy. It is expected that
about 1.5 million passengers will travel in
this new travel class per year.
Focus on service optimizations
Many topics are being addressed in the
framework of the improvements the Company is introducing for its passengers. This
includes an optimized premium check-in
and enhancements of the transfer services
at the Frankfurt and Munich hubs. Moreover,
there are higher-quality amenity kits (pouches with comfort items) in First and Business Class as well as increased quality and
greater diversity of food and beverages at
the Business Class Lounges.
In the context of service optimization it is
above all the projects in the “Service and
Hospitality” segment that play a significant
role as they aim at intensifying the personal
customer contact on the ground and in the
cabin. A key project on the way to becoming
a five-star airline is therefore the “Signature
Service” in Business Class. Here, the service sequence is to resemble an excellent
restaurant experience with the focus on the
guest’s wishes. This more personalized
in-flight service is characterized above all by
accentuating the flight attendants’ role as
hosts and thus their service responsibility for
“their” passengers.

Regular customer
surveys
To measure its customers’ satisfaction, the
Lufthansa Group regularly conducts online
surveys that cover the entire passenger
experience and service chain. Specific
scales show the performances with which
customers are especially satisfied and
which ones might need improvements.

Lufthansa German Airlines is actively committed
to becoming the first five-star airline in the western hemisphere.

At Lufthansa Passenger Airline, for
example, such customer ratings are fed
into the Customer Profile Index (CPI), which
represents a weighted average evaluation
of various services from a passenger perspective. In 2014, this value was 7,322
points. Due to a change in survey methodology, a direct comparison with the previous year’s CPI score is not possible. As a
parallel measure, Net Promoter Scores
(NPS®) have been determined regularly
since 2014. Customers are asked whether
they would recommend their current travel
experience with Lufthansa to friends or
acquaintances. To calculate an NPS, the
percentage of passengers who are less
than enthusiastic about their experience
(Detractors) is subtracted from the percentage of those who would strongly recommend it to others (Promoters).
In 2014, Swiss cooperated with scientists
at St. Gallen University to determine how
satisfied passengers are with “green”
products, such as CO2 compensation, as
an additional offer and what potential such
products might have. The survey showed
that 14 percent of all passengers are
particularly interested in such products.
At the same time, there is a general willingness to pay a higher price for green
products. According to the survey there is
a continuously growing segment of cus-

tomers who place an emphasis on environmental protection and sustainability.
A further central aspect concerning customer satisfaction is how the Lufthansa
Group handles its customer feedback
management and dialogue with passengers. One of the Group’s principles is that
employees respond to each customer
reaction worldwide as quickly as possible.
Under the umbrella of the Passenger
Dialogue Services program the aviation
company realigned its feedback management in 2013. It is now based on the four
pillars of reachability, speed, problem
solving and learning from feedback (see
page 73, Balance 2014). The goal is to be
“best in class” in handling customer reactions. Moreover, customer comments are
an important basis for the Company for
further improving customer satisfaction.
Lufthansa German Airlines alone receives
about 200,000 valuable customer observations via diverse communications channels.

1 Net Promoter® and NPS® are registered trademarks
and Net Promoter Score and Net Promoter System are
trademarks of Bain & Company, Satmetrix Systems and
Fred Reichheld

64 // Product Responsibility

Flight safety and health protection
have top priority for the Lufthansa Group

For the Lufthansa Group, the safety and health of passengers, crews and
employees rank first and foremost. With the crash of Germanwings flight
4U9525 on March 24, 2015, the Lufthansa Group faced an emergency the
like of which we all hoped would never occur. Germanwings and Lufthansa
announced immediately their intentions to do everything within their power
to accompany and support the family members and friends of the accident
victims in the best possible way.

In coordination with Germany’s federal
aviation authority, the other German airlines
and the German aviation association, the
Lufthansa Group airlines introduced a new
procedure for cockpit occupancy immediately following the accident. Under the new
procedure, two authorized persons must
be present in the cockpit at all times for the
duration of a flight.
As a further precautionary measure, the
Lufthansa Group has expanded its safety
structures. Supplementary to the safety
pilots at the individual member airlines, a
new group-wide function was created and
assigned comprehensive responsibility for
examining and further refining all processes relevant to flight safety. Alongside his
current function as safety pilot at Deutsche
Lufthansa AG, Captain Werner Maas has
held the new post of Group Safety Pilot
since March 27, 2015. In this new capacity, he reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer of Deutsche Lufthansa AG,
Carsten Spohr.

For the purposes of flight safety, all airlines
within the Lufthansa Group have Safety
Management Systems (SMS) that follow
the requirements of the International Civil
Aviation Organization (ICAO). The aims of
these systems are to assess the safety
level of flight operations, to detect and
evaluate any safety hazards in advance,
and to lower the risk of accidents by
implementing suitable countermeasures
(see page 74, Balance 2014).

IOSA Audit –
The most comprehensive safety standard in
aviation
An independent assessment of the safety
standards at the airlines within the
Lufthansa Group is carried out every two
years by means of the IATA Operational
Safety Audit (IOSA). Internationally, IOSA is

Special Assistance Team
The Lufthansa Group has a qualified Special Assistance Team (SAT) at
its disposal. About 1,500 employees from different companies across
the Lufthansa Group have voluntarily completed training and continuing
education units to be knowledgeable in providing “psychological first
aid” in the event of an emergency situation. Only a short time after the
Germanwings accident, more than 200 SAT members gave support to
family members.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 65

the most widely recognized and accepted
standard for flight safety. All airlines within
the Lufthansa Group fulfill the IATA safety
standards in their entirety. In 2007, Lufthansa
Cargo became the very first IOSA-registered
freight airline worldwide. Ever since that first
successful completion of an intensive audit,
the Lufthansa Group’s freight specialist has
been trailblazer in the area of flight safety
standards for cargo airlines.

The Patient Transport Compartment (PTC) – a
unique service worldwide – was jointly developed by
Lufthansa’s Medical Service and Lufthansa Technik.

In 2014, Lufthansa became the first
Lufthansa Group airline to be audited in
accordance with the new Enhanced IOSA
Standard, which is set to become mandatory from September 2015.
www.iata.org/iosa

Broad portfolio
of medical offers
To meet the rising demand for medical
transport and the clarification of passengers’ medical issues, the Lufthansa Group
has for some time continuously expanded
the health-related services it offers customers (see page 75, Balance 2014). For
this reason, the aviation company’s Medical Service has offered the Passenger
Medical Care division since 2009, among
other options.
With the so-called Patient Transport Compartment (PTC) Lufthansa offers a service
that is unique worldwide. The technical
equipment of this “airborne intensive care
unit” leaves nothing to be desired in comparison with those in hospitals and allows
seamless medical care and monitoring of
patients in critical conditions. The spacious

interior offers room for one patient couch,
two seats for a physician and a Lufthansa
escort (PTC Medical Crew Member) as well
as for all medical equipment, medications
and consumable supplies required.
In comparison with conventional ambulance aircraft, the use of the PTC offers
numerous advantages. For example,
patients benefit from time savings of up to
50 percent as the PTC module is fitted
aboard a commercial airliner. Since June
2015, the PTC has been available on all
Lufthansa Group long-haul flights leaving
from or arriving in Frankfurt and Munich.
Lufthansa’s Medical Service developed
the PTC jointly with Lufthansa Technik. The
central contact point for advice on and
coordination of all patient transport aboard
Lufthansa aircraft is the Medical Operations Center (MOC). Up to 100 intensivecare patients are transported in the PTC
every year.

With the program “Doctor on Board”, which
currently consists of more than 9,000 physicians worldwide, Lufthansa again assumes
responsibility for its passengers (see page
75, Balance 2014). In addition, the Company puts passengers in contact with
selected panel doctors at all of its destinations (a fee is charged) should they need
urgent medical attention.
www.LH.com/uk/en/Travelling-healthily

Austrian Airlines and Swiss also offer their
passengers a broad scope of medical
services. For example, Swiss passengers
may consult the “Health and travel” guide
online to access information on “Flying
and health”. Moreover, this Lufthansa
Group airline was certified in May 2014 by
the foundation ECARF (European Center
for Allergy Research Foundation) as the
first airline worldwide to cater for allergy
sufferers.

66 // Product Responsibility

Study on cabin air
quality on short-haul
flights as well
The Lufthansa Group also sets milestones
in the area of cabin air quality. To guarantee the best possible air quality and to
identify hazards from pollutants at an early
stage or to rule them out entirely, the Company conducted a comprehensive series of
measurements in the cockpits of Airbus
A380s. The study, which drew data from
more than 800 flight hours, centered on the
use of a measuring kit jointly developed
with Hannover Medical School (MHH) and
did not show any pollutant load in a single
case (see page 75, Balance 2014). The
same applies to the occurrence of socalled smell events. The measuring kit
identifies and quantifies nearly 200 substances that could potentially be present
in cabin air.
In November 2014, the aviation company
extended the cabin air research to shorthaul Airbus A321s. Measurements of cabin
air were conducted until April 2015 and
comprised data from 44 flights within
Europe. The study’s results are expected to
be published in the course of this year.

The Laboratory Services department at Lufthansa
Technik serves customers inside and outside the
Lufthansa Group.

Laboratory Services
analyze on-board fluids

Recognized fire laboratory for aviation

Aircraft systems require a multitude of
fluids, the operational capability of which
must be checked at regular intervals. This
is the responsibility of Lufthansa Technik’s
Laboratory Services division in Frankfurt,
which looks after customers within and
outside of the Lufthansa Group. The focus
of its laboratory chemical and physical
analyses is on parameters such as appearance, acid value, density, water content,
conductivity and viscosity. The results
enable inferences to be made concerning
the condition and functionality of motor oil
and hydraulics fluids. Beyond this, the
experts also test on-board kerosene samples for pollution with germs, as this can
cause damage through corrosion.

An important safety and quality function is
also fulfilled by the five test laboratories of
Lufthansa Technik’s Central Materials Technology in Hamburg. The task of this recognized fire control institution is to test all
materials used in the construction of aircraft
for their flammability and certify them
according to the fire protection regulations
of the relevant aviation authorities. This
applies equally to serially manufactured
mass products and materials used on VIP
aircraft. Not only the Lufthansa Group
airlines rely on the expertise of Central
Materials Technology at Lufthansa Technik,
but also aircraft manufacturers, airline
operators and suppliers. The background
to this is that only a few companies maintain their own fire control laboratories and
are allowed to issue aviation certifications.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 67

Data protection and data security

Careful and secure handling of personal data is the basis for trusting business
relationships. Protecting data shields the Lufthansa Group’s customers, employees, shareholders, and suppliers from violation of their privacy rights through
improper use of sensitive personal data. The Lufthansa Group protects and
secures data according to the highest standards.

The Corporate Data Protection department
ensures that Germany’s Federal Data
Protection Act (FDPA) is applied across the
Lufthansa Group. It familiarizes our employees with the relevant legal provisions and
conducts regular data protection audits.
In addition, the Group’s data protection
experts advise the departments when new
systems are introduced and procedures
are designed or modified. This allows for
the coordination of data protection and
business concerns at an early stage.
The all-important first step is to make
employees and managers aware of the
risks related to data protection, so that they
are able to detect and avoid them. During
the reporting year, the emphasis of advice
was on using customer data in ways that
conform to data protection standards.
Meanwhile, the conflict between German
data protection legislation and ever-more
frequent demands for passenger information from foreign authorities remains unresolved (see page 76, Balance 2014).
Mandatory guidelines ensure
data protection
The framework for secure data handling
within the Lufthansa Group is defined by its
Data Protection Guidelines. Based on laws
such as the FDPA and established principles

of data protection, they spell out concrete
obligations regarding compliance with data
protection laws. These guidelines also
define rules to ensure Group-wide conduct
that is compliant with data protection law,
make risks related to data protection transparent, and safeguard against such risks.
An updated version of the Data Protection
Guidelines has been in effect since
December 2, 2014. In particular, the new
chapter “Responsibility for data protection
abroad” takes into better account the
rising data protection requirements in
countries outside of the EU. Furthermore,
these rules were integrated into the Group
guidelines for the purposes of handling
data relating to orders.
Data protection is the responsibility of the
Executive Board and the management of
the respective Group company. They are
assisted in the discharge of this responsibility by the Corporate Data Protection department, headed by Dr. Barbara KirchbergLennartz. As in 2013, the Lufthansa Group
recorded no significant risks or sanctionable
violations concerning the protection of personal data in 2014. Moreover, data disclosure requests and customer feedbacks were
handled in a timely fashion as a rule.

Systematic training
Training and informational measures concerning data protection are aimed at familiarizing employees and managers with the
necessity of data protection, the key
terms, the organization of data protection
within the Lufthansa Group, and specific
issues concerning individual areas.
The Web-based training course “The
fundamentals of data protection” is mandatory for many Lufthansa employees.
After signing an agreement to compliance
with data confidentiality, new hires and job
changers must complete this training
within a short time. Since September
2014, the ensuing training certificates are
valid for only three years, as opposed to
the previous five years. In addition, the
Group offers short specialized trainings
online for certain target groups to intensify
their knowledge concerning sensitive
issues and particularities in their work
areas.
Furthermore, employees can obtain
information on this subject at any time on
Corporate Data Protection’s intranet
pages. The department also reports on
current data protection topics via a weekly
internal blog.

68 // Product Responsibility

Offsetting carbon emissions

Investing billions of euros in the world’s most modern aircraft as well as
developing and introducing innovative technologies and processes are
important levers for the Lufthansa Group to conserve kerosene and limit
emissions. Yet as long as aviation depends on fossil fuels such as kerosene,
CO2 emissions cannot be avoided altogether. Therefore, the Group companies
Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines as well as the Lufthansa subsidiary
AirPlus offer their customers programs for voluntary CO2 compensation.

The aviation company’s involvement in the
voluntary offsetting of CO2 emissions is
firmly anchored in the Group’s Environmental Strategy 2020 and part of the aviation
industry’s four-pillar strategy for climate
protection (see page 42). An emissions
calculator is available on the Internet portals of all Lufthansa Group airlines. Passengers can use this calculator to determine
the individual CO2 emissions caused by
their journey and offset that amount accordingly. Calculations are made on the basis of
actual flights and take into consideration a
range of diverse parameters (see page 79,
Balance 2014).
The offer to fly in a climate-neutral way
attracted the interest of the Lufthansa
Group’s customers in 2014 as well. In total,
passengers compensated emissions of
over 16,000 tonnes of CO2 (2013: over
14,000 tonnes), which corresponds to 54
flights from Frankfurt to New York with a
Lufthansa Airbus A380.
Using compensation payments from Swiss passengers, myclimate supports this project in
Kakamega, Kenya. Local materials such as clay are used for the production of efficient stoves.
Later, indigenous trees are planted where the clay was dug out of the ground.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 69

AirPlus received the myclimate Award for its
innovative product “Green Company Account”
at the travel fair ITB 2015.

Different partners,
one goal
While Lufthansa and Swiss cooperate
with the Swiss charitable climate foundation myclimate www.myclimate.org,
Austrian Airlines works with the climate
protection initiative Climate Austria
www.climateaustria.at. At myclimate,
at least 80 percent of the CO2 compensation
payments go to selected climate protection
projects in emerging and developing countries. They all have in common that they
work towards lower emissions of greenhouse gases and promote development
that is viable for the future. In addition, they
are registered under the Gold Standard,
which guarantees adherence to the highest
requirements concerning sustainability –
especially with regard to the environmental
balance sheet and social compatibility.
Climate Austria’s stringent requirements
also guarantee that the climate protection
donations from Austrian Airlines passengers
benefit only selected projects – primarily
in Austria. Here the focus is on initiatives
in the areas of energy efficiency and renewable energies. The decisive aspect is that
they avoid emissions and deliver added
positive ecological and socioeconomic
effects. In 2008, Austrian Airlines founded
Climate Austria together with Austria’s
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry,
Environment and Water Management,
Kommunalkredit Public Consulting (KPC)
and Vienna Airport.

Lufthansa Cargo
offers customer-specific
CO2 reports
Providing optimized reporting is a goal
pursued by Lufthansa Cargo. Since 2015,
the freight airline has furnished companyspecific CO2 reports to its Global and Business Partners. These carbon emissions
reports not only increase data transparency,
but they also support customers in compiling their environmental balance sheets.

AirPlus permits climateneutral business trips
Lufthansa subsidiary AirPlus, which likewise
enables its existing customers to offset their
CO2 emissions through myclimate, has also
achieved measurable success in the area
of climate-friendly products. With AirPlus
Green Reports (introduced worldwide in
2011) and AirPlus Green Company
Account (available on the German market
since 2014), two environmentally friendly
solutions already feature in the portfolio of
the world’s leading provider of business
travel payment and settlement solutions
(see page 79, Balance 2014). At ITB 2015,
the international tourism fair in Berlin, the
Green Company Account received a myclimate Award honoring AirPlus’s pioneering
role in the field of innovative and sustainable
financial products for the travel industry.

Support focuses on
sustainable projects
Numerous projects benefited in 2014 from
the voluntary climate protection donations
made by the Lufthansa Group’s customers.
For example, Climate Austria supported
inter alia a biomass heating system at
Alpenzoo Innsbruck. Long-term, the new
system will allow the zoo to avoid over 1,100
tonnes of CO2 emissions. myclimate used
compensation payments from Lufthansa
and Swiss customers inter alia to support
projects that provide locally produced,
efficient cookers to the rural populations
in certain parts of Kenya. These cookers
replace traditional open fires, promote
health, and prevent the clear-cutting of
further forest areas. Donations from AirPlus
customers were passed on by myclimate to
a communal reforestation project in Nicaragua. There, newly planted forests protect
communities of small-holding farmers from
seasonal drought and flooding.
http://lufthansa.myclimate.org
http://swiss.myclimate.org
www.climateaustria.at
www.airplus.com

Social
Responsibility
Motivated, highly qualiﬁed employees are decisive
for the Company’s business success. As a socially
responsible employer, we support our staff with
transparent structures and processes as well as an
attractive work environment.

143

16

9

nationalities are represented worldwide at
the Lufthansa Group.

percent is the share of women at the
management level in Germany.

dimensions form our new talent management philosophy.

72 // Social Responsibility

Seizing the opportunities of change:
Thinking the future, meeting new challenges,
living out responsibility
The world is spinning faster and faster: Megatrends such as technological
change, the digitalization of all areas of life and the constant increase in
complexity are leaving their mark on all levels of society. The same is true
of developments such as demographic change, growing globalization or
the new demands being placed on the working world, to name but a few.
Individually and collectively, they change the way in which companies do
business and how employees work and communicate.

The Lufthansa Group is determined to seize
the opportunities produced by change in
order to strengthen its competitive position
and secure its future viability. To achieve
this goal, the aviation company is counting
inter alia on a personnel strategy that tackles current and future challenges in a courageous and consistent manner. The Group
launched initiatives as far back as 2012 to
develop its corporate and management

cultures in a targeted manner across all
business segments. This includes the
project “Cultural Transition and Leadership”,
which combined all approaches, resources
and measures concerning change management, transformation support and leadership development. In 2013, Lufthansa
reformulated its personnel strategy, which
has served as the basis for all HR initiatives
launched since.

“Culture and Leadership” – A Group-wide
strategic action area
On July 9, 2014, the Executive Board
named “Culture and Leadership” as one of
seven fields of action within the strategic
Group program “7to1 – Our way forward”
(see page 18). This new dimension was
added in turn to the strategic program
“Forward with HR”. The focus on “Culture
and Leadership” reflects the conviction that
a modern, feedback-oriented leadership
culture is essential in order to give timely
responses to external factors of influence
and to be perceived as an attractive employer in future as well. It likewise lays the
foundation for motivated, entrepreneuriallyminded employees who are able to question familiar processes and to modify them
in the Company’s interest in a future-proof

HR Campaign Days at the Lufthansa Aviation Center
at Frankfurt Airport: On October 14-15, 2014, internal
and external experts briefed managers and employees at numerous information stands about career
planning, reorientation and current trends
in the working world.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 73

manner. To accelerate this transformation
process, the Lufthansa Group concentrated
on the following aspects during the reporting
year. These measures are accompanied by
made-to-measure change management.
Sustainable implementation of the new
leadership principles
An important building block in personnel
strategy are the five leadership principles
“Driving Business”, “Leading Change”,
“Creating Spirit”, “Fostering Talent” and
“Mastering Complexity”. They serve as a
leadership model and support the Lufthansa
Group’s managers in directing their employees and departments across the Group
according to a unified set of values. In the
course of the reporting year, a number of
measures helped to anchor the leadership
principles even more deeply within the
organization. These included the performance potential tool “Profile”.
“Profile”
At the beginning of 2014, the Lufthansa
Group launched “Profile” to provide a new
basis for assessing the talent and performance of managers. This tool is a central
instrument for employee performance
evaluations and reviews. In the interest of
the highest possible transparency, evaluations are carried out under the principle
of multiple-assessor verification by several
superiors within an area. Another innovation is that performance evaluations
according to the Leadership Principles
now consider not only the results, but also
how they have been achieved. “Profile”
is to be used Group-wide by the end of
2015. Furthermore, managers now have
a wider margin of discretion concerning
non-monetary incentives for their team
members’ individual performances. An
open dialogue ensures that employees
receive differentiated feedback concerning
work results, conduct and individual
talents at regular intervals.

“Spirit”
With “Spirit” the Lufthansa Group aims at
creating – under the roof of the Lufthansa
School of Business – made-to-measure
instruments, methods, formats and
contents that support the Company’s HR
strategy. The key idea behind this new
concept is the necessity of lifelong learning.
For this reason, “Spirit” focuses inter alia
on topics such as reflecting on personal
ways of handling change, cooperating on
strategic topics across hierarchies and
disciplines, introducing dialogue and participative formats particularly for operative
staff, expanding digitalization and using
social media.
Talent management
Since last year, the Lufthansa Group has
also applied a new talent management
philosophy guided by the principle “Every
employee has talent!” Its nine core messages provide a clear orientation concerning the aspects that the Lufthansa Group
will emphasize in future in the area of talent
management. In implementing this approach, all HR instruments and processes
are consistently assessed, adapted or
evolved (see page 84).

Strategic personnel
planning
In January 2014, the Lufthansa Group
launched its “Strategic Personnel Planning”
program with the goal of guiding and
managing risks related to demographic
changes. This not only makes an important
contribution to the early analysis of possible
discrepancies between future personnel
levels and actual personnel needs. But
it also supports the Company in securing
the personnel resources of the future by
means of appropriate measures. In a
departure from previous approaches, the
aviation company combines qualitative
and quantitative analyses in a dynamic
model that comprises a planning timeframe of 10 to 15 years. Another novelty is
that the project team acts as a Group-wide
competency center which supports the
business segments in implementing strategic personnel planning.

The Lufthansa Group’s HR strategy
The strategic program “Forward with HR” concretizes the Lufthansa
Group’s goals in the area of personnel. Developed further in 2014, these
goals are to be implemented in the years ahead by means of specifically
adapted instruments and measures:
Increasing the organization’s ability to transform
Maintaining and expanding the Company’s attractiveness as an employer
Strengthening leadership and employee commitment
Promoting sustainable and social responsibility
Advancing efficient and future-oriented talent management processes
Improving the culture of dialogue within the Lufthansa Group

74 // Social Responsibility

Interview
with Åsa Lautenberg
Vice President Corporate HR & People Strategy
Deutsche Lufthansa AG

You have been heading the department Corporate HR & People Strategy
since July 1, 2014. What challenges are
you facing?
The Lufthansa Group is going through the
greatest upheaval in its history, which
means an enormous challenge for each
employee. In the HR area, our task is to
support the ensuing process of transformation with the targeted use of modern, synchronized HR instruments. For example,
we’ve made the process of posting vacancies, filling jobs and managing performance
transparent, professional and standardized
across the Group. We aim to provide impulses in the right places in future as well,
so that our Company will be able to act
even more flexibly and cost-efficiently.
How do you intend to shift more
responsibility to employees and
managers and grant them more
freedom at the same time?
Studies show that employees today are
motivated only to a limited degree by
monetary incentives. To a much greater
degree, they are seeking a meaningful type
of work. In addition, employees observe
with a critical eye how decision-making
and communication processes and corpo-

rate values are actually lived out in the
company. That’s why in future leadership at
Lufthansa will mean above all helping
talents to develop their full potential. There
is no question that managers will clearly
have to assume a good bit more responsibility, as they must motivate and inspire
their colleagues more than ever to achieve
top performance. It is also clear that the
Lufthansa Group wants to offer solutions
that improve work-life integration and open
up individual career paths more attuned to
specific life phases. Therefore, we will be
expanding our part-time and sabbatical
offers in the course of this year.

Thus, we have not only introduced job
rotation for management positions, but also
launched a pilot project that allows employees to transfer from one Lufthansa Group
airline to another as smoothly as possible.
Have you already set some goals
for 2016?
Indeed we have. Next year, a focus area
will be the strategic project “HR Digitalization”. Here we will be investigating the jobs
of the future and evaluating which processes can be digitalized to an even greater
extent. With this project, we are also aiming
to increase efficiency further.

What are you doing to drive the
necessary cultural change forward?
Many of the changes the Lufthansa Group
has set in motion demand a rethink on the
part of employees and managers. We want
to act in more innovative, courageous and
risk-accepting ways. This assumes, for
example, that we compose our teams more
diversely in terms of age, gender, cultural
backgrounds, experience and competence, as this has proved to produce better
performance. It is also crucial to provide
creative impulses for questioning our conventional or habitual way of doing things.

Besides, we’re working on maintaining and
deepening the commitment and trust of our
employees – despite the current difficult
climate. To achieve this, it is indispensable
to establish a modern, open and less hierarchical management culture. Here the HR
function stands by our managers as a
sparring partner and supports them with
effective instruments. One example is
“Profile”, a tool introduced Group-wide in
2014 for assessing performance and talent.
Another is the new Group-wide employee
survey “involve me!”, which will begin in
September this year.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 75

Diversity and equal opportunity
Diversity as a strategic factor of success

Commonalities reunite; differences take us further. To take advantage of
this potential, the Lufthansa Group has counted on systematic diversity
management for many years – and thus also secures its ability to innovate
and its competitiveness. The focus is on activating and fostering the multitude of
talents, experiences, competencies and values that have always characterized
the workforce of the globally active aviation group.

One area of emphasis in this context is
effective concepts, instruments and measures that help employees make family
and work increasingly more compatible.
To develop and implement these is the task
of the HR staff of Group companies, who
work closely with the Lufthansa Group’s
commissioners for equal opportunity.

Lufthansa Group
transparent on
women’s quota
To guarantee equal opportunities for men
and women has been a matter of course
at the Lufthansa Group for a long time and
is anchored in in-house agreements,
among others. The Company is working
in a focused manner on filling management
positions up to the Executive Board level
with qualified women. Currently, two of five
– and thus 40 percent – of the members
of the Executive Board are women. In
addition, the Company already fulfills the
women’s quota of 30 percent for the supervisory boards of listed and fully codetermined companies from 2016, which was

In 2014 the Lufthansa Group signed the “Diversity Charter”, a corporate initiative to promote diversity in
companies and institutions. Under the patronage of Federal Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel, the charter aims
to further acceptance, appreciation and inclusion of diversity in Germany’s business culture. Organizations are
to create a work environment that is free of prejudices. All employees are to be valued – independent of
gender, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or ideology, disability, age, sexual orientation and identity. Pictured
here are Ana-Cristina Grohnert, Chair of the Board of Charta der Vielfalt e.V. and (right) Dr. Bettina Volkens,
Executive Board member and Chief Officer Human Resources and Legal Affairs at the Lufthansa Group.

Part-time employment

Average age 2
Female employees  

­Lufthansa Group, in percent
Male employees   Total

50

Female employees  

­Lufthansa Group, in percent
Male employees   Total

45

40

30

40

20

10

35
41.1
24.6
13.0

42.6
25.7
13.7

43.8
26.8
14.3

42.7
26.5
14.0

42.7
26.9
14.0

43.9
26.9
13.6

44.2
27.1
13.3

45.3
27.9
13.7

45.6
28.1
14.1

45.0
28.0
14.3

41.1
40.1
38.8

41.3
40.2
38.9

41.4
40.3
39.0

41.5
40.4
39.1

41.5
40.3
39.0

41.8
40.7
39.5

41.9
40.8
39.6

42.4
41.3
40.2

42.7
41.9
40.9

43.1
42.3
41.3

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Part-time work by Group companies

Age structure at the Lufthansa Group 2
2014, in percent

Passenger Airline Group

2014, in percent
60 and older

45
19

Logistics
9

MRO

8.3
15.1

50 – 54
22

IT Services

24

Service & Finance

28

Total

18.7

45 – 49

13

Catering

4.0

55 – 59

40 – 44

14.2

35 – 39

14.0
12.0

30 – 34
9.1

25 – 29
4.0

20 – 24

Share of women in management positions 1

18 – 19

0.5

under 18

0.1

Share of women with staff responsibility 1

Lufthansa Group, in percent

Lufthansa Group, in percent

20

50

15

40

10

30

5

20
12.7

12.9

15.0

14.6

14.7

13.1

13.6

13.6

14.5

14.2

32.5

34.7

35.8

38.0

41.5

36.8

35.5

34.5

34.1

35.1

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

1 Scope of consolidation without LSG outside Germany, Swiss Aviation Training AG, LH
Flight Training Berlin GmbH, Edelweiss Air AG, Swiss European Airlines AG, Swiss Aviation
Software AG, TraviAustria GmbH, LH Malta Holding Ltd., LH Malta Aircraft-Leasing Ltd.,
Aerologic GmbH (consolidation partially with 25 percent), Shannon Aerospace Ltd. Co.,
LH Technik Malta Ltd., LH Technik Airmotive Ireland Ltd., LH Technik Budapest Repülögeb,
Hawker Pacific Aerospace (US), LH Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd., BizJet Int. Sales
& Support Inc., LH Technik North America Holding Corp., LH Technik Sofia OOD, LH Technik
Component Services LLC, AirPlus Air Travel Card Vertriebsges. mbH, AirPlus International
Ltd., AirPlus International S.r.I., AirPlus Payment Management Co. Ltd., AirPlus International
AG, AirPlus International Inc., LH Malta Finance Ltd.

2 Scope of consolidation partially without LSG outside Germany, Lufthansa Malta Holding Ltd.,
LH Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Aerologic GmbH (consolidation partially with 25 percent),
Lufthansa Technik Philippines Inc., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Malta Ltd.,
Lufthansa Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace Inc. (US), Lufthansa
Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd. (formerly Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd., UK),
BizJet International Sales & Support Inc., Lufthansa Technik North America Holding Corp.,
Lufthansa Technik Sofia OOD, Lufthansa Technik Component Services LLC, Lufthansa Malta
Finance Ltd.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 77

In the reporting year, the share of
women pilots reached 5.4 percent.

passed by the German parliament on
March 6, 2015. The legal basis is the
German law for equal participation for
women and men in executive positions,
which came into effect on May 1, 2015.
In 2011, the Lufthansa Group set itself
the goal of increasing the percentage of
women in management positions by 30
percent by 2020 compared with 2010.
Under this premise, the Group has been
successful despite comprehensive restructurings in increasing the share of women
at the management level in Germany from
15.5 percent in 2010 to 16.0 at the end of
2014. On a worldwide scale, the share
of women in management positions at the
Lufthansa Group rose from 13.1 percent in
2010 to 14.2 percent in 2014. To achieve
its goal as planned, the Company energetically pursues its commitment to increasing
the share of women in management.

Cross Company Mentoring: Sparring partners
for career advancement
Well trained employees are the key to the
Lufthansa Group’s success. To accompany
and support young female managers in
particular in their professional advancement, the Group initiated the Cross Company Mentoring program as long ago as
1998. Here, one mentee and one manager
from different companies respectively form
a “tandem” for one year. The focus of
regular exchanges is on topics such as
professional goals, positioning within the
company, conflict management, time

management, but also job and family.
Current participants in Cross Company
Mentoring are Axel Springer, Robert Bosch,
Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank, Fraport,
Hewlett-Packard, Merck and Sanofi
Deutschland. At the moment, ten mentors
and ten mentees from Lufthansa are participating in the program.
The internal program “Go ahead”, which
was launched in 2012 as a supplement, is
addressed at women aiming at a management-level position. This training format
places particular emphasis on the topics
of networking competence, personality,
self-management and career planning (see
page 51, Balance 2013).

Women on Boards Index:
Jump into the Top 3
That the Lufthansa Group’s efforts are
paying off is also evidenced by the results
of the current Women on Boards Index
(WoB), which has been established during
the last four years by the cross-partisan
initiative “Women into supervisory boards”.
The index shows that the aviation company
improved its position by one place to third
rank, compared with 2013. The WoB aims
at making transparent the development of
women’s share in management positions at
160 listed companies, including the DAX
30 corporations.

At a glance
Of our 118,781 employees
44.65 percent are women.
They represent
35.1 percent of all employees with responsibility for other staff,
14.2 percent of all managers,
5.4 percent of all pilots.
The employees’ average age is
42.3 years.
The quota of employees with severe disabilities in Germany is
4.0 percent.
As per 31.12.2014

78 // Social Responsibility

Same pay for same
performance

Work and private lives in
healthy balance

Equal opportunities are enjoyed by Lufthansa
employees in the area of remuneration. For
example, collective labor agreements in
areas with binding collective pay agreement have guaranteed since the 1970s that
men and women receive the same salary
for the same work. Only in areas outside of
collective agreements are salaries negotiated individually. However, the Lufthansa
Group strictly observes that only experience, task relevancy and the measure of
responsibility for employees, and budget
are the differentiation parameters. To
ensure that other criteria do not play a role
in determining the level of remuneration,
the aviation company also had its procedures audited by independent experts in
2013, who confirmed this as being so.

The Lufthansa Group supports its employees with a range of measures in finding a
healthy balance between professional and
private lives over the different phases of life.
When the balance between work and family
can be achieved, both the employees and
the Company benefit. A wide selection of
work models and working time formats
have supported employees for many years
in organizing family life. These are complemented by offers for childcare, such as
places in daycare centers or support from
pme Familienservice GmbH in the event of
care emergencies or during vacation time
(see page 89, Balance 2014). Employees
with family members who are ill or in need
of care find specific support options
through the pme Familienservice, with

which the Lufthansa Group has cooperated
for many years. Counseling and placement of nursing staff are free of charge for
employees. Presentations on topics such
as care, powers of attorney or support
obligations complement the service
provider’s offer.

Extension of
vacation care
In the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group
again offered the internal summer vacation
childcare program “Luftikusse – Kinder
erobern die Lufthansa Welt” (Children
discover Lufthansa’s world). During each
week of school vacation it offers 30 places
in Frankfurt for Lufthansa employees’ children aged between six and twelve years to
explore together the world’s largest aviation
group. Given its enormous success, the
full-day vacation program will take place in
summer 2015 in Frankfurt for the third time.
Thanks to the program’s expansion to
Munich, employees’ offspring can now also
go on a journey of exploration at the
Munich hub.
In addition, in fall 2014 children of Lufthansa
employees had the opportunity to join a
Company vacation program for the first
time during the school fall vacation.

The summer vacation childcare program “Luftikusse”
offers employees’ children thrilling insights into the
fascinating world of the Lufthansa Group.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 79

Parent-child office for
care bottlenecks
In the context of making the care infrastructure more flexible, the Lufthansa Group
opened a parent-child office in July 2014 at
the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt.
Two workstations equipped with computers
and telephones are available for parents
with unexpected or short-term care bottlenecks, so that that they can work while their
children play or read in the same room.
This pilot project is set to run for a year and
is an initiative of the “Familienkongress”
(“Family Congress”), which Lufthansa
organized in 2014 for its employees.

Supporting new role
models for fathers
More and more fathers are leaving traditional role concepts behind to actively
participate in family-related tasks. The
Lufthansa Group supports this fundamental
change of paternal roles in society by
cooperating with “Väter gGmbH” (“Fathers
Ltd.”) at the Frankfurt and Hamburg locations. The offer is aimed at fathers working
part- or full-time or being on parental leave,
and comprises presentations and workshops on all aspects of fatherhood and
work-life integration. This includes a recurrent presentation entitled “Being an enthusiastic manager and father – and how both
can be in harmony”. In addition, activities
for fathers and their children are being
planned. The goal is to facilitate the equal
division of family and work for couples, so
that professional achievement and a fulfilled family life are no longer mutually
exclusive for men and women.

“LH New Workspace”:
Pilot project concluded
successfully
In April 2014, the Lufthansa Group successfully concluded the pilot project “LH
New Workspace”. Over the course of six
months, controlling and human resources
employees tested innovative workstations
and work setups at the Lufthansa Aviation
Center (LAC) in Frankfurt, designed to take
into account the increased demands on a
mobile and flexible work environment and
an improved compatibility of professional
and family lives. Following positive feedback from participants, the Executive
Board decided to implement the concept
at the entire LAC by the first quarter 2016.
Other locations have already started the
introduction of the New Workspace. Information events accompany the changeover
from conventional, primarily closed office
structures to open space concepts incorporating “hot desking”, in which employees
use temporary workstations instead of fixed
desks (see page 89, Balance 2014).

Indispensable: Intercultural competencies
People from 143 nations work at the
Lufthansa Group. Therefore, it is an important goal for the Group’s personnel strategy
to understand, manage and take advantage of the related cultural diversity as a
resource. The aviation company continuously develops its management approach
and adapts it to changing basic conditions.
Cosmopolitanism and tolerance are
a matter of course for an aviation group
with international activities. Consequently,
it is a central concern for the Lufthansa
Group to further develop the dialogue and
the understanding between the cultures,
both internally and externally. For this purpose the Company has made a number
of tailor-made continuing education modules available.

The parent-child office at the
Lufthansa Aviation Center at Frankfurt Airport.

80 // Social Responsibility

Employment policy based on partnership
Creating viable conditions for the future

The ­Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, enthusiasm
and commitment of its employees. Therefore, the aviation company attaches
the greatest importance to providing its employees with an attractive work
environment and appropriate salaries. Likewise, it is an established tradition
always to balance the economic interests of the Company with the expectations and needs of its employees.

It is tried-and-tested Company policy to
settle clashes of interests between Company management and the bodies representing employees in a transparent manner. A fair approach to coexistence in all
areas creates the balance needed to
advance the ­Lufthansa Group’s position in
the market. The growing plurality of opinions and opinion leaderships, much like
developments in society as a whole, is
increasingly a challenge for all parties
concerned. The guiding principles for joint
efforts are flexibility and responsiveness.

Partnership in
collective agreements
L­ ufthansa employs its staff under conditions that guarantee them social and material security not only during but also after
their working years. These are established
on the basis of collective agreements that
the Company negotiates with its union
partners Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit (VC),
and Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisation e.V. (UFO). The goal is to treat all

employee groups within the Company fairly
and justly – a desideratum that the multiplicity of unions within the Company presents
with an array of increasingly challenging
conditions. You can find the latest information on the ongoing collective bargaining
negotiations at
www.lufthansagroup.com/media

Active pay and social
policy abroad
Internationalization and globalization offer
a broad range of opportunities for the
Group’s business and personnel processes.
As a company with international operations,
­Lufthansa’s pay and social policies are
guided by conditions in the various countries. The focus is on long-term definition
of the conditions of employment, which
depend on the needs of the employees,
operational requirements, and the local
labor market – with the inclusion of compensation rules, working conditions, and
pension schemes. ­Lufthansa defines these
agreements in cooperation with internal

labor committees and employees. The
Company is a party to collective wage
bargaining with employees in about 25
countries. In all countries where ­Lufthansa
acts unilaterally, the Company uses benchmarks and macroeconomic data such as
inflation figures to review salaries at least
once a year on the basis of market and
competitiveness criteria. In countries with
very high rates of inflation, this assessment
is performed more often, given the circumstances, and usually leads to pay increases.
In this way the ­Lufthansa Group offers
continual review and adjustment of working
conditions for its locally employed staff.
As a signatory to the UN Global Compact,
­Lufthansa has documented its support for
freedom of association and the right to
collective bargaining for all of its employees
worldwide. Employees in any country
where ­Lufthansa companies are active are
free to lawfully organize themselves and
become involved in defining their working
conditions.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 81

Lufthansa Group: Distribution of employees 1
Employees as of December 31, 2014

Group employees

2014

2013

change

118,781

118,285

+ 0.4 %

54,960

55,272

– 0.6 %

4,663

4,660

+ 0.1 %

20,079

19,917

+ 0.8 %

2,721

2,718

+ 0.1 %

32,843

32,307

+ 1.7 %

3,515

3,411

+ 3.0 %

of which Passenger Airline Group
of which Logistics
of which MRO
of which IT Services
of which Catering
of which Service & Finance

New company
pension scheme

Lufthansa Group: Jobs throughout the world
Employees as of December 31, 2014
Frankfurt

37,133
9,561

Hamburg

Today’s attractive company pension
scheme has been in place for Lufthansa
employees since 1994. The aviation group
attaches great importance to rewarding
the performance of its employees in this
additional way. In order to respond to the
developments of the capital markets as
well as the consequences of demographic
change, the Company terminated the
bargaining agreement with employees
regarding the company pension plan in
September 2013. The goal is to agree with
the collective bargaining partners on
modern, market-oriented retirement benefits that sustainably secure the Company’s
competitiveness (see from page 92,
Balance 2014). All pension entitlements
previously earned under the company
pension scheme are secured and remain
unchanged in any case.
The Company’s management has proposed a new company pension scheme
by which Lufthansa would pay amounts
into an individual capital account for each
employee and invest these funds on the
capital market. Under this new system, the
amount of the pension payments would be
based on actual investment performance
rather than on guaranteed pension levels.
In addition, each employee would have
the option of increasing the level of his or
her company pension by paying in additional amounts themselves. Upon reaching
retirement age, employees would also be
able choose individually either to have
their retirement benefits paid out in a lump
sum or to receive a lifelong monthly pension payment – a flexible solution that
among other things would make it easier
to bequeath pension claims.

10,751

Munich
Cologne

1,243

Berlin

1,079
7,388

Rest of Germany

67,155

Total in Germany
23,251

Rest of Europe
5,373

thereof Vienna

7,250

thereof Zurich
Africa / Middle East
North / Central
America
South America

2,182
14,902
3,503
7,788

Asia / Pacific

118,781

Group total

Lufthansa Group:
Number of employees by professional group and gender
Employees as of December 31, 2014, in percent
Female employees   Male employees
Female
53,032
Male
65,749

44.6
55.4

Apprentices
1,057

27.8
72.2
37.8

Ground 2
82,724

62.2
61.2

Flight 3
35,000
Cockpit
9,012
Cabin
25,988

38.8
5.4
94.6
80.6
19.4

1 Previous year’s figures have been adjusted
2 Without apprentices
3 Consists of cockpit and cabin

82 // Social Responsibility

“involve me!”:
First Group-wide
standardized
employee survey
For many years the Lufthansa Group has
counted on regular employee surveys.
With the introduction of the strategic program “7to1 – Our way forward”, which
also includes the action field “Culture and
Leadership” (see page 18), the importance of a modern, feedback-oriented
leadership culture has further increased.
The goal of employee surveys is to find
out how satisfied employees are with their
work, to what degree they identify with
their employer and where they have identified weak spots (see from page 93,
Balance 2014). The results and open
comments thus obtained are the basis for
an in-depth dialogue between managers
and employees and the drivers of continuous improvements within the Company.
While each Group company conducted its
own survey in the past, 2015 marks the first
year in which a Group-wide standardized
polling process is to be implemented.
A significant advantage of the new proce-

dure is that themes, questions and indices
can be harmonized and results can be
compared. The new survey concept will
be known under a new name: “involve
me!” Employees of the Lufthansa Group
selected this name from among four alternatives.

cially in the area of jobs paid according to
tariff. An integrated map function allows
the display of the searching company’s
geographical location. For employees at
Lufthansa German Airlines and in central
functions the program also offers a free job
application service with external advisors.

COMPASS program:
Job exchange offers
more than jobs

Program participants who wish to apply for
a suitable job via the portal can also use
this service to have their application documents checked, to obtain tips on how to
optimize them and to be prepared for
upcoming job interviews.

The Lufthansa Group pursues a sustainable personnel policy that takes into
account not only the Company’s requirements, but also the employees’ interests.
This also applies to times of change,
which are unavoidably accompanied
by operational restructurings. For this reason, the aviation company has offered
COMPASS (see page 93, Balance 2014),
which was launched in 2013, in an expanded format since the beginning of 2015.
Since then, employees have been able to
access in an even simpler, more efficient
and direct way daily updated vacancies at
more than 50 renowned partner companies, including the job portal JobStairs. As
a further advantage, the job exchange lists
significantly more offers than before, espe-

COMPASS is addressed to employees
and managers whose jobs are threatened,
who seek new professional challenges or
who would like to become self-employed.
To support the latter in an optimum way,
the program also includes comprehensive,
individual counseling for setting up a
business as a self-employed entrepreneur.
An online forum, where current and former
users can exchange information anonymously, completes the range of counseling offers and online services within
COMPASS.
In this way, COMPASS has evolved into an
integral part of sustainable personnel policy
at the Lufthansa Group.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 83

Talent management
Charting tomorrow’s course today

Success and the ability to innovate depend largely on qualified and motivated
employees. Therefore, talent management is an important field of action for
HR management at the Lufthansa Group and an integral part of its valueoriented Company policy. Taking individual needs into account and providing
matching measures ensure the methodical, professional and personal development of employees.

The early identification of internal and
external talent and the
continuous development and qualification
of employees are core
building blocks of HR
management.

To this end, the Lufthansa Group developed
a comprehensive talent management philosophy in 2014. It provides for a clear and
uniform understanding of talent management across the entire Group and gives all
employees a clear means of orientation.
At the same time, all talent management
processes and instruments were adapted
to the Lufthansa Group’s five Leadership
Principles (see page 73) and supplemented
by new innovative concepts.

Leitmotif: “Every
employee has talent!”

Promoting horizontal
career paths

The basic principle of the new talent
management philosophy is that all employees have talent. One of the aims here is to
create an environment in which employees
are increasingly empowered to shape their
development themselves. The Lufthansa
Group supports this path with corresponding talent management instruments and
processes. These offer each employee
more individual scope for shaping and
assuming responsibility for their personal
development. An example for the success
of this approach is the response to the new
transparent process for filling vacancies at
the upper management levels: More than
1,700 candidates applied during the
reporting year for nearly 250 managerial
positions.

Careers do not have to climb steadily
upwards – on the contrary. Instead of
always aiming at the next step on the
hierarchical ladder, the Lufthansa Group’s
talent management would also like to
enthuse employees to engage in horizontally-oriented internal and external career
paths. After all, a change on the same level
can also guarantee a multitude of opportunities for further development. A large
potential for this type of a move is offered
by the about 540 companies within the
Lufthansa Group. In future, a number of
measures will make it easier to fulfill rotation requests by managers and employees
between business segments. A current
pilot project is investigating which factors
are relevant for employees when changing
jobs between Lufthansa, Swiss and
Austrian Airlines and how such changes
can be facilitated. This may include transparent conditions for transfers or assistance
in finding child care solutions or a tax
advisor. This question becomes even more
important when a job change involves a
move to another country.

In addition, a stronger focus is placed on
the fostering of talent as a central task
of all managers. For this purpose, talent
management creates adequate measures
for all job phases an employee passes
through within the Company – from recruitment to retirement.

The Lufthansa Group’s talent management: Nine key messages
A shared understanding of “talent management” at the Lufthansa Group
is of decisive importance. The following nine key messages illustrate
our Talent Management Philosophy.

01 /

Every employee has talent!

All employees are encouraged to enrich their working
environment by using their different talents. The scope of
Talent Management at Lufthansa includes all employees.

02 /

Different needs, different ways!

Talent, performance and flexibility of each employee match
the business needs in different ways. Therefore, the intensity
and pace of individual development activities will vary.

03 /

Talents shape their own future!

Having ambition and being proactive are the driving forces
in career advancement. Talents can – and should – take
ownership of their next career steps.

04 /

Up is not the only way!

Talent Management is about growing one’s capabilities in
the current role, in a new role on the same level and possibly
on a different level – or also pursuing various careers.

05 /

Fostering talent is the key!

All leaders within the Lufthansa Group have to take
responsibility for their employees’ talents and focus on their
further development to add value to the business.

06 /

Turn the spotlight on leading people!

Monitoring performance and managing both positive
and negative consequences are a part of every leader’s
agenda. HR equips managers with the appropriate tools
and processes.

07 /

Share and benefit!

All employees think and act as a part of the Lufthansa Group,
personal development takes place across company borders.
This makes the whole greater than just the sum of its parts.

08 /

Welcome diversity!

A multitude of perspectives enhances the competitiveness of
the business. And sometimes it‘s not the familiar way that leads
to the best results.

09 /

Employer of choice!

All Talent Management activities aim to become the employer
of choice both for our current and for our future employees –
in all markets we operate in.

86 // Social Responsibility

Setting up a uniform
talent landscape
Along with the investment in the exchange
of talent between the Lufthansa Group
companies, a uniform talent landscape is
being set up Company-wide. A central role
in this area is played by the new performance and talent assessment instrument
“Profile” (see page 73). Introduced in 2014
for the majority of managers, it is to be
rolled out step by step for additional employee groups across the Company. Every
year, this HR instrument appraises afresh
not only “what” an employee achieved but
also “how” he or she did so. The insights
gained in the process make it possible to
assign suitable development measures to
each employee. Unlike the logic applied
until recently, “Profile” no longer focuses
solely on the relatively small group of “high
potentials” within a company. Instead, it
considers all Group employees taking part
in the assessment.

Lufthansa Group places the emphasis of its
search on the applicant’s personality. Every
applicant has the opportunity to show his or
her motivation and enthusiasm for Lufthansa
in a two-minute video message. For the first
time, the Company also paid special attention to whether individual trainees fit well
together as a team. The 18-month program
is characterized by a pronounced focus on
change, culture and innovation. In addition,
it gives trainees the opportunity to work
intensively on themselves – be it in a social
business in India or by means of a mutual
peer coaching with other trainees of the
same generation.

Accompanying communication measures
The Lufthansa Group continuously provides
information about the new talent management philosophy by means of workshops
and roadshows as well as internal media
such as the Group’s staff newspaper, the
news app or the intranet. In addition, the
HR Campaign Days took place in 2014 at
the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt,
offering information stands and presentations on a wide range of topics including
talent management.

“Are you a nerd?”
trainee program is
looking for personalities
A contribution to winning highly qualified
talent for the Lufthansa Group also comes
from the newly-aligned ProTeam trainee
program, which specifically addresses
university graduates who would like to participate in shaping the Company’s cultural
change. The selection considers neither
grades nor subject of study: Instead the

business@school
The Lufthansa Group has supported business@school, an educational
initiative of the global management consulting firm The Boston Consulting
Group (BCG), since 2002. Each year, the project gives over 2,000 highschool students the opportunity to experience business firsthand, acquire
key skills for their future working lives and develop their own business
ideas over the course of ten months. Launched with two schools in Germany in 1998, the student competition today involves over 90 schools
in Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland and the United States. In January
2015, the Lufthansa Group gave its first-ever special award for Best Corporate Analysis in Phase I of the initiative – a field day at the Lufthansa
Aviation Center at the Frankfurt hub. Currently, more than 30 Lufthansa
employees are actively involved in business@school. Simone Menne,
member of the Executive Board and Chief Officer Finance and Aviation Services at the Lufthansa Group (center), with the winners of the special prize.
www.business-at-school.net

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 87

An attractive employer
For many years, the Lufthansa Group has
been among Germany’s most popular
employers. This is not least evidenced by
the 130,000 applications the Company
received during the reporting year. With
about 6,000 visits a day, the career portal
www.Be-Lufthansa.com serves as an
initial contact point, providing comprehensive information about the numerous professional options available. The same
goes for the Be Lufthansa career blog and
the world’s largest aviation group’s Facebook page.
Right from the start, the Lufthansa Group
has offered a broad spectrum of training
and continuing education options. In
2014, the Group smoothed the way
towards a professional career for more
than 370 apprentices in 40 occupations
requiring formal training. During the
reporting year, high-school leavers and
university graduates could choose from
61 different entry-level options, including
study and training programs. A total of
1,350 junior employees at the Lufthansa
Group pursued an apprenticeship or university studies in 2014. For the training
year 2016, the Company is again on the
lookout for 230 young people.

The Lufthansa career portal
www.Be-Lufthansa.com
was honored as “best career website” in Germany
by research institute Trendence.

Employer rankings 2014
Regular top positions in all relevant employer rankings underscore
impressively that investments in employee development and continuous
education pay off. In 2014, the aviation group managed to achieve even
better scores than for the preceding year: For example, business students
chose the Lufthansa Group as Germany’s fourth most attractive employer
in the trendence Graduate Barometer 2014. And in the trendence
European Graduate Barometer, Europe’s largest survey of graduates
with more than 300,000 respondents, the Company ranked among the
top 20 business employers. Moreover, Swiss made it into the ranks of
Switzerland’s ten most attractive employers on a regional level in the
Universum Study 2014.

88 // Social Responsibility

Employee health and safety protection
Fit for the future

The Lufthansa Group’s comprehensive employee health and safety protection
aims at promoting and maintaining its employees’ individual performance and
motivation. In the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group’s Medical Service began
realigning itself as a Corporate Health Management center.

The organization of the Lufthansa Group’s
employee health and safety management is
for the most part decentralized. This
approach is against the background of the
Group’s heterogeneous portfolio of companies, which leads to pronounced variations
in the requirements of individual business
segments. A key supervisory position in the
Company’s health protection concept falls
to the Medical Service, whose team of occupational, aviation and tropical physicians are
responsible for all health-related issues
concerning employees. This unit, whose
quality management is certified according
to DIN EN ISO 9001, has been headed by
Dr. Lothar Zell since September 1, 2014.

In 2014, the Medical Service began realigning itself as a Center for Corporate
Health Management. Its goal is to further
increase the links between the Group
companies’ health managers and to
promote the exchange of information on
medical subjects. Furthermore, the newly
created “Health Steering Committee” is to
develop new guidelines and programs for
all Group companies. Last year, one area
of emphasis for the Medical Service was
to provide comprehensive information and
advice on Ebola for the Lufthansa Group’s
flying personnel.

Lufthansa Social Counseling received the Soul@Work-Award in March 2015.

Award for social
counseling
Crisis and conflict situations can affect any
of us. That is why the aviation company
offers Lufthansa Social Counseling as a
voluntary staff support service. This unit
provides support for employees and managers in the event of job-related problems,
as well as private, financial or family-related
difficulties. Its wide-ranging service portfolio
is available at numerous locations in Germany (see page 101, Balance 2014).
In 2014, Social Counseling organized a
total of 133 workshops, training sessions
and information events. The service’s overall score in related participant satisfaction
surveys was 1.67 (on a school grade scale
from 1 to 6). Its offer includes half-day
workshops on resiliency in times of change
as well as a range of formats on healthpromoting (self-)leadership, team building
and conflict management. Social Counseling was also an established part of the
HR Campaign Days, which again took
place at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in
Frankfurt during the reporting year. In
March 2015, Lufthansa Social Counseling
received the Soul@Work Award for its
health-oriented accompaniment of organizational change processes.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 89

Continuously optimized
OHS processes
All significant activities in the area of workplace safety at the Lufthansa Group are
coordinated by its Occupational Health and
Safety (OHS) department – together with
physicians, social counselors, work councils and those responsible at the respective
Group companies. All activities aim to
maintain and improve the employees’
health and fitness for work by means of
continuously optimized job safety processes (see page 101, Balance 2014). Just
how successful these measures are is
demonstrated by the example of Lufthansa
Technik: The MRO specialist’s Hamburg
location was again rated as “Company with
an exemplary occupational safety system”
by Hamburg’s Office for Occupational
Safety in July 2014, receiving another
six-year certificate to follow those from
2000 and 2007.

Health campaign
“Cargo fit: Join the fun”
at Lufthansa Cargo
In 2014, the Lufthansa Group’s employees again benefited from a multitude of
Corporate Health Management offers. For
example, Lufthansa Cargo organized the
health campaign “Cargo fit: Join the fun”
in October in Frankfurt. It invited employees
to test their flexibility, stress resistance and
fitness over the course of one week and to
immerse themselves into the topic of nutrition through interactive media. Participants
also received health tips and individual
fitness plans.

All materials used to manufacture Lufthansa
uniforms regularly undergo human
ecological laboratory analyses.

Lufthansa uniforms
manufactured according
to OEKO-Tex® Standard
100
Lufthansa equips its pilots, cabin crews and
ground personnel with uniforms that are
manufactured without harmful substances
as well as in accordance with sustainable
and fair principles. To guarantee this, all
materials such as fabrics, yarns and buttons are tested in laboratories according to
human ecological parameters. Only if each
and every component meets the stringent
independent tests for pollutants carried out
by the OEKO-Tex® Association does the
uniform manufacturer receive the quality
label “Confidence in textiles – Tested for
harmful substances according to OEKOTex® Standard 100”. In addition, regular
supplier audits at the production sites
ensure adherence to the aviation company’s
supplier standards. These audits are
carried out by a general contractor on
Lufthansa’s behalf and supervised regularly
by Lufthansa employees.

Corporate
Citizenship
To increase the efficiency of our social commitment,
we will bundle our corporate citizenship activities
under the umbrella of Lufthansa Group Social Care.

15

22,500

30

years of Help Alliance –
15 years of help for self-help

free medical treatments by Cargo Human
Care during the reporting year

More than 30 years of cooperation
with “Werkstätten für Behinderte
Rhein-Main e. V.”

92 // Corporate Citizenship

Lufthansa Group Social Care –
For a culture of shared responsibility

The Lufthansa Group advocates responsible mobility, network links and
worldwide connections. As targeted civic engagement secures and
strengthens general, long-term cohesion within society, the aviation group
strongly supports social issues (corporate citizenship) at home and around
the world. To fulfill this responsibility even better in future, the Lufthansa Group
has realigned its social commitment in 2015 by bundling all its corporate
citizenship activities under a single roof: Lufthansa Group Social Care.

From now on the focus is
to be above all on social
and humanitarian projects. Complemented by
selected activities in the
areas of culture, sports
and the environment, all
these efforts are also to
aim at creating utility for
social issues.

Moreover, the Group has provided rapid
and professional ad-hoc aid in the event of
humanitarian crises and natural disasters
for many years. Since February 2013,
Lufthansa Cargo has also been part of a
professional network of renowned aid

organizations. This cooperation with the
emergency aid alliance “Aktion Deutschland Hilft” and its strategic partner “World
Vision Deutschland” gives aid organizations direct access to Lufthansa Cargo’s
logistics competencies for relief support
outside of Germany.
Lufthansa Group Social Care has also defined and developed new social care guidelines. These stipulate that the aviation group
is to support only those projects fulfilling its
new funding criteria in future. A detailed
evaluation matrix shows if this is the case.
Applying expertise – Providing impulses
An important building block in the Lufthansa
Group’s corporate citizenship concept is to
foster the social commitment of its employees and managers in ever more targeted
ways. Its systematic expansion of Corporate Volunteering takes into account that
today’s top talents seek not just a job, but
rather a professional setting in which they

can combine personal involvement and
future-oriented action. Facilitating this
desire greatly increases a number of factors such as staff motivation, job satisfaction, company loyalty, intercultural competence and self-esteem. The community
benefits as well: Practice shows that the
greater a project’s long-term utility for
society, the better people are able to contribute their individual expertise. Consequently, the Group-wide trainee program
“ProTeam” is to be expanded in future by
a four-week trainee assignment in a social
business abroad.
Last year, employees from various departments across the Lufthansa Group had a
special opportunity to combine entrepreneurial initiative and social commitment at
the Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp 2014.
Among the project’s strong supporters is the
Help Alliance, the aid organization founded
by Lufthansa employees (see page 95).

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 93

Humanitarian emergency aid

For many years, the Lufthansa Group has provided swift and uncomplicated
help in the event of catastrophes – as a rule in close consultation with the
German government and noted German aid organizations. The focus of this
commitment is on aid flights providing initial logistical supplies to people in
acute need as a result of flooding, drought, earthquakes or epidemics.

Ebola epidemic:
Special flight with aid
materials
On October 28, 2014, Lufthansa Cargo flew
more than 70 tonnes of aid materials to
West Africa on behalf of the United Nations
Children’s Fund (Unicef). This action was

against the backdrop of the largest ever
Ebola epidemic, which broke out simultaneously in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone
last year. According to the World Health
Organization’s Ebola Situation Report on
April 29, 2015, over 25,000 people in these
West African countries have been infected
by the Ebola virus and over 10,000 have
died as a consequence.

Aboard the logistics specialist’s MD-11
freighter were 200-plus tents, which were
used locally as special isolation wards at or
near hospitals. These Ebola Treatment Units
(ETUs) allow care for Ebola patients at the
strictest security and protection levels.

Preparations for a Lufthansa Cargo
aid flight to West Africa.

94 // Corporate Citizenship

Evacuation aircraft
for Ebola patients
At the initiative of Germany’s Federal Foreign
Office, Lufthansa Technik refitted a Lufthansa
Airbus A340-300 in only 11 days as an
evacuation aircraft to fly highly infectious
Ebola patients from the areas affected by
the epidemic. Unlike smaller specialized
aircraft, the A340 allows intensive medical
care of critically ill patients during the flight.
The central element of the evacuation
aircraft is the Patient Transport Isolation
Unit. It is located in a hermetically sealed
low-pressure tent that is connected to two
further air and gas-tight tents, which serve
as safety locks and for disinfection when
entering and leaving the isolation unit. On
November 27, 2014, the Lufthansa Group
handed the fully operational refitted Airbus
over to Federal Foreign Minister Dr. FrankWalter Steinmeier and Federal Minister of
Health Hermann Gröhe.
The complex and technically demanding
refit of this passenger aircraft was possible
due to Lufthansa Technik’s many years of
experience with the construction and fitting
of special cabin interiors for government,
VIP and business aircraft. All work was
carried out in close cooperation with the
Robert Koch Institute in Berlin, the German
government’s central authority in the area
of disease monitoring and prevention. The
evacuation aircraft’s humanitarian mission
was initially limited to six months. More
than 700 Lufthansa pilots and flight attendants volunteered within a very short time
for duty on the evacuation aircraft “Robert
Koch” and thus expressed their solidarity for
the people in the areas affected by Ebola.

Evacuation aircraft: The complex and
technically challenging refit was carried out by the
experts at Lufthansa Technik.

“Africa is not Ebola”:
Noncommercial initiative
of Brussels Airlines
To help bring more objectivity to the
debate about the potential hazards of
Ebola, Brussels Airlines launched the
noncommercial awareness campaign

“Africa is not Ebola” on February 12, 2015.
The goal is to remind the public – by joining
forces with personalities from business,
science, sports and culture – that only three
of the 54 African nations are affected by
the Ebola epidemic. Hence it is high time to
end prejudices concerning Africa so that
tourists, investors and companies return to
the world’s second-largest continent.

Earthquake in Nepal:
Help Alliance calls for donations
and plans aid for reconstruction
Following the earthquake in Nepal in April 2015, the Help Alliance
launched a call for donations. In addition, the aid organization will support
reconstruction projects in Nepal – as it has done previously in the wake
of other natural catastrophes such as the tsunami in the Philippines or
the earthquake in Haiti. To this end it cooperates with local professional
partners. All project suggestions are carefully analyzed and evaluated by
the Help Alliance.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 95

Social commitment
Making a commitment to less privileged people around the world and a
difference to society as a whole has a long tradition at the Lufthansa Group.
This attitude is illustrated by numerous long-term aid projects and initiatives
brought to life by its socially engaged employees and supported by its
management.
alliance

Help Alliance –
Closer to the world.
Closer to its people.
As long ago as 1999, employees from all
parts of the Lufthansa Group brought the
Help Alliance to life. The main task of this
charitable association is to collect donations and to use these funds in a meaningful way for humanitarian causes. Since its
early days, the aid organization has concentrated on the areas of education, health
and nutrition while paying special attention
to children and teenagers.
The scope of aid projects is varied and
includes schools, training facilities, orphanages and projects for street children in
Africa, Asia, Central and South America
and Eastern Europe. To ensure long-term
success, a Lufthansa Group or Condor
employee is assigned to each project. He
or she accompanies the project personally;
this includes quality-assuring visits on
location as well as reporting duties. The
necessary planning security is provided by
the Lufthansa Group, which has supported
the Help Alliance since its foundation with
funds, logistics and communications.

The employee organization’s record is
impressive: It looks back on 130 successfully supported projects and provides –
together with the Lufthansa Group – emergency and reconstruction aid worldwide in
the event of catastrophes. The bottom line
is that the association has invested almost
10.5 million euros for humanitarian purposes over the past 15 years. More than 90
percent of all donations it administers flow
directly into its aid projects. To ensure that
people dependent on support will in due
course successfully take charge of their
own lives, all measures are guided by the
principle of providing “help for self-help”. An
annual report and its own website provide
information about the association’s work.

15 years of Help Alliance
In 2014, the Help Alliance celebrated its
15th anniversary at the Lufthansa Aviation
Center. Joining in the celebrations were
about 150 friends and supporters, including
the association’s new patroness, Vivian
Spohr. She took the baton from her predecessor Bettina Lauer, who had championed
the Help Alliance since 2009. For her tenure
the wife of the Lufthansa Group’s Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Carsten Spohr
is planning among other things to increase
awareness of the employee organization
and to open up new sources of revenues.
Furthermore, the aid organization’s website
www.helpalliance.org received a fresh
look to mark the 15th anniversary.

“Companies, such as the Lufthansa
Group, which embody certain values
have an obligation to get involved in
social issues. It is a stroke of luck that
Lufthansa can count on employees
who pull together.”

Vivian Spohr,
Patroness Help Alliance e. V.

96 // Corporate Citizenship

Below is an overview of the Help Alliance’s
key projects during the reporting year.
Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp
During the reporting year the Help Alliance
supported the first Haiti Entrepreneurship
Camp, which took place in the capital
Port-au-Prince. The pilot project aims at
motivating young people to set up their
own businesses and thus to disprove the
widely held belief that success depends
solely on social origins. Under the motto
“driving business – driving future” lecturers from around the world – including
many Lufthansa employees from different
Group companies as well as local nongovernment organizations and institutions
– taught about 30 young Haitian entrepreneurs between the ages of 24 and 42
business know-how in theory and practice
over the course of two weeks. Given last
year’s great success, the camp will take
place again in 2015.
Child Sponsoring Circle India
The Help Alliance has been committed to
Child Sponsoring Circle India since 2004.
This central Indian association maintains
20 boarding schools in Khandwa in the
state of Madhya Pradesh. The project’s
focus is on 3,000 children from the ostracized “untouchables” caste who can be
supported by neither their families nor their
village communities. At the boarding
schools they receive food, shelter, medication and education. Every year, 200 of them
graduate from secondary school. In addition, Child Sponsoring Circle has operated
a mobile hospital ward since 2008 with
support from the Help Alliance and the
frequent flyer program Miles & More.

Vivian Spohr, the patroness of the Help Alliance, during her
visit to boarding schools run by Child Sponsoring Circle India.

“The approach that we can achieve
more together than alone has proven
itself a resounding success. A big
‘thank you’ to all who have supported
us during the past 15 years.”

Rita Diop,
Chairwoman Help Alliance e. V.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 97

The Help Alliance has supported the preschool project iThemba School Capricorn in South Africa since 2006.

iThemba School Capricorn
The iThemba School Capricorn is a
preschool project in the townships of Cape
Town, South Africa, that every year gives
75 underprivileged children the opportunity
to attend school. The Help Alliance has
supported this project since 2006. Given
the positive response from both parents
and the Capricorn district municipality, the
iThemba School started construction of
a primary school at the beginning of 2015.
It is to accommodate 600 children and is
slated for inauguration in January 2017.
Fundraising activities
Since 2012, the association has cooperated with betterplace.org, a charitable
donations platform that permits users to
support projects directly. The same is true
for the more recent cooperation with
ammado.com, thanks to an initiative
by the ninth generation of the management
development program “explorers”: Visitors
can now reach this online platform, which
meets the requirements of German and
European data protection laws, via links
on www.helpalliance.org and
www.LH.com. The Lufthansa Group
companies and cooperation partners participate as well in fundraising campaigns. Via
Facebook, YouTube and the Help Alliance
blog, the humanitarian aid organization
maintains contact with its supporters and
informs them about the progress of individual projects.

Small Change –
It’s a Big Help
With the aim of building bridges into a better
future for people in need, the Help Alliance
launched the on-board collection program
Small Change – It’s a Big Help in 2001.
It offers Lufthansa Group passengers the
opportunity to donate coins and bills in
any currency they might be carrying on
homeward bound long-haul flights. For this
purpose, the seat pockets on board aircraft
contain small sealable envelopes, which the
flight attendants then collect and forward to
the Help Alliance. In addition, valuable small
change is also collected in donation pillars
placed in employee areas, the Lufthansa
Lounges at all German and selected international airports, and in the public areas
at the Frankfurt and Munich hubs.

On-board collection program
Development of donation volumes in euros 1
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010

318,380
205,362
286,184

2009

224,053

2008

230,433

2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001

October 2002:	start of Condor’s participation
September 2011: 	start of Brussels Airlines’
participation
July 2012: 	start of Austrian Airlines’
participation

497,823
301,566

260,939
279,575
294,870
238,023
216,539
232,692
207,175

1 As the final figures were not yet available at press
time, all figures in this article mentioned for the
reporting year 2014 are preliminary.

98 // Corporate Citizenship

“Flight Mode app”:
Digital time out for a good cause
With the aim of supporting four Help Alliance
school projects in India, Brazil, Benin and
Vietnam, the Lufthansa Group published
the “Lufthansa Flight Mode app” in December 2014 LH.com/flightmode. The goal
of this Christmas campaign was to motivate
the app’s users to take digital time out on
board or on the ground for a good cause.
To do so, they merely had to switch their
mobile or smart phone to the off-line mode

– the “flight mode”. All off-line minutes
registered worldwide by the app by
December 24 were added up and turned
into donations by the Lufthansa Group.
Traditional ways of supporting the work of
the Help Alliance are a Supporting Membership, direct donations, the on-board
collection (see page 97), Miles to Help, and
child sponsorships.
www.helpalliance.org

15 years of Help Alliance

130

projects since 1999, of which:
57 in Asia
46 in Africa
21 in Central and South America
6 in Europe

10,402,500

600

1,500

> 3,000,000

euros total funding since 1999

supporting members

volunteers

euros collected on board since 2001.

Countries where the
Help Alliance is active.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 99

Cargo Human Care: At Mothers’ Mercy Home the first graduates celebrate the successful completion of their course work.

Cargo Human Care:
Take off, land, help
Cargo Human Care (CHC) is a registered
charity set up jointly by Lufthansa Cargo
employees and German physicians in 2007.
From the start, Lufthansa Cargo has supported the initiative with air tickets and freight
capacities provided free of charge. The
basic idea of this Kenya-based aid project
is to provide professional medical care to
sick and needy people in an uncomplicated
manner. Treatments are given at the Medical
Center run by Cargo Human Care in Nairobi.
It mainly looks after people living in the
vicinity who cannot afford to see a doctor, as
well as the children living at the orphanage
Mothers’ Mercy Home. The latter, the CHC’s
second important area of activity, is currently
home to more than 115 orphans.
CHC draws from a pool of about 40 medical doctors from six specialty areas. Three
times a month, physicians board an aircraft
for a four-day stint as voluntary care providers in Kenya. Since 2008, their work in

Nairobi has added up to more than 2,000
days. What is more: In 2014 the CHC provided without charge about 22,500 treatments for about 6,500 patients – a new
record. During the reporting year, the CHC
again expanded the range of medical
options it offers. Among these new treatments are plastic surgery and laparoscopic
procedures, which German specialists
perform on an inpatient basis at the local
Nazareth Hospital. Furthermore, the aid
organization cooperates with an eye clinic
to treat cataracts.
Since 2011, Cargo Human Care has offered full or partial child sponsorships for
sick, disabled and neglected children living
in the area surrounding the Mothers’ Mercy
Home. There were 60 such cases in 2014.
In addition, the CHC created education and
training sponsorships during the reporting
year – a support option that currently benefits more than 30 young people.
Dr. Sven Sievers, founding member and
former second chairman of Cargo Human
Care, was awarded the Order of Merit of

the Federal Republic of Germany on
May 9, 2015 for his volunteer work in
Kenya. Three years earlier, Fokko Doyen,
MD-11F Fleet Chief at Lufthansa Cargo
and initiator of Cargo Human Care,
received the same award.
www.cargohumancare.de

Cargo Social Care:
Cooperation with
sheltered workshops
For more than 30 years, Lufthansa Cargo
has joined forces with the registered association “Werkstätten für Behinderte RheinMain e. V.”. This cooperation secures the
jobs of 280 disabled persons, who each
week produce about 2,400 lashing straps
and each month repair about 11,000
straps used to secure air freight loaded
on aircraft. All products meet the stringent
Lufthansa Cargo quality requirements
derived from the relevant ISO standards.

100 // Corporate Citizenship

Swiss and SOS Children’s Village together champion conditions that will allow
children to take their lives into their own hands later on.

Swiss

Austrian Airlines

Brussels Airlines

For many years, Swiss has maintained
close ties with the aid organization SOS
Children’s Villages. For example, the
child welfare agency receives the “small
change” in various currencies that the airline collects from passengers on board its
flights and at a number of coin collection
points. During the reporting year, a total
of 185,000 Swiss Francs were collected
in this way. Beyond that, Swiss supports
the efforts of SOS Children’s Villages
with communications campaigns and
transportation services. Also the Swiss
Children’s Foundation, set up by staff and
managed by volunteers, can rely on financial, logistical and infrastructural support
from the Lufthansa subsidiary. Moreover,
Swiss employees can choose to have a
voluntary donation to the Swiss Children’s
Foundation deducted from their salaries.
The foundation uses these donations to
finance the livelihoods of families in the
SOS Children’s Villages it supports around
the world.

The Austrian Group airline assumes it responsibility for social issues and supports
globally relevant charities, social organizations, institutions and projects. This also
includes the Life Ball. It is one of the largest
AIDS charity events worldwide and takes
place every year at Vienna’s city hall. Its
goal is to help people with the immune
deficiency disease in unconventional ways
and to remove the taboos surrounding HIV/
AIDS. To mark the occasion of the Life Ball
2014, Austrian Airlines branded a Boeing
777, which has been flying around the globe
in this special livery since April 1, 2014. In
2015, the Life Ball took place on May 16.

After 2011 and 2014 (see page 109,
Balance 2014), employees of the Lufthansa
Group airline Brussels Airlines will once
again participate in “Bike for Africa” in 2016.
This mountain-bike event is an initiative of
Brussels Airlines’ b.foundation, which
supports the social involvement of its
employees. The route planned for next
year covers 460 kilometers across Senegal
and Gambia in West Africa. Revenues
from the five-day cycling tour will benefit
humanitarian projects.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 101

Environmental sponsorship
Today, nearly a third of all known animal and plant species is considered to
be endangered. This includes the crane, the Lufthansa Group’s heraldic bird,
for at least ten of the 15 crane species around the world are threatened in their
existence. With the aim of putting a stop to the ongoing destruction of crane
habitats, the Group has been active in crane protection for over 30 years.

Lufthansa supports numerous crane protection projects through the charitable
working group Crane Protection Germany,
which was founded in 1991 by Lufthansa,
Naturschutzbund Deutschland (NABU)
and the environmental foundation WWF
Deutschland. Special emphasis is placed
on the Crane Information Center (CIC),
which Crane Protection Germany operates
in Groß Mohrdorf (see page 110, Balance
2014). The CIC again drew about 15,000
visitors in 2014.
During the reporting year, Crane Protection Germany inter alia developed guidelines for the 92.2-hectare grassland area
it received from Bodenverwertungs- und
-verwaltungs GmbH (BVVG ) as a transfer
from national natural heritage land stocks.
The goal is to preserve and expand the
marshes and meadows surrounding the
Günzer See, a coastal lake in the rural
district of Vorpommern-Rügen, as breeding and resting grounds for aquatic and
migratory birds. To maintain visitor access
to this area, Crane Protection Germany is
currently constructing a barrier-free observation deck (“Utkiek”), set to open in

Impressions of the crane ringing
campaign in Ethiopia

October 2015. The project “Treasure on
the Coast” is supported by Germany’s
Federal Agency for Nature Conservation.
Responsibility for the “bird of luck” was
also assumed by a number of volunteer
crane rangers from the ranks of Lufthansa
employees in 2014. They used several
days of active vacation to lend a helping
hand to Crane Protection Germany.
Banding campaigns in Turkey
and Ethiopia
In an effort to save the last 150 crane pairs
in Turkey, Crane Protection Germany joined
forces with partners to band and radio-tag
a number of birds in 2014. Also in the
pipeline are various banding and radiotagging projects in Ethiopia.
www.kraniche.de
www.facebook.com/kranichschutz

No profit from
wild animals
At Lufthansa Cargo “live freight” always
flies safely and species-appropriately. In the
interest of protecting wild animals, the freight
airline refuses all commercial shipments of
endangered species (see page 84, Balance
2010). For the same reason, the transport of
endangered animal trophies has been
strictly forbidden on Lufthansa Cargo flights
for many years. To take its measures to
protect wildlife a step further, the airline has
decided not to accept trophies in Africa from
species such as lions, elephants and rhinoceroses – including those that are legally
shot or acquired. In this way, Lufthansa
Cargo makes another contribution to animal
and species protection.
www.lufthansa-cargo.de

102 // Corporate Citizenship

Cultural commitment
Art is a precious resource which no society can do without. To underscore
this conviction, the Lufthansa Group has been active in the cultural domain for
many decades. Currently, the focus of our support is on musical institutions
and performances of distinction.

Since 2010, the Lufthansa Group has
supported the renowned Gürzenich
Orchestra as First Global Partner. Resident
at Cologne’s Philharmonie, it is considered one of Germany’s leading concert
and opera orchestras. In February 2014,
Lufthansa flew the 130-musician-strong
ensemble to Asia for a concert tour, as
part of its first long-term commitment to
a symphonic orchestra (see page 113,
Balance 2014).

Star-studded charity
concerts
On the first Sunday of the 2014 Advent
season, Lufthansa joined forces with the
Gürzenich Orchestra and regional newspaper “Kölner Stadt-Anzeiger” to organize a
charity concert. The sold-out performance
generated net revenues of 20,000 euros
for the benefit of the Lufthansa employee
organization Help Alliance and “wir helfen”,
the aid association of Cologne publishing
house DuMont-Schauberg. Whereas the
Help Alliance’s activities are worldwide

The Gürzenich Orchestra supports the Help Alliance and “wir helfen” by giving a charity concert.

(see page 98), “wir helfen” looks after
children and teenagers in distress across
the Cologne region. Performing works by
Tchaikovsky and Beethoven, star violinist
Midori and conductor Michael Sanderling
proved to be absolute crowd pullers. The
next edition of this charity concert series
will take place on October 18, 2015 – this
year with cellist Gautier Capuçon and guest
conductor James Gaffigan. In addition, the
Gürzenich Orchestra ensures musical
delights of the highest order for Lufthansa’s
employees at selected in-company events
throughout the year.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 103

Sports sponsorship
For many years, the Lufthansa Group has extended its social commitment to
high-performance sports as well. The “Airline of Sports” is a trusted and reliable
partner of numerous renowned sports institutions, associations and clubs.

German Sports
Aid Foundation
Since 2007, Lufthansa has been a National
Sponsor of the German Sports Aid Foundation, an organization that currently supports
about 3,800 athletes. Furthermore, the
aviation group supports the foundation’s
initiatives “Your Name for Germany” (see
page 104, Balance 2013) and “Springboard
Future – Sports and Career”. The latter helps
world-class athletes start to prepare the way
for their later professional development while
still in their active sports careers. Currently,
five Lufthansa managers serve as mentors
for the same number of athletes, giving
advice and practical support.
The Boeing 747-8 named “Potsdam” shows both the words “Fanhansa” and the heartfelt
thanks in the word “Siegerflieger” (Winners’ Plane) from Lufthansa and all fans
to the German football team for its brilliant performance in Brazil.

www.sporthilfe.de

German Olympic Sports
Confederation and
National Paralympic
Committee Germany
As the official carrier of the German Olympic
Sports Confederation and National Paralympic Committee Germany, Lufthansa flew the
German national teams to both the Olympic
Games and the Paralympic Winter Games
2014 in Sochi. In June 2015, the “Airline of
Sports” also flew the German teams to the
Azerbaijani capital, Baku, where the European Games took place for the first time.
In addition, Lufthansa traditionally supports

the bids of German cities competing to host
Olympic and Paralympic Games.
www.dosb.de / www.dbs-npc.de

Football
Lufthansa has been a close partner of the
German Football Association since 2005.
Ever since, the airline has flown all German
national soccer teams to their away games
as well as to European and world championships. Following Germany’s brilliant

victory at the FIFA World Cup in Brazil in
summer 2014, Lufthansa brought the
World Champions back home aboard a
brand-new Boeing 747-8 – with the word
“Siegerflieger” (“Winners’ plane”) painted
on the fuselage. In November 2014,
Lufthansa opted for an early extension of
its partnership with the German Football
Association until 2018. In addition, it is the
Official Carrier of FC Bayern München as
well as an official partner of the Eintracht
Frankfurt team.
www.dfb.de / www.lufthansagroup.com/sports

Service
and Information
Glossary / Editorial information /
Methodology of calculations /
Overview of the Lufthansa Group’s fleet

106 // Service and Information

Glossary
A
Aerosols
Aerosols are solid and/or liquid particles
that are suspended in the air. They reach
the atmosphere by means of natural processes (wind, desert storms, volcanic eruptions) or human activities (combustion of
biomass and fossil fuels). The most important aerosols are mineral dust, sea salt,
cellular (biological) particles, soot, organic
compounds, and sulfates. From a climatic
perspective, aerosols are the opponents of
greenhouse gases, as they can reflect
incident light and thus have a cooling effect.
aireg e. V. – Aviation Initiative for
Renewable Energy in Germany
aireg is a registered association of leading
German research institutions, Lufthansa
and other companies in the aviation industry, and bioenergy producers. The goal of
this initiative, which was founded in 2011,
is to advance the development and introduction of regenerative aviation fuels in
Germany and to inform the public at large
about this topic.

level at the poles. The temperature in the
tropopause, the transition layer between
troposphere and stratosphere, drops to
about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It rises
again in the stratosphere. The so-called
ozone layer is also located in the stratosphere at altitudes of about 25 to 30 kilometers. Today’s commercial aircraft fly at
cruising altitudes of between eight and
13 kilometers. According to the latest
research, air traffic emissions do not contribute to the reduction of the ozone layer.

B
B.A.U.M. – Bundesdeutscher Arbeitskreis für Umweltbewusstes Management e.V. (Federal Working Group for
Environmentally-Aware Management)
B.A.U.M. was founded in 1984 as the first
independent environmental initiative of
German business. With more than 500
members, it is the largest of its kind in
Europe today. Lufthansa has been a member of the Working Group since 1997.
www.baumev.de

www.aireg.de

ATM – Air Traffic Management
Air traffic management ensures both the
safe and the efficient movement of aircraft
in all phases of operations.
Atmosphere
The whole mass of air surrounding the
Earth. It is divided into various layers, distinguished from one another by distinct differences in vertical bands of temperature.
Important for air traffic are the two lower
layers: the troposphere and, above it, the
stratosphere. The troposphere’s upper
boundaries vary depending on season and
latitude. They lie at altitudes of 16 to 18
kilometers above sea level at the equator,
and at eight to 12 kilometers above sea

BDL – Bundesverband der Deutschen
Luftverkehrswirtschaft (German
Aviation Association)
Lufthansa is a founding member of the
German Aviation Association (BDL), which
has represented the interests of the German aviation industry with a single voice
since December 2010. Its main goals are
to make politicians and journalists more
aware of aviation’s economic and employment-related importance and to strengthen
Germany as a business location for aviation
in general.
www.bdl.aero

C
Carbon dioxide (CO2)
Gas resulting in nature from the burning or
decomposition of organic substances (e.g.
plant material) and from human or animal
respiration. The greenhouse gas CO2
remains in the atmosphere for about 100
years. Scientists attribute the increase in
atmospheric CO2 over the last 100 years
to the burning of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil,
natural gas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel,
3.15 tonnes of CO2 result from the combustion process. Currently, about 2.42 percent
of the CO2 emissions due to human activities are caused by global air traffic.
(Source: International Energy Agency (IEA)
2013, 2011 values)
Carbon monoxide (CO)
Chemical compound consisting of one
carbon and one oxygen atom, formed in
the incomplete combustion process of
substances containing carbon. For aircraft
engines, the level of CO emissions
depends greatly on the thrust level: The
emissions per kilogram of fuel burned are
higher at idle settings, while taxiing, and
on approach than during the climbing and
cruising phases.
CDA – Continuous Descent Approach
Procedure for a flight’s approach phase
that requires less engine thrust and is
therefore quieter and more fuel efficient.
However, this type of approach is possible
only if there are no constraints due to heavy
air traffic in the airspace concerned.
CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure
Project)
The CDP is an independent, charitable
organization with a current membership of
more than 820 institutional investors worldwide. The goal of this initiative, which was
founded in 2000, is to motivate the world’s
largest listed corporations to make data on

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 107

their greenhouse gas emissions and their
climate protection strategies transparent.
For this purpose, the CDP and its partners
jointly developed two indices: the Carbon
Disclosure Leadership Index, which includes
companies that make their emissions transparent to a particular extent, and the Carbon Performance Leadership Index, which
takes concrete climate protection achievements into account.

Corporate Responsibility (CR)
Corporate responsibility expresses the
degree to which a company assumes
accountability for the effects its business
activities have on employees, customers,
society, and the environment.

Chapter 4 aircraft
Aircraft that comply with the strictest noise
protection standard currently in force – the
Chapter 4 noise standard. The Environmental Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO
agreed on this standard in September
2001. As a result, all aircraft newly certified
since 2006 must remain cumulatively
below the Chapter 3 noise levels by 10
decibels or more. The maximum noise
emission values for aircraft were introduced
by the ICAO under Annex 16 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation. Noise
levels depend on the aircraft’s maximum
takeoff weight and number of engines.

Decibel
Measuring unit for the intensity and pressure of sound. The difference in intensity
between the softest sound the human ear
can perceive and the pain threshold is
1:10 trillion. To depict this enormous range
objectively, acoustics uses the logarithmic
decibel scale. On this scale, the value “0”
is assigned to the perception threshold
(for a sound of 1,000 Hz) and the pain
threshold at the value “130”. An increase of
10 dB corresponds to a tenfold increase in
sound intensity. For the perceived volume,
a difference of 10 dB corresponds to half
or double the volume. However, the human
ear is not equally sensitive across the entire
range of frequencies. Low and high sounds
are not perceived as being equally loud
even at the same intensity. For measurements, this difference is equalized and
noted accordingly. The best known such
notation is the A value, marked by the
index dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the
EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibel)
unit is used internationally.

CO
see “Carbon monoxide”
CO2
see “Carbon dioxide”
Codeshare
A codeshare is a flight segment that is sold
under the flight number of one airline while
being operated either partly or entirely by
another airline. Both companies maintain
their independent profiles in the market.
Compliance
Compliance describes in their entirety all
measures that ensure the lawful conduct of
companies, their management bodies, and
their employees with regard to legal directives and interdictions.

D

Diversity
In a corporate context, diversity refers to all
characteristics that distinguish employees
from one another. Diversity management
offers approaches for handling human
differences for the benefit of company and
employees alike.

DLR – Deutsches Zentrum für Luftund Raumfahrt (German Aerospace
Center)
The DLR serves scientific, economic, and
social purposes. It maintains 32 institutes
and research centers. Its declared goal
is to help – using the means of aviation
and space flight – to secure and shape
the future. In its work, the DLR also seeks
cooperation and allocation of research
tasks among European partners.
www.dlr.de

DNWE – Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik (German Network for
Business Ethics)
DNWE is a nonprofit organization of which
­Lufthansa has been a member since
January 1998. DNWE has more than 600
current members, including many from
German business, politics, religion, and
science. At the same time, DNWE is a
national association of the European Business Ethics Network (EBEN).
www.dnwe.de

E
econsense – Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der Deutschen Wirtschaft
e.V. (Forum for Sustainable Development of German Businesses)
An association of globally active corporations and organizations in German industry
that have integrated the guiding principle of
sustainable development into their corporate
strategies. ­Lufthansa is a founding member
of this cross-industry network, which was set
up in 2000.
www.econsense.de

108 // Service and Information

EMAS – Environmental Management
and Audit Scheme
European regulations concerning environmental management and certification;
colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit
regulations.

Equivalent continuous noise level
(Leq)
The Leq is a measure for the energetic
average of all sound pressure levels over
a defined period of time. All sound events
that differ in intensity and duration are
summarized according to mathematical
rules. The resulting average value is an
accepted and proven measurement of the
noise quantity occurring over an observed
time interval.

Ethibel – Ethibel Sustainability Index
The independent Belgian agency Ethibel
has listed Lufthansa in its Ethibel Investment Register and the Ethibel Sustainability
Index (ESI). The ESI offers institutional
investors, asset managers, banks, and
private investors a comprehensive overview
of the financial results of companies that
distinguish themselves by pursuing sustainable business practices. Since the
merger with Vigeo and Stock at Stake in
2005, this index has been part of Vigeo.
However, Forum Ethibel continues to be
responsible for the ethical criteria and the
composition of the ESI. Updates of and
calculations for the index are performed
by the internationally renowned index
provider Standard & Poor’s.
www.ethibel.org

F

G

Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT)
Airlines distinguish between freight performance offered (FTKO, freight tonne kilometers offered) and its sold freight performance (FTKT, freight tonne kilometers
transported). See also “Tonne kilometers”

Global Compact
see “UN Global Compact”

FTSE4Good
The index was introduced in 2001 by FTSE,
a wholly owned subsidiary of the London
Stock Exchange. It lists only those companies that meet the internationally accepted
standards for corporate responsibility in the
following dimensions: environmental
management, climate change, human and
labor rights along the supply chain, corporate governance, and anti-corruption efforts.
Lufthansa has been listed since 2001.
www.ftse.com

Fuel Dump
Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency
situations. A procedure used on long-haul
aircraft before unscheduled landings (e.g.
in the event of technical problems or serious passenger illness) to decrease the
aircraft’s weight to the maximum permissible landing weight. In the event of a fuel
dump, special air space is assigned to the
aircraft, if possible above uninhabited or
thinly populated areas. Fuel is usually
dumped at altitudes of 4–8 kilometers. A
minimum altitude of 1,500 meters and a
minimum speed of 500 km/h are required.
The aircraft may not fly a fully closed circle.
The dumped kerosene forms a fine mist in
the turbulence behind the aircraft. Despite
the use of highly sensitive methods of analysis, no contamination has been detected so
far in plant or soil samples after fuel dumps.

Great-circle distance
The shortest distance between two points
on the Earth’s surface, measured in kilometers (great circle kilometers) or nautical
miles. The center of a great circle is the
center of the Earth.

Greenhouse gases
Gaseous substances that contribute to the
greenhouse effect and have both natural
and human (anthropogenic) causes. The
most important natural greenhouse gases
are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide
(CO2), and methane (CH4); the most important anthropogenic greenhouse gases are
carbon dioxide from the combustion of
fossil fuels and methane, primarily from
agriculture and industrial livestock farming.
Other artificial greenhouse gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons (FCs and
HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs).

H
Hub
In air transport, a hub is a central traffic
point or an airline’s transfer airport. Passengers and freight are transported from their
point of departure to one of the airline’s
“home airports“ (hub). From there, they are
carried to their destination by a second
flight alongside passengers and freight
from other departure points, but with the
same destination.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 109

I

K

IATA – International Air Transport
Association
The umbrella organization of international
commercial aviation.

Kerosene
Fuel for jet and propeller engines that is
chemically similar to petroleum. Like diesel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is produced
by distilling crude oil; unlike these fuels,
kerosene does not contain halogenated
additives.

www.iata.org

ICAO – International Civil Aviation
Organization
A United Nations agency that develops
internationally binding norms for civil
aviation.
www.icao.int

ICC – International Chamber of
Commerce
The ICC was founded in 1919 as the World
Business Organization. More than 1,500
business organizations and over 5,000
corporations are organized in the worldwide framework of the ICC. Lufthansa has
been a member since 1955.
www.iccgermany.de

ILO standards
Work standards of the International Labor
Organization, which include, among
others, the bans on child labor, forced
labor, and discrimination as well as the
fundamental right of freedom of association for employees.
ISO 14001 – International environmental management system
Companies thereby receive an effective
instrument that allows them to take environmental aspects into consideration in decisions relating to corporate policies and to
continuously improve the situation of environmental care in relation to all daily tasks.
www.iso.org

L
LHSB – Lufthansa School of Business
The LHSB supports processes of change
within the Group and promotes a shared
management culture. It has received multiple awards for the worldwide standards it
establishes for the development and training of professionals and managers.
Low-cost segment
Airlines offering predominantly low fares,
but featuring reduced or separately charged services on the ground and in the air.
Flights are most often operated to/from
airports outside of major population centers.

M
Mentoring
Instrument for targeted support of junior
employees. Focuses on regular personal
contacts between mentor and mentee.
MRO
Acronym standing for maintenance, repair,
and overhaul of aircraft
MSCI Global Sustainability Index
Series
The US index provider MSCI launched a
series of sustainability indices in September

2010. The MCSI index family comprises
seven environmental, two value-based
and 15 best-of-class indices. These include
shares of companies with high and
medium market capitalization and are
based on the MSCI World Index. They
depict companies that are particularly
committed to environmental, social and
governance (ESG) issues. Lufthansa has
been included in this index series since
June 2015.
www.msci.com/esg-indexes

MTOW
Acronym standing for maximum takeoff
weight of an aircraft

N
Nitrogen oxides (NOX)
Chemical compounds consisting of one
nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX
is defined as the sum of NO and NO2 compounds. Natural sources include lightning
and microbes in the soil. Nitrogen oxides
are also generated in combustion processes under high pressures and temperatures. Both of these parameters have been
increased in modern aircraft engines to
significantly reduce fuel consumption as
well as emissions of carbon monoxide and
unburned hydrocarbons. However, future
combustion chambers of an advanced
design could help reduce NOX emissions
by 85 percent. Air traffic contributes 2-3
percent of man-made NOX emissions.
Climate models show that nitrogen oxides
have increased the concentration of ozone
at cruising altitudes by a few percentage
points.
NOX
see “Nitrogen oxides”

110 // Service and Information

O

P

oekom
The oekom Corporate Rating evaluates
the social and environmental compatibility
of companies according to a selection of
100 industry-specific indicators on average.
Companies that rank in the top of their
respective industries in the context of an
oekom Corporate Rating and fulfill the
industry-specific minimum criteria are
awarded the oekom Prime Status by
oekom research.

Passenger kilometer (PKO/PKT)
Measure for transport performance in
passenger carriage (number of passengers
multiplied by distance flown). A distinction
is made between available transport performance (PKO, passenger kilometers offered,
or, synonymously, SKO, seat kilometers
offered) and actual transport performance
(PKT, passenger kilometers transported).

www.oekom-research.com

OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health
and Safety Assessment Series
Job safety management system developed
by the British Standards Institution in
cooperation with international certification
organizations.
Ozone
Molecule formed in the stratosphere and
consisting of three oxygen atoms. The
ozone layer located in the stratosphere
has an important protective function, as it
absorbs harmful ultraviolet light. While
ozone at higher altitudes is broken down
massively by chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs),
it develops close to the ground under the
influence of sunlight from numerous precursor substances (summer smog) and
irritates the mucous membranes. At current
levels, nitrogen oxide emissions from air
traffic at cruising altitudes cause an increase in atmospheric ozone, analogous
to the generation of summer smog, estimated by scientists at 3-4 percent on the
heavily-flown North Atlantic routes.

Pro Recycling Paper Initiative
Founded in 2000, the initiative unites various industries and aims at promoting intensive use and the acceptance of recycling
paper. Lufthansa is one of the initiative’s
founding members.
www.papiernetz.de

R
RSB – Roundtable on Sustainable
Biomaterials
International initiative to develop a global
standardization and certification system for
agrofuels.
http://rsb.org

S
SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Users Group
Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufacturers,
and providers of refinery technology whose
goal is to accelerate the development and
commercialization of sustainable fuels for
the air transport industry.
www.safug.org

Seat kilometer
Measure for the transport capacity available
(SKO, seat kilometers offered).
Seat load factor (SLF)
Passenger-related measure of aircraft
capacity utilization: the ratio of transport
performance (PKT, passenger kilometers
transported) to capacity (PKO, passenger
kilometers offered).
SES – Single European Sky
Describes the efforts of the European Commission since the late 1990s to restructure
European airspace for the purpose of
optimizing traffic flows and dissolving the
airspace’s fragmented structure, which is
defined by national borders and interests,
by creating a limited number of Functional
Airspace Blocks (FABs).
Slot
Designated point in time at which an airline
may use an airport’s runway for takeoff or
landing.
Stakeholder
Groups or individuals who formulate their
demands on a company (e.g. attainment of
corporate goals) and pursue these either
personally or through representatives. This
includes shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, and others.
Sustainable development
According to the guiding principle of sustainable development formulated in 1987
by the World Commission for Development
and the Environment (Brundtland Commission), “sustainable development is […] a
form of development that meets the needs
of today’s generation without jeopardizing
the abilities of future generations to satisfy
their own.” For businesses, this means
acting responsibly not only in economic
matters but also in environmental and
social issues. All three aspects – economic,
ecological, and social – must be kept in
balance.

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 111

T

V

Tonne kilometer (TKT / TKO)
Measure of transport performance (payload
multiplied by distance). A distinction is
made between available transport performance (TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and
the actual transport performance (TKT,
tonne kilometers transported). In calculating payloads, passengers are taken into
account by means of a statistical average
weight.

VOC – Volatile Organic Compounds
Volatile organic substances that are characterized by high steam pressure and thus
evaporate easily into the atmosphere at
room temperature. VOCs are present in
solvents, cleaning agents, fuels, and other
substances. In the presence of nitrogen
oxides and intense sunlight, VOCs lead to
the generation of ozone.

Town Meeting
Information event for employees at different
locations of a company.

W

Transparency International
Anti-corruption organization, of which
Lufthansa has been a member since 1999.
www.transparency.de

U
UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons
Organic mixture of carbon and hydrogen
that results from the incomplete combustion of fuels containing hydrocarbons or
from the evaporation of fuel.
UN Global Compact
Global network in whose context the United
Nations cooperates with private-sector
corporations and civil action organizations
to advance human rights, labor standards,
environmental protection, and anti-corruption measures. Deutsche Lufthansa AG has
been a member since 2002.
www.unglobalcompact.org

Water vapor
The most important greenhouse gas, even
ahead of carbon dioxide. Without water
vapor from natural sources, the Earth’s
surface would be around 22 degrees
Celsius cooler. This makes water vapor
responsible for two-thirds of the natural
greenhouse effect (33 degrees Celsius).
For each kilogram of kerosene burned,
1.24 kilograms of water vapor are released.
Concerns that air traffic might increase the
concentration of water vapor in the stratosphere and thus change the climate have
been refuted by scientific research. The
German Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded
that even a one hundred-fold increase in
the quantity of water vapor emitted by air
traffic would not result in a detectable climatic signal.

112 // Service and Information

Editorial information
Published by
Deutsche Lufthansa AG
Lufthansa Group Communications
Senior Vice President: Barbara Schädler
Concept, text, and editors
Lufthansa Group Communications
Corporate Responsibility & Events
Director: Susanne Kotysch
Steffen Milchsack
Claudia Walther
Design and production
organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH,
Frankfurt am Main
Copy deadline
June 30, 2015
Paper
Contents: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper
made from 100 percent recycled paper.
Produced without optical brightening agents
or chlorine bleach. Certified with The Blue
Angel environmental label – RAL-UZ 14.
Cover: Hello Fat Matt (FSC-certified)

carbon neutral
natureOffice.com | DE-197-588722

print production

Reprints, including excerpts, only with
written permission from the publisher and
by citing Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the
source (text and images). In this case we
ask that you send us a copy or clipping.
Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany
ISSN 1612-0906

Photo credits
Jens Görlich (title, cover page contenta,
pages 4/5, 8, 15, 16, 30, 31, 38, 45, 60,
61, 63, 105, 106, 116)
Gregor Schläger (title, cover page contents,
pages 24, 25, 32, 35, 51, 56, 74)
Sonja Brüggemann (title, pages 11, 49, 66)
Dominik Mentzos (cover page contents,
pages 14, 15, 58, 62)
Swiss (cover page contents, pages 13, 32,
47, 48, 70)
Jens Allendorff (cover page contents,
pages 90, 96)
Christian Schlueter (page 3)
Jürgen Mai (pages 8, 10, 11, 12, 42, 44, 50)
Rolf Bewersdorf (pages 8, 9, 11, 20)
Oliver Rösler (pages 9, 14, 23, 24, 32, 47,
75, 79, 88)
Andreas Ritter (pages 12, 46)
Uwe Schoßig (page 13)
Alex Schwarz (pages 32, 48)
Matthias Just (pages 36/37)
Lufthansa Cargo (page 38)
Jörg Ladwig (page 48)
Franziska Köhler (page 53)
myclimate (pages 68, 69)
Ingrid Friedl (page 77)
Kristina Schäfer (page 78)
Martin Bursch (page 89)
Jan Brandes (page 94)
Help Alliance (page 97)
Arno Pfeifer (page 99)
Philipp Scheidiger (page 100)
Dr. Günter Nowald (page 103)
Matthias Baus (page 104)
www.fotolia.com: Artco (pages 4/5, 36/37),
radoma (pages 36/37), max_776 (page 98)
Other: Lufthansa Group photo archive

Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 113

Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology
for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions
Scope of consolidation
Reporting on transport performance, kerosene consumption, and emissions from
flight operations in 2014 is – unless noted
otherwise – based on the following scope
of consolidation:
Lufthansa (including its regional partners Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti,
Eurowings), Germanwings, Swiss (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines
and Lufthansa Cargo. Not included are
services performed by third parties, as
their performance and the aircraft they
use are beyond our control.
Types of flight service: all scheduled and
charter flights.

Methodology of
calculations
Kerosene in absolute terms
Kerosene consumption is calculated on the
basis of actual flight operations (i.e. using
actual load factors and flight routings)
according to the gate-to-gate principle.
This covers all phases of a flight, from
taxiing on the ground to flying detours and
holding patterns in the air.
Emissions in absolute terms
The emissions from flight operations are
calculated on the basis of actual transport
performance and hence on actual load
factors and the actual absolute quantity of
kerosene consumed in the reporting year.
Transport performance is measured in
tonne kilometers; i.e., payload transported
over a distance. For passengers and their
luggage, an average of 100 kilograms is

the standard estimate; for freight, it is its
scale weight. Each aircraft/engine combination present in the fleet is considered
separately, and the associated values are
calculated with the aid of computer programs provided by the aircraft and engine
manufacturers. The annual average flight
profile for each subset of the fleet is then
fed into these programs. This allows us to
determine emissions in relation to flight
altitude, distance flown, thrust, and load.
This approach is necessary for nitrogen
oxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), and
unburned hydrocarbons (UHC) in particular.
Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions do not
require special calculation methods, as
they are generated in a fixed ratio to the
quantity of kerosene burned. The combustion of 1 tonne of kerosene generates 3.15
tonnes of CO2.
Specific consumption and
emission values
Calculating specific consumption and
emissions entails expressing absolute
values in relation to transport performance.
For example, the ratio liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm) is calculated
on the basis of actual load factors along
with the quantity of kerosene actually consumed. The distances used in the calculations are great-circle distances. In combination flights (freight and passenger transport
in one aircraft), fuel consumption is attributed on the basis of its share of the total
payload to calculate the passenger- and
freight-specific figures.
Since 2013 the DIN EN 16258 standard
has provided a guide for standardized
calculation of greenhouse gas emissions
for transport processes. This guide uses
the same estimates for calculating payload
as the Lufthansa Group. When traveled
distances are calculated, 95 kilometers

must be added to the great-circle distance
according to the guidelines of the EU emission allowance trading scheme. The International Air Transport Association (IATA)
has separately developed its own calculation proposals, which deal with the division
of fuel consumption between freight and
passengers and attribute a larger share of
fuel consumption to passengers because
of the passenger-specific infrastructure.
Although this method has no effect on the
overall efficiency of a flight, it changes the
apportionment between passengers and
freight. There are still divergences between
the two methods (including from the method
used up to now by Lufthansa). We would
welcome a standardized, internationally
harmonized and accepted method.
Environmental management system
The Lufthansa Group collected the environmental data used in this report with the aid
of its environmental management system.
This system also defines how data are
verified and transmitted to the Group Environmental Issues division. The basis for
data collection is Lufthansa’s own environmental database.
Accuracy
For presentation purposes the figures in the
charts and tables are rounded. Changes
from the previous year’s figures and share
percentages refer in each case to precise
figures, however. For this reason it is possible that a reported value may remain the
same from one year to the next even
though a relative change is reported.
Because of the rounding of share percentages, it is also possible that the sum of
their addition may differ from the sum of the
unrounded percentages. For example, as a
result of rounding, share percentages may
not add up to 100 percent even though it
would be logical to expect them to.

Most stringent noise standards
for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet
Margins below the noise limit of ICAO Chapter 3 and Chapter 4
Active fleet of the Lufthansa Group on December 31, 2014
in EPNdB
0

– 10.0 *

A330-300 LH

– 18.4

A330-300 LX / WK

– 18.4

A330-200 WK

– 14.5

A340-300 LH

– 22.6

A340-300 LX

– 22.1

A340-600 LH

– 23.0

A380-800 LH

– 26.7

B747-400 LH

– 13.1 / – 13.6

B747-830 LH

– 25.6

B767-300 OS

– 16.6 / – 16.8

B777-200 OS

– 20.9 / – 21.1

B777F LH

– 17.0

MD-11F LH

– 13.4 / – 13.5

A319-100 LH

– 15.3 / – 19.3

A319-100 LX

– 18.2

A319-100 OS

– 19.3

A319-100 4U

– 16.6 / – 19.4

A320-200 LH

– 13.4 / – 15.9

A320-200 LX

– 13.7 / – 15.9

A320-200 WK

– 13.7 / – 14.1

A320-200 OS

– 15.0 / – 15.9

A320-200 4U

– 13.4

A321-100 LH
A321-100 LX

– 15.5
– 10.0 / – 10.8

A321-100 OS

– 11.5

A321-200 LH

– 14.1 / – 14.7

A321-200 LX
A321-200 OS
B737-300 LH
B737-500 LH

– 14.4
– 9.0
– 13.8
– 14.3

AVRO RJ-100 LX

– 16.4

CRJ-700 CL

– 16.3

CRJ-900 CL

– 16.6

CRJ-900 EW

– 16.6

DHC8-400 OS

– 23.9 /– 25.9

ERJ-190 CL

– 15.1

ERJ-195 CL

– 14.9

ERJ-195 EN

– 14.9

Fokker F-70 OS
Fokker F-100 OS

Of the 605 aircraft in the Lufthansa
Group’s active fleet, 602 fulfill the stringent Chapter 4 noise standard of the
International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO). The most important element of
Chapter 4 is the minus 10 EPNdB criterion (Effective Perceived Noise dB); see
the vertical broken line in the overview
on the left. The limits depend on the
aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight and
number of engines.

– 24.3 / – 25.9

The bar chart indicates the sum of the
differences between the measured value
and the threshold value at the three
measuring points by type of aircraft
(cumulated margin). Where necessary,
the values based on the reduced maximum takeoff weight prevailing in flight
operations are indicated. To allow a
more transparent depiction, an improved
method of analysis was developed for
the previous issues of Balance, which
include the individual noise certificate
data of all Group aircraft. Different versions of an aircraft and its engines by
year of construction are thus better
taken into account. While the conservative approach used until reporting year
2008 meant that only the values of the
sub-fleet with the lowest cumulated margin were reported to describe an aircraft
fleet, the new analytical method used
since reporting year 2009 means that
the value ranges from the lowest to the
highest cumulated margin are now indicated for many fleets. The analysis also
takes into account any modifications
to aircraft or engines that have been
made in the meantime, thereby leading
to modified noise data and cumulated
margins in certain cases. In addition,
numerous additions and withdrawals in
individual fleets lead to changes in the
value ranges reported.

Grouping of aircraft types according to
MTOW (maximum takeoff weight):
under 50 t
50 to 150 t
more than 150 t
This division generally corresponds to a
grouping of regional, continental, and intercontinental aircraft

– 16.2

* New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since 2006:
– 10 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3.

4U
CL
EN
EW
LH
LX
OS
WK

=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=

Germanwings
Lufthansa CityLine
Air Dolomiti
Eurowings
Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo
Swiss
Austrian Airlines
Edelweiss Air

Corporate Responsibility:
Prizes, awards and indices
Every year, the Lufthansa Group and its Group companies
receive numerous prizes and awards. This overview shows
a selection of those relevant to sustainability:

2014
The joint project E-PORT AN, in which the
Lufthansa Group participates, secured
the renowned GreenTec Award 2014 in
the category “Aviation” (see from page
50, Energy and resource management).
The US airport Washington Dulles
and the local LSG Sky Chefs Catering
operation received the award Best of
Buildings 2014 from US Green Building
Council (USGBC). The decisive factor
for the award was the progressive use of
modern products and methods, such as
the microbiological system BIO-Amp™.
A study commissioned by the German
magazine Focus Money entitled “Mit
gutem Gewissen” (“With a clear conscience”) honored Lufthansa in 2014
with the Gold Seal for ecological,
economic and social responsibility.
Lufthansa Technik received two prizes
in 2014 at the Aircraft Technology
Engineering & Maintenance Awards:
the first as best maintenance and
overhaul operation in Europe and the
second for its commitment in the area
of employee qualification and training.
In 2014 Hamburg’s Office for Occupational Safety rated Lufthansa Technik
for the third time as Company with
an exemplary occupational safety
system.
Lufthansa LEOS, a subsidiary of
Lufthansa Technik AG, won fourth place
in the innovation category of Aviation
Award 2014 presented by Flughafen
Stuttgart GmbH for the operational launch
of the hybrid aircraft tug TaxiBot.

2015
The US trade publication Air Transport
World named the Lufthansa Group
Eco-Airline of the Year in 2015 – for
the second time in a row.
At the tourism and travel fair ITB in
Berlin, the Swiss climate protection
organization myclimate bestowed a
myclimate Award 2015 on the AirPlus
Green Company Account of Lufthansa
subsidiary AirPlus as a pioneer for
sustainable financial products in the
travel industry.
The project “Free Route Airspace
Maastricht and Karlsruhe” (FRAMaK)
by Lufthansa, DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung and Eurocontrol won the IHS
Jane’s ATC Award 2015 in the category
environment. FRAMak aims to prove
that cross-border direct routes and
trajectories in the airspace over Belgium,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands and large
parts of Germany are feasible from an
operational point of view and offer many
advantages.
The initiative Ludwig Erhard Prize
awarded the distinction Recognized
for Excellence 4 Stars to LZ-Catering.
With the four-star certificate the former,
a subsidiary of the European Foundation
for Quality Management, honored the
high-level entrepreneurial achieve-ments
of the expert for company restaurants.
The Lufthansa career portal
www.Be-Lufthansa.com was
honored by the research institute
Trendence as best career website
in Germany. The jury praised inter
alia its convincing and highly recognizable design, its clear presentation
of contents, its lively animations and
its clear navigation.

The Lufthansa Group is currently listed
in the following sustainability indices and
has received the following ratings:
FTSE4Good
Ethibel Excellence Investment Register
Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI)
Excellence Europe
ECPI
oekom Prime Rating
MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series

The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group
(as of December 31, 2014)

Lufthansa and regional partners
Boeing 737-300

LH: 9 aircraft, 140 seats, 2,000 km range

Airbus A380-800

LH: 12 aircraft, 526* seats, 12,000 km range

Embraer 195

CL: 24 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range
EN: 10 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range

Boeing 747-8

LH: 15 aircraft, 386* seats, 13,100 km range

Embraer 190

CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,390 km range

Boeing 747-400

LH: 17 aircraft, 352 * seats, 12,500 km range

CRJ900

CL: 12 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range
EW: 23 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range

Airbus A340-600

LH: 24 aircraft, 306* seats, 12,600 km range

CRJ700

CL: 4 aircraft, 70 seats, 2,310 km range

Airbus A340-300

LH: 17 aircraft, 266 * seats, 12,700 km range

Airbus A330-300

LH: 19 aircraft, 221* seats, 10,000 km range

Airbus A320-200

4U: 17 aircraft, 174 seats, 3,020 km range

LH: 62 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,900 /4,350 km range

Airbus A319-100

4U: 43 aircraft, 150* seats, 3,500 km range

Germanwings

Airbus A321-100 / 200

Lufthansa Cargo
Airbus A320-200

LH: 55 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,020 km range

Airbus A319-100

LH: 30 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,260 km range

Boeing MD-11F

LH: 15 aircraft, 516 m3/ 89.4 t, 7,000 km range

Boeing 737-500

LH: 12 aircraft, 120 seats, 1,950 km range

Boeing 777F

LH: 4 aircraft, 653 m3/102.9 t, 9,045 km range

Swiss and Edelweiss Air

Austrian Airlines

Airbus A340-300

LX: 15 aircraft, 219 seats, 10,500 km range

Boeing 777-200

OS: 5 aircraft, 312 * seats, 11,500 km range

Airbus A330-300

LX: 13 aircraft, 236 seats, 8,400 km range

Boeing 767-300

OS: 6 aircraft, 225 * seats, 9,800 km range

Airbus A321-100 / 200

LX: 8 aircraft, 200 * seats, 3,200 km range

Airbus A321-100 / 200

OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,360 / 3,500 km range

Airbus A320-200

LX: 23 aircraft, 168 * seats, 3,650 km range

Airbus A320-200

OS: 16 aircraft, 174 * seats, 4,300 km range

Airbus A319-100

LX: 5 aircraft, 138 * seats, 3,000 km range

Airbus A319-100

OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 4,500 km range

Avro RJ100

LX: 20 aircraft, 97 seats, 3,000 km range

Airbus A330-300

Fokker 100

WK: 2 aircraft, 315 seats, 10,000 km range

Fokker 70

WK: 1 aircraft, 275 seats, 11,500 km range

DHC 8-400

OS: 15 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,000 km range

OS: 7 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,085 km range

HB-IQZ

Airbus A330-200

OS: 18 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,630 km range

HB-IHX

Airbus A320-200

WK: 5 aircraft, 168 * seats, 4,950 km range

Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload, respectively.
* Different versions in operation

Legend
4U = Germanwings
CL = Lufthansa CityLine
EN = Air Dolomiti

EW = Eurowings
LH = Lufthansa,
Lufthansa Cargo

LX = Swiss
OS = Austrian Airlines
WK = Edelweiss Air

Deutsche Lufthansa AG
Lufthansa Group Communications
Lufthansa Aviation Center
60546 Frankfurt am Main
Germany
E-mail: lufthansa-group@dlh.de
Balance is a registered title.
© July 2015
www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility

