CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
Report 2016

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016

Contents
3

LETTER FROM THE CEO

76 ENVIRONMENT
77

Environmental stewardship

79

Climate

5

STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT

82

Resource efficiency

6

Company profile

86

Plant and process safety

8

Governance

88

Biodiversity

9

CR strategy

11

Compliance

14

Human rights

89 SUPPLIERS

16

Stakeholder dialogue

90

Supply chain standards

19

Materiality analysis

93

Mica supply chain

25 PRODUCTS

95 COMMUNITY

26

Innovation and digitalization

96

Community involvement

29

Sustainable product design

97

Health

34

Access to health

100

Culture & education

40

Prices of medicines

41

Health awareness

44

Chemical product safety

102 FACTS & FIGURES

46

Drug safety

103

Report profile

48

Counterfeit products

105

Indicators

50

Transport and warehouse safety

132

Goals

52

Responsible marketing

144

Recognition and rankings

53

Bioethics

146

Sustainable Development Goals

55

Clinical trials

149

GRI content index

58

Animal welfare

169

Global Compact CoP

61

Interactions with health systems

172

Assurance Report

63 EMPLOYEES

175 MAGAZINE

64

Attractive employer

175

Health

67

Diversity

179

Environment

70

Health and safety

183

Culture & education

72

Employee engagement

74

Good leadership

2

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016

Letter from the CEO
Ladies and Gentlemen,
dear Friends of Merck,
At Merck, we work each and every day on new technologies
that enrich lives and make our customers and partners more
successful – and have been doing so for nearly 350 years.
Our long history has taught us that sustainable business
success is always the result of responsible conduct. We take
responsibility – not only for our company, but also for our
customers, employees and society.
Furthermore, we pursue three spheres of activity, namely
health, the environment, and culture & education. In 2016,
we achieved a great deal.
We continued our efforts to advance access to health for
people in low- and middle-income countries. The treatment
of schistosomiasis, an insidious parasitic infection, is a prime
example. Since 2007, we've been donating praziquantel
tablets to the World Health Organization (WHO) to support
the fight against this disease. In 2016 we donated the 500
millionth tablet, thus having enabled 100 million patients to
be treated for schistosomiasis to date, primarily school children.
Non-communicable diseases such as cancer and diabetes
also pose a heavy burden to people in developing countries
because the health systems there are often unable to cope
with these diseases. To improve outcomes, we have joined
forces with 21 other pharmaceutical companies, along with
the World Bank and the Union for International Cancer
Control (UICC) to form the Access Accelerated initiative. I
believe that through this partnership we can achieve so much
more than any one single company or organization could
ever do.

Stefan Oschmann
Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO
At Merck, we develop high-tech products with a focus on
minimizing our adverse impacts on the environment while
also conserving natural resources. Take for instance organic
light-emitting diodes (OLEDs), which not only allow for
displays with razor-sharp images and brilliant colors, but
are also far more energy-efficient than other technologies.
Liquid crystal windows are another innovation that enhances
energy efficiency. In buildings, for example, they can be used
to regulate incoming light, thereby saving up to 40% of the
energy needed for building climate control systems. We are
investing in these two highly promising technologies. Last
year we opened our new OLED materials production plant
in Darmstadt and are currently building a factory for liquid
crystal window modules in the Netherlands.

Our endeavors to promote health have received a great
deal of recognition. I am very proud that we achieved a
superb fourth-place ranking in the ATM Index of the Access
to Medicine Foundation, which assesses the efforts of pharmaceutical companies to improve access to health worldwide. We thus moved up two places since the last survey was
conducted in 2014.

3

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016

To be successful as a science and technology company, we
need creativity and openness to new ideas. Music inspires;
it overcomes barriers and brings people together, a fact
demonstrated by the outstanding work of the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. In 2016, we celebrated the 50th anniversary of our philharmonic orchestra. Beyond supporting
culture, we also feel it important to inspire students across
the globe to consider careers in science and technology. In
2016, the SPARK program run by our Life Science business
sector hosted interactive events across 36 countries that
sought to spark the curiosity of students in the fascinating
world of science. Overall, we invested around € 3.2 million in
education projects in 2016.

Taking responsibility will continue to play a crucial role for
us. We are deeply committed to the United Nations Global
Compact and its principles on human rights, labor standards,
environmental protection, and anti-corruption. After all, our
nearly 350 years of history as a company has taught us that
responsible conduct is the key to a successful future.

Sincerely,

Stefan Oschmann
Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO

4

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Strategy & management
We take on responsibility every day – and
have been doing so for nearly 350 years.
We look closer and discover solutions as a
foundation for our groundbreaking products
and technologies.

We think in generations instead of quarters and have made responsibility a pillar of our
operations, an approach that underpins our lasting success. We are helping build the future
through products and technologies that make a key contribution to solving global challenges.

Read More
6

Company profile

14

Human rights

8

Governance

16

Stakeholder dialogue

9

CR strategy

19

Materiality analysis

11

Compliance

5

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Company profile
For nearly 350 years, curious people have been bringing
ideas to life at Merck. A passion for research and discovery is
our most valuable resource.

employees in 66 countries generated sales of € 15.0 billion.
Our 91 production sites are located across 22 countries.
Founded in 1668, Merck is the world's oldest pharmaceutical
and chemical company. The founding family remains the
majority owner of the publicly listed corporate group. Merck
KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany holds the global rights to the
Merck name and brand. The only exceptions are the United
States and Canada, where we operate as EMD Serono, MilliporeSigma and EMD Performance Materials.

We are a leading science and technology company in healthcare, life science and performance materials. Our 50,414
employees work to further develop technologies that enrich
lives – from biopharmaceutical therapies to treat cancer
and multiple sclerosis, cutting-edge systems for scientific
research and production, to liquid crystals for smartphones
and LCD televisions. In 2016, our 215 subsidiaries with

Employees and sales by region

Europe
North America
Sales

€ 3,858 million

Employees

10,037

Sales

€ 4,735 million

Employees

24,438

Asia-Pacific (APAC)
Sales

€ 4,736 million

Employees

10,754

Middle East and Africa (MEA)
Latin America
Sales

€ 1,136 million

Employees

4,140

Sales

€ 559 million

Employees

1,045

Health business, we focus on consumer-centric innovation
under the umbrellas of several strategic brands such as
Neurobion®, Bion®, Seven Seas®, Nasivin®, Femibion®, and
Dolo-Neurobion®, as well as Vivera®/Floratil®, Sangobion®,
Vigantoletten®, Apaisyl®, and Kytta®. Our Biosimilars business is committed to increasing access to top-quality
biologics for patients across the globe. We are in the
advanced stages of negotiations to divest the Biosimilars
business, with the transaction expected to close in fiscal
2017. Our allergy business Allergopharma is one of the
leading companies in the field of allergy immunotherapy
(AIT).

Group structure
In line with our strategic direction, our company comprises
three business sectors: Healthcare, Life Science, and Performance Materials, which encompass the Group’s six businesses.
Our Healthcare business sector consists of four businesses,
namely Biopharma, Consumer Health, Biosimilars, and Allergopharma. Our Biopharma business discovers, develops,
manufactures, and markets innovative pharmaceutical and
biological prescription drugs to treat cancer, multiple sclerosis (MS), infertility, and growth disorders, as well as certain
cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In our Consumer

6

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Within Life Science, we conduct research for researchers,
providing scientists with laboratory materials, technologies
and services to make research and biomanufacturing
simpler, faster and more successful. Life Science is organized
into three business areas that reflect our customer
segments. Research Solutions focuses on academia and
pharmaceutical research institutions; Process Solutions
markets products and services for the entire pharmaceutical
production value chain, and Applied Solutions serves clinical
and diagnostic testing laboratories, as well as the food and
environmental industries.

Our entire specialty chemicals business is combined in our
Performance Materials business sector. The portfolio includes
high-tech chemicals for applications in fields such as
consumer electronics, lighting, coatings, printing technology,
paints, plastics, and cosmetics. Performance Materials
comprises four business units: Display Materials, Integrated
Circuit Materials, Pigments & Functional Materials, and
Advanced Technologies.

Net sales by business sector – 2016
Performance Materials
€ 2,511 million
17%

Life Science
€ 5,658 million
38%

Healthcare
€ 6,855 million
45%

successful. Embodied by values-based, economically sustainable corporate governance, this aspiration has been an integral pillar of our new brand promise since 2015, guiding the
strategic development of the Group.

Governance
Based in Darmstadt, Germany, our company operates in the
legal form of a corporation with general partners (Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA). The general partner E.
Merck KG holds around 70% of the total capital of Merck
KGaA (equity interest); the shareholders hold the remainder,
which is divided into shares (share capital). Our shares have
been included in the DAX® 30, the blue chip index of the
Deutsche Börse, since 2007. In September 2008, our
company was added to the FTSE4Good Index, a sustainability index that assesses the social, ecological and ethical
conduct of companies.

Over the past decade, we have transformed ourselves from a
conventional supplier of chemicals and pharmaceuticals into
a global science and technology company. The main driver
was the realignment of our business portfolio, particularly
through the divestment of our Generics business (2007) and
the acquisitions of Serono (2007), Millipore (2010), AZ Electronic Materials (2014), and Sigma-Aldrich (2015). Furthermore, we focused our businesses on innovation-driven and
highly specialized products, extensively revamped our
internal structures and processes, and expanded our presence in global growth markets.

Group strategy
We are a leading science and technology company. Our goal
is to enrich lives and make our customers and partners more

7

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Governance
Responsibility has been an integral part of our corporate
identity for nearly 350 years. It is therefore one of our
six Values, accompanied by courage, achievement, respect,
integrity, and transparency. These core values guide us in
our daily work and define how we interact with our customers
and business partners. In all our endeavors, we aim to create
added value and help people achieve a better quality of life.

Our Group-wide guidelines
Our Group-wide guideline system comprises charters and
principles valid for the entire company, as well as specific
standards and procedures for individual business sectors and
sites.
Our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy,
for instance, forms the basis for implementing the Responsible Care® Global Charter. Our EHS Security and Quality
Manual guides our product safety, environmental impact
mitigation and occupational safety efforts across the Group,
while our Safety Policy for chemical products defines product
safety processes as well as the corresponding management
structures.

Framework for responsible governance
Our Group Mission Statement and Values, as well as the
external regulations and initiatives to which we are
committed, give rise to requirements for responsible governance that are integrated in both our Corporate Responsibility strategy and our Group-wide guidelines.
We support the following initiatives on responsible
governance:

Standards ensure implementation
Derived from the provisions contained in charters, principles
and policies, our standards give specific guidance on how to
implement our core values to those responsible for operational processes. These standards are continually updated by
the relevant departments and are available on our Intranet.
Our managers implement these standards in their respective
areas of responsibility. We educate and train our employees
on all guidelines that apply to them.

The United Nations Global Compact: Since 2005, we
have been a member of the United Nations Global
Compact and are committed to complying with the
compact’s principles regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. Our
annual progress report illustrates how we live our responsibility in our day-to-day actions.
Responsible Care® Global Charter: As a signatory to
the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® initiative, we
voluntarily do more than is required by law and have
adopted mandatory standards for product responsibility,
environmental impact mitigation, health, and safety. We
were among the first companies to sign the revised
version of the Responsible Care® Global Charter in 2014.

Guidelines integral to management systems
We use management systems to steer processes as well
as define goals, actions and responsibilities. These systems
are based on standards such as the internationally recognized quality management standard ISO 9001, good working
practices (GxP) in the pharmaceutical industry, and ISO
14001 for environmental management. We regularly
undergo an ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certification process
conducted by an independent auditing firm to ensure our
compliance with these standards. We hold Group certificates
for both.

Together for Sustainability: In 2014, we joined the
Together for Sustainability network, an initiative dedicated
to improving the supply chain with respect to environmental, compliance and social standards.
“Chemie3”: We are a member of the “Chemie3” initiative,
a collaboration between the German Chemical Industry
Association (VCI), the German Employers’ Federation of
the Chemical Industry (BAVC) and the German Mining,
Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE). This globally unique partnership aims to make sustainability a core
part of the chemical industry’s guiding principles and drive
the sector's position within the German economy as a key
contributor to sustainable development.

8

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

CR strategy
nity. Our Group strategy underpins our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy. All our CR activities fall under the
heading of “responsible governance”, which for us most
importantly means looking, listening and doing things better.

Mankind is facing major global challenges such as climate
change, growing resource scarcity, an aging society, and
barriers to health – particularly in low- and middle-income
countries. To overcome these issues, not only policy makers
and civil society but also the private sector must join forces
to find solutions.

We take responsibility for our products, the environment,
and the people around us – especially for our employees
and the communities in which we operate. Through our
products, we seek to meet customers’ current and future
needs. In doing so, safety and ethics matter just as much
to us as business success. In our production activities, we
seek to impact the environment as little as possible, which
requires safe manufacturing techniques, high environmental
standards and strict quality management. Furthermore, we
strengthen our company by recruiting, developing and motivating talented employees. We strive to set an example
for ethical conduct and make an active contribution to the
communities in which we live.

Looking, listening and doing things better
We are aware that our business operations impact our environment and the people around us, which is why we have
made responsible conduct a pillar of our corporate culture.
This approach is the cornerstone of our success. Through our
innovative and top-quality high-tech products for the healthcare, life science and performance materials sectors, we seek
to help resolve global challenges.
Our Group strategy is targeted to business success.
However, we likewise value the interests of our employees,
customers and shareholders, as well as those of the commu-

Our CR strategy

onsibility
Resp

ct
du
Merc
k Code of Con

Culture and
Ed
uc
a

CR Strategy

G

ron m en

t

lo

ig
ht
s

UN

E n vi
ba
lC
om

Ch

ar
ter

es
a lu
on S
tatement and V

h
alt
He

Mi
ssi

on
ti

pa
ct

Re s

ponsible Care

9

m
Hu
rck
Me

an

R

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

We aim to quickly identify new global trends and challenges,
allowing us to minimize risk while also leveraging the business opportunities that arise. In our CR efforts, we concentrate our strengths on those areas where we can make the
biggest difference, which is why we pursue three strategic
spheres of activity: health, environment, and culture &
education.

Taking on responsibility worldwide

Health

Minimizing the adverse effects of our operations

An estimated 400 million people have no access to adequate,
affordable health care. Through our Group-wide Access to
Health strategy, we seek to eliminate access barriers in lowand middle-income countries in an effort to provide underserved populations and communities in these countries with
better, sustainable access to high-quality health solutions.
Developments such as rising life expectancy and declining
birth rates are also reflected in our health solutions, such as
our cancer research, for instance, or our fertility treatments.
You can find more information under Access to Health (p.
34).

We work to mitigate the ethical, financial and legal risks of
our business activities, thereby ensuring our social license to
operate. We adhere to legal, ethical, social, and ecological
standards and have put extensive structures and systems in
place to shore up this approach. Our environmental management activities aim to minimize environmental impacts at our
production sites.

Our corporate responsibility activities align with the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Here, we
focus particularly on the SDGs that apply most closely to our
business ethos. You can find more information on our SDGs
under Sustainable Development Goals (p. 146).

Corporate responsibility entwined with governance
Our CR strategy is approved by our Executive Board, which
also makes decisions regarding our CR goals and reporting.
Our Group-wide CR Committee oversees the implementation
of our CR strategy. This council consists of representatives
from our business sectors as well as from relevant Group
functions such as EQ, HR, Compliance, and Procurement.
Since June 2016, Public Affairs and Corporate Responsibility
has been reporting to Belén Garijo, Executive Board member,
CEO Healthcare and chairperson of the CR Committee.

Environment
Many of our innovative chemical and life science products
help mitigate our impact on the environment. We strive to
continuously enhance the sustainability footprint of our products while also helping our customers achieve their own
sustainability goals.

Our CR Committee reviews our CR strategy to ensure that it
covers the issues relevant to our company. In doing so, we
draw on input from our stakeholders (p. 16) as well as the
results of a materiality assessment (p. 19). This committee
also defines measures to put our CR strategy into practice.
The success of these measures is regularly reviewed, and
the committee also ensures that the initiatives of our business sectors, Group functions and subsidiaries align with our
Group-wide CR strategy. The measures adopted by the CR
Committee are implemented by our line managers as well as
by interdisciplinary project teams.

As the market and technology leader in the global liquid crystals industry, we are driving the creation of state-of-theart, energy-efficient displays. Furthermore, we are developing materials for energy-saving lighting and photovoltaics,
one of the ways we're tackling the issue of climate change
and energy scarcity. You can find more information under
Sustainable product design (p. 29).

Culture & education
Culture inspires people and opens their minds to new possibilities, which is why we promote cultural initiatives worldwide and support education projects. After all, education is
key to making culture accessible. Culture nurtures characteristics that are essential to our business activities as a
high-tech company, such as creativity, enthusiasm for new
discoveries, and the courage to transcend boundaries. You
can find more information on our cultural activities under
Community (p. 100).

The CR Committee meets three times per year. In 2015 and
2016, its meetings primarily focused on access to health,
human rights, environmental and social standards along the
supply chain, and animal welfare.

10

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Compliance
First and foremost, responsible entrepreneurship means
legally compliant conduct. All our activities must adhere to
laws and regulations worldwide. Failure to comply with these
might not only involve legal prosecution, but could also seriously compromise our reputation as a business partner and
employer.

In 2016, our principles regarding antitrust and competition law, which were already integral to our Code of
Conduct as well as to various business-specific guidelines,
were consolidated Group-wide. This new antitrust and
competition law guideline stipulates that all business
activities across the entire Group are to be carried out in
compliance with applicable competition regulations at all
times. We acknowledge the importance of fair competition
and expect the same of contractual partners acting on our
behalf.

Our principles
Stringent compliance requirements
Compliance is our primary consideration worldwide. Particularly as an international company with operations in developing and emerging countries, we have extremely high standards for effective compliance management. Yet for us, there
is more to compliance than adhering to regulatory provisions. We consistently aspire to act in accordance with the
ethical principles defined in our Values and believe that profitability should go hand in hand with the very highest ethical
standards.

Realigned Compliance organization
Our Group Compliance Officer and other specialists within
our Group Compliance function are responsible for defining
our compliance program, which is continuously updated to
reflect new requirements, such as those resulting from
changes in legislation.
In 2016, we restructured Group Compliance to align it more
closely with the specific compliance needs of our businesses. For each of our business sectors (Healthcare, Life
Science and Performance Materials), we appointed a Compliance Officer who in turn oversees regional teams. Compliance Officers have also been appointed for our Group functions and are responsible for implementing the measures set
out in our compliance program in their respective areas.

Mandatory guidelines
Our guidelines governing entrepreneurial conduct
mandatory for all our employees Group-wide:

are

The Merck Code of Conduct provides our workforce with
a tool that promotes ethical business practices. A copy
is given to all employees, explaining the principles for
dealing with business associates, general partners and
employees, as well as the communities in which we
operate.

Furthermore, in 2016 we also improved our internal
processes. Guidelines are now sent to relevant managers,
Group Compliance and Legal via an online confirmation
process. Recipients then confirm not only receipt of the relevant guidelines, but also that they are being adhered to and
implemented appropriately at the relevant sites.

The Merck Human Rights Charter supplements our Code
of Conduct with globally valid principles regarding human
rights as well as the core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO).

Data Privacy as part of compliance management

Our anti-corruption guideline provides that all business
activities must be conducted in accordance with applicable
anti-corruption standards. All forms of bribery – whether
giving or receiving – are strictly prohibited. In 2016, we
revised our anti-corruption guideline to reflect the tightened provisions of the German Criminal Code.

During the restructuring of our Compliance organization, we
integrated our Data Privacy unit into Group Compliance. As
required by law, this unit will continue to act independently
and will report directly to the Executive Board as well as the
Supervisory Board. The Data Privacy team comprises four
employees in Darmstadt and is supported by around 80 data
privacy officers at our various sites.

Our Pharma Code (for prescription medicines) and our
Consumer Health Code (for over-the-counter medicines)
set out important principles for interactions with our partners in the health industry.

Regular reporting
Our 85 Compliance Officers worldwide report to the Group
Compliance Officer, who informs the Executive Board at least
twice a year on the status of our compliance activities,
possible risks and serious compliance violations. In turn,
the Executive Board updates our supervisory bodies at least
twice a year on key compliance issues.

11

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

supplier management (p. 90) processes focus on vendor
compliance with our standards, our Global Business Partner
Risk Management Guideline governs relations with sales
partners such as distributors and wholesalers. We only
collaborate with partners who comply with all applicable
laws, reject all forms of bribery, adhere to environmental,
health and safety guidelines, and refuse to tolerate discrimination. Furthermore, we require our business partners to
demonstrate a commitment to internationally recognized
human rights and labor standards, as well as to our own
compliance requirements. We monitor adherence to these
standards even for existing business relationships – usually
when a contract is being considered for renewal.

Compliance audits
Our Internal Auditing Group function regularly reviews
matters relating to compliance at our sites. Its audits determine which compliance guidelines, processes and structures
are in place and how effective they are. In addition, Internal
Auditing also checks for violations of our Code of Conduct
and reviews the workplace requirements set out in our
Human Rights Charter. The topic of corruption is also part
of our standard audit program. Beyond internal audits, we
also undergo external audits, such as the external assessment conducted by an auditing firm in early 2015. This led
to the conclusion that the design of the compliance management system meets the key baseline requirements of the
IDW PS 980 standard, in part even going above and beyond
its requirements.

Risk analysis of business partners
We apply a risk-based approach to selecting sales-related
business partners. The greater we estimate the risk to be
regarding a certain country, region or type of service, the
closer and more carefully we examine the company before
entering into a business relationship with them. For these
risk assessments, we use the Corruption Perceptions Index
(CPI) maintained by Transparency International; we also
tap into background information from various databases and
information reported by the business partners themselves on
aspects such as their own compliance programs.

Compliance training
We regularly provide compliance training in the form of classroom and online courses, which focus on topics related to
our Code of Conduct such as corruption, handling conflicts
of interest and competition law. These courses are attended
by employees of all levels as well as independent contractors
and supervised workers (such as temps). We regularly
review our training plan, adapting it to new developments.

Central SpeakUp Line

If we encounter compliance violations, we decide whether
to reject the potential business partner or terminate the
existing relationship. However, our partners are generally
willing to adapt their structures and processes in line with our
strict compliance requirements. Since launching this process
in 2013, we have assessed nearly 2,000 business partners.

All Group employees are called upon to report compliance
violations to their supervisor, Legal, HR, or other relevant
departments. They can also use the SpeakUp Line, a central
reporting system, to report violations by telephone or via a
web-based application, doing so in their respective national
language, free of charge and, if desired, anonymously. Business partners can also use our SpeakUp Line to report
improper behavior.

EFPIA Transparency initiative
Since 2016, companies in the EU have been required to
publish all contributions to medical professionals and organizations in the healthcare industry that are not related to
research activities, along with the names of the individual
recipients. This practice is stipulated by the Transparency
initiative of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical
Industries and Associations (EFPIA). The EFPIA published
a revised version of these guidelines in 2016. Moreover,
in the same year several countries introduced legislation
requiring varying degrees of transparency in the pharmaceutical industry. We will include these amended requirements
in our EFPIA report for 2016.

SpeakUp Line reports are reviewed by Group Compliance
before being submitted to the Group Compliance Case
Committee, which consists of senior representatives from
Internal Auditing, Compliance, Group Security, Data Privacy,
and Human Resources. The committee coordinates the
processing of reported violations and initiates corrective
measures if necessary. Disciplinary actions are also taken,
where needed, against employees who have committed a
compliance violation. These actions may range from a simple
warning to dismissal of the employee, depending on the
severity of the violation.

Alliance for Integrity

In addition to the SpeakUp Line, there is also a central
hotline to the Group Compliance Office, which employees can
call for advice on ethical and compliant conduct.

In October 2015, we joined the Alliance for Integrity. Established by the German Society for International Cooperation
(GIZ), the German Global Compact Network (DGCN) and the
Federation of German Industries (BDI), this initiative aims to
achieve a corruption-free business world in developing and
emerging countries. Its activities are concentrated in Ghana,
India, Indonesia, Brazil, and Argentina.

Requirements for suppliers and business partners
If it is to be effective, compliance management needs to go
beyond our own company – all our business partners worldwide must also follow our compliance principles. While our

12

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

in 31 countries. In 2016, 47 such audits were performed in
19 countries, including 22 audits at our global headquarters.
No violations were observed.

We are a member of the Alliance for Integrity's Steering
Committee, which leads the decision-making process for
developing measures in its target countries. Advisory groups
arrange implementation at the country level. Our local
Compliance organizations collaborate with these groups
and participate in training that is offered to small and
medium-sized companies. We also help to organize conferences on fighting corruption, such as the World Conference
held by the German Chamber of Commerce in May 2016 in
Berlin.

The annual audit planning process is risk-based and includes
factors such as sales, employee headcount and corruption
risk, the latter of which is derived from the Corruption
Perceptions Index published by Transparency International.
The sites of the company AZ Electronic Materials, which we
acquired in 2014, have been fully covered by our Internal
Audit process since January 2015. Since 2016, this has also
applied to the subsidiaries of the U.S.-based life science
company Sigma-Aldrich, which we acquired in 2015.

Uniform data protection management system
We operate a data protection management system that has
been harmonized across the Group. Our Policy for Data
Protection and Personal Data Privacy defines the standards
according to which we process, save, use, and transmit data.
This approach allows us to achieve a high level of protection
for the data belonging to our employees, contract partners,
customers, and suppliers, as well as patients and participants
in clinical studies.

Training on Code of Conduct and anti-corruption
guidelines
In 2015, we used our e-learning system to train
8,673 people on the Code of Conduct and increase awareness of the consequences of compliance violations. In 2016,
18,697 people received such training, which also focused on
how to prevent compliance violations.

The Group-wide level of data protection is based on European
and German legislation. At the same time, we also adapt our
data security policies to local circumstances, as not all sites
are covered by the European standards. We fundamentally
respect the rights of those affected.

We also regularly inform our employees of new compliance
requirements. In 2015, a total of 20,404 people received
anti-corruption training, with 29,764 employees having been
trained in 2016. In 2015, we had an online course on our
anti-corruption guideline translated into 15 languages, thus
allowing roughly 96% of employees to do the training in their
native language. In 2015, we furthermore created an online
course for the pharmaceutical business, which explains the
specific regulations relevant to this area. To support the
introduction of our new antitrust and competition law guideline, we also provided an online training course in 2016,
which is to be available in 13 languages in 2017.

Data security measures
To protect our data against information theft and manipulation, we undertake technical and organizational measures
based on ISO 27001, the standard for information security
management. Technical measures include precautions for
hardware and software, such as the creation of separate user
accounts. Organizational measures cover formal review and
release rules for all data we process, as well as clear access
rules at our sites and visitor registration and tracking. Implementation of and compliance with our data security policy is
also reviewed by Group Internal Auditing.

Some seminars on special topics are specifically developed
for managers in certain roles. These include, for example,
training courses on competition law, which were updated in
2016 due to the introduction of our new Group-wide guideline. To complement the online courses we offer, numerous
classroom courses on compliance are also held for employees
Group-wide with a particular focus on local issues.

External auditing
Our data privacy management system is reviewed during an
annual audit. In a benchmark survey carried out by Ernst &
Young in 2015, our Group was rated as above average. In
particular, the maturity of our data privacy culture and Data
Privacy organization scored very well.

Reports via the SpeakUp Line
Both the number of reports of suspected compliance violations and the number of actual compliance cases has
remained largely stable in recent years. In 2015, 33
compliance-related reports that led to investigations were
received via the SpeakUp Line and other channels, with
36 in 2016. In 2015, there were eight confirmed cases of
violations to the Code of Conduct, with 12 in 2016. The
majority of these violations constituted minor, isolated incidents resulting from the misconduct of individual persons;
appropriate disciplinary action was taken.

Progress
Internal audits
In 2015, 49 internal audits were conducted regarding corruption, with 55 having been conducted in 2016.
In 2015, 41 of these audits, which focused on the workplace
requirements of our Human Rights Charter, were conducted

13

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

In the 2015-2016 period, there were two cases of improper
business practices involving managers. These incidents were
related to improper incentives for our sales force to increase
sales and similar practices in associated parties (distributors). Both cases have been addressed with comprehensive
action plans and independent review by Compliance and
Internal Auditing. There was one case of sexual harassment,
which led to the dismissal of the employee.

these efforts, in mid-2016 we published our first EFPIA report
for all affected subsidiaries on a central website.

Compliance training for business partners
In 2015, we introduced compliance training for the
employees of our business partners. This training is mandatory for all personnel who come into contact with our
company or our products. It is available in eight languages
and focuses on general compliance, preventing corruption
and competition law. By the end of 2016, 3,875 employees
from our partner companies had received this training, with
3,026 having been trained in 2015.

First EFPIA Transparency Report published
In 2015, our work focused on making our partners in the
health industry understand just how important the EFPIA’s
Transparency initiative is to us. We furthermore took
measures to ensure data quality and security. Based on

Human rights
the necessary due diligence, which includes identifying and
managing risks.

First and foremost, states have a duty to establish a regulatory framework to protect human rights. Particularly for
enterprises with global operations, it is important for this
framework to be implemented across all countries so as to
create uniform competitive conditions. As a company, we in
turn also have a duty to uphold human rights, taking steps to
ensure that they are not compromised by our business activities.

We took the first step towards implementing the UNGPs in
2012, when we conducted an extensive, Group-wide human
rights risk assessment aimed at identifying the human rights
risks arising from our activities. Based on the results of
this assessment, we adopted a Group-wide Human Rights
Charter in 2013 that affirms our commitment to respecting
and protecting human rights while also defining the requirements for our company. This charter unites and complements existing policies and guidelines on human rights, such
as our Code of Conduct, our Corporate Environment, Health
and Safety Policy and our Charter on Access to Health in
Developing Countries.

Our principles
Commitment to preserving human rights
We are committed to upholding human rights within our
sphere of influence and welcome the Guiding Principles for
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) adopted by the UN
Human Rights Council in 2011. The UNGPs codify the duty of
states to protect human rights as well as the responsibility of
companies to respect human rights, providing a framework
for how states and businesses should do so.

Stakeholder dialogue on our Human Rights Charter
Our Human Rights Charter was developed after diligent
consideration of input from external stakeholders regarding
our human rights stance. Among these stakeholders were
business and human rights experts from various countries,
trade unions, and business federations, as well as experts on
specific aspects covered in the planned charter.

At the end of 2016, the German federal government adopted
a national action plan for implementing these principles.
Through our current efforts and initiatives, we are on the
right track to fulfilling these requirements.

Human rights due diligence

In the United Kingdom, we are required by the UK Modern
Slavery Act to report on the steps we are taking to counter
forced labor and human trafficking. Our company intends to
issue our first such report in 2017.

We seek to better understand the potential impact of our
business activities and relationships on human rights and are
examining our processes to identify the measures already in
place at our sites that fulfill the function of human rights due
diligence. This knowledge will help us adapt our Group-wide
human rights due diligence efforts to better meet local needs
and to develop approaches to overcome particular challenges. At the same time, we view the positive impacts of
our operations as an opportunity.

Our Human Rights Charter
The UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights
encourage companies to continuously assess the actual and
potential impact they have on human rights, acting with

14

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

for industry there. As a result of this HRIA, we joined the
Alliance for Integrity, a multi-stakeholder initiative seeking
to offer practical solutions for countering corruption (p. 12)
in emerging economies.

Within the German Global Compact Network (DGCN), we are
a member of the Business & Human Rights Peer Learning
Group, a working group in which we engage with other
companies to share lessons learned as well as successes in
implementing human rights due diligence.

Subsidiary self-assessments

Progress

In line with our Human Rights Charter as well as the UN
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we started
the process of conducting human rights self-assessments for
our subsidiaries in 2016. This aims to help us better understand how our subsidiaries perceive human rights risks and
manage them locally, while also raising human rights awareness and creating a foundation for systematic support.

Training employees on our Human Rights Charter
In the 2015-2016 period, we used a variety of channels
to educate our employees on our Human Rights Charter,
including specific Intranet sites on human rights and videos
featuring employees explaining how their work affects
human rights.

Our subsidiaries took part in an online survey we developed
ourselves, providing us with detailed information. We will
continue to evaluate this data in the course of 2017, working
with the respective departments to identify opportunities to
improve Group-wide processes and their local implementation. Taking into account the requirements of the UK Modern
Slavery Act, our efforts will focus on issues such as forced
labor and human trafficking, as well as labor rights in local
supply chains.

Human rights impact assessment in India
A human rights impact assessment (HRIA) evaluates the
actual consequences of a company's operations in an effort
to promptly identify any problem areas. At the end of 2014,
we conducted our first HRIA in India, which showed that we
already have good internal systems and capacities in place
for managing human rights risks. However, we intend to
expand these structures in order to set a positive example

15

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Stakeholder dialogue
Our principles

Our business activities converge with the interests of many
people, which is why engaging with our stakeholders is
particularly important to us. We aim to unite divergent interests as far as possible, as well as build and sustain trust.
Through this dialogue, we communicate our decisions and
actions transparently in an effort to ensure social license to
operate.

Dialogue at various levels
Our most important stakeholders include our employees,
customers and business partners, patients, the Merck family,
and our suppliers. We maintain continuous contact with them
through a variety of channels, including stakeholder questionnaires, issue-specific dialogues, round table discussions,
and information forums. We also engage stakeholders
through our advocacy work and industry coalitions.

Our stakeholders

Sales &
business
partners

Regulatory
agencies
Employees

Patients

Media

Employee
representatives

Merck
family

Shareholders

Scientists

Community

Suppliers

Federations
& policy
makers

Healthcare
systems

Competitors

NGOs
Customers

16

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

future technologies. In 2016, specialists from a range of
industries convened at our global headquarters in Darmstadt
to discuss the future of mobility. You can find more information under Sustainable product design (p. 29).

Regular stakeholder surveys
We regularly conduct surveys among our employees,
customers and business partners, as well as other relevant
stakeholder groups. We want to know which issues they
consider to be of importance to Merck now and in the future,
and how they rate our performance in addressing these
issues. We also want to understand their expectations of us
as a responsible company. Our CR Report reflects the results
of these surveys and the actions we’ve taken in response.

Round tables and information forums
We have set up round table discussions and forums for local
residents at our major sites. In Darmstadt, we have been
holding an annual public planning forum since 1994 at which
we discuss the development of our site with members of
the city council, local authorities and the community. In the
2015-2016 period, the main focus of the forum was on the
changes resulting from our ONE Global Headquarters initiative (p. 72), particularly the new sewer system being laid by
the City of Darmstadt and the future design of Frankfurter
Strasse.

In November 2016, we conducted a Group-wide employee
survey in 23 languages. Around 42,500 employees took part,
representing an 83% response rate.

Issue-specific dialogues
Our business operations in the areas of healthcare, life
science and performance materials intersect the interests
of various social groups, whom we engage via questionnaires, workshops and seminars, or even round tables held
at major conferences. Our departments organize such forms
of exchange – at the local, national or international level,
depending on the topic and degree of importance. Beyond
this, we are also involved in industry networks and participate in symposia. In the 2015-2016 period, we intensified
our efforts in the following areas:

In expanding our biotech production facilities in Corsiersur-Vevey, Switzerland, we initiated a dialogue with NGOs
and local authorities to maximize the project’s transparency.
These annual meetings will continue to be held even after
completion of the construction work. In 2016, key topics of
discussion were the mobility plan and our wastewater treatment system, which was first tested in the same year.

Advocacy groups and industry coalitions
We actively participate in the political process and advocate
our views by engaging policy makers in a direct dialogue
as well as through our work with industry coalitions. Below
are several examples of major national and international
industry associations in which we are members and also hold
positions:

Access to health: As part of our aim to improve access
to health in low- and middle-income countries, we engage
various stakeholders in a continuous dialogue. With our
Access Dialogue Series, we have created a platform from
which public and private sector stakeholders can exchange
important information and share best practices. Key issues
in the 2015-2016 period were managing intellectual property
and challenges in local supply chains. Furthermore, we deepened our exchange with important stakeholders and experts
on schistosomiasis and malaria. Further information on these
stakeholder dialogues can be found under Access to Health
(p. 34).

German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI)
European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC)
German Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers e.V. (vfa)
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations (EFPIA)

Mica sourcing: In February 2016, we attended the Mica
Summit in Delhi, India, hosted by the Natural Resources
Stewardship Circle (NRSC). The main topics discussed at
the summit were transparency in the mica supply chain and
improving the living conditions of the communities in the
mining regions. As a follow-up to this dialogue, we are now
involved in the NRSC’s Responsible Mica program. You can
find more information under Suppliers (p. 93).

International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
& Associations (IFPMA)

Examples of positions held by members of our Executive
Board include:
Stefan Oschmann, Chairman of the Executive Board
and CEO:

New technologies: We seek to engage with pioneers who
look far into the future and bring cutting-edge technologies
to market. To this end, we established the annual Displaying
Futures symposium, which was held for the sixth time in
2015 and the seventh time in 2016. At the 2015 symposium,
experts of various disciplines from all corners of the world
met in San Francisco, CA (USA) to discuss how innovative
high-tech materials could be integrated into groundbreaking

European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations (EFPIA), Vice President
German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI), Board
of Directors
Deutsche Welle, Business Advisory Board

17

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Belén Garijo, member of the Executive Board and CEO
Healthcare:

Udit Batra, member of the Executive Board and CEO
Life Science:
Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce, board member

Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America
(PhRMA), board member

Massachusetts High Technology Council (MHTC), board
member
University of Delaware College of Engineering, Advisory
Council member

Involvement in initiatives
We collaborate with numerous civically engaged organizations, such as the Goethe-Institut, the Remembrance,
Responsibility and Future Foundation and the World Environment Center (WEC). Furthermore, we are also involved in
initiatives and projects (p. 8) that share our interpretation of
responsible entrepreneurial conduct. That is why we support,
for instance, the Code of Responsible Conduct for Business
and are members of the Chemie3 and Responsible Care®
initiatives.

Kai Beckmann, member of the Executive Board and
Chief Administration Officer:
Federal Employers' Association for the German Chemical
Industry e.V. (BAVC), Vice Chairman
Employers' Association for the Chemical and Related
Industries in the State of Hesse e.V. (HessenChemie),
board member

Political donations

Darmstadt Rhein Main Neckar Chamber of Industry and
Commerce (IHK), Vice President

We do not make financial contributions to holders of or candidates for political office, political parties or related organizations. This is stipulated in our Code of Conduct. In the United
States, Political Action Committees (PACs) have been set up
through which our employees can donate money to support
political candidates and organizations. These donations are
not made by the company, but by the employees. The contributions donated are reported to the U.S. Federal Election
Commission and published.

Fraunhofer Institute for Computer Graphics Research
(IGD), Chairman of the Advisory Board

Walter Galinat, member of the Executive Board and
CEO Performance Materials:
German Chemical Industry Association
Chairman of the Hessian Chapter

e.V.

(VCI),

Trade Policy Committee of the German Chemical Industry
Association e.V. (VCI), member
Board of Trustees of the Chemical Industry Fund (FCI)
within the German Chemical Industry Association e.V.
(VCI), board member

18

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Materiality assessment
Which issues – in terms of our corporate responsibility – are
of particular significance to our long-term business success?
And what expectations do stakeholders have of our
company? In an effort to answer these questions, we regularly conduct materiality assessments that aim to rate
sustainability topics according to their importance to our
company and external stakeholders. This method allows us
to align our business activities with the requirements of
our stakeholders. In applying this approach, we fulfill the
requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4
guidelines. In 2016, we refined our materiality analysis to
further enhance the quality of the results.

the relevance of these issues through an online survey. In
addition, we conducted five interviews with select experts
whose responses were key in determining the final ranking
of our main CR topics.
We weighted the results of the materiality assessment
according to the importance of the stakeholder groups to
our company and their influence on the five value drivers of
sales, reputation, employee satisfaction, cost reduction, and
innovation.

Results: Product responsibility most important

Selecting topics

The process and results of the materiality assessment were
reviewed by internal specialists as well as our CR Committee.
Our stakeholders continue to rate issues regarding product
responsibility as most important, above all product quality,
the safety of chemical products, innovation, and research
& development. Topics rated as material form the focus of
this CR Report. Since our stakeholders also expect information and transparency from us regarding less significant
issues, we also report on these, albeit in less detail.

We first determined whether the CR issues of relevance to
us had changed at all, basing our assessment on a comprehensive document analysis that included inquiries from
investors, (sustainability) ratings, social media, and press
releases. From the results, we identified 43 issues, 38 of
which were covered by the materiality assessment in 2014.
New topics included issues such as health awareness (p.
41) and digitalization (p. 26).

Ranking and weighting the issues
These 43 topics were evaluated by our most important stakeholders. This involved a total of 300 employees, scientists,
customers, sales associates, and business partners ranking

19

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Material topics

Supply chain standards

Ethical Conduct

Supply chain standards

Product safety and quality

Bioethics

Safety of chemical products

Clinical trials

Drug safety

Animal welfare

Counterfeit products
Transport and storage safety
Labeling of chemicals and other products

Health for everyone

Good Business Practice

Access to health

Compliance

Prices of medicines

Responsible marketing

Medicals to combat rare and
neglected diseases

Community involvement

Pharmaceutical and chemical
residues in the environment
Nanotechnology

Interactions with health systems

Health awareness

Governance
Advocacy

Sustainable products

Data security

Resource efficiency

Sustainable product design

Waste and recycling

Re-use and recycling of
our customers’ waste

Water management

Human rights

Climate Change

Attractive employer

Energy efficiency and
renewable energy

Human rights

Greenhouse gas emissions

Diversity and equal opportunity
Attracting, recruiting and
retaining employees
Employee development
Good leadership

Technology

Environmental stewardship

Employee engagement
Safety and health

Innovation and R&D

Process and plant safety

Work life balance

Digitalization

Biodiversity

Compensation

Digitalization of the workplace

Other emissions

Very high importance

High importance

Medium importance

20

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Material issues in our value chain
The following table shows where our main issues fall within the value chain: upstream in our supply chain, in the course of our
own activities, or downstream with customers and patients. Moreover, we have listed the issues to show the breakdown of
materiality by Merck business sector and stakeholder group. These topics are linked to the respective chapters in this report.

Upstream
activities

Healthcare

Performance
Materials

Life Science

Downstream
activities

Product safety and quality
Chemical product safety
Material for:

0

X

X

X

X

Customers, Merck family Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Commercial and business associates

Drug safety
Material for:

Counterfeit products
Material for:

0

X

0

0

X

Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Health systems, Patients

0

X

0

0

X

Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs,
Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients

Transport and warehouse safety
Material for:

Labeling of chemicals and other

X

0

X

X

X

Customers, Government agencies, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Communities

0

X

X

X

X

products
Material for:

Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists,
Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Communities, Competitors

Pharmaceutical and chemical

0

X

X

X

X

residues in the environment
Material for:

Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Communities

Ethical conduct
Bioethics
Material for:

Clinical trials
Material for:

0

X

X

0

X

Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Scientists

X

X

0

0

X

Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media,
Suppliers, Scientists, Patients

Animal welfare
Material for:

X

X

X

Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists

21

X

0

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Good business practice
Compliance
Material for:

X

X

X

X

X

Employees, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Suppliers, Commercial and
business associates, Health systems, Competitors

Responsible marketing
Material for:

0

X

X

X

X

Customers, Federations and policy makers, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health
systems, Patients

Community involvement
Material for:

Interactions with health systems
Material for:

Governance
Material for:

0

X

X

X

X

0

X

Merck family, NGOs, Media, Communities

0

X

0

Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Health systems, Patients

0

X

X

X

0

Employees, Employee representatives, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies

Health for everyone
Access to health
Material for:

Prices of medicines
Material for:

X

X

X

0

X

NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients

0

X

0

0

X

Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients

Medicines to combat rare and

0

X

X

0

X

0

X

neglected diseases
Material for:

Health awareness
Material for:

NGOs, Scientists, Health systems, Patients

0

X

0

NGOs, Media, Scientists, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients, Communities, Competitors

Supply chain standards
Supply chain standards
Material for:

X

X

X

X

X

Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, NGOs, Media, Suppliers,
Competitors

22

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Human rights
Human rights
Material for:

X

X

X

X

X

Customers, Federations and policy makers, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Communities

Sustainable products
Sustainable product design
Material for:

Re-use and recycling of our

0

0

X

X

X

0

X

0

X

X

X

X

0

X

0

Customers, Scientists

0

customers’ waste
Material for:

Customers

Attractive employer
Diversity and equal opportunity
Material for:

Attracting, recruiting and

0

Employees, Employee representatives, Merck family, Media

0

X

X

retaining employees
Material for:

Employee development
Material for:

Good leadership
Material for:

Employee engagement
Material for:

Health and safety
Material for:

Employees, Employee representatives, Shareholders, Competitors

0

X

X

X

0

X

X

0

X

X

0

X

X

0

Employees, Employee representatives

0

X

Employees, Employee representatives

0

X

Employees, Employee representatives

0

X

Employees, Employee representatives, Government agencies

23

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Strategy & management

Technology
Innovation and R&D
Material for:

0

X

X

X

0

Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Scientists, Health systems, Patients

Resource efficiency
Waste and recycling
Material for:

Water management
Material for:

0

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

0

X

X

X

Government agencies, NGOs, Communities

0

X

X

Government agencies, NGOs, Communities

Climate change
Energy efficiency and renewable

0

X

energy
Material for:

Greenhouse gas emissions
Material for:

Federations and policy makers, NGOs

X

X

Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers

24

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Products
We offer top-quality products that enrich
people's lives. When it comes to safety, environmental sustainability and ethical practices,
we have extremely high expectations and
standards.

Whether prescription medicines or over-the-counter products, the work of our Healthcare
business sector makes a difference to millions of lives around the world. Through our Life
Science products, we are dedicated to making research and biotech production simpler,
faster and more successful. We continuously work to improve the sustainability footprint of
our products. In our Performance Materials business sector, we develop specialty chemicals
for particularly demanding applications, such as liquid crystals for energy-efficient displays.

Read More
26

Innovation and digitalization

48

Counterfeit products

29

Sustainable product design

50

Transport and warehouse safety

34

Access to health

52

Responsible marketing

40

Prices of medicines

53

Bioethics

41

Health awareness

55

Clinical trials

44

Chemical product safety

58

Animal welfare

46

Drug safety

61

Interactions with health systems

25

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Innovation and digitalization
Our principles

Research and innovation are the basis of our success. In
2016, we spent around € 2.0 billion on research and development (R&D). We develop technologies that enrich people’s
lives and are constantly on the lookout for groundbreaking
developments and trends that can be translated into new
products and pioneering business models. In particular, new
technologies and the advance of digitalization are enabling us
to create innovative products, services and business models
that can positively impact lives. We intend to maximize this
opportunity.

Innovation strategy and organization
Our Group function Strategy & Transformation is in the
process of developing a Group-wide innovation strategy. We
are analyzing current megatrends, determining the influence
they have on our business models, and defining the areas in
which we see potential for new business ideas. In doing so,
we are thinking far beyond our core business. To find novel
approaches, we enter into strategic alliances with organizations that embody different perspectives. Many such potential partners are based in Silicon Valley, CA (USA), one of
the key regions in the global high-tech industry. Here, we
too are expanding our presence as a science and technology
company.

Research and development costs by business sector – 2016

Life Science
€ 260 million
13%

Performance Materials
€ 213 million
11%

Healthcare
€ 1,496 million
76%

We are investing in forward-looking ideas. Our Merck
Ventures Fund provides up to € 300 million for investments
in start-ups that will advance or complement our business
models.

forces in January 2017. We hope to bolster patient outcomes
by using their sophisticated data analysis capabilities to
improve and accelerate the development, commercialization
and distribution of drugs.

To maximally leverage the opportunities of digitalization,
we form strategic partnerships with companies such as the
California-based Palantir Technologies, with whom we joined

You can find more information on our strategic approach
under Research and Development in our Annual Report for
2016.

26

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

We also collaborate with various schools in the vicinity of our
global headquarters in Darmstadt. For example, we provide
STEM subject teachers with educational materials and organize annual events devoted to STEM teachers such as Merck
Science Days, where they learn how to incorporate new technologies into their science classes. We regularly invite groups
of students to Merck to explore our research activities, or
to our Children’s University in an attempt to stimulate their
thirst for knowledge. Moreover, for over 30 years we have
been hosting the “Jugend forscht” student competition.

Innovation Center – Making room for ideas
At our Innovation Center in Darmstadt, we offer our
employees and external partners space and support to cultivate their ideas. We teach them innovative methods and
provide the necessary infrastructure to advance pioneering
projects.
Our work focuses on four strategic projects:
Accelerator: Numerous start-ups around the world are
working on innovative business models for our business
fields. Our global Accelerator program supports such
start-ups in the early stages of their development. In
return, we gain insight into the highly innovative start-up
community and can identify market trends early on.

You can find more information on our educational initiatives
under Community (p. 95) and in our "Fostering talent (p.
183)" story.

Digitalization as a driver of innovation

Internal innovation projects: We want to better
harness the great innovation power within our company.
We therefore offer our employees from all over the world
the opportunity to work at our Innovation Center on select
projects for up to a year. As well as receiving financial
support for their projects, employees have access to
select experts who provide input across all stages, from
the seed of the idea to product development.

Digitalization is revolutionizing markets and business
models. This technological change is also an important driver
of innovation and is changing the pace at which new ideas
are entering the market. We are constantly exploring new
ways to leverage this potential and currently expect
advances in the following areas:
Research and development: Digital technologies
enable us to access large quantities of data and quickly
analyze it. We can use this information to accelerate our
research and development activities. Particularly in our
Healthcare business sector, we hope to accelerate the
development of new drugs so as to provide patients with
faster access to medicine with increased efficacy.

Innovation Think Tank: In our Innovation Think Tank,
we work with internal and external experts, research institutes and other companies to analyze current trends and
technologies.
Innovator Academy: The Merck Innovator Academy
aims to bolster our company’s capacity for innovation by
organizing needs-based training courses and workshops
with internal project teams, think tank participants and
start-ups.

Supply chain management: Digital technologies help
us enhance our supply chain management process. By
collecting all data pertaining to our supply chain centrally,
we have access to crucial real-time information. This
allows us to predict and respond quickly to issues such
as supply bottlenecks worldwide, ensuring a more reliable
supply of medicines.

Innospire – Mobilizing employees
The goal of our innovation initiative Innospire (a combination
of innovation and inspiration) is to mobilize the innovative
potential of our people. Every two years, we call upon them
to submit ideas for new products and develop business plans
during a multi-stage process. You can find more information
under Employees (p. 72).

Customer interaction: Thanks to modern data collection
and analysis techniques, we can make more efficient use
of customer-relevant data to more fully understand our
customers. Furthermore, digital platforms offer us new
ways to interact with our clientele. By better understanding their needs, we can adapt our products and
services accordingly.

Fostering young talent – An investment in the future

Digital product innovations: Digitalization is enabling
us to expand our existing products and develop new products, services and business models. For instance, we are
enhancing existing products with new digital services such
as Baby Wish (p. 28). This platform educates couples
on fertility issues and provides healthcare professionals
with scientific information. Moreover, we are working to
raise health awareness and improve patient treatment
through e-health programs such as the Diabetes Online
Risk Assessment (DORA) (p. 28).

Well-trained talent is the best foundation for future innovations, which is why we endeavor to spark young people’s
interest in science. Students who are curious about chemistry and biology can use our Junior Lab and livfe BioLab
to conduct their own research and experiments. We run
both laboratories together with the Technical University (TU)
of Darmstadt. Furthermore, in supporting TU Darmstadt’s
HIGHEST 1877 start-up program, we are promoting the innovative ideas of local start-ups.

27

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

features information on infertility and treatment options. In
July 2016, we launched a different platform that provides
healthcare professionals with access to the latest digital
scientific information on infertility. Through this medium, we
are helping providers offer the best care for couples seeking
advice.

Vocational training and continuing education
Innovation culture and digitalization are new topics at our
Merck University for managers. In early 2017, we entered
into a partnership with the Stanford Graduate School of Business, which will be teaching classes on these topics for us.
Furthermore, under the banner of “Work 4.0”, we are integrating new digital technologies into our vocational training
programs and offering our employees a modern, innovative
working environment. You can find more information under
Employees (p. 64).

First Merck hackathon in Africa
As part of our Accelerator program, we support and organize
hackathons in which young entrepreneurs from various
sectors collaborate to quickly develop solutions to specific
issues. In 2016, we hosted a hackathon in Accra, Ghana
that was attended by approximately 150 social entrepreneurs from western Africa. At this gathering, dubbed Health
Hack Accra, 29 teams of biomedical engineers, scientists,
programmers, and university students had 48 hours to
create solutions and business models to tackle Africa's
toughest health challenges. With a focus on reproductive
and maternal health, access to health, non-communicable
diseases, and infectious diseases, this hackathon led to the
development of 28 innovative solutions. Our Innovation
Center is supporting the top three solutions in partnership
with the Impact Hub in Accra:

Data protection
Data protection is essential to implementing digitalization in
a responsible manner, which is why we strictly adhere to
all data protection guidelines, monitor the various regulatory
frameworks, and respond immediately to changes. You can
find more information on data protection under Strategy &
management (p. 11).

Progress
Intelligent packaging processes and drug information
in real time

CrowdAfrica: A crowdfunding platform for healthcare.

Our Smart Packaging project allows us to make our drug
packaging processes more efficient and flexible. By
connecting our packaging machines via an Internet of
Things, we can improve their accuracy and reliability while
also increasing their output. Additionally, our new predictive
maintenance capabilities will reduce machine breakdowns.
By connecting systems across the entire organization and
using advanced analytics, we will be able to decrease packaging waste and lead times when changes have to be made
to the product information. This also means that, when new
information about a product is discovered, we can inform our
customers more quickly. We are also exploring options for
active packaging that will allow patients to look up the latest
information in real time on their smartphones.

Peach Technologies: An electronic patient file.
dynaMix: An awareness platform for reproductive health
that also aims to increase the availability of contraceptives
in rural regions.

Online campaign for diabetes
In Africa, approximately 62% of diabetes cases go undiagnosed. To improve early diagnosis and promote awareness
for diabetes, we joined forces with various partners in March
2015 to launch a digital initiative known as DORA (Diabetes
Online Risk Assessment). People in South Africa, Namibia,
Kenya, Ethiopia, Ghana, Nigeria, Mozambique, and Mauritius
can use their smartphones or computers to take an online
test. In just a few clicks, they can ascertain whether they
are at risk of developing diabetes. Since its launch, the DORA
website has received more than 401,500 hits, with 74,294
coming from people who took the assessment.

In good hands: the Baby Wish digital platform
Through our fertility medicines, technologies and services,
we are providing the support clinics need to help couples
conceive. We also offer more direct aid to impacted individuals. Launched in April 2017, our Baby Wish digital platform

28

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Sustainable product design
largest power consumer. Thanks to PS-VA technology,
devices consume significantly less energy than precursors.

Respect for the environment and natural resources is at the
heart of sustainable conduct. We too see this as our duty.
Our Performance Materials business sector produces materials that our customers can use to develop more sustainable products. Take for example liquid crystals that increase
display efficiency, or materials that continuously improve
solar cells and organic photovoltaics.

Self-aligned vertical alignment (SA-VA) is the nextgeneration liquid crystal technology in development, with the
first SA-VA products expected on the market in 2017. SA-VA
helps conserve resources and is environmentally sustainable
because less energy and solvent are required to manufacture
the displays. Moreover, it is more efficient as fewer process
steps are necessary. Since SA-VA technology can be used at
lower temperatures, it is also suitable for sensitive materials
such as those in premium products or pioneering applications
such as flexible displays.

Our Life Science business sector develops technologies and
solutions to make research and biotech production simpler,
faster and more successful. Here, too, we take sustainability
into account at the very start of product development.

Our principles

Mobile device displays have increasingly high resolutions but
are still expected to be as energy-efficient as possible. This is
exactly where our liquid crystals for touchscreen applications
come in. Based on Ultra-Brightness FFS technology (UBFFS), these liquid crystals provide displays with 15% more
light transmission. This can reduce the energy consumption of smartphones and tablets by around 30%, thereby
prolonging battery life. UB-FFS furthermore enhances picture
resolution. We are currently working to advance this technology so that it can also be used in applications such as LCD
televisions.

Performance Materials
Our Performance Materials business sector manufactures
numerous products that help our customers develop sustainable and environmentally compatible products. Our requirements are set out in the following guidelines:
Our Product Safety Chemicals Policy: This specifies our
Group-wide product safety requirements.
Our Green Product Policy: This ensures that we adhere
to all national and international laws and statutes (e.g.
REACH and the European Union RoHS Directive) as well
as industry and customer-specific requirements. Furthermore, this policy forbids the use of acutely toxic, mutagenic or otherwise hazardous substances that remain in
the end product.

Switchable windows

Across all our manufacturing facilities, our raw materials
for the cosmetics industry fulfill the high standards of the
Cosmetics Directive, for example Good Manufacturing Practices (EFfCI GMP).

Windows that darken in a matter of seconds are now a
reality thanks to our liquid crystal window (LCW) technology.
Because they also reduce heat input from sunlight, initial
estimates show that these windows can lower the energy
consumed by building climate control systems by up to 40%.
Commercialized under our licrivision™ brand, this technology
thus renders conventional sun shading redundant. We are
currently investing € 15 million in the construction of a
production facility for liquid crystal window modules in the
Netherlands. The manufacture of these switchable glass
modules is scheduled to begin there at the end of 2017. More
information can be found in our story "Exploring the future
(p. 179)".

Best practice examples to improve sustainability

OLEDs

For Display Materials products as well as Pigments & Functional Materials products, we adhere to our customers'
Halogen-free Policy.

Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) likewise increase the
energy efficiency of displays. They furthermore provide brilliant colors and razor-sharp images. Over the past several
years, we’ve been researching innovative printing processes
to efficiently produce large-screen OLED displays. To this
end, we’ve been partnering closely with printer manufacturers. In September 2016, we opened a new production
plant for OLED materials at our site in Darmstadt. Costing
around € 30 million, this plant represents one of the largest
single investments we have made at the Darmstadt site in
recent years.

Our Performance Materials products help boost sustainability
in a variety of different ways:
Energy-efficient displays
Liquid crystals (LCs) ensure high picture quality in computer
monitors and televisions, reducing their energy requirements. This is because our PS-VA technology (polymerstabilized vertical alignment) arranges the liquid crystals so
as to better utilize the backlighting, which is a display’s

29

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Quality, Procurement, and other departments are in constant
contact.

Innovations in photovoltaics
We supply the photovoltaics industry with materials for the
production of highly efficient solar cells. These materials
enable the realization of innovative applications for photovoltaics such as flexible, semi-transparent and lightweight
solar cells that can be used in buildings, on curved or straight
surfaces or even in clothing.

Through our DfS process, we have improved the product
properties across 32% of our BioMonitoring product developments and product updates in at least three of our selfdefined sustainability criteria. We will be incorporating our
suppliers into our Design for Sustainability program as well.
In 2016, we launched a pilot project to define the relevant
requirements for our suppliers.

Phasing out plastic microbeads
We manufacture mineral-based pigments and functional
fillers used by the cosmetics industry in formulations for
various purposes. Our RonaFlair® functional fillers range
provides an alternative to plastic microbeads contained in
skin care products.

In addition to following this design process, our Life Science
research teams are developing innovative solutions in line
with the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry formulated by
chemists Paul T. Anastas and John C. Warner. These aim
to make research as environmentally compatible as possible
and to minimize negative impacts on human health. Under
the green chemistry approach, researchers look for alternative, ecologically sustainable reaction media with higher
reaction rates and lower reaction temperatures to make
production more energy efficient. In total, we offer more
than 700 products that align with the Principles of Green
Chemistry, making them a “greener” alternative to conventional products.

Through their use in cosmetics and other products, plastic
microbeads end up in marine and terrestrial ecosystems, and
are facing public criticism because they are not biodegradable. Through our alternative mineral products, we are
supporting, for example, the declaration of Cosmetics
Europe, which advocates a phase-out of microplastics in
rinse-off products by 2020.
Increase in natural cosmetics
An ever-growing number of consumers place importance
on natural cosmetics. Together with our customers in the
cosmetics industry, we are responding to this rising demand
by developing cosmetic formulations that meet strict criteria.
The majority of our cosmetic raw materials meet the criteria
of Ecocert’s Cosmos standard for organic and natural
cosmetics.

A wide range of solutions

Life Science

More environmentally compatible laboratory filters

Our Life Science portfolio comprises a broad array of products, each with different properties that are taken into
consideration when applying our DfS approach and the Principles of Green Chemistry. The following examples illustrate
the results.

Using our DfS approach, we have significantly reduced the
environmental footprint of our EZ-Fit™ Manifold laboratory
filter. In comparison with its predecessor, the Hydrosol Manifold, we require 47% less raw material for the EZ-Fit™ Manifold. Its packaging consists of 100% recyclable cardboard
and, overall, 99% of its parts are recyclable. Because the
heads can be easily removed for cleaning, it is no longer
necessary to clean the whole device, which saves energy
and results in a 91% reduction in the carbon dioxide emissions produced during cleaning. In 2016, we furthermore
expanded our range to include a disposable filtration device,
which is used to determine the microbial count in liquid
samples. Thanks to our DfS approach, we have particularly
improved the packaging of this product.

We endeavor to reduce the environmental and health
impacts of our Life Science products. This applies to their
entire life cycle, from manufacture and use to end of life. At
the same time, we want to make our products more efficient
and user-friendly. That is why, right at the beginning of the
product development phase, we ask ourselves how to best
reconcile these requirements.
With our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program, we have
developed a comprehensive approach. The DfS program
provides our product developers with a range of tools,
enabling them to analyze the impact of the product on the
following areas: materials, energy and emissions, waste,
water, packaging, usability, and innovation. For each of
these areas, we have developed several sustainability criteria
that are noted on a score card. When developing a new
product, our aim is to improve on as many of these criteria
as possible. To understand the potential impacts on the
environment within different product life cycle stages, we
conduct product life cycle analyses. The results of these
analyses show us how we can improve our products and are
incorporated into subsequent development stages. During
this process, experts from R&D, Product Management,

Greener chemistry
In comparison with conventional alternatives, our greener
solvents are based on natural resources such as corn cobs
and sugar cane bagasse. They are more ecologically sustainable, easier to recycle and more biodegradable. Take for
example the solvent Cyrene™, which we launched onto the
market in 2016. It is bioderived from waste cellulose and is
used as an alternative to dimethylformamide (formic acid),
which has been the subject of increasing criticism in recent

30

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

years due to its mutagenic effects. With CyreneTM, we are
helping our customers in the pharmaceutical and agrochemical industries make their production processes safer and
more environmentally sustainable.

why we instituted the annual Displaying Futures Symposium,
which was held in 2016 for the seventh time.
In September 2016, the symposium centered on the theme
“Driving Forces – Inspired by Performance Materials”. At
our Group headquarters in Darmstadt, experts from various
fields discussed the future of mobility, from cars that
communicate with one another to self-driving vehicles.

Instruments for biofuels
Our Guava® HT series of flow cytometers is helping to drive
biofuel research and development. For example, our
customers are using the Guava instruments to find an algae
species that is suitable for diesel production. Our flow
cytometers are also being used to produce ethanol from
sugar; they test which bacteria digest sugars and thus
produce gases that can be refined into ethanol.

In 2015, we hosted two events with differing focuses. In
October, we met with architects and designers in Chicago,
IL (USA) to discuss materials that would transform architecture. We also took the opportunity to introduce our liquid
crystal window technology to a large audience. In November,
international experts from fields such as displays and electronics gathered together in San Francisco, CA (USA) under
the banner “The Future is HOW? Inspired by Performance
Materials”. Attendees discussed how materials and high-tech
chemicals could be used in future applications.

Energy-efficient sterility tests
Using the DfS approach, we have reduced the energy
consumption of our Steritest™ Symbio pumps for sterility
tests by 15% to 30% compared with its predecessor.
Tool to assess the sustainability performance of chemicals

Award-winning programs

In 2016, we introduced a tool called Dozn™ to assess the
green alternatives of various chemicals, thereby creating
transparency for our customers. Based on the 12 Principles
of Green Chemistry, we evaluate how our products score in
three main categories, namely improved resource allocation,
efficient energy use, and minimized risk to humans and the
environment. One point is given for each of the 12 principles,
allowing an easy comparison of the products. The results of
the evaluation are verified by an independent body. To date,
we have used the matrix to assess and improve more than
40 products.

In 2015, we were granted the German Innovation Award in
recognition of our UB-FFS technology (p. 29), which lowers
the power consumed by mobile device displays.
Three of our Life Science products, Titripac®, EZFit™ Manifold and SNAP i.d.® 2.0, were honored in 2016 with the
Green Good Design Award for sustainable product design.
This award was also given in honor of our Design for Sustainability program, which enabled us to improve these products.
In recognition of close collaboration across company boundaries, we received the Enterprise Innovation Award from the
Technical University of Darmstadt in June 2016. In a joint
project with Siemens, we developed high-performance materials for energy-efficient generators. These innovative materials not only make the generators more efficient and more
powerful, but also allow the construction of buildings that
help conserve resources.

Progress
Displaying Futures: Annual conference on the future
of display technology
Pioneering advances such as our efficient UB-FFS display
technology are only possible through close collaboration with
our partners. We seek to engage trailblazers who look to
the future and conceive groundbreaking technologies. This is

31

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Packaging
breaking during transport. While EPS, also known as Styrofoam®, is an excellent cushioning material, it is manufactured from non-renewable petrochemicals. It is also difficult
to recycle and takes up a lot of storage room. By contrast,
molded pulp components can be easily recycled with other
paper materials and compacted together for storage and
transport. We have a substitution program in place that is
working on solutions to replace EPS with molded components
made of cellulose and recycled paper pulp.

Packaging protects our products from external influences and
ensures that they reach the customer undamaged. It also
prevents materials from leaking. Our packaging must therefore remain intact across the product's entire life cycle – from
transport to storage, and from usage to end of life.
Beyond safety, we also strive to design packaging that uses
as few natural resources as possible. We are therefore
working to reduce the amount of material required and are
increasingly utilizing environmentally sustainable materials
where possible. In the process, we ensure that the quality
and safety of the packaging is not adversely affected.

When shipping items from our major distribution centers
in the United States and Germany, a large portion of our
reagent bottles are secured using molded pulp components.
In 2015 and 2016, we conducted numerous safety tests on
various molded pulp part designs to pad 4X4 liter bottles
in shipping boxes. In 2017, we plan to start using pulp
components for this package size, which will replace approximately 350,000 molded EPS parts per year. We are currently
conducting safety tests on various pulp designs for shipping
individual bottles of various sizes.

Our principles
Sustainable packaging strategy
We aim to deliver our products in packaging that is safe and
easy for our customers to handle, as well as sustainable.
The more than 300,000 products of our Life Science business
sector – ranging from biochemicals to lab chemicals, from
filter materials and systems to instruments – pose a wide
range of challenges when it comes to packaging. We strive
to improve the sustainability of their packaging through
measures such as reusable packaging systems, or by
avoiding the use of polystyrene. Our sustainable packaging
strategy for our Life Science business sector stipulates the
framework for this approach. A variety of guidelines help our
experts to consider sustainable packaging alternatives and
implement them during the product development stage.

More cardboard instead of plastic
The analytical technique of titration is utilized in laboratories
to assure the quality of various products by verifying the
purity of the raw materials. Although the necessary solvents
are conventionally packaged in plastic bottles, we use
Titripac® because it offers a more environmentally compatible alternative for supplying solvents to our Life Science
customers. By employing a cardboard carton and plastic liner
with an integrated withdrawal tap, we made the packaging
more recyclable while also cutting down the weight by more
than half. As a result, the greenhouse gas emissions arising
across the entire life cycle of the product are 61% lower
than for plastic bottles. Because the withdrawal tap protects
the product against contamination, the contents can be used
to the very last drop, thereby reducing chemical waste. In
2016, Titripac® was recognized with the Green Good Design
Award for sustainable product design.

We also work to enhance the sustainability of our packaging
design for our Performance Materials products such as liquid
crystals and pigments (p. 32).

Certified cardboard boxes
The majority of the corrugated cardboard boxes we use
worldwide are certified to the standards governing sustainable forestry. These include the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Schemes (PEFC).

Reusing EPS boxes
Many of our Life Science products must be kept cool during
shipping and are therefore packed in special Styrofoam®
boxes. To mitigate waste, we offer our U.S. customers the
option of sending us back these boxes. If they are fully functional, we reuse them, which, at more than 20,000 boxes per
year, reduces waste. We are in the process of expanding this
program to serve customers outside of the United States as
well.

A variety of solutions for an extensive product portfolio
Our initiatives for sustainable packaging systems are as
varied as our product portfolio. Here are several examples:

Reusing liquid crystal canisters
Cellulose instead of polystyrene

In Korea and Taiwan, our Performance Materials liquid crystal
mixtures are delivered to display manufacturers in stainless
steel canisters. Our customers utilize these standardized

In the past, we secured glass reagent bottles using expanded
polystyrene (EPS) molded foam to prevent them from

32

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

canisters directly on their production lines without decanting.
The empty containers are then sent back to us and cleaned.
Within this closed system, these canisters can be reused over
several years.

containers are shipped without additional packaging, we are
also saving a lot of the packaging material normally needed
to ship glass bottles, which must be packed in boxes and
cushioned by molded components.

Steel instead of glass

In Europe, we also deliver solvents required in bulk quantities for preparative chromatography in reusable stainless
steel barrels and drums. Our customers send the empty
containers back to us, where they are properly cleaned and
then reused. Approximately 20,000 of our stainless steel
barrels and 20,000 stainless steel drums are currently in
circulation across Europe. The rate of return is 90% for the
barrels and around 50% for the drums.

ReCycler®

Thanks to our EMD
bulk product delivery system,
our solvents are delivered to our U.S.-based Life Science
customers in special reusable steel containers. They can
return the empty containers to us for refilling. Through this
program, we are significantly reducing the consumption of
primary packaging materials. Because the stainless steel

Reuse and recycling
In cooperation with Triumvirate Environmental, a waste
management company based in Massachusetts (USA), we
launched a recycling program at the beginning of 2015 to
serve our Life Science customers in the United States. Under
this initiative, product waste from their research labs and
biopharmaceutical manufacturing operations is collected and
recycled in its entirety. This program has thus replaced our
previous individual initiatives, which included our Biopharma
Product Recycling Program as well as our Ech2o™ Collection
and Recycling Program for water filter cartridges. These
processes were not efficient because the various materials
had to be separated before recycling.

Through our recycling programs, we help our customers
dispose of our products and packaging.

Our principles
Design for Sustainability
Our Design for Sustainability (DFS) program encourages our
Life Science research & development teams to design products with reduced life cycle impacts. This process focuses on
utilizing recyclable or reusable materials that can be easily
recovered or separated. Through DfS, we are continuously
working to reduce the ecological footprint of our products
and make disposal as easy as possible for our customers.

Our partner company Triumvirate Environmental has developed an innovative process for recycling challenging waste
streams. This method recycles 100% of the product without
needing to first decontaminate or separate the materials.
Triumvirate Environmental then takes the recycled mass and
manufactures plastic materials that are used in the construction industry for items such as speed bumps. Since launching
the program, we've recycled approximately 450 metric tons
of waste generated from the use of our products. Six of our
customers are already participating in the program.

Progress
Recycling program updated
Many of the products we supply to our Life Science
customers are used once and then discarded. This is necessary to minimize the risk of contamination and is common
practice within the industry. Moreover, this approach helps
reduce costs because our customers don't have to clean
disposable products, thereby saving time and natural
resources such as energy and water. Recycling the plastic in
these products is not easy, primarily due to inadequate recycling options, challenging material properties, and stringent
regulatory requirements.

We are currently investigating how we can expand this initiative beyond the United States to markets in Europe and Asia.

33

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Access to Health
pharmaceutical companies to announce Access Accelerated,
a global initiative that seeks to improve both treatment
and prevention of non-communicable diseases in low- and
middle-income countries.

Across the globe, approximately 400 million people lack
access to effective and affordable healthcare, especially in
low- to middle-income countries. However, according to the
World Health Organization (WHO), these regions bear
approximately 90% of the world’s disease burden. In cooperation with strong partners, we’re working to tackle this
complex challenge by researching innovative solutions,
developing new approaches and improving existing programs
to help people at the point of care. To achieve this, health
solutions must be affordable and accessible (p. 40). Beyond
these efforts, we’re also raising awareness (p. 41) for
diseases and teaching people how to manage them. The
Access to Medicine Index has recognized the progress we’ve
made on improving access to health (A2H). In 2016, we were
ranked fourth, moving us two places higher than 2014.

To improve access to health solutions, we're leveraging the
expertise from all our businesses. We’re aware that individual companies and organizations can only do so much to
improve access to health, which is why we closely collaborate
with a wide range of partners.
Our A2H strategy focuses on the 4 As:
Availability: We research, develop and refine health
solutions that address unmet needs and are tailored to
local environments.

Our principles

Accessibility: We promote initiatives that strengthen
supply chains (p. 39) and develop localized health solutions in order to deliver and reach out efficiently at the
point of care.

Our strategic approach
We endeavor to improve access to high-quality health solutions for underserved populations and communities in lowto middle-income countries. This goal forms the heart of our
A2H approach. Indeed, Stefan Oschmann, Executive Board
Chairman and CEO, focused on accelerating access to health
in such regions during his presidency of the International
Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations
(IFPMA) from 2014 to the end of 2016.

Affordability: We seek to provide assistance to those
who are unable to pay for the health solutions they need.
Further information can be found under Prices of medicines (p. 40) and Community (p. 96).
Awareness: We contribute to raising awareness (p. 41)
by empowering health workers, communities and patients
so that they can make informed decisions.

At the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland
in January 2017, we joined forces with 21 other leading

The 4 As

34

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Responsible treatment of intellectual property does not pose
a barrier to health. It guarantees safety and high quality for
patients worldwide. Most medicines that address the highest
burden of disease in developing countries are not protected
by patents. For example, 95% of the 2013 WHO Essential
List of Medicines are off-patent.

Our A2H Charter defines our guidelines for the following
topics:
Our approach
Pharmaceutical product donations and philanthropic activities
Fake medicines

FAST FACT

R&D for neglected tropical diseases and priority communicable diseases
Pharmaceutical product pricing
Intellectual property rights

ESSENTIAL MEDICINES
We provide 45 medicines that are listed on the
WHO Essential Medicines List and/or classified as
first-line
treatments,
such
as
bisoprolol/
amlodipine, metformin (Glucophage®), and praziquantel.

In the 2015-2016 period, we aligned our A2H strategy and
goals (p. 132) with the Sustainable Development Goals (p.
146) of the United Nations. These efforts were recognized in
the 2016 Access to Medicine Index (p. 36).

Effectively managing our A2H programs
Our approach to intellectual property is set out in our Charter
on Access to Health in Developing Countries – Rights to Intellectual Property.

Our Access to Health (A2H) unit investigates the factors that
make it more difficult for underserved populations to receive
healthcare, working with various partners to develop ways to
lower these barriers. Our A2H team is backed by a steering
committee featuring representatives from our Healthcare
and Life Science business sectors as well as representatives
from our subsidiaries. In this way, we ensure that our
programs support our business strategy, can be implemented locally and have the desired effect.

In most developing countries, Merck neither files nor
enforces patents. In markets where we do register product
patents, we are committed to sharing data with researchers
and to improving public access to clinical study data. We
provide transparent information on our patents and patent
applications via publicly accessible databases. We furthermore approve voluntary licensing agreements of all kinds,
including non-exclusive voluntary licenses and legally binding
non-assertion covenants or clauses that aim to improve
access to health. We also support TRIPS, an international
agreement administered by the World Trade Organization
(WTO) that addresses trade-related aspects of intellectual
property rights, as well TRIPS addenda such as the 2001
Doha Declaration (Special Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health). The Doha Declaration extends the
deadline for least-developed countries to apply TRIPS provisions on pharmaceutical patents until at least 2033 as per a
decision taken by the WTO’s council on November 6, 2015.
We were in favor of extending this deadline until 2033 and
therefore supported this move. Moreover, we support the
concept of patent pools. However, we believe that these
should be structured to improve access to medicines and
should therefore prevent anticompetitive effects as well as
geographic limitations. We consider joining patent pools
when they are relevant to our portfolio and meet our efficacy,
quality and safety requirements.

We are currently developing quantitative and qualitative
performance indicators to evaluate the efficacy of our
programs. Using these indicators, we will assess our
strengths and identify areas where we need to improve.
Beyond these efforts, we are also involved in industry-wide
initiatives and are working with other companies to develop
new approaches to assessing the efficacy of our A2H activities. For instance, in 2016 we endorsed the Business for
Social Responsibility's (BSR) Guiding Principles on Access to
Healthcare. As a member of the BSR Healthcare Working
Group, we contributed to and led the development of the
working paper entitled Advancing Access to Healthcare
Metrics, which aims to help pharmaceutical and medical
device companies improve their performance measurement
and reporting on access to healthcare.

Sharing and protecting intellectual property
A great deal of time and money is required to develop
new drugs, without a guarantee of success. It can take 10
to 15 years for an effective health solution to be marketready. Pharmaceutical companies therefore need a solid,
transparent and reliable legal framework to protect their
intellectual property rights and enforce their patents, which
provide a sufficient period of time to compensate for R&D
costs.

We share our knowledge and intellectual property and accelerate early discovery for infectious diseases. We are one
of over 100 members of the WIPO Re:Search open innovation platform, which is sponsored by the World Intellectual
Property Foundation (WIPO). In 2015, we initiated our first
partnership as part of this platform, collaborating with the
University of Buea in Cameroon. Our common goal is to

35

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

repurpose compounds from our library to develop a treatment for onchocerciasis, a disease also known as river blindness. In early 2016, the collaboration received the Pathfinder
Award, a grant from the UK-based Wellcome Trust to fund
research on this condition.

The many years we've devoted to detecting counterfeit
medicines using the GPHF Minilab® (p. 99).

Our transparent approach to intellectual property was also
recognized in the 2016 Access to Medicine Index (p. 36).

Our support for the network of vaccine manufacturers in
developing countries (p. 39).

Engaging stakeholders

Our Virtual Plant Team platform (p. 39), which we're using
to ensure globally harmonized quality standards in local
production facilities.

The expansion of our Su-Swastha program (p. 42) in rural
India, aimed at supplying high-quality health products at
affordable prices and establishing the required infrastructure.

Partnerships and dialogue are key instruments to improving
access to health. Our partners include multilateral organizations, government agencies, and NGOs, as well as academic institutions, health industry associations, companies,
and experts from the private sector.

Our continuous and holistic efforts in the fight against
schistosomiasis, including our Praziquantel Donation
Program (p. 97) in partnership with WHO.

Discourse to improve healthcare

Through our Access Dialogues, we have created a platform
that allows public- and private-sector stakeholders to
exchange information and share best practices. This platform
provides a way for participants to collaborate on improving
access to health. These dialogues are part of our A2H efforts
and commitments around awareness and aim to help stakeholders make well-informed health decisions.

Our Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO, Stefan
Oschmann, took part in various events in the 2015-2016
period. For instance, at an event hosted in September 2015
to mark the 70th General Assembly of the United Nations,
he gave a speech on the role of private industry in global
healthcare. Oschmann also spoke on this topic in May 2015
at an event held on the occasion of the 68th World Health
Assembly (WHA) of WHO. Moreover, in March 2015 he
attended the Independent Expert Group (IEG) on Emergency
Preparedness as an industry representative. This gathering
was convened by Bill Gates at the request of Angela Merkel,
Chancellor of Germany and G7 President.

In this vein, we hosted the Innovative Intellectual Property
and Access Dialogue in 2015. At this event, we joined forces
with leading experts on intellectual property and global
health to discuss challenges and potential developments for
our intellectual property strategy.

Discussions at a global level

In addition to this gathering, dialogues on challenges in the
local supply chain were held in 2015 and 2016 in conjunction
with the Accessibility Platform, a multi-stakeholder initiative seeking to ensure that medicines are delivered safely,
quickly and efficiently. Further information on the Accessibility Platform can be found under Supply chain (p. 39).

In the 2015-2016 period, we also participated in numerous
other events, including the following:
Building the Path to Universal Health Coverage: Innovative Financing in Access to Medicines, a round table hosted
in September 2015 by UNITAID, Norwegian Church Aid
and the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) in Oslo, Norway.

Progress

Munich Security Conference on global security and foreign
policy, held in February 2016: forum on current crises and
future challenges to international health security.

High ranking in the Access to Medicine Index
Every two years, the Dutch Access to Medicine Foundation
assesses the performance and achievements of pharmaceutical companies in terms of their efforts to improve access
to medicine in developing countries. The foundation then
ranks these companies in their Access to Medicine Index. In
2016, we came in fourth place. The foundation recognized
us in particular for aligning our strategy and objectives more
closely with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The
following initiatives were singled out as best practices:

Geneva Health Forum (GHF) in April 2016: Event sponsor
and organizer of the round table on “Empowerment:
Providing tools to make informed health decisions for
chronic diseases aligned with the WHO 2030 Health Workforce Strategy”.
Supply Chain Conference hosted by the German Association for Supply Chain Management, Procurement and
Logistics (BME) in February 2016; the topic was: “Accessibility Platform: Uniting Stakeholders for Optimal Global
Health Impact”.

Our transparent approach to intellectual property (p. 35)
and sharing of intellectual property through research partnerships.

Event on the occasion of the 69th WHO World Health
Assembly in May 2016; the topic was “Strengthening local
supply chains through multi-stakeholder initiatives to
eliminate barriers to access”.

Our leading role in raising health awareness, such as our
thyroid disorder campaigns (p. 175) in Indonesia and the
Philippines.

36

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Activities at the local level

Together against malnutrition: We are supporting the
Beyond Zero initiative of the Kenyan government. Our aim
is to improve healthcare for mothers and their children.

In 2015 and 2016, we also engaged stakeholders at a local
level. Below are several examples:

Various activities in China: Raising awareness for thyroid
disorders through education programs, continuing education for physicians, and research projects. Collaboration
with the National Health & Family Planning Commission as
well as medical institutions such as the Chinese Medical
Association.

Continuation of our three-year Indonesia Free Anemia
campaign: Raising awareness for the causes and treatment of anemia through social media.

Infectious diseases
Many infectious diseases that are endemic to developing
countries
are
barely
known
in
industrialized
nations. Referred to as neglected tropical diseases, these
infections consequently attract little public attention and
research funding. One poignant example is schistosomiasis,
an insidious parasitic disease that still lacks a treatment suitable for children under six.

In implementing our programs, we synergize competencies
from our business sectors while also partnering with leading
global health institutions and organizations in both developed
and developing countries. Consider, for instance, the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, a public-private partnership
(PPP) that is developing a pediatric formulation to treat
schistosomiasis.

Malaria also continues to pose a threat to public health.
According to estimates by WHO, nearly half of the world’s
population is at risk of malaria. In 2015, roughly 212 million
malaria cases worldwide and an estimated 429,000 malaria
deaths were recorded. Approximately 92% of these deaths
occur in Africa, with 70% in children under five years of age.
Although a large range of approved products and investigational compounds are available to treat malaria, the number
of resistant pathogens is on the rise. New treatments are
therefore urgently needed together with solutions to effectively control malaria.

Under the Global Health platform, we are also sponsoring
education programs and initiatives targeted to health
workers in African countries.

Progress
Treating schistosomiasis in children under six
Around 10% of the approximately 220 million people worldwide with schistosomiasis are younger than six years old.
These children cannot be treated with praziquantel, the standard therapy for the parasitic disease. This is something we
intend to change. Since July 2012, we have been working
with partners from industry and research institutes on the
development of a pediatric formulation of praziquantel. As
part of these efforts, in 2015 we successfully completed two
Phase I bioavailability studies in healthy subjects in South
Africa, as well as a taste study in children in Tanzania.

Our principles
Global Health innovation platform
The experts of our Global Health innovation platform are
working on novel health solutions for vulnerable populations
in developing countries, especially children and mothers.
They promote and implement Group-wide initiatives and
programs to address key unmet medical needs related to
infectious diseases, with a focus on schistosomiasis and
malaria (including co-infections). The team is applying an
integrated strategy by concentrating not only on treatment
(drugs) but also on detection, transmission and control.

In 2016, the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium initiated a
Phase II study in Ivory Coast; the trial aims to assess the
efficacy and safety of two different formulations for orodispersible tablets in schistosomiasis-infected children under
the age of six. At the same time, we are preparing the Phase
III study.

We are focusing our work on three flagship programs:
1.

Development of a pediatric formulation to treat schistosomiasis (p. 37)

2.

Development of a diagnostic kit for malaria (p. 38)

3.

Development of a new active ingredient for the treatment
and prevention of malaria in children under six (p. 38)

In recognition of all these efforts, the consortium was
awarded a prestigious research grant from the Japanese
Global Health Innovation Technology Fund in both 2015 and
2016, which followed the one awarded in 2014.

37

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

clinical aspects including clinical trial practices and clinical
management, these research fellows are given the opportunity to work for a period of up to 24 months in leading pharmaceutical companies (including our company). On returning
to their home countries and academic institutions, they then
have the key resources needed to lead and implement their
research in line with international regulatory requirements
and standards.

Accurately diagnosing malaria
In many African countries such as Zimbabwe and Uganda,
the rate of co-infection with HIV and malaria is very high.
In HIV-infected patients who develop a fever, it is therefore
very important to establish whether they also have malaria.
Current systems, however, are not accurate enough, which
often leads to other febrile illnesses being wrongly diagnosed
as malaria.

Deepening the dialogue on malaria and schistosomiasis

In 2015, we started expanding our Muse® Auto CD4/CD4%
diagnostic kit, which until then had been used for monitoring
the treatment of HIV patients in Sub-Saharan Africa and
other developing regions. With this system, medical professionals can obtain information on the course of an HIV infection. The advantage is that blood samples no longer need be
sent to clinics in the cities. The new Muse® malaria diagnostic
kit can measure the presence and type of malaria parasite as
well as co-infection with HIV. The system is expected to be
launched in 2019.

In 2015 and 2016, we stepped up the dialogue on infectious
diseases with important stakeholders and experts. Among
other achievements, we gained a new partner for the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, namely the Schistosomiasis
Control Initiative (SCI), which is part of Imperial College
London in the United Kingdom. SCI works closely with health
ministries in African countries and supports the consortium
in efforts such as developing the access and delivery plan for
our new pediatric drug for children under six.

Promising antimalarial compound
Furthermore, in November 2015, we joined forces with the
University of Cape Town (South Africa) to co-develop R&D
platforms for identifying new lead programs for the treatment of malaria, with the potential for expansion to other
tropical diseases. As part of the collaboration, research has
been conducted using Merck’s compound library.

In developing antimalarial compounds, we are collaborating
with Medicines for Malaria Ventures (MMV). Since current
treatments are increasingly succumbing to drug resistance,
MMV is focusing on the development of new compounds.
In March 2015, we obtained the rights to an investigational
antimalarial compound from MMV. The compound potentially
represents a novel mechanism of action and is intended to be
developed for both the treatment and prevention of malaria
in young children. This R&D project completed its preclinical
phase in 2016 and is preparing for Phase I to start in 2017.

Moreover, we took part in the following international conferences and events:
Workshop entitled “Schistosomiasis in women and its impact
on HIV” in Magaliesburg, South Africa in January 2015
The International Schistosomiasis Conference on schistosomiasis elimination strategies in San Salvador, Brazil in
August 2015

Building capacities in health systems
In addition to financing fellowships in Zimbabwe and Kenya,
in 2016 we launched a partnership with the University of
Namibia that is sponsoring two PhD fellows in their research.
In support of Governmental Malaria Control Programs, these
scientists are studying an extremely widespread malaria
pathogen found in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia and are
also working to characterize parasite subtypes in the populations in these African countries.

The 9th European Congress on Tropical Medicine and International Health held in Basel, Switzerland in September 2015
The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene
(ASTMH) conferences in 2015 and 2016 in the United States
The Better Medicines for Children Conference hosted by the
European Medicines Agency (EMA) in London (UK) in October
2016
The African Society for Laboratory Medicines (ASLM) conference held in Cape Town, South Africa in December 2016

Moreover, we also co-sponsor several international fellowship programs for postdoctoral researchers from developing
and emerging countries. In addition to receiving training on

38

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Supply chain
(GDP). This also applies to contract manufacturers. Our
uniform quality assurance system ensures that our quality
standard is adhered to everywhere. It comprises training
courses tailored to each site, quality control monitoring, and
technology transfer. Our Global Response Team publishes
the results of all audits conducted by health authorities
across the Merck Group, allowing the respective units to
share lessons learned and benefit from one another’s
improvements.

We want patients in low- and middle-income countries to
have fast, safe and affordable access to medicines. Efficient
supply chain management is key to accomplishing this, as is
support for local manufacturing in line with our high standards.

Our principles
Efficient supply chain management
Efficient supply chains ensure that patients can be treated
quickly and safely. Moreover, they incur lower costs. Our
policies and procedures help to ensure that appropriate
quantities of our products are delivered in the right condition,
at the right place, and on time.

Through our Virtual Plant Teams, we provide our contract
manufacturers with the support they need to comply with
our quality standards. In Africa, Asia and Latin America,
our external partners are each assigned a Merck production
expert to act as a virtual site leader and provide guidance.
Our Virtual Plant Teams were recognized as a best practice
in the 2016 Access to Medicine Index (p. 36).

Together with our partners, we endeavor to improve supply
chains in developing countries:

Progress
We are a member of the Neglected Tropical Diseases
Supply Chain Forum. This public-private partnership
works to ensure a good end-to-end supply chain, which in
turn will guarantee that the medicines reach the people
who need them. Forum members include the World Health
Organization (WHO), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation,
the logistics firm DHL, and six leading pharmaceutical
companies which run donation programs: Merck, MSD,
GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Eisai.

Developing a cross-company database for medicinal
products
To make medicines for neglected diseases reliably available
in developing and emerging countries, we are working to
improve supply chain management. In 2015 and 2016, we
therefore collaborated with our partners in the Neglected
Tropical Diseases Supply Chain Forum to develop a database
to help achieve this goal. All forum members contribute information, which is used to assess the potential need for medicines in the relevant countries. We discuss, for example,
which medicines have been ordered by WHO and which products have been supplied to which countries. This provides
us with a comprehensive overview of the current distribution
of medicines, thus allowing them to more quickly reach the
areas where they are needed most.

In the Rx-360 consortium, we are pursuing similar goals:
to share best practices with other companies and partners
on efficient, end-to-end secure supply chains.
We are a founding member of the Accessibility Platform.
This is an informal effort spearheaded by the private
sector which aims to raise awareness of supply chain
issues as part of the access to health challenge. It also
seeks to increase knowledge sharing and information
exchange through open, multi-stakeholder dialogue and
identify opportunities for collective action.

Supporting regional vaccine manufacturers
We support vaccine manufacturers in developing and
emerging countries. Together with the Developing Countries
Vaccine Manufacturers Network (DCVMN), we sponsor
educational programs and pass on our knowledge to ensure
the safe and high-quality production of vaccines. Since 2014,
we have conducted more than 12 training sessions as well
as a number of technical workshops in Asia-Pacific and Latin
America, with eight seminars taking place in 2015 and 2016.

Supporting local manufacturing
In our manufacturing plants in India and Indonesia, we
produce various medicines for patients with diabetes, heart
conditions and diseases of the lower respiratory tract. This
allows us to supply medicines to local markets faster, as well
as to neighboring countries such as Sri Lanka and Myanmar.
Moreover, we can offer these drugs at considerably lower
prices than in Europe.

For this initiative, we were honored in the 2016 Access to
Medicine Index (p. 36).

Our pharmaceutical production plants operate to the same
high standard of quality worldwide. We fully comply with
the internationally harmonized guidelines set out in Good
Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and Good Distribution Practice

39

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

to our e-shop to quickly and easily order medicines that have
been approved by the respective regulatory authorities. The
system makes demand more transparent while reducing lead
time and miscommunication. After successfully testing the eshop in Sudan and Ethiopia, we launched the platform in all
northwestern African countries in 2015.

Testing software for supply chain management
In the 2015-2016 period, we developed a software-based
solution for northwestern Africa to ensure the continuous
availability of our drugs, which has improved our inventory
and order management. At any time, our customers can go

Prices of medicines
Merck is committed to ensuring that patients have access to
the best possible medicines. This requires optimal pricing,
reimbursement, and access conditions for all of our in-line
and future pipeline products. Across the world, the healthcare industry is undergoing a unique transformation:
National and regional institutions and authorities, which
decide on price-dependent market access and reimbursement in many markets, hold a growing role as key stakeholders, together with healthcare professionals, politicians,
regulators, patients, and distributors. We are fully determined to continue succeeding in this changing environment.

We have developed several product- and market-specific
alternative reimbursement and contracting models (ACMs)
with payers such as health insurance companies to provide
the right patients with prompt access to our innovations.
Examples of such ACMs include outcome-based and budget
capitation agreements for Erbitux® as well as adherencebased payment agreements for Rebif® and Saizen® in its
easypodTM injection device.
We also regularly participate in government tenders for products used in public hospitals serving low-income patients.
Beyond this, we have established second “lower-price”
brands of existing products. In South Africa, for example,
second brands of Concor® and Ziak® (antihypertensive
agents) are available at discounted prices.

We believe that the prices of our medicines should reflect
their overall value, to include benefits to patients, healthcare
systems and payers alike. Value reflects both individual clinical outcomes as well as impact on overall treatment, health
system delivery and patient adherence.

Low- and middle-income countries
We recognize the importance of affordable access to medicines in low-and middle-income countries. As a result, we
are committed to pricing our products responsibly and take
part in innovative equitable pricing schemes in partnership
with governments and other key stakeholders. In developing
countries, we also regularly participate in government
tenders. In this way, we’re already supplying products to
governments at reduced prices in Africa, Latin America, the
Middle East, and Asia.

Our principles
To meet the needs of patients, our health solutions must be
affordable and accessible. In terms of organizational setup,
our Group Market Access and Pricing unit reports directly to
the Chief Marketing and Strategy Officer of our Healthcare
business sector and sets initial prices in collaboration with
Merck’s individual businesses. Our subsidiaries are responsible for adapting and managing prices at the local level.

Different kinds of patient support enable us to offer products
at a more affordable cost. Our Erbitux® China Patients Assistance Program (p. 41) is a prime example of such an initiative. Our Patient Support Program Policy describes our
uniform standards for such efforts.

Innovative pricing models
We recognize the importance of fairly priced medicines and
the fact that individual countries have varying abilities to
pay for health solutions. Within a country, too, there are
often significant regional and/or socioeconomic differences.
We therefore partner with governments and other key stakeholders to develop individual pricing and contracting models.
In addition, we continuously monitor the dynamic healthcare
environments, pricing & reimbursement systems, guidelines,
and policies, adjusting our prices as necessary.

Progress
Operational pricing and strategic price decisions
In 2016 we implemented a new Group-wide price management system. This global platform enables us to drive
strategic price and reimbursement decisions and contains
all information needed to set, modify and approve countryspecific prices. It also serves as an analysis tool that enables
us to make informed strategic pricing decisions.

We support product donations, flexible pricing, differential
pricing, and post-patent competition between reference
products and generics. We conduct yearly reviews of our
pricing strategies to identify ways to continually expand
access to health by aligning prices with affordability.

40

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Improved access to the oncology drug Erbitux®

the program’s launch in 2011 to the end of October 2016,
6,800 patients had already benefited from ECPAP.

In China, we are working with the China Charity Federation
(CCF) to expand access to our oncology drug Erbitux®, which
is used to treat conditions such as colorectal cancer. For
patients with a good prognosis, the Erbitux China
Patients Assistance Program (ECPAP) will cover the majority
of the costs for Erbitux® treatment. In addition to helping
with costs, we also offer free services such as providing
information on this disease, or ensuring that the medicine
remains properly refrigerated until reaching patients. From

We also run similar programs in other countries such as
India, where we likewise offer Erbitux® for the treatment of
colorectal and head & neck cancer at reduced prices. Since
2014, this initiative has helped 1,725 patients. In South
Africa, we support the Savanti Patient Access Program, which
enables patients to be treated with Erbitux at a lower copayment.

Health awareness
Many people are sick without realizing it. The result?
Although effective medicines and therapies may be available,
these individuals do not receive treatment, or don’t receive
it in time. To prevent such an outcome, we conduct global
campaigns to raise awareness and improve knowledge of
diseases, their symptoms and treatment options. As part of
our strategy to increase access to health (p. 34) in developing countries, we help create awareness by empowering
healthcare professionals, communities and patients with
appropriate tools, knowledge, information, and skills so that
they can make high-quality, informed decisions.

Vocational training and continuing education for
health workers
In developing countries, we empower private and public
sector health workers to make decisions on the prevention,
diagnosis and treatment of diseases based on the latest
medical knowledge. One of our key initiatives is our fiveyear Capacity Advancement Program (CAP (p. 43)). Among
other goals, CAP aims to improve medical training for doctors
in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East. Further
activities include continuing education for medical professionals in India through our Su-Swastha program (p. 42) and
vocational training for pharmacy technicians in Tanzania (p.
42). You can find an overview of all our projects here.

Our principles
Global awareness campaigns

These efforts form part of our commitment to improving
access to health (p. 34) worldwide.

We regularly conduct global campaigns to raise awareness
for various diseases. Our efforts concentrate on those conditions in which we have in-depth expertise stemming from our
core business. These primarily include cancer (specifically
colorectal as well as head and neck cancer), thyroid disorders, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis (MS). In our awareness activities, we frequently collaborate with patient advocacy groups. In the 2015-2016 period, we conducted and/or
participated in 17 campaigns, enabling us to reach millions of
people. Of particular success in 2016 was the thyroid awareness campaign we spearhead every year during International
Thyroid Awareness Week (p. 42), as were the Make Sense
campaign held during Head & Neck Cancer Awareness Week
and our World MS Day 2016 campaign.

Progress
Social media campaign on head and neck cancer
Every year, we support the Make Sense campaign, an initiative of the European Head & Neck Society. Its objective is
to raise public awareness of head and neck cancer and its
symptoms in an effort to drive earlier presentation, diagnosis and referral, as well as improve outcomes. Moreover,
we hope to dispel the misconception that head and neck
cancer primarily impacts older smokers and people with alcoholism, as young adults can also develop this disease. In
September 2016, as part of our “Letting our tongues do the
talking” campaign, we called on our employees to send us
pictures of themselves sticking out their tongues. We subsequently received more than 200 pictures from across 22
countries. Through this effort, we reached around 122,000
people worldwide via our social media channels, thereby
raising awareness for head and neck cancer.

In addition to these global efforts, we also lead special
awareness initiatives to address specific local needs, such
as anemia in Indonesia and malnutrition in Kenya. For such
programs, we generally cooperate closely with national
governments as well as other political actors. You can find
more information under Access to health (p. 36).

41

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

this public-private partnership (PPP) in 2014. Comprising
members from the public and private sectors as well as nongovernmental organizations, HWHE has developed a policy
toolkit with political measures aimed at eliminating labor
market barriers that women face due to health issues. In
September 2015, the toolkit was rolled out at the APEC
Women in Economy Forum.

Twitter marathon for multiple sclerosis
We endeavor to support people with multiple sclerosis (MS)
and regularly work to raise public awareness of this disease.
For instance, in May 2016 we joined forces with the MS
International Federation (MSIF) and local MS patient advocacy groups to participate in World MS Day. The theme for
2016 was “Independence”. With help from our worldwide
MS patient ambassadors, we produced two movies entitled
“MS – a silent disease” and “MS Does Not Stop Me”. These
films illustrate how people with MS preserve their independence, refusing to let their disease defeat them. The
heart of the 2016 campaign was a 24-hour tweetathon held
across 24 countries. Using a variety of hashtags such as
#strongerthanMS and #msday24, our employees and
various stakeholders across the globe tweeted brief
messages on multiple sclerosis. Through this campaign, we
also highlighted the efforts of our sites worldwide to support
MS sufferers, from fund raising to support local patient advocacy groups to rock concerts. The tweetathon generated a
total of 2.7 million responses.

In a joint effort with the Philippine government, we have
launched the first HWHE public-private partnership
addressing thyroid health, a problem that disproportionately
affects women. In Jordan, we collaborated with the NGO
Royal Health Awareness Society to roll out a similar program
that likewise aims to bolster awareness for thyroid disorders
among women.
Since 2016, we've also been partnering with the American
Cancer Society (ACS) to raise awareness of women's
cancers. In November 2016, we released a report entitled
“The Global Burden of Cancer in Women”, which documents
the mortality and incidence rate of cancers that affect women
and the burden worldwide.

Thyroid health: Focusing on mothers

Su-Swastha: Healthcare for rural India

In 2016, we supported the International Thyroid Awareness
Week hosted by Thyroid Federation International (TFI), the
eighth time we have done so. A survey we commissioned
in 2016 revealed that 84% of mothers worldwide could not
correctly identify the most common symptoms of thyroid
disorders in their children. Our campaign therefore aimed to
help parents recognize the signs. To this end, we partnered
with TFI to develop a film, a children's book and additional
educational material. These tools utilize two butterfly cartoon
characters called “Hypo” and “Hyper” to explain the symptoms of hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. The campaign
reached around 20 million people across 34 countries. More
than 14,500 people additionally received a thyroid check-up
and, if irregularities were identified, were advised to see a
general practitioner for further testing. You can find more
details in our story "Enriching lives (p. 175)".

In India, around 700 million people reside in rural areas and
have no access to effective, affordable healthcare. This is
because medical facilities are concentrated in India's urban
areas, which account for 80% of the country’s healthcare
professionals and 70% of its hospital beds. Through our SuSwastha project, we are working to improve healthcare in
rural India. Our goal is to provide inexpensive medicines
while also educating local patients and physicians on
everyday health issues and their treatment. Healthcare
professionals hold weekly community meetings on topics
such as coughs, childhood ailments and prevention. Moreover, the program also provides patients with free checkups and offers continuing medical education to help doctors
advance their medical capacities. In 2016, 1,238 community
meetings were held, reaching a total of 26,129 people.

Promoting women's health worldwide

For these efforts, we were recognized in the 2016 Access to
Medicine Index (p. 36).

Women in the workforce can have a profound impact on
a country's productivity and prosperity, but only if they
are healthy. In many countries, health issues often prevent
women from obtaining and keeping a job, or hinder them
from progressing in their career. This poses a challenge
for both national economies as well as companies. A study
has shown that economic success is predicated not only on
increasing women’s participation in the labor market, but
also on creating gender parity. According to the report by
management consultant company McKinsey, these changes
could add US$ 28 trillion to global annual GDP by 2025.

Vocational training for pharmacy technicians in
Tanzania
The healthcare systems in numerous developing countries
are struggling with a shortage of pharmaceutical professionals. For instance, Tanzania only has around 3,000 pharmacists, pharmacy assistants and pharmacy technicians to
meet the needs of the country’s more than 40 million inhabitants. This imbalance makes it especially hard for people in
rural areas to access medicines.

Healthy Women, Healthy Economies (HWHE) has taken up
this challenge. Under the auspices of the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC), we collaborated with representatives of the United States and other countries to initiate

To help relieve this situation, we supported a three-year
program to expand vocational training facilities for pharmacy
technicians. Under this initiative, which ran from 2014 until

42

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Our Merck Africa Embryology Training Program, which seeks
to improve access to fertility care, offers a three-month
hands-on course that has already benefited ten African
embryologists from Sub-Saharan Africa.

2016, we partnered with the German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ) and the faith-based Kilimanjaro
School of Pharmacy, as well as the companies Boehringer
Ingelheim and Bayer HealthCare. We worked together to
revise existing curricula into a new modular curriculum for
a one- to three-year pharmaceutical training program. As a
model school, the Kilimanjaro School of Pharmacy furthermore has been furnished with a laboratory and library and
is additionally receiving financial support. The Global Pharma
Health Fund donated four Minilabs (p. 97) and taught tutors
from eight Tanzanian training centers how to use them to
properly detect counterfeit medicines.

Furthermore, the 2016 Merck Africa Luminary provided 460
African healthcare providers, policy makers and researchers
with development sessions to improve disease management,
early detection and prevention of NCDs.
In 2015, we also launched an awareness campaign for
diabetes, hypertension and cancer that has reached over
175,000 people in Kenya. By 2018, we hope to have reached
200,000 people to provide them with services such as
diabetes screening.

Expanding our Capacity Advancement Program
Through our Capacity Advancement Program (CAP),
launched in 2012, we are collaborating with academic institutions to train medical professionals in the fields of research
and development, clinical research, and drug safety to build
capacity as well as to raise public awareness of noncommunicable diseases (NCD) such as diabetes, hypertension, cancer, and infertility. Across the globe, CAP covers a
wide array of initiatives with differing focuses.

Through Merck More than a Patient, we empower women
cancer survivors by educating them and helping them start
their own small business so as to lead independent lives.
Similarly, through Merck More than a Mother, we provide
information, education, and healthcare while also working to
change the mindset and culture that stigmatizes infertility
and infertile women. Through the Empowering Berna Project,
we help women in such circumstances to start a business
and achieve independence. More than 1,000 infertile women
from Ghana, Central African Republic, Ivory Coast, Uganda,
Kenya, and Nigeria were enrolled in the project in 2016.

By the end of 2016, the Merck Universities Program had
reached 17,000 students from universities in Kenya, Uganda,
Tanzania, Mozambique, Namibia, Ghana, Ethiopia, Angola,
India, and the United Arab Emirates, providing them with
European-accredited clinical diabetes and hypertension
management training. Our goal is to reach more than 25,000
students through this program by the end of 2018. In 2015
and 2016, we presented the first-ever Merck Diabetes Award
and Merck Hypertension Award to 20 promising medical
students from universities in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania,
Ghana, Nigeria, the United Arab Emirates, Indonesia, and
India, in an effort to drive research and awareness in these
fields.

The 2016 UNESCO-Merck Africa Research Summit sought to
empower women in the fields of healthcare and research,
where they are currently underrepresented in Africa. At the
summit, we also launched the Best African Woman Research
Awards in an effort to promote women’s contribution to
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM).

43

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Chemical product safety
informational material for all our chemical products that
contains instructions for use and handling to prevent them
from posing a danger to people and the environment. Our
goal is to give our customers product safety information that
has been standardized worldwide.

Many of our chemicals are classified as hazardous
substances. However, they must not pose any risk to people
or the environment. In developing these substances, product
safety is our primary consideration. We fulfill all statutory
requirements, often exceeding them, and provide our
customers with extensive information so that they understand our products and can use them safely.

We issue all chemicals classified as hazardous with safety
data sheets that contain information on the physicochemical,
toxicological and ecotoxicological properties of the agent.
Our safety data sheets reflect the latest local regulatory
requirements and are available in 37 languages as well as
61 language-country combinations. Although not legally
required, our non-hazardous substances also come with
safety data sheets. In total, we make roughly 22 million
safety data sheets available to our customers. Since all these
documents must be kept up to date and consistent, in 2015
and 2016, we automated the majority of our Group-wide
hazard communication processes and are now harmonizing
the systems of our business sectors and sites.

Our principles
Statutory regulations and Group-wide guidelines
Numerous national and international regulatory requirements have been put in place to ensure that chemical products do not pose any danger to humans or the environment.
We have implemented Group-wide guidelines that guarantee
compliance with these regulations at all times when it comes
to the import, production, commercialization, handling, recycling, and disposal of our chemical products. We have also
signed general voluntary commitments of the chemical
industry such as the Responsible Care® Global Charter.

FAST FACT
To meet the product safety regulations relevant to our
company, our Product Safety Chemicals policy details our
Group-wide processes for managing and implementing
product safety, including the necessary management structures. These include the Globally Harmonised System of
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) and its implementation in regional legislation (such as the CLP regulation
in the European Union and HazCom 2012 in the United
States), the EU chemicals regulation REACH, the U.S. Toxic
Substances Control Act (TSCA), and the German federal
law on protection from hazardous substances (ChemG). Our
Group-wide policy also incorporates legal norms concerning
the transport of hazardous chemicals, biocides and
cosmetics, as well as the chemicals used in food and animal
feed.

KEEPING CUSTOMERS INFORMED
All information on the safe use of our products is
also available on our website, where customers
can additionally access the ScIDeEx® program.
This tool allows them to check whether they can
use a chemical agent safely in line with the EU
chemicals regulation REACH.

Transcending laws
In an effort that transcends statutory requirements, we
support the goals of the Global Product Strategy, an international initiative of the chemical industry. In this vein, we
publish product safety summaries for all lead substances
we've registered under REACH on the website of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA).

Safety analysis during product development
At Merck, product safety starts during the development
stage. By conducting hazard, exposure and risk assessments, we seek to ensure that our chemical products can
be safely used later down the road. All our product innovations undergo a formal EHS analysis, which examines aspects
such as impact on human health and the environment. In
conducting these safety assessments, Regulatory Affairs
provides advice and support to employees in our Life Science
and Performance Materials business sectors.

Organizational structure for product safety
In response to the acquisition of Sigma-Aldrich, a U.S.-based
life science company, we adapted our organizational structures for product safety in the 2015-2016 period. Our Life
Science and Performance Materials business sectors each
have their own product safety units. Working in close collaboration, these units are responsible for all product safety
activities such as risk assessment, hazard communication in

Standardized product safety information
As part of our efforts to communicate the potential dangers
of our products, we provide our customers with in-depth

44

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

In the manufacture and processing of our products, we
adhere strictly to all statutory regulations and other applicable standards, such as the guidelines of the German Federal
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (BAuA) as well
as the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). We
also provide our customers with information on the proper
handling of nanomaterials across their life cycle, including
transport, processing, storage, and disposal.

the form of safety data sheets and safety labels, as well as
the registration of chemical products.
Our Group Product Safety Committee (GPSC) monitors regulatory requirements worldwide to check for relevant changes,
initiating and reviewing the measures needed to integrate
these changes into our processes.
Our Group Corporate Governance unit ensures that critical
gaps in regulatory compliance are independently addressed.
This unit reports directly to the head of the Group function
Corporate Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality.
Any necessary corrective or preventive action is carried out
by the operating units within each business sector.

We are continuously engaged in a discourse on the opportunities and risks of nanotechnology. Our internal nanocoordination group consists of analysts, researchers, toxicologists, safety experts, and other professionals from relevant areas of our company. To guide our decisions and
actions, we participate in committees and working groups
that include other companies, associations and regulatory
agencies. Examples of such groups include the nanocoordination group of the VCI's Technology and Environment
committee as well as Responsible Production and Use of
Nanomaterials, a joint technology working group of
DECHEMA (Society for Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology) and the VCI.

Take for instance the U.S.-based GHS Compliance Program.
Since we had acquired several product portfolios in the
United States that lacked safety information, in 2012 we
initiated a multinational program to push regulatory
coverage and bring the portfolios up to our stringent standards. Our objective was not only to close existing safety
gaps, but also to be the front runner in implementing the
new GHS requirements under HazCom 2012 in the United
States, which took effect in June 2015. We fully achieved this
goal while also meeting the deadline.

Training and awareness
We aim to increase awareness of, as well as provide best
practice advice and information on, the safe use of hazardous
chemicals. To this end, we regularly conduct seminars worldwide that teach basic lab safety rules such as the handling
of flammable solvents and the storage of chemicals in safety
cabinets and warehouses.

Safe nanotechnology
Nanotechnology is a highly innovative field of development
that researches and uses structures 50,000 times thinner
than a human hair. This technology makes it possible to
produce materials with completely new properties and functions for a myriad of applications.

Progress
REACH registration on schedule

Nanotechnology opens up many opportunities for our Group.
In our Life Science and Performance Materials business
sectors, we can use nanoscale materials to develop products
with new functions and properties – thus, for instance,
helping use resources and energy more efficiently. In our
Healthcare business sector, we partner with external companies to explore the use of nanomaterials to improve therapies. Under the auspices of European research partnerships,
we are also investigating the suitability of nanoparticles as
vehicles for active pharmaceutical ingredients.

We are working to register all our chemical substances under
REACH. We successfully completed registration phase 1 in
2010 and registration phase 2 in 2013. The next step, part
of phase 3, is for us to evaluate and register all substances
produced or imported in quantities ranging from one to 100
metric tons annually by June 2018. This process now also
includes substances from Sigma-Aldrich and is on schedule.
In line with the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM), a global policy framework overseen by the United Nations, the Act on the Registration and
Evaluation of Chemicals (AREC) took effect in Korea in early
2015. The requirements of AREC are very similar to those
of REACH, so much so that AREC is often referred to as “KREACH”. Thanks to our experience in implementing REACH,
we are well prepared for such a procedure and have already
initiated the registration process for select substances.

However, the special structure of nanoparticles can also
entail risks. We assess these risks and furthermore only
utilize the new technology with the greatest care. In doing
so, we consider Group-wide requirements for safety as well
as environmental and health protection, employing our
existing processes and systems for product safety. We abide
by the precautionary principle and take nanomaterial safety
issues very seriously. Our Group-wide Policy for Use and
Handling of Nanomaterials governs the handling of nanomaterials, whether used in pharmaceutical and chemical laboratories, production plants, filling plants or warehouses.

45

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Drug safety
Our pharmaceutical products must be safe. We consistently
monitor risks and adverse effects as they arise and take
the necessary action to minimize them. Through rigorous
benefit-risk assessments, we ensure that the benefits of our
drugs always outweigh the risks for patients.

authorities. Global Drug Safety analyzes all data and, as
required, uses this to reassess the risk-benefit profile. We
then inform the regulatory authorities, physicians and
patients about potential risks and changes in the risk-benefit
balance.

Our principles

We always adhere to all statutory pharmacovigilance regulations in force in those countries where we market our
products and continuously work to incorporate requirement
changes in our Group-wide standards and processes.

Benefit versus risk
Our pharmaceutical products need to be effective in treating
the respective disease while also posing as little risk as
possible to patients. To ensure their safety, every new medicine passes a series of precisely defined development stages.
Prior to using a drug in humans, we first conduct extensive
preclinical testing both in vitro and in vivo. Through toxicological testing, we determine whether an active pharmaceutical ingredient is toxic to living organisms and, if so, at what
dose. This also helps us determine the dose that humans can
safely tolerate. Only once this is complete do we perform
clinical studies (p. 55) to investigate the safety and efficacy
of the drug when used in humans. During clinical development, we diligently use all collected data to continuously
evaluate the drug's risk-benefit profile. Only if the medicine
has a positive risk-benefit profile do we submit an application
for marketing authorization to the regulatory authorities.

Regulatory authorities also conduct regular inspections to
verify that we are complying with statutory requirements and
our own internal drug safety standards.
Furthermore, we perform our own audits to ensure that all
our departments, subsidiaries, vendors, and licensing partners involved in pharmacovigilance are meeting all requirements across the globe at all times.

Medical Safety and Ethics Board
Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) oversees the
safety and risk-benefit evaluations of our drugs throughout
clinical development and commercialization. As required, it
will initiate appropriate measures to minimize risk, such as
package insert updates. Our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is
the chairman of the MSEB, which also consists of senior
physicians, scientists and experts from Merck. Throughout a
drug's entire life cycle, the MSEB reviews and assesses all
relevant medical, ethical and safety issues. Furthermore, its
tasks include the release of new investigational products for
first-in-human use after conducting a thorough risk-benefit
analysis based on all preclinical examination results.

After market launch, the number of patients being treated
with the drug increases significantly. In certain circumstances, rare adverse effects may occur that went undetected during clinical development, which is why we continually monitor and update the risk-benefit profiles even after
market launch.

Continual monitoring

Product labeling

We always provide physicians and patients with the latest
information on the safety of our drugs. This applies to the
entire life cycle of a product, ranging from development,
market launch and commercialization to expiration of the
marketing authorization.

The package insert informs physicians and patients how
to properly use the respective drug. In accordance with
the statutory regulations, the insert contains all relevant
information such as ingredients and dosage, storage, mode
of action, instructions for use, warnings, precautions, and
adverse effects. Should the medicine contain ingredients that
impact the environment, the package insert may also contain
information on the proper disposal of the product.

Pharmacovigilance is the process of continuously monitoring
a drug to detect, assess and understand adverse effects in
an effort to take appropriate action to minimize risk.
Our Global Drug Safety unit is responsible for pharmacovigilance; it continually collects current safety data from a
wide variety of sources across the globe, to include clinical
studies, spontaneous reports on adverse effects, and articles
published in medical and scientific journals. Our experts
ensure that all information on the potential risks and adverse
effects of our medicines is properly documented, tracked
and, if necessary, reported to the respective regulatory

As necessary, we review and update all package inserts,
ensuring that they contain the latest information about our
drugs. The leaflets also reflect changes initiated by the
MSEB, such as new warnings.

46

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

IMI project teams, in which we have taken on a leading role,
have established a framework to help accomplish the initiative's mission. Building on this, we have introduced a BenefitRisk Guide to our Drug Safety unit and have been using this
guide as a source of improvement since 2015. We last made
use of its recommendations when compiling the documentation for marketing authorization for our cladribine tablets.

In accordance with statutory requirements, all modifications
to the inserts are submitted to the respective regulatory
authorities for approval.

Strict quality assurance
In producing pharmaceuticals, quality assurance is a key
aspect. The Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP)
regulations ensure that pharmaceuticals meet the standards
set for identity, purity, potency, and safety. Compliance with
these regulations is mandatory for pharmaceutical companies and is closely monitored by the health authorities. As a
pharmaceutical manufacturer, we have appropriately trained
employees, as well as suitable facilities, processes and
procedures in order to meet all requirements.

No critical observations in pharmacovigilance inspections
In Germany, there are two pharmaceutical regulatory agencies: the German Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical
Devices (BfArM) and the Paul Ehrlich Institute (the German
Federal Institute for Vaccines and Biomedicines). Both agencies conducted pharmacovigilance inspections on our
company in February 2015 on behalf of the European Medicines Agency.

Reliable distribution processes
We want our pharmaceutical products to be readily available
to physicians and patients and always arrive on time. Therefore, our distribution process must function reliably all over
the world. By continually auditing our distribution network,
we ensure that both our subsidiaries as well as our partners
and contractors adhere to our quality and safety requirements. All distribution activities must comply fully with Good
Distribution Practices (GDP).

Furthermore, pharmacovigilance inspections were conducted
by the respective national authorities in Australia, Austria,
Colombia, Ghana, Japan, Spain, Croatia, and the United
States in 2015 and 2016.
All inspections have continually confirmed the proper functioning of our Pharmacovigilance system.

Employee training

Sharing expertise with other countries

All employees involved in the safety and quality of pharmaceutical products, or in planning, conducting and monitoring
clinical studies, are trained according to our global training
standards. These standards stipulate how we conduct and
document training at all our sites. We verify compliance with
these requirements by performing regular audits.

We also pass on our drug safety expertise to other countries,
especially those in which health workers (such as health
agencies, physicians and nurses) still lack the necessary
knowledge regarding pharmacovigilance. In 2016, for
instance, we supported training events and conferences in
Peru, China and Ivory Coast.

In this way, employees are kept up-to-date at all times. This
includes their professional expertise as well as adherence to
GCP, GDP, internal standard operating procedures, and other
relevant requirements. We provide our training via a global
e-learning platform on our intranet.

At the third Merck Africa Luminary conference, held in Ivory
Coast in October 2016, government representatives from
Liberia, Uganda, the Central African Republic, Nigeria, and
Kenya came together with more than 250 medical professionals as well as experts from Merck. The theme of the
conference was “Unlocking the Pharmacovigilance Power in
Africa”. Here, we provided information (p. 41) on monitoring
the safety of drugs for cardiovascular diseases, thyroid disorders, diabetes, and infertility.

Progress
Joint recommendations for improved risk-benefit
profiles

In China, too, we shared our knowledge. In partnership
with the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA), we
conducted several training seminars for pharmacovigilance
experts from the local Chinese pharmaceutical industry. At
these seminars, we not only informed participants of the
local drug safety requirements, but also about key global
regulations and recommendations. Moreover, in Peru we
participated in workshops on collaboration between pharmaceutical manufacturers and health authorities.

To optimize the risk-benefit balance of our pharmaceutical
products, we work closely with other companies and publicsector organizations such as health authorities and academic
institutions. We are involved in PROTECT, a research project
run by the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), which is a
joint undertaking between the European Union and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). PROTECT aims to further develop tools and
methods used in evaluating the risks and benefits of drugs.

47

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Counterfeit products
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a considerable
proportion of the medicines in developing countries are illegal,
counterfeit or substandard. In industrialized nations, however,
such products are also becoming increasing available on the
market through unlicensed internet pharmacies and underground
business-to-business (B2B) platforms, posing a risk to public
health.

Fighting product crime
Our Group-wide Merck Anti-Counterfeiting Operational Network
(MACON) is responsible for globally monitoring and implementing
all anti-counterfeiting measures for our products. As well as coordinating preventive measures and the development of security
systems, it is also responsible for investigations. Discourse between
the members of the network creates synergies and bolsters our
efforts to fight product-related crime. Comprised of experts from
various units such as Legal/Trademarks, Product Security, Export
Control, Supply Chain, and Quality Assurance, MACON is coordinated by our Corporate Security unit. In 2015, we expanded the
network to include representatives from Global Drug Safety as well
as various subsidiaries. All MACON activities are now overseen by
the new Global Anti Product Crime unit, created in 2016.

Our company develops and manufactures products of the
utmost quality. In order to protect customers and patients,
we are deeply committed to fighting product-related crime.
For instance, we collaborate with law enforcement agencies
and take steps to secure our products against counterfeiting.
Our guidelines, standards and processes apply to all our
business sectors and markets worldwide, thus protecting our
reputation as a supplier of quality products.

In all relevant cases, MACON collaborates with the appropriate
law enforcement agencies and regulatory authorities, allowing us
to detect more cases of counterfeiting and take decisive action
in pursuing existing cases, especially in high-risk countries. The
network reviews and handles up to 100 cases of product-related
crime per year, including inquiries from authorities that arise
during backtracking investigations. In 2015, we uncovered several
underground laboratories that were counterfeiting several of our
products.

Our principles
Organization and guidelines
Our Group function Corporate Security coordinates all our
anti-counterfeiting activities, basing its actions on our “Crime
relating to products of the Merck Group” guideline, which
describes our goals and strategies for combatting this issue.
All such activities are carried out under the supervision of the
Chief Security Officer and the Head of Environment, Health,
Safety, Security, Quality (EQ).

Moreover, in 2016 we launched a new, Group-wide internal
reporting system with which all incidents can be better
analyzed and documented. This provides us with a more
complete picture of the security situation, better equipping
us to prevent such incidents in the future.

Furthermore, all our sites have a Product Crime Officer who
investigates potential cases of counterfeiting, acting as the interface between local regulatory and law enforcement authorities,
national associations, Group functions, and our sites.
Moreover, our Group Product Crime Investigation Standard has
been in place since September 2016. It defines binding guidelines, harmonizes knowledge within the company and provides a
more solid legal footing when dealing with illegal products.

48

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

FAST FACT

Supporting customers and patients
We believe that patients should be able to determine the
identity and authenticity of a pharmaceutical product themselves, which is why we implement the requirements of the
EU Falsified Medicines Directive, for instance by applying
a unique serial number to our pharmaceutical packaging.
In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) requires all drug packages to be labeled with a unique
product identifier by the end of 2017, which we are currently
working to implement.

DEFINING PRODUCT CRIME
1. Product counterfeiting: In line with the TradeRelated Aspect of Intellectual Property Rights Agreement (TRIPS) and WHO standards, we define a
counterfeit product as: “A product that is deliberately
and fraudulently produced and/or mislabeled with
respect to its identity and/or source to make it
appear to be a genuine product”.
This includes products:

In parallel to meeting these international provisions, we also
pursue our own initiatives:

with incorrect active ingredients or concentrations
thereof
without any active ingredients

On all our products, we apply Security-M, a security label
containing our color travel pigments. This label enables
users to easily verify the authenticity of our products and
is considerably harder to counterfeit than the holograms
that are commonly used.

with dangerous impurities
with modified/altered packaging and/or incorrect brand
names
with an authentic active agent, but not one produced
under GXP conditions

With our Track and Trace shipment tracking system,
patients can trace the supplier of the medicine to verify
its authenticity. We have already implemented this system
for all our pharmaceutical products in the United States
and China, and are currently considering expansion to
other markets.

that have expired
that were removed from the legal supply chain (e.g.
through theft)
2. Illegal diversion of products: This term refers
to the diversion of either chemical or pharmaceutical
products from within the legitimate supply chain for
illegal export, for use in the production of illegal drugs,
weapons or explosives, or for any other illegal
purposes.

Our free Check My Meds app for smartphones allows
patients in the United States to scan the serial number
of their medicines and quickly verify their authenticity.
In 2015, the trade journal PharmaVOICE listed the app
among its top innovative health-focused apps and
websites.

3. Black market crimes: This refers to the sale of
counterfeit and/or diverted products via illegal channels (e.g. the Internet), or for illegal purposes.

In our Mobile Anti-Counterfeiting System (MAS) project
in Nigeria, we are working closely with our suppliers on
a text message-based identification system. Patients
scratch off a barcode that is printed on the product packaging. They then send this code via text message to an
assigned number, which immediately sends them back a
response telling them whether their code is authentic.

4. Misappropriation of products: This refers to theft
from production sites and warehouses, or while in
transit.

We sponsor the non-profit Global Pharma Health Fund
(GPHF), which supplies GPHF Minilabs® to test the quality
of 85 different active ingredients. With this compact test
kit, counterfeit medicines can be detected quickly, easily
and inexpensively in developing and emerging countries.
Further information on this project can be found under
Community (p. 97).

Tracking system for chemical substances
We have established an internal system to monitor and track
chemicals that could be misused to produce illegal weapons,
explosives or narcotics. Our tracking system flags suspicious
orders and/or orders of sensitive products, which are only
released once we have confirmed the existence of a (verified) end-user declaration. Moreover, we collaborate closely
with regulatory authorities and law enforcement.

We offer our customers in the pharmaceutical industry
Candurin® pearl effect pigments, which feature unique
color properties that make tablets and capsules more difficult to counterfeit.

In addition to our duties stipulated by statutory provisions
on export control, we also report suspicious orders, inquiries
and requests to the competent authorities. Through these
efforts, we are fulfilling our commitment to the German
Chemical Industry Association (VCI) and to the Guideline for
Operators published by the European Commission.

Educating our employees and business partners
We endeavor to raise awareness of product-related crime
among our employees and business partners, training our
employees worldwide on this subject. In the countries where

49

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Furthermore, we are also a member of Rx-360, a consortium
of global pharmaceutical manufacturers and suppliers that
aims to prevent counterfeit products through the introduction
of global quality assurance systems and audit programs.

we don’t have our own subsidiaries, we offer training for our
business partners.

Conducting security audits
We regularly check whether our distributors and contract
manufacturers are complying with GMP and GDP (Good
Manufacturing Practice/Good Distribution Practice). In doing
so, we also ascertain the extent to which our security
requirements are being implemented, conducting corresponding security audits if significant deviations are identified. This auditing system is based on the EMA ICH Q10 pharmaceutical quality assurance standard. In 2015 and 2016,
we conducted 37 security audits of our partners worldwide
and subsequently provided them with the results of these
audits so that the necessary corrective action could be taken.

When cases of product crime are identified, we collaborate
with the relevant law enforcement agencies and customs
authorities in the respective countries. We furthermore work
with Interpol, the World Customs Organization, health
authorities, and our peer industry.

Reviewing our efforts
We evaluate the effectiveness of our measures according
to the number of reported, investigated and solved cases,
as well as their severity. Furthermore, in 2015 and 2016,
we scrutinized our existing communication and information
management processes to identify potential improvements,
and are now making the necessary changes to optimize these
processes.

Industry-wide exchange and collaboration with
authorities
We have joined forces with organizations such as EFPIA,
IFPMA and VFA in an effort to fight product crime. We also
support industry-wide initiatives and collaborate closely with
regulatory authorities and law enforcement at the regional,
national and international level. We work particularly closely
with the Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI). This nonprofit organization is dedicated to protecting public health
by sharing information on pharmaceutical counterfeiting and
initiating enforcement actions through the appropriate
authorities. In May 2015, we hosted a meeting of the PSI for
the first time, at which we engaged in discussions on current
trends and holistic approaches to fighting product-related
crime. In 2016, our Chief Security Officer was appointed Vice
Chair of the PSI Board of Directors.

Progress
New training program developed
In the 2015-2016 period, we devised a training program
for all our employees in Security roles, such as Product
Crime Officers. Via e-learning modules, the program aims
to enhance their competencies and promote best practice
sharing. In 2015 and 2016, we held ten training courses at
various sites. Moreover, participants shared lessons learned
during the MACON summit in Darmstadt in June 2016, which
was attended by 25 Product Crime Officers from key countries.

Transport and warehouse safety
We transport and store products and materials worldwide
such as chemicals, pharmaceuticals, raw materials, intermediates and waste, as well as technical materials and packaging, all of which could pose a hazard if handled incorrectly.
In doing so, we adhere to extremely strict safety regulations
Group-wide to prevent danger to people and the environment.

governing environmental protection and public safety, which
local site directors are responsible for implementing.
Our sites worldwide generally have a dangerous goods
manager who advises the site director on issues regarding
the safe transport of dangerous goods while also monitoring
compliance with regulatory requirements. This position
reflects the EU regulations requiring the appointment of a
dangerous goods safety advisor.

Our principles
Organization and standards

In 2014, we acquired the company AZ Electronic Materials
and in 2015, Sigma-Aldrich, a U.S.-based life science
company. We have since aligned their transport and storage
systems with our Group-wide standards and updated them
where necessary.

Environment, Health Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) (see
Environmental stewardship (p. 77)), the Group function in
charge of transport and storage safety, sets Group-wide
standards and guidelines. In addition, our individual sites are
also subject to various national and international regulations

50

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

We regularly perform audits to ensure that our own sites
as well as our freight forwarders are complying with transport safety regulations. In 2015 and 2016, no incidents that
would have had a significant impact on the environment or
community were recorded, nor were there any infringements
of international regulations.

Warehouse safety
Our global safety concepts and standards ensure the safe
storage of hazardous substances. The Warehouse Safety
standard, for instance, defines measures to prevent
substances from leaking or igniting. According to this standard, risk evaluations must be conducted on all stored
substances. Special rules of conduct apply to all warehouse
employees. In 2015 and 2016, we audited more than 20 of
our warehouses and, based on the results, identified areas
for improvement.

In Germany, we transport the majority of our hazardous
waste ourselves, but do sometimes also enlist the services of
other companies if necessary.
Furthermore, we participate in the German Transport Accident Information and Emergency Response System (TUIS)
operated by the German Chemical Industry Association
(VCI). Within this system, we exchange expertise and best
practices on chemical transport with experts from other
chemical companies and also provide hands-on assistance in
the event of a chemical transportation accident.

To ensure third-party warehouses also adhere to our strict
safety requirements, our Group standard Warehouse
requirements for third-party warehouses defines specific
structural and organizational requirements for a facility.
Before we sign contracts, warehouse providers must submit
a statement detailing how they plan to meet our stringent
safety standards. Our EHS managers regularly visit thirdparty warehouses. In 2015 and 2016, we audited ten of
these warehouses and developed corrective action plans to
address the identified shortcomings.

Continuously improving safety concepts
Our local EHS and dangerous goods managers regularly
review and evaluate our transport and storage activities,
informing site directors of shortcomings and opportunities for
improvement. Moreover, our sites are audited by EQ every
five years.

In Germany, the “Technical Rules for Hazardous Substances”
(TRGS) stipulate the storage of hazardous substances in
non-stationary containers. In 2016, we decided to introduce
these rules for storage at all our warehouse and distribution
centers worldwide.
We comply with the current requirements of the Globally
Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) at all our sites with the exception of India,
where the GHS system has not yet been fully integrated into
national regulations.

Based on a strength and weakness analysis of each site,
we calculate key performance indicators on transport and
storage safety, which help us determine where to institute
additional improvements. In 2016, for instance, we developed an e-learning concept for basic management courses
on the transport of dangerous goods and launched a subsequent pilot program.

Ensuring transport safety worldwide

Employee training and internal best practice sharing

We seek for all shipments to reach our customers and sites
safely, undamaged and with the required safety information.
Several substances that we transport are classified as
hazardous materials. Hazardous goods transport – whether
by road, rail, plane, or ship – is governed across the globe
by extensive regulations such as the “European Agreement
concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by
Road” (ADR).

We regularly train warehouse workers and all employees
involved in the transport of goods on our standards and
procedures, as well as on changes to international requirements and incident management.
Furthermore, our EHS managers meet regularly at the EHS
conference in Darmstadt, Germany, where they have the
opportunity to share experiences and best practices, as well
as participate in transport and storage safety training. These
topics are also covered in the three-day orientation seminar
that is mandatory for all new EHS managers.

Our Group Transport Safety standard defines the safety
levels for our sites and is based on the United Nations
Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.
This is especially important for sites in those countries with
no local regulations on the transport of hazardous materials.
We update our Group standard to reflect current requirements every two years and support our local site directors
in implementing the relevant changes. On January 1, 2017,
we introduced the amended IATA regulations on the transport of dangerous goods by air and the RID/ADR regulations
on transport by rail and road.

Progress
Award for truck improvements
The safe transport of dangerous goods necessitates safe
vehicles, another area we pursue. In 2015, we won the
VCI Hesse’s Responsible Care competition for our continuous
improvements to our SafeServer truck body technology. In
this design, the aluminum panels integrated into the side

51

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

walls of the truck render the walls extremely stable, making
it largely unnecessary to secure cargo. Over the past several
years, our transport employees have worked to continuously
hone this system, collaborating with our truck body manufacturers to implement the design changes.

In 2016, we won first prize in the Transport Safety category
of the Germany-wide Responsible Care competition in recognition of our “TUIS, Messkonzept Südhessen” project. When
a transport or warehouse accident occurs, this system can
quickly calculate the rate at which hazardous substances are
spilling and spreading.

Responsible marketing
Pharmaceutical marketing is regulated by legislation worldwide. For instance, manufacturers in Germany are only
permitted to advertise prescription drugs to medical professionals such as physicians and pharmacists. In doing so, they
must always disclose the active ingredients, side effects, and
contraindications of the advertised drug.

High global standards for advertising materials
Through our Principles of Review and Approval of Promotional Materials and Other External Communications, we
ensure that all advertising materials meet our rigorous standards. In 2016, we updated these principles and rolled out
a Group-wide review and approval system that meets the
latest technical requirements. This system helps us check
whether all advertising materials meet our standards. All
employees involved in creating advertising materials worldwide have been trained on the updated principles as well as
this new system.

Our company commercializes both prescription medicines as
well as over-the-counter products. In marketing our products, we voluntarily commit to various standards that exceed
statutory regulations. Because patients deserve effective,
high-quality treatment, they are always our primary consideration.

Direct marketing only permitted in certain countries

Our principles

Direct-to-consumer advertising (DTC) for prescription drugs
is allowed in some jurisdictions such as the United States
and New Zealand. We only pursue DTC campaigns in these
countries. Through direct advertising, we hope to increase
people’s awareness of certain diseases as well as available
therapies, empowering consumers and patients to make
informed decisions about their treatment.

Guidelines and organization
We adhere strictly to all regulations on pharmaceutical
marketing. Our Group-wide Pharma Code for Conducting
Pharmaceutical Business and Pharmaceutical Operations
defines the relevant standards for ethical marketing practices. This code also governs our interactions with physicians,
medical institutions and patient advocacy groups. We
furthermore comply with the codes of conduct of national
and international industry organizations such as the Code
of Practice and Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices
published by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA). Our pharmaceutical
activities in the United States are governed by yet another
guideline, entitled Pharmaceutical Operations of Merck KGaA
and Merck Serono S.A. in the United States.

Compliance violations
The industry associations in which we are members have put
in place various reporting channels for people to report any
wrongdoing with regard to marketing practices.
Furthermore, we have also established a SpeakUp Line,
which allows our employees to anonymously report potential
compliance violations. If our marketing or advertising rules
of conduct are violated, we have a committee in place to take
immediate corrective and, if need be, punitive action.

All guidelines pertaining to marketing and advertising are
part of our Group-wide compliance program, which stipulates
that we always conduct business in compliance with the law
and according to the highest ethical standards. We regularly
review all guidelines, adapting them to new developments.

Voluntary self-regulation
We are a member of the German Association of Voluntary
Self-Regulation for the Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA), which
has defined its own code of conduct for collaboration
between physicians and the industry. When violations of the
FSA code are suspected, members and third parties can file
complaints directly with an arbitration board. In 2015, we
were involved in proceedings that resulted in a fine.

We have defined processes for all international, national and
regional sales and marketing activities, and have appointed
individuals responsible at each of these levels. We furthermore conduct regular audits of our sales and marketing
activities.

52

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

expertise and furthermore provide them with detailed information on the safe handling and use of our products. We
have an extensive safety and security network in place to
prevent the misuse of dual-use products. This network
features standardized export control guidelines for these
products, which are monitored by our central Export Control
& Customs Regulations unit, as well as by trade and export
control officers at our local subsidiaries. If we suspect
misuse, we terminate our business relationship with that
customer.

Regular employee training
Individuals responsible for our pharmaceutical advertising,
as well as employees working in sales, marketing and regulatory positions, receive regular training on our current guidelines. Furthermore, via our Intranet the responsible
employees also have access to our compliance guidelines on
the marketing and promotion of pharmaceuticals.

Marketing chemicals
We approach the marketing of our chemical products with
the deepest sense of responsibility. For instance, we only
supply our chemicals to commercial customers with proven

Bioethics
Bioethics are foundational to guiding how humans use the
rapidly advancing power of life sciences and technology
responsibly and ethically to the ultimate benefit of mankind,
animals, plants and all living beings. In the course of our
Healthcare and Life Science activities, we are faced with
various bioethical issues, including stem cell use, animal
testing, the use of genetically modified microorganisms, the
potential impact of new gene editing techniques such as
CRISPR/Cas, and our own clinical research. Beyond compliance with the relevant regulations and laws, we have a
strong commitment to conducting research in an ethical
manner, which is why we continuously evaluate all manner
of positions on controversial topics in order to make informed
decisions. In treating patients with our drugs and interacting
with participants in our clinical studies, their wellbeing is
always of utmost importance.

Clinical studies
We discover and develop innovative medicines that meet
patient needs. In doing so, we adhere to all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements, as well as scientific and
ethical standards. For clinical studies, these standards particularly include the Declaration of Helsinki, in which the World
Medical Association has formulated ethical principles for
medical research involving human subjects, and the Good
Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines of the International Council
for Harmonization (ICH). More details can be found under
Clinical studies (p. 55).

Stem cell research
We do not participate in clinical programs that utilize human
embryonic stem cells or cloned human cells for the treatment
of diseases, nor do we pursue such approaches ourselves.
However, we do make use of stem cells in our research.
In addition, we offer our customers several select stem
cell lines. Our Stem Cells and Human Cloning Principles
ensure compliance with our ethical approach. Furthermore,
our Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (SCROC),
which was established in 2016, reviews our business strategies as well as all internal human stem cell research
proposals to verify compliance with our ethical and legal
guidelines. This also includes collaboration with external
partners. The mandate of the SCROC is based on the recommendations of the Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel.

Our principles
Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel
As a global company, it is important for us to promptly identify and address all international developments concerning
bioethical issues. This approach is what enables us to define
our own stance, as does the advice of external experts.
To this end, the Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP)
convenes once a year to advise the company. Consisting
of renowned international experts in the fields of bioethics,
theology, science, and law, the MBAP is jointly headed by our
Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and our Head of Global Health.
The MBAP provides clear guidance on bioethical questions,
which we take as a basis for our entrepreneurial conduct. For
the benefit of our employees, we publish summaries from
MBAP meetings on our Intranet.

Infertility treatment research
We develop treatments to improve the success rate of in
vitro fertilization and are currently revising our Fertility
Research Policy based on recommendations from the MBAP.
You can find more information under Progress (p. 54).

53

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

MBAP has emphasized that it is crucial to form partnerships
with organizations whose values align with ours. Our values
are described in guidelines such as our Code of Conduct, our
Human Rights Charter and the Merck Responsible Sourcing
Principles.

Biotechnology and genetic engineering
We utilize genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in our
research and development work and have been manufacturing biotech products using GMOs since the 1980s. Without
this technology, the major medical advances of past years
would not have been possible.

2. Biosampling & biobanking
A biobank is a repository that stores tissue samples and body
fluids, as well as coded patient and specimen data. Although
these are extremely important to our research, their storage
and use for research require adherence to stringent ethical
standards, not only in terms of specimen collection, including
those for genetic analyses, but also for biobank operation.
For this reason, we explain to all study participants the
purposes for which we are using their samples. The participants then sign an informed consent form to confirm that
they understand and that they authorize the use of their
specimens.

Our most important research centers for medical biotechnology are in Darmstadt, Boston (MA, USA), Beijing (China),
and Tokyo (Japan). Major biotech production sites are
located in Aubonne and Corsier-sur-Vevey, Switzerland, the
latter of which is one of the largest biopharmaceutical
production facilities in Europe.
We manufacture our biotech products according to the
highest standards. All our biotech activities are subject to
strict statutory regulations worldwide. Compliance with these
regulations is monitored by our biological safety officers. We
continuously track regulatory changes pertaining to biotech
products and adapt our processes accordingly, thus ensuring
we adhere to all statutory requirements.

Because we might want to use patient samples at a later
date in other studies, the MBAP has recommended that we
include this possibility in the Informed Consent form for our
study participants. Furthermore, in 2017 we will be adopting
a policy on patient specimen handling and establishing a
committee to advise our researchers on the use of these
samples.

Off-label use
We endeavor to drive scientific and medical progress, often
doing so in close collaboration with medical professionals.
We regularly receive inquiries about the off-label use of our
products, i.e. indications for which the drug was not originally approved. While each medicine is authorized for specific
indications, cases do arise in which a physician wishes to
prescribe a drug to treat a disease for which it is not
approved. Such new applications can benefit patients.
However, to use a drug in this way, solid evidence must
exist showing that it can be effective in the treatment of the
specific disease.

3. Fertility and the German Embryo Protection Act
Because we develop therapies to treat infertility, we are
frequently confronted with various bioethical issues relating
to such treatments. For instance, may embryos resulting
from artificial insemination be screened for genetic disorders
and then selected on this basis? The German Embryo Protection Act provides guidance on such questions. The MBAP has
discussed the various issues thoroughly, and, based on these
deliberations, we are currently revising our Fertility Research
Policy.

In 2016, we instituted a new Group-wide policy that sets out
our principles for disseminating information regarding offlabel use. In particular, we only market our medicines within
the scope of the drug’s marketing approval. We never share
information on off-label use for commercial ends and only
provide such information upon direct request to healthcare
professionals for medical purposes. The information must be
backed by scientific evidence and factually balanced. Our
employees are not permitted to make any sort of treatment
recommendations for individual patients.

4. Use of genome editing systems
We are a leading supplier of gene-editing technologies such
as CRISPR/Cas9, which can be used to target and modify
specific genes. CRISPR/Cas9 opens up new possibilities in
genetic engineering research that could bring about major
advances in the treatment of serious diseases or in “green
genetic engineering”, the use of genetic editing techniques
in plant cultivation. Statutes in different countries allow for a
varying degree of latitude in applying this technique, which is
why the MBAP has thoroughly discussed the possibilities and
ethical boundaries of genome editing systems. The results
of this discourse are being incorporated into our new Gene
Editing Policy, which is under development. Moreover, in
response to guidance from the MBAP, we are currently
working to establish the Genome Editing Consortium, whose
tasks shall include determining the responsibility and bioethical role of gene editing tool providers.

Progress
Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel discussions
In 2015 and 2016, the MBAP discussed the following issues:
1. Selecting partnerships according to ethical standards
We collaborate with numerous partners in research and
development, production, and marketing and sales. The

54

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Clinical trials
Our company develops medicines that help people with
serious diseases. Before obtaining regulatory approval, we
conduct clinical studies with patients and, if necessary,
healthy subjects to test the safety and efficacy of these products. Prior to doing so, extensive preclinical testing must
first be performed to demonstrate that the drug poses no
unacceptable risks. This preclinical test phase may include
procedures such as animal testing. We only test medicines
in patients if the compounds show great therapeutic promise
and have a positive risk-benefit ratio.

The “Joint Position on the Disclosure of Clinical Trial Information via Clinical Trial Registries and Databases” and
the “Joint Position on the Publication of Clinical Trial
Results in the Scientific Literature”, published by the
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
& Associations (IFPMA), the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the
Japanese Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association
(JPMA), and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers
of America (PhRMA)

Our principles

The “Principles for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing”
published by the EFPIA and PhRMA

Adhering to the highest standards
Clinical research governance

We conduct high-caliber clinical research that always
complies with applicable laws and regulations. When
performing clinical studies, we adhere to the highest ethical
and scientific standards worldwide.

Our Head of Global Research and Development bears overall
responsibility for pharmaceutical development as well as the
related governance process. Two committees support this
individual in overseeing our clinical studies. The Integrated
Clinical Study Committee (ICSC) is responsible for studies in
pharmaceuticals that are under clinical development, while
the Global Medical Affairs Decision Board is responsible for
studies involving approved medicines. Both bodies consist of
medical scientific experts and executives with long-standing
experience in clinical research. Each committee meets regularly to conduct a comprehensive review of the proposed
clinical study concepts to verify that our studies are scientifically sound, have a legitimate scientific purpose, and are
performed according to the latest standards and best practices. Furthermore, in 2015 we also established therapeutic
area review boards, which assess proposed study concepts
and use their expertise in the various therapeutic areas to
advise the ICSC.

We only conduct clinical studies to investigate issues that are
relevant to patients, healthcare professionals and society as
a whole. In addition to this prerequisite, a sound, established
scientific methodology must be available to investigate these
scientific or medical questions. We only enroll the number
of participants required to answer the respective scientific
questions.
Our Clinical Research policy provides the framework for
conducting clinical studies and ensures that we adhere to all
legal, ethical and scientific standards. In addition to the relevant national laws and regulations, these standards include:
The Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines of the International Council on Harmonisation (ICH) of Technical
Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for
Human Use

Before administering a new drug in human subjects for the
first time, we conduct extensive preclinical testing to demonstrate that the medicine has the potential to offer clinical
benefits, is sufficiently safe for use in humans, and has a
positive risk-benefit profile. Potential risks for subjects are
carefully and continuously analyzed before and during the
clinical study. Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB)
oversees the safety of subjects participating in our clinical
studies and, as necessary, also reviews the risk-benefit
profiles of the investigational drugs. You can find further
information on the MSEB under Drug safety (p. 46) and
Bioethics (p. 53).

The Declaration of Helsinki published by the World Medical
Association
The Belmont Report
Good
Pharmacovigiliance/Laboratory/Manufacturing/
Distribution Practices (GVP/GLP/GMP/GDP)
The International Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical
Research Involving Human Subjects published by the
Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences
(CIOMS)

Our clinical study procedures are regularly audited by health
authorities to ensure compliance with the applicable laws and
guidelines. We also conduct our own internal quality assurance audits. In both cases, we respond immediately to any
issues found by adapting our processes accordingly.

55

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

patients from vulnerable populations if there is no other way
to achieve conclusive results in other, less vulnerable study
participants. When performing such studies, especially when
informing subjects and obtaining their consent, we comply
with all statutory regulations throughout the entire process.

Conducting clinical studies responsibly
Protecting the safety, wellbeing, dignity, and rights of the
volunteers and patients participating in our clinical studies is
of utmost importance to us. We do not intentionally expose
study subjects to undue risk or irreversible harm. Personal
data privacy is extremely important, and the confidentiality
of all data and information collected is ensured in compliance
with statutory regulations.

More information can be found on our website and under
Infectious diseases (p. 37).

Clinical study collaboration

Prior to enrolling subjects, every clinical trial must be
assessed and approved by a qualified independent ethics
committee. Furthermore, all regulatory authorizations
required in the respective country must be obtained. In
accordance with Good Clinical Practice guidelines (ICH-GCP),
all subjects must give their informed consent before enrolling
in a clinical study. We fully inform subjects about all aspects
of the clinical trial in a language that they understand; this
includes the potential risks and benefits from participating in
the study. All participants are given ample time and opportunity to inquire about details before deciding whether to
participate. All questions posed by potential participants are
answered by the clinical investigator or another qualified
healthcare professional familiar with the study. As far as
possible, non-interventional studies (observational studies)
are also assessed by an ethics committee, and subjects are
provided with thorough information.

To provide a broad, in-depth basis for the development
of new medicines, we frequently conduct clinical studies
in collaboration with external partners in academia and
industry, as well as with medical scientific advisory boards,
service providers and vendors. We expect all our partners –
especially contract research organizations (CROs) performing
studies on our behalf – to abide by the same set of high standards when conducting clinical studies.
To verify their compliance with Good Clinical Practices
(ICH-GCP), our CROs, partners and other vendors are
subjected to regular audits as part of our quality assurance
efforts. We also arrange for audits of study centers involved
in our clinical studies.
In the 2015-2016 period, these audits did not show any indication of studies that were failing to comply with ICH-GCP
standards or the Declaration of Helsinki.

Once started, every study follows precisely defined procedures. This ensures that the study is conducted to the
highest quality standards in line with good working practices
for the development and manufacture of drugs (GxP), the
ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki, and other
international guidelines. This approach also ensures that the
data are accurately generated, documented and reported
in line with all applicable requirements. In the 2015-2016
period, we received no significant complaints regarding this
clinical study procedure from third parties or regulatory
agencies.

Close dialogue with patients and advocacy groups
We want to ensure that patients’ voices and needs are
adequately taken into consideration when planning and
carrying out clinical studies. To this end, we established
patient advisory boards for clinical studies in 2014. During
advisory board meetings, caregivers and representatives
from patient advocacy groups are invited to provide feedback
on clinical study issues. Cumulatively, we use this information to render clinical development and clinical studies more
patient centric.

We continuously collect and communicate safety data for our
investigational drugs and promptly provide clinical investigators with important new findings relevant to the safety of
subjects. In this way, we ensure the safe use of our pharmaceuticals. Potential adverse effects and risks are taken
into consideration in an effort to evaluate the risk-benefit
ratio of our products and manage risk. Product information,
including the Investigator’s Brochure and Subject Information, is updated accordingly. You can find more information
under Drug safety (p. 46).

Furthermore, we are involved in the European Patients’
Academy on Therapeutic Innovation (EUPATI), a five-year
public-private partnership within the Innovative Medicines
Initiative (IMI) launched in 2012. EUPATI is a pan-European
project led by the European Patients Forum (EPF); it features
partners from patient advocacy groups, universities and notfor-profit organizations, along with a number of pharmaceutical companies. This project focuses on helping patients
better understand pharmaceutical research and development
while also offering them a way to incorporate their needs into
the development of clinical studies. EUPATI furthermore aims
to improve the availability of objective and reliable information for the public.

Conducting clinical trials in vulnerable populations
When a drug is intended for use in vulnerable populations,
we must sometimes conduct clinical studies in populations
such as children or underprivileged individuals. Their wellbeing is one of our top priorities as, in general, these groups
are relatively (or absolutely) incapable of protecting their
own interests. We therefore only conduct studies with

56

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

only do so in an environment in which the principles of
Good Clinical Practice can be upheld; in particular, where
ethics committees and well-trained Clinical Investigators
are present.

Responsible data sharing
We support scientific circles and academic institutes in
advancing medical and scientific knowledge. To this end,
we provide them with data from our clinical studies to use
in their own research. When disclosing data from clinical
studies, the privacy of our patients is always safeguarded;
national legal systems are always respected, and incentives
are always provided for investments in biomedical research.

only investigate diseases and innovative medicines that
are relevant to the local population.
only conduct clinical studies in countries where there is
a reasonable expectation that the drug tested will be
submitted for marketing authorization and be made available to patients after we have proved its efficacy and
safety.

To ensure responsible clinical study data sharing, we also
collaborate with the European Federation of Pharmaceutical
Industries and Associations (EFPIA) as well as the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). In
accordance with their voluntary commitments, we provide
qualified researchers from medicine and science with study
protocols, anonymized patient data, study data, and clinical
study reports.

assure that no subject enrolling in a clinical study is
discriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin, gender
or socio-economic status.

Under our Praziquantel Donation Program, we are partnering
with the World Health Organization to combat the parasitic
disease schistosomiasis in African school children. However,
in their currently available form, praziquantel tablets are only
suitable for adults and children older than six. For children
younger than six, it is currently not possible to properly treat
the disease. Within a public-private partnership (PPP), we are
researching a new formulation of praziquantel that is also
suitable for infants and toddlers. As part of this research,
we are currently conducting clinical studies with children in
Africa. Further details can be found under Infectious diseases
(p. 37).

Publication of clinical studies
We are obliged to disclose information from our clinical
studies. We communicate this information publicly in a
complete, accurate, balanced, transparent, and timely
manner. We publish clinical study designs and results in
the international database ClinicalTrials.gov run by the U.S.
National Institutes of Health (NIH), which can also be
accessed via the World Health Organization’s International
Clinical Trials Registry Platform. Furthermore, in accordance
with EU regulations, we publish results of our clinical studies
in the European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical
Trials (EudraCT) database, which is run by the European
Medicines Agency (EMA).

Progress
Immuno-oncology: Strategic alliance with Pfizer
Immuno-oncology investigates the extent to which the
body’s immune system can be activated or strengthened
to mount an immune response against cancer. As part of
a strategic alliance with the U.S. pharmaceutical company
Pfizer, we are studying the antibody avelumab as a potential
treatment for various tumor types. In 2015, we thus
launched JAVELIN, our expansive international clinical study
program in which we are investigating the potential therapeutic benefit of avelumab in multiple tumor types. By
October 2016, more than 3,000 patients had been evaluated
as part of this program, which is investigating avelumab in
more than 15 tumor types.

We make sure that results from our clinical studies are
published in medical journals in line with applicable laws and
industry codes. In doing so, we adhere in particular to the
current version of the Good Publication Practice (GPP3) and
follow the recommendations of the International Committee
of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE). Our Medical Publications
Policy ensures compliance with all relevant standards.

Clinical studies in developing countries
We conduct all our clinical studies in accordance with local
laws and regulations, irrespective of the region or country. In
addition, we adhere to all relevant international scientific and
ethical standards at all times. We are intentionally expanding
our medicinal product development to more diverse markets
in order to address the healthcare needs in various regions
and countries and support the development of their healthcare systems.

In 2016, we achieved important milestones in the indication
of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (mMCC), a rare and
aggressive form of skin cancer. We submitted the Biological
License Application (BLA) for mMCC to the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) in the third quarter, and the FDA
accepted it for Priority Review in November. In October,
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) validated for review
our Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for mMCC. To
date, there is no approved therapy available for this kind of
tumor.

In performing clinical studies in developing countries, we
apply the same principles that apply when conducting such
studies in industrialized countries. When we perform studies
in developing countries, we also:

57

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Enabling early access to new medicines

Coming to terms with the past

Not all patients can take part in a clinical study and so
must wait for a new pharmaceutical product to be approved.
Through our Early Access Program, we are, under specific
circumstances, enabling patients to gain early access to new,
potentially life-saving medicines. The offer is aimed at people
with serious conditions who have already used all available
therapies without success. It allows them to obtain medicines
that have already been clinically tested but not yet obtained
marketing approval. Here too we meet the most stringent
statutory, ethical and scientific standards. By performing a
thorough assessment of all available data, we ensure that
the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks for our
patients. We published a position paper on this topic in 2015.

In the 1950s and 1960s, drugs from various manufacturers
were tested on orphans in Germany. The majority of such
clinical studies were performed in collaboration with (university) hospitals and general practitioners. By making available
files in our historical archives at Group headquarters in
Darmstadt, we are now supporting efforts to understand and
come to terms with this episode in the history of science. In
2015, we granted a historian access to the files in our corporate archives so that she could do in-depth research for her
dissertation. Her scholarly endeavor will ultimately help us
all to navigate this complex issue. We guarantee full transparency and will do everything necessary to help the affected
institutions come to terms with the past.

Animal welfare
From an ethical and scientific perspective, animal research is
indispensable and is furthermore mandated by law. Through
animal studies, we test both the safety of our chemical and
medicinal products, as well as the efficacy of our pharmaceuticals. We enforce stringent animal welfare standards that
exceed applicable laws and expect our suppliers, contract
research organizations and other partners to do likewise.

Reduction - using the minimum number of required
animals

The majority of our animal testing is conducted in our Healthcare business sector as part of the official drug approval
process. However, animal welfare has also become a more
prominent issue for our Life Science business sector. The
acquisition of the U.S.-based life science company SigmaAldrich in autumn 2015 has increased the number of products of animal origin in our Life Science portfolio. For
instance, certain animals are kept so that their blood can be
used to produce antibodies. Before the acquisition, SigmaAldrich also conducted animal studies as part of contract
research work for third parties, a line of business we are
continuing to pursue.

Our principles

We promote the 3Rs outside our company as well. For
instance, under the International Consortium for Innovation
and Quality in Pharmaceutical Development (IQ Consortium),
we have joined forces with other companies to support the
Global 3Rs Awards Program. In partnership with the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal
Care International (AAALAC International), this initiative
recognizes innovative contributions toward the 3Rs of animal
research to advance ethical science in academia and
industry. In 2016, one of the Global 3R Awards went to
Madhav Paranjpe, a scientist from our Life Science business
sector. He was recognized for publishing a study showing
how the number of mice used to evaluate the carcinogenicity
of a new drug can be reduced by 25%.

The 3Rs of animal welfare

Legal requirements

In the housing, care and feeding of our lab animals, we are
committed to consistently applying the most stringent ethical
standards and are continuously working to improve upon
them. When conducting research, we adhere to established
methodology and endeavor to use animal alternatives wherever possible and permissible by law.

Animal research is only permitted if there are no recognized
alternative methods available. However, in many fields,
animal studies are indispensable and legally mandated by
the ICH guidelines or REACH. The safety of humans is our
number one priority. Laws and regulations govern all aspects
of animal research, such as the housing conditions of
research animals, the conduct and approval of studies, and
the reliability and expertise required of all involved individuals.

Refinement - minimizing distress or discomfort before,
during and after testing
Replacement - replacing animal studies with non-animal
systems

We therefore subscribe to the internationally recognized 3Rs
for animal-based research:

58

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Board of Trustees, where he ensures adherence to European
standards. Moreover, at the end of 2016 he was appointed to
the Executive Committee of AAALAC International for a term
of three years.

Group-wide methodology and guidelines
Through our Group-wide Use, Care and Welfare of Laboratory
Animals policy, we make a commitment to global animal
welfare principles and the highest possible ethical standards
in animal research.

Collaborating with partners and suppliers
We perform the majority of animal studies ourselves and
for the most part procure our lab animals from specialized
animal breeders. Sometimes, however, we also hire contract
research organizations (CROs) to conduct animal research
on our behalf. Furthermore, we work with both the private
sector and academic institutions. When collaborating with
such organizations, we expect them to adhere to the same
high standards as we do, as set out in our Use, Care and
Welfare of Laboratory Animals policy. We review compliance
with this policy by performing regular audits.

This policy further sets out principles on the housing, care
and feeding of laboratory animals. We strive to provide our
animals with high-quality living conditions and consistently
seek ways to make improvements. This ethos applies equally
to the contract animal research services we’ve been offering
third parties since acquiring Sigma-Aldrich.
In addition to our policy, our Group-wide Animal Science
and Welfare manual describes the requirements for implementing, maintaining and improving animal welfare practices.

The suppliers gained from the Sigma-Aldrich acquisition are
also subject to our strict animal welfare requirements. Since
2016, we have been working on harmonizing our standards
and developing a suitable audit concept.

Organizational structures
Merck’s Corporate Animal Science and Welfare (EQ-A) unit is
headed by the Chief Animal Welfare Officer, who is responsible for creating uniform animal welfare standards. The
Chief Animal Welfare Officer also initiates audits, sometimes
performing these themselves, and consistently works to
drive improvements in our own animal welfare practices
as well as those of our partners. Moreover, all our animal
science and welfare experts meet on a regular basis through
our global laboratory animal science network, which monitors
the animal welfare units at our sites and supports all projects
and processes related to animal science and welfare.

Employee training
We regularly provide training to all employees working with
laboratory animals at Merck, thereby ensuring that animal
studies are conducted according to the latest scientific standards and that animals receive the best care possible. The
nature and scope of this training is based on national and
international legislation, as well as local requirements. The
respective regulatory authorities monitor our activities to
ensure they are in compliance. In addition to this training,
our employees regularly participate in external continuing
education programs such as accredited laboratory animal
science courses offered by the Federation of European Laboratory Animal Science Associations, the American Association
for Laboratory Animal Science, the Society of Laboratory
Animal Science, the Laboratory Animal Science Association,
and the Interessengemeinschaft Tierpfleger (Community of
Animal Caregivers).

In 2016, we furthermore established the Group Animal
Welfare Council, which convenes several times a year.
Comprising representatives from all our business sectors,
this council monitors policy developments, updating our
Animal Welfare Strategy where necessary.
Our sites are generally subject to additional national regulations. In order to assess the quality of animal husbandry
practices and ensure compliance with our standards as well
as all statutory requirements, we appoint animal welfare officers and establish animal welfare councils across our Group,
even when not required by law.

Progress
The majority of laboratory animals are rodents
Roughly 96% of the laboratory animals we use are rodents
(mice and rats). Other animal species are only used if specified by statutory regulations or if deemed necessary for
scientific reasons. For example, regulatory agencies sometimes require investigational drugs to also be safety tested
on a non-rodent species such as monkeys, dogs or pigs.
Guidelines such as REACH also require testing on nonrodents under certain circumstances. This allows researchers
to identify potential side effects with the necessary accuracy
and include them in the risk assessment of a substance.
In performing tests on non-rodents, researchers must meet
additional requirements pertaining to animal care and study
design.

Work with committees and associations
As part of our efforts to improve animal welfare, we are
involved in several organizations such as the European
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations
(EFPIA), the German Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical Companies (vfa) and Interpharma, a federation
of research-based pharmaceutical companies in Switzerland.
Our Chief Animal Welfare Officer has an active role in
various committees to advocate our position on animal
welfare. In 2015, for instance, he chaired the IQ Consortium
and currently represents EFPIA on the AAALAC International

59

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Animal types

1%
Other:

3%
Guinea pigs

Hamsters, rabbits, goats, dogs,
nonhuman primates, pigs,
chicken, sheep

96%
Rodents

Auditing our animal research facilities

Developing alternative testing methods

We perform regular audits on our animal research facilities to
ensure adherence to our animal welfare standards. In 2016,
for instance, our Corporate Animal Science and Welfare unit
conducted three internal audits at our sites in the United
States, the United Kingdom and Israel. These audits identified the need for better environmental enrichment to
promote species-typical behavior. They also suggested
improvements relating to occupational safety, veterinary
care and organizational issues. Corrective actions have since
been taken.

We actively support the development of alternative testing
methods and their official recognition at an international
level. There is a serious need for action here because animal
research can only be truly reduced if a new methodology
is internationally accepted. Without this global acceptance,
both animal studies and alternative testing would have to
be conducted in parallel when developing pharmaceuticals
intended for worldwide distribution.
To help rectify this situation, we support the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing (EPAA).
This collaboration between the European Commission, European trade associations and companies from various sectors
seeks to pool knowledge and resources to accelerate the
development of alternative approaches to animal use in
regulatory testing.

It goes without saying that we adhere to the highest international animal welfare standards at all times. Since early
2016, all our Healthcare laboratory animal facilities have
been certified to the standards of the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC International). One facility in our Life Science
business sector is also AAALAC-accredited.

Through our membership in the German Association of
Research-based Pharmaceutical Companies (vfa), we also
support the set Foundation, which seeks to reduce and
replace animal testing. To achieve this objective, the foundation funds projects that conduct research into alternative
methods. The Merck Chief Animal Welfare Officer is currently
Vice Chairman of the set Board of Trustees.

Conducting audits of partners
We perform regular audits on our animal breeders and
contract research organizations to ensure compliance with
our animal welfare standards. As part of our work with Interpharma, we have developed a cross-company audit concept
that concentrates on those partners we feel to harbor potential risks. In the 2015-2016 period, a total of three audits
were conducted in European countries excluding Germany.
The audit results are shared among Interpharma member
companies and treated confidentially.

Our own scientists are also working on developing alternative
methods and have received numerous accolades for their
efforts.

60

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Awards for developing alternative testing methods

2007: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for
Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Testing

2014: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for
Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Testing

2006: The German Animal Welfare Research Prize
awarded by the Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Consumer Protection (BMELV) for alternative methods to
replace or reduce animal studies

2010: The IUTox Bo Holmstedt Scientists Award for Alternative Test Strategies according to the 3Rs
2009: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists
Award

2005: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists
Award

2008: The Eurotox Bo Holmstedt Young Scientists Award
for Alternative Test Strategies according to the 3Rs

Interactions with health systems
of the Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA), as well as the codes
of conduct of the pharmaceutical associations in the member
states of the EFPIA. We update the disclosed information on
an annual basis.

We want all patients to receive the best possible medical
treatment. To achieve this, it is essential that research institutes, physicians, patient organizations, and other key actors
in health systems have access to detailed and current information on diseases and treatments. We help facilitate this
access by sponsoring independent initiatives and medical
capacity advancement programs, and by donating money
and supplies. In addition, we promote outstanding research
projects. Since transparency is always our number one
priority, we provide detailed reports on donations and
activity sponsorship. Furthermore, we are committed to
various voluntary requirements within our industry.

Furthermore, we sponsor research and continuing medical
education around the world in order to contribute to medical
advances that will benefit patients. Through our Grants for
Innovation, we support research projects in fertility, multiple
sclerosis, oncology, and growth disorders. Through our
Global Medical Education unit, we also provide grants to
continuing medical education providers, enabling them to
develop and deliver advanced medical training for scientists,
physicians, nurses, pharmacists, and other healthcare
professionals. We conduct these efforts in a transparent
fashion. All direct and indirect financial aid aligns with the
principles of the EFPIA.

Our principles
Statutory and voluntary requirements
We explicitly endeavor to exert no influence over financial or
non-financial contributions, nor over the information communicated to key actors in healthcare systems. Consequently,
we have committed ourselves to providing transparency. In
all transfers of value, we comply with the principles set forth
by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations (EFPIA) in its “Code on disclosure of transfers of
value from pharmaceutical companies to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations”. We also adhere to
statutory transparency requirements worldwide, such as the
stipulations of the Sunshine Laws in the United States, or the
Loi Bertrand in France.

Partnering with patient advocacy groups
Patient advocacy groups support patients, family members
and care givers, providing them with information on disease
management. Just like these organizations, we have set
ourselves the goal of improving patient quality of life, which
is why we endeavor to support their crucial work. We explicitly strive to exert no influence or control over the information that the organizations communicate to their members.
We provide the highest level of transparency on our donations by publishing the details of contributions to European
patient organizations on our website. This information is
updated annually, which enables us to fulfill the commitment
we made through our membership in the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA).
In 2016, we published a new Group-wide guideline entitled
“Good Practice and Process Guidance: Engagement with
Patients, Patient Opinion Leaders and Patient Organizations”.
This document governs our interactions with patients and
patient advocacy groups worldwide except in the United
States, where a separate regulation applies. It furthermore
ensures that patient wellbeing is considered.

Transparently promoting research and education
To support health systems, we make monetary contributions
and donate supplies to institutions such as professional
medical associations, hospitals and university clinics. These
contributions are expressly not intended to influence decisions regarding treatment, prescriptions or purchasing. On
our website, we publish all relevant payments to partners in
the health industry as well as our R&D spending in the relevant countries. This practice aligns with the code of conduct
of the German Association for the Voluntary Self-Regulation

61

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Products

Progress

transfer. In 2015, our work focused on informing our partners in the health industry just how important the transparency initiative is to us. We also took steps to ensure data
quality and data privacy in all affected countries. At the end
of 2016, we reported for the first time in line with the new
requirements. Currently, we are involved in new legislative
initiatives launched in several European countries as part of
the transparency initiative, which will impact our reporting
process as of 2017. We will ensure that we fulfill all requirements.

First report in line with transparency initiative
requirements
Since 2016, companies in the EU have been required to
publish all financial and non-financial contributions to
medical professionals and organizations in the healthcare
industry not related to research activities. As set out in
the transparency initiative of the EFPIA, the information
provided must include the name and address of the individual recipient as well as the purpose and amount of the

62

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

Employees
The people working for us are crucial to our
success, playing a central role in our business
endeavors.

In accordance with our Values, we live a culture of inclusion and respect, seeking to hire,
foster and motivate the best-suited individuals. Moreover, we are strongly committed to a
diverse workforce and take pains to safeguard the health of all.

Read More
64

Attractive employer

72

Employee engagement

67

Diversity

74

Good leadership

70

Health and safety

63

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

Attractive employer
Group-wide with a Global Grade of ten or higher, and in
Germany for all non-exempt employees as well.

We recognize that our employees are crucial to our business
success. To secure our future viability, we seek to attract
employees who have the potential for greater future roles.
Demographic change is heating up the competition for the
best employees, especially in Europe, the United States and
parts of Asia. By contrast, filling management positions is
one of the greatest challenges we face in several emerging
countries.

Supervisors and subordinates work together to define
personalized objectives that reflect current strategic priorities as well as each employee’s core tasks. In a separate
process, they also draw up a detailed development plan. In
creating their development plan, all employees can make
use of the Development Advisor. Building on Merck’s competencies, this online tool provides a selection of development
measures that employees can tailor to their own needs.

Owing to the ever-faster pace of technological progress,
professional requirements are also increasing, which makes
it crucial for us to cultivate our employees and continuously
strengthen their skills. In doing so, we as an employer must
also meet the growing expectations for work-life balance.

Our Group-wide advanced training and continuing education
program ensures that our employees develop the skills
needed to help us realize our company strategy and continue
down the path of success. Our employees can use the My
Learning online tool to sign up for suitable activities such as
seminars and online training courses.

Our principles
Recruiting and retaining talent
Our goal is to attract qualified employees and retain
them over the long term. We want to give each and every
one the opportunity to develop professionally and personally,
ultimately realizing their full potential. Skilled professionals
expect competitive compensation and a healthy work-life
balance. We seek and advance promising individuals within
our company so that we can quickly fill open positions.

Finding promising talent, securing succession
We seek to identify promising individuals within the company
as early as possible and put them on the path to advancement. As part of our Succession Management Process, we
systematically prepare candidates for management roles,
which allows us to fill vacant positions quickly and efficiently.

HR Global Talent and Development works on strategies to
advance and promote our employees, coordinating the
necessary measures. At our sites around the world, our
HR staff implements these measures in collaboration with
senior managers from the business sectors. In doing so, they
comply with global HR guidelines and requirements, which
we monitor by means of internal audits.

Attracting qualified university graduates
We work to attract the best university graduates. As part
of our efforts, we partner with organizations such as the
German online network “careerloft”. Furthermore, we regularly attend job fairs to reach out to potential applicants,
informing them about job opportunities and career tracks
within our company. In countries outside of Germany such
as the United States or China, we likewise use career fairs as
a way of making personal contact with university graduates.

Digitally steering HR processes
To make our HR processes more consistent around the world,
in 2012 we introduced HR Suite, an online platform accessible to all employees. This platform is used to manage
all key HR functions, such as development and succession
planning, recruitment, continuing education, and employee
performance assessments. Moreover, it helps calculate
compensation and bonus payments.

In addition to recruitment, we also provide financial assistance to talented students. That’s why we collaborate with
organizations such as the German National Academic Foundation and the Foundation of German Business, and furthermore support the Deutschlandstipendium (German national
scholarship program).

Providing feedback and supporting development

University graduates can apply for a position at Merck
directly or complete one of our trainee programs. Our
trainees acquire international experience in various areas of
the company and take part in tailored advanced training
courses.

We regularly provide our employees feedback on their
performance. The Performance and Potential Management
Process ensures that, in addition to providing regular feedback on employee performance, a meeting is held once
a year to evaluate employees’ overall performance. Since
2015, this process has been applicable to all employees

64

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

The foundation: Vocational training

Progress

For us, vocational training is one of the most important ways
to meet the current and future need for qualified professionals. In Germany, we offer numerous apprenticeship positions for various professions, as well as dual vocational
training programs. We are continuously investing in new
technologies and integrating these into our vocational
training.

Assessing performance and identifying development
opportunities
In 2016, approximately 49,000 employees took part in the
Performance and Potential Management process that supervisors use to evaluate the performance of their staff. Every
three years, employees can opt to be additionally assessed
by select peers and external consultants. Known as
360-degree feedback, this approach helps to identify
personal strengths and development opportunities. In 2016,
we updated our Development Advisor, which is used to
create employee development plans, adapting it to our new
Competency Model.

We also give young adults the opportunity to complete their
vocational training on a part-time basis. If, after completing
their apprenticeship, they wish to continue studying while
working, we will cover up to 100% of the costs and also
allow them to take special leave. Furthermore, apprentices
can take part in community outreach projects.

We offer our employees around the world classroom training
courses. In 2015, these courses were attended by over 4,000
participants, with 5,700 people having attended in 2016. In
addition, our employees can also take a wide range of online
courses and language training.

Performance-based pay
We endeavor to reward the performance of all our employees
and maintain a competitive edge in attracting qualified
professionals, which necessitates commensurate compensation. At our company, compensation is based on the requirements of each position, as well as employee performance. In
addition to competitive remuneration, we also offer attractive fringe and social benefits. Our benefits4me package
encompasses three pillars, namely company-funded benefits
including our company pension, health & well-being, and
services. To meet the various needs of our workforce worldwide, we offer a variety of benefit packages designed using
established steering mechanisms.

Good standing in employer rankings
Under the slogan “Make great things happen”, we are positioning ourselves in the global job market as an attractive
employer. This campaign highlights our strengths: we offer
diverse opportunities to contribute to the development and
commercialization of innovative products, as well as
numerous career options in an international, motivating and
state-of-the-art work environment. Through the “Make great
things happen” campaign, we are also communicating our
strong sense of social responsibility and commitment to
work-life balance.

To ensure a competitive compensation structure, we regularly review our compensation policy. In doing so, we take
internal factors and market requirements equally into
account. In making adjustments to this policy, we involve
relevant stakeholders such as employee representatives (p.
73) in the early stages of the process. Current analyses show
that there are no gender-based compensation differences
within the Group.

The success of our efforts is confirmed by our ranking among
the 100 top employers for students and experienced scientists in Germany. This index is published annually by the
research and consulting firm Universum and involves a
survey of more than 5,000 people. In 2016, our Group
ranked sixth in the student survey and seventh among experienced professionals.

Finding work-life balance
We recognize how important work-life balance is for a
productive and motivated workforce, which is why in many
countries we allow our employees the flexibility to organize
their own work schedule. Our workers make use of more
than 30 different part-time models.

Since 2015, we have been working on a new global employer
brand for the Merck Group. Our goal is to better distinguish
ourselves from our competitors and sharpen our profile as an
attractive employer in the field of science and technology.

Sparking student and graduate interest in Merck

In Germany and the United States, where 44% of our workforce is based, we offer parental leave conditions that go
beyond the statutory minimum requirements. Moreover, in
Darmstadt we hold special seminars and offer referral
services for employees who provide care for family members.

In 2016, we employed around 50 trainees, primarily in
Inhouse Consulting, Finance and Production. In 2017, we
plan to launch further trainee programs in Marketing, Sales
and Research & Development, which will have room for 25
new trainees per year. Moreover, in the United States 12
additional trainees are expected to start their careers in
Inhouse Consulting.

65

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

thinking. You can find more information under Innovation
and digitalization (p. 26).

We offer internships to high school and college students.
Through our Keeping Ties to Students program, we stay in
touch with talented individuals who demonstrate especially
good performance during their internship. Furthermore,
every year we invite students from German and Swiss
universities to come to Merck, where we tell them about
career tracks and job opportunities at our company.

Our EVA platform is another example of an innovative,
cutting-edge environment. EVA stands for “Expertise everywhere, Virtual teams, Access to information” and has been
bringing Merck employees together from across the globe
since 2015. It allows virtual teams to collaborate and
communicate across departmental boundaries and national
borders. Approximately 50,000 people in total have access
to the platform, which has won a number of international
awards.

Impressive hiring rate and new dual vocational
training programs
In 2016, a total of 576 young people were enrolled in vocational training programs at our sites in Germany. In 2015,
156 young people began their apprenticeship at Merck, with
163 having started in 2016. In total, we offer apprenticeships
across 23 occupations, primarily in production, laboratory
work and office administration. Furthermore, 14 young
adults in 2015 and 16 young adults in 2016 embarked on
dual vocational training programs in the fields of business
administration, business IT, process engineering (chemical
engineering), and mechanical engineering. Since 2014, we
have been offering permanent employment contracts to all
apprentices and graduates of dual vocational training
programs working in occupations for which we have longterm demand. In 2015 and 2016, the hiring rate for graduates of these programs – taking voluntary terminations into
account – was over 90%.

Expanding flexible working models
We offer our employees in Germany and the United States
various flexible and innovative working models. The
mywork@merck program, initially implemented in 2013 for
all exempt employees at the Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites
in Germany, aims to strengthen the culture of performance
and trust within the company. In agreement with their teams
and supervisors, employees can freely choose when and
where they work. Since October 2014, non-exempt
employees at these sites with positions suitable for this
working model have also been eligible. We furthermore introduced mywork@merck at Merck Accounting Solutions &
Services Europe GmbH, Merck Export GmbH, Merck
Schuchardt OHG, Merck Selbstmedikation GmbH, Merck
Versicherungsvermittlung GmbH, and Merck Chemicals
GmbH. Employees and their respective line managers can
best decide for themselves when and how often fixed physical presence in the office is necessary for all team members.
Working hours are no longer logged or monitored. At the end
of December 2016, a total of 4,507 employees were making
use of this model.

Early career training
In Darmstadt, our “Start in die Ausbildung” program helps
young people who have a high school diploma but have been
searching for an apprenticeship for at least one year without
success. We offer them the opportunity to complete a oneyear program at Merck, giving them insight into professional
life and improving their chances of gaining an apprenticeship.
In the 2015-2016 period, this initiative helped a total of 42
participants aged 16 to 25 get the qualifications they needed
to apply for an apprenticeship. Since its launch in 2006, 167
young people have taken part in the program; 89 of them
have successfully completed an apprenticeship while 55 are
still undergoing training.

In 2016, 4.7% of our employees worldwide worked parttime, 10.6% of whom were men. We believe that with these
flexible working models, we are on the right track to not only
more efficient processes, but – most importantly – to greater
employee satisfaction and employer appeal.

Supporting parents

In October 2016, we established a similar program for
refugees forced to flee their home countries. The “Integrating refugees through training” initiative is preparing 12
young people for vocational training, thereby opening the
door to the German labor market. The project comprises
linguistic, technical, cultural, and career-related training.

We endeavor to make it easier for our employees to return
to work following parental leave, which is why in 2016 we
launched the Parents@Merck program in Darmstadt and
Gernsheim. It gives mothers and fathers on parental leave
the opportunity to talk and share lessons learned while also
helping them keep in touch with the company. Moreover,
they can make use of the various training and networking
offerings.

Leveraging the opportunities of digitalization
Our work is becoming increasingly digital and flexible, a
development described by the term “Work 4.0”. This trend
is impacting our vocational training and continuing education
programs as well; we are continually integrating new technologies such as 3D printing into our curricula and trying
out novel learning and innovation methods such as design

In the United States, we offer the female employees in our
Life Science and Healthcare business sectors eight weeks
of paid maternity leave. In Life Science, fathers are eligible
for two weeks of paid paternity leave, which also applies
when adopting a child, while Healthcare staff are given five

66

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

Our Darmstadt site also offers provisional daycare services to
cover times when an employee's regular childcare becomes
unavailable. During school breaks in the German Federal
State of Hesse, we host a variety of vacation camps focused
on sports, art, research, and nature. In 2016, we increased
the capacity of our vacation camp program to approximately
450 children.

weeks of paid paternity or adoption leave. By contrast, the
statutory minimum only provides for 12 weeks of unpaid
parental leave per year. Furthermore, we also reimburse up
to US$ 5,000 in adoption fees.
At Darmstadt and Gernsheim, our largest sites in Germany
(around 20.9% of our total workforce), 480 employees were
on parental leave as of the end of December 2016, 37% of
which were fathers. In other key countries, we go beyond the
legal requirements to offer other kinds of new parent support
such as extended time in the United States and Brazil, and
nursing care allowances in Taiwan.

Since June 2016, we have additionally been providing temporary care for sick children. For up to two days, parents
throughout Germany can engage the services of a professional educator free of charge to care for their children at
home.

Daycare center expanded
Family and elder care: Better informed

For 49 years, our headquarters in Darmstadt has featured a
daycare center for children aged 1-12. This facility is funded
by the Merck family (Merck’scher Kindertagesstätten-Verein
e.V.) and offers 150 slots. Since 2013, we’ve been providing
year-round care from 6:30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. For the children
of our employees in Gernsheim, five slots are available at a
public daycare center.

In 2016, we revised the way in which we provide employees
with information on career and family care in Germany.
Twice a year, we offer our workforce family care seminars
that focus on various topics. An external associate provides
advice on all issues relating to family care and guides people
in their search for suitable options. In Darmstadt, our
company health insurance fund also puts people in contact
with nurses.

Diversity and equal opportunity
We are an international company, with employees who
represent a varied cross-section of nationalities, cultures,
religions, and age groups, as well as different gender identities and sexual orientations. We believe that a diverse
workforce – paired with an inclusive corporate culture –
strengthens the innovative power of our Group and
contributes significantly to our business success. With this in
mind, we work hard to foster a culture of diversity and inclusion.

Diversity: A pillar of the company
Our Chief Diversity Officer is responsible for overseeing our
Group’s diversity strategy and reports directly to Kai Beckmann, the Executive Board member whose responsibilities
include Group Human Resources. Our Diversity Council
consists of executives from all our business sectors and
select Group functions, and performs four key functions:
1.

It is responsible for implementing our strategy for greater
diversity.

2.

It evaluates and refines proposals to increase diversity
submitted by our business sectors.

3.

The council members inform their own business sectors
about the work of the council and are responsible for
overseeing the respective issues in their areas.

4.

The members are direct points of contact for the
employees in their business sector.

Our principles
Increasing diversity, providing opportunities
Our goal is to further drive diversity across our workforce and
offer all our employees equal opportunities for advancement.
In particular, we endeavor to promote women in leadership
positions, cultivate an international working environment and
form teams with a balanced age structure. We offer our
employees global development opportunities. Moreover, we
are working to increase the percentage of executives from
international growth markets across the Group to leverage
their knowledge of local markets.

In order to further enhance diversity within the company,
Group Human Resources (HR) has implemented a number of
programs and processes. Our strategic competencies, which
guide our employees and managers in their tasks, are set out
in our Competency Model. The Competency Model is a fundamental element of HR processes such as recruitment, feed-

67

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

and measures at departmental level to help us move female
candidates into positions in different areas and hierarchies.

back processes and training for managers. In 2016, we rolled
out software that analyzes our personnel data quickly and
reliably. This was the first time we have implemented such
a tool, which also provides anonymized information. Select
data (p. 110) are presented in this report.

In addition to working towards our own goals, the German
Law on Equal Participation of Women and Men in Leadership
Positions in the Public and Private Sector has been in effect
in Germany since September 30, 2015. Owing to our legal
form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), this law
also applies in part to us. Detailed information can be found
on our website.

Creating an inclusive work environment that promotes
mutual respect is a particular focus of our human resources
work. We support specific employee networks in order to
foster exchange among like-minded individuals. In addition
to our internal women’s networks in various countries, we
also partner with networks outside the company that are
committed to ensuring women’s advancement in the workplace.

Progress
Global Diversity Days
We seek to raise awareness among our workforce for diversity and inclusion. In 2015, for instance, we expanded our
Diversity Day from one day a year to a whole month. Every
year in September, we now place diversity center stage. In
September 2016, we organized a range of activities around
the world under the banner of “The Power of WE – The Power
of Diversity”. Overall, employees from 17 countries across
six continents took part in a number of events. The members
of the Diversity Council also supported the campaign by
holding online events that saw participation from more than
580 employees Group-wide.

Taking action against discrimination
As stipulated in our Code of Conduct, we do not tolerate
discrimination within our company. If an employee feels they
have been discriminated against, they can report the issue
via various channels. Their first point of contact is their
supervisor, but they can also contact Human Resources,
Legal or Compliance. Alternatively, employees can call our
SpeakUp Line anonymously from anywhere Group-wide.
Alleged cases fall under the purview of Group Compliance
and are handled by the Compliance Committee. In confirmed
cases of discrimination, a subcommittee provides a recommendation for disciplinary action that is implemented by our
management team. In this way, we ensure that similar cases
are dealt with consistently worldwide.

Networks to bolster diversity
Our company is a corporate partner of the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association (HBA), a non-profit organization
committed to furthering the advancement and impact of
women in the healthcare industry. We encourage our female
employees to get involved because it gives them the opportunity to attend various seminars and conferences in Darmstadt (Germany), Lyon (France) or Boston, MA (USA), as well
as to take part in mentoring programs. In autumn 2016,
some of our employees participated in the HBA’s European
conference in Leiden (Netherlands) as well as its annual
conference in St. Louis, MO (USA). Furthermore, two of our
female employees are board members of HBA Europe.

Supporting industry-wide initiatives
In an effort to promote further diversity, we also support
industry-wide initiatives. By adopting the German “Charta
der Vielfalt” (Diversity Charter) in 2013 and signing the Equal
Opportunity Charter of the German Mining, Chemical and
Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE) in 2015, we underscored
our commitment to fairness and tolerance in the workplace,
promising to do everything in our power to achieve gender
equality within the company. In 2011, we joined other DAX®
30 companies in signing a declaration committing to advance
women in leadership roles.

Through our Rainbow Network for homosexual, bisexual and
transsexual employees, we supported Christopher Street Day
2016 in Frankfurt and Darmstadt, Germany. As well as taking
part, we were the official corporate sponsor of the event in
Darmstadt. In 2016, the Rainbow Network was also launched
in the United States.

Women in leadership roles: Requirements and objectives
In 2011, we set the strategic goal of increasing the
percentage of management positions held by women to
25%-30%, a target we reached in 2016. Group-wide, women
currently occupy 28.8% of leadership roles. The figures are
steadily increasing across the company as a whole, but not
consistently across business units, Group functions and hierarchical levels. Our target for 2021 is to maintain a 30%
representation of women on the managerial level, and we
working to further increase the percentage in senior management positions and business units where women are still
underrepresented. To achieve this objective, we plan to form
special teams that will be responsible for developing goals

The U.S.-based Black Leadership Network is dedicated to
advancing and developing African American employees,
offering its members advanced training and continuing
education programs, tailored career advice and networking
opportunities.
Owing to the acquisitions we have made in recent years,
there has been a steady increase in the number of our
employee networks. Going forward, we intend to better

68

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

numbered 16% on the first management level and 24% on
the second, which means the target defined for the first
management level was not met. Here, the lower representation of women was mainly attributable to personnel changes
made to the Executive Board itself and the resulting changes
to the first management level. Organizational changes
(transfer of two female executives abroad) and fluctuation
(one female executive employee left the company) also had
an impact on the number and percentage of women at
this management level. By contrast, owing to the successful
recruitment and promotion of women employees, we
exceeded our target of 21% for the second management
level by reaching 24% female representation. This development creates a strong basis for future appointments to
the first management level. Our new targets for these two
management levels are to increase the ratio of women on the
first level to 21% and on the second level to 26% by the end
of 2021.

leverage the potential of these networks for our business
activities. Networks with similar objectives are to be merged
and expanded internationally. Moreover, we want to help
establish leadership structures within these networks and
define their goals. To this end, in 2016 we held the first
round of workshops with network representatives.

Successful international collaboration
Our company is becoming increasingly international. We
currently employ people from a total of 129 nations, 23.1%
of whom are German citizens. Our managerial staff (Global
Grade 14+) includes representatives of 70 nationalities. In
the 2015-2016 period, 65% of management positions were
held by non-German employees. At the end of 2016, 17% of
our employees were working outside their home countries,
versus 6% in 2014.
To best facilitate this international collaboration, we offer
intercultural seminars for all employees and are also
increasing the availability of company documents in English.
We support employees posted to other countries through
language courses and international networks to help them
settle more quickly into their new country. For instance,
around 200 expatriate employees are members of the International Community, which gets together regularly in Darmstadt.

Addressing demographic change
Another issue we’re addressing is demographic change. We
expect the average age of our workforce to continue rising
in the coming years. In Germany, we are responding to this
trend with various initiatives including our health management program (p. 70). Within this program, for instance,
we are adapting workplaces to the needs of older people. In
2015 we developed new shift models and introduced preventive health measures for shift workers. Moreover, at our site
in Darmstadt we offer special courses for employees over
the age of 40, such as the seminar “Staying on the ball –
Learning at 40+”. In 2015, we took another step toward
sensitizing our employees to the limits of their own physical
and mental resources by participating in a research project
focusing on mindfulness jointly run by the Kalapa Leadership
Academy and Coburg University of Applied Sciences.

No cases of discrimination
In 2015 and 2016, no suspected cases of discrimination were
reported via the SpeakUp Line or other channels.

On the path to equality
Consisting of 37.5% women (6 out of 16 members), our
Supervisory Board already meets the stipulations of the new
German legislation on the women’s quota. Owing to our legal
form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), we are
not required to set targets for our Executive Board. For the
two management levels below the Executive Board, in 2015
we set an initial goal of maintaining the then figure of 21%
at both levels until the end of 2016. In late 2016, women

Using our new personnel data evaluation software, we intend
to analyze the age structure of our workforce in the United
States and Asia and subsequently adapt our local initiatives
to address demographic change.

69

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

Health and safety
We take responsibility for the health and safety of our
employees, doing everything in our power to safeguard them
against work-related illnesses and accidents. In the world of
office work, issues such as stress prevention, nutrition and
mobility are especially commonplace. We focus our efforts
on prevention to help our employees mitigate temporary or
long-term health problems.

Health management: A pillar of our corporate culture
Our Group Health Policy defines how we ensure workplace
safety for our employees while also promoting their health
and welfare. This document details our Group-wide approach
to safety and health management as well as our comprehensive behavioral modification program to prevent workplace
accidents and occupational diseases. One component of the
policy is our Global Wellbeing and Health Promotion Framework, which describes the differing requirements in various
countries. Our individual sites are responsible for performing
local workplace risk assessments and hazard analyses.

Our principles
Preventing accidents and promoting health
We seek to promote the health of our employees and maintain their ability to perform over the long run, which requires
a safe workplace. One of our Group-wide objectives is to step
up our safety culture. Our goal for 2020 is to keep our lost
time injury rate (LTIR) under 1.5. Furthermore, we aim to
make health management a greater part of our corporate
culture and leadership.

In addition to this policy, our health management system
in Germany also helps weave health awareness into our
corporate culture. Strategy, focal areas and initiatives are
developed by an interdisciplinary steering committee. Topics
include health fundamentals, good leadership and tailored
health programs such as health prevention for shift workers.

Occupational health and safety: An organizational
cornerstone

Defining bylaws
At our sites in Germany, we work in partnership with
employee representatives to craft bylaws on occupational
health and safety. These bylaws define processes such as
health counseling, which helps our managers promptly identify health risks and psychological stress in their employees.

Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy details our
approach to occupational health and safety. This policy is
an integral part of our Environment, Health, Safety (EHS)
management system, which is aligned with standards such
as OHSAS 18001. Since 2015, we've been undergoing an
external certification process for OHSAS 18001.

Progress

Our Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ)
Group function is responsible for our EHS management
system. EQ reports to Kai Beckmann, Executive Board
member and Chief Administration Officer, setting objectives,
overseeing global initiatives and conducting internal audits.
Local EHS managers ensure that each individual site adheres
to occupational safety laws and regulations.

Safety certification expanded, accident rates reduced

Systematic data collection and clear rules of conduct

The lost time injury rate (LTIR) is the indicator used to assess
the success of our efforts. This figure measures the accidents resulting in at least one day of missed work per one
million man-hours. We track the LTIR for both employees
and temporary workers. In 2010, we set the goal of reducing
our lost time injury rate to 2.5 by 2015 – in 2015 we far
surpassed this objective by achieving an LTIR of 1.5. But this
is not enough for us. In our view, nothing is worth an accident. We therefore made our next goal even more ambitious:
to sustainably lower our LTIR even further by 2020. By 2016,
we’d already reached this objective with an LTIR of 1.3. The
majority of incidents resulting in lost time were slips, trips
and falls, accidents involving the operation of machinery, and
car accidents on business trips.

By the end of 2016, all Performance Materials production
sites had been certified to the international standard OHSAS
18001. The certification process helps us pinpoint weak
areas, identify opportunities for improvement, and implement suitable measures.

We collect workplace accident data from our sites on a
monthly basis. Every facility is required to immediately
report relevant accidents to EQ, where the cases are investigated and assessed. If necessary, we implement additional
safety measures at our sites.
Experience shows that most workplace accidents can be
prevented by proper conduct. Through our “BeSafe!” safety
culture initiative, we are working to raise employee awareness of dangers in the workplace and provide them with rules
of conduct that help keep them safe.

70

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

hosted the fifth and sixth EHS Best Practice Sharing Meetings
in Bari (Italy), which were attended by representatives from
business, industrial associations and academic institutions.
Moreover, in 2015 and 2016, we conducted safety training
in Darmstadt and Gernsheim for 53 managers from 19 countries.

Despite our efforts, there were unfortunately two workrelated accidents resulting in fatalities in 2015. In the United
States, one employee died in a car accident, while in
Germany, one worker was fatally injured during a mishap
involving a forklift. There were no fatal incidents in 2016.

BeSafe! program rolled out worldwide
Expanding health management

Through our BeSafe! program, we are working to raise
employee awareness of occupational safety. We have now
incorporated all production and warehouse sites into the
program. Since the completion of the acquisition, SigmaAldrich facilities have also started implementing BeSafe!. In
October 2016, we successfully held events at four sites in
the United States, the first time for our operations in that
country.

As part of our EHS management activities, we implemented
two new Group-wide processes in 2015. Our Travel Health
& Medical Advisory Service assists employees who spend a
lot of time abroad on Merck business, providing them with
advice on vaccinations and hygiene risks. Our Physical Ability
Test and Health Preservation ensure that all employees meet
the health requirements for their particular tasks. This test
helps us implement targeted intervention as necessary.

In 2016, we conducted initiatives, campaigns, and awareness efforts across the Group as part of the BeSafe! program.
For instance, several subsidiaries in Latin America held safety
competitions. To underscore the importance of safety, we
launched the Safety Excellence Award in 2010, which is
presented annually to all production sites that have no workplace accidents on record for the year. In total, 61 out of
91 facilities received this award in 2016, with 41 out of 61
production sites having received it in 2015. On January 29,
2016, the workforce at our U.S. site in Branchburg, New
Jersey achieved a major milestone of one million man-hours
worked without a single reportable accident.

At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites, our Health Management unit conducts numerous campaigns and programs to
promote the health of our workforce. In summer 2016, 3,682
employees took part in the Global Corporate Challenge (GCC)
hosted by the employee engagement firm Virgin Pulse.
Seven-person teams used pedometers to track their step
count over a period of 100 days. The result? Altogether,
participants walked the equivalent of 67 times around the
world. By the end of the GCC, 84% of participants were
walking 10,000 steps or more per day, versus 29% before
the challenge. Besides being motivated to exercise more
than usual, everyone furthermore benefited from practical
tips on nutrition and stress management. We also offer our
employees services such as our Fit@Merck fitness program,
which provides them with up to € 195 per year towards
health prevention classes. We furthermore offer a company
athletics program that currently features 25 different sports.

Solvent for production purification processes replaced
In 2015, we replaced tetrahydrofuran (THF) with nonhazardous substances for most of the purification processes
at our organic production plants in Darmstadt. THF is a
solvent suspected to be carcinogenic. Through this measure,
we save nearly € 700,000 per year.

We analyze the ergonomics of individual workstations and
then implement relevant occupational health measures. In
our liquid crystal production facilities, for instance, we have
made technical improvements such as drum lifters. Our
workers have also received training on ergonomics in the
workplace. Our Life Science employees in the United States
have access to the Early Symptom Intervention and Prevention Program (ESI), which provides training and teaches
about workplace ergonomics.

Increasing safety through global best practice sharing
Our EHS managers attend regional and international conferences in an effort to share best practices and lessons
learned. In 2015, our Group-wide conference took place in
Darmstadt and was attended by 70 employees. In 2016, we
also held forums in Taoyuan (Taiwan), with 35 participants,
and in Cork (Ireland), with 41 participants. These meetings
focused on safe logistics, waste treatment and the integration of Sigma-Aldrich sites. In autumn 2015 and 2016 we

71

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

Employee engagement
As a science and technology company, we are always looking
for new solutions and working to evolve. Engaged, curious
employees are key to our ability to innovate, and therefore
also to our success. We need a corporate culture that
broadens the knowledge base of our employees, one that
creates exciting opportunities and motivates them to take
a proactive role in shaping our company processes. Candid
feedback from our employees helps show us where we have
room for further improvement.

Making room for ideas

Our principles

The heart of our redesigned global headquarters is our new
Innovation Center (p. 27), scheduled for completion in 2017.
In 2015, we opened a modular Innovation Center to give our
employees room to explore their creativity by joining interdisciplinary teams and collaborating on pioneering projects.

Over the last several years, Merck has undergone a major
evolution and grown through acquisitions. We are transforming our site in Darmstadt into a global headquarters that
will bolster our ability to innovate, enabling us to respond
flexibly to growth while also reflecting our corporate identity.
To this end, we launched our strategic ONE Global Headquarters initiative in 2013.

Engaging employees
We strive to create a work environment that empowers our
employees to think outside the box and seek new solutions,
opening the door to creative ideas and the discovery of new
market opportunities. To bolster employee engagement, we
have set clear goals and defined the steps necessary to
accomplishing them.

Keeping employees informed and encouraging
discourse
We keep our employees up to date and encourage discourse
through a number of formats tailored to specific target
groups. Take, for instance, our international collaboration
platform EVA and our international employee magazine
“pro”. This magazine is published in seven languages and is
available in a digital format as well as via an app. Through
“pro”, we reach more than 90% of our approximately 50,000
employees worldwide in their local language. Several
subsidiaries also publish local editions of “pro”, for example
in Germany, Korea, the Netherlands, and Russia. In addition
to these formats, a variety of newsletters are also published
by our businesses. Moreover, we publish articles on EVA and
host various events to raise employee awareness of corporate responsibility issues.

Rewarding innovative ideas
We seek to inspire our employees to think creatively. At
our Darmstadt site, all workers are encouraged to submit
suggestions for improvements within the company. We
reward any ideas that are successfully implemented by
offering employees a bonus based on how much the suggestion improves our processes or cuts down our costs.
In addition to rewarding good suggestions, we also regularly
hold a Group-wide innovation competition called Innospire
that allows employees to submit ideas for new business
models. In contrast to our conventional idea management
process, Innospire specifies the topic on which employee
proposals should focus. Furthermore, we annually present
the Merck Awards in recognition of outstanding ideas, teamwork and projects.

Understanding our workforce
We seek to understand the needs of the people who work
for us and therefore regularly conduct employee surveys.
Engagement and Inclusion, a unit within our HR organization,
creates and oversees these questionnaires. The results show
us ways we can improve. After each survey, we plan
improvements that are managed by the relevant units.

Innovating with young scientists
Our Merck Biopharma Innovation Cup is targeted to recent
graduates from around the world in an effort to spark the
interest of young talent in our company, while also offering
a forum for new ideas. We select 30 participants from a
pool of applicants spanning the globe. During a one-week
summer camp, they learn first-hand how research and development works in the pharmaceutical industry, collaborating
with retired Merck employees to create new, innovative
concepts. The team with the best concept receives a prize of
€ 20,000.

At the beginning of 2016, we revised our approach to
employee surveys and had implemented the changes by the
end of the year. To give us a better sense of the situation
within the company as a whole and to better benchmark
against our competitors, we will be conducting all future
surveys across the entire Merck Group.

72

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

worldwide. The resulting exchange of ideas and best practices benefits not only the startups, but also our own teams.

Guaranteeing co-determination
We regularly include employee representatives in our decisionmaking processes. Within Germany, 14 of our subsidiaries have
employee representation. Local works councils as well as an
overall Group works council represent the interests of our workforce, discussing topics such as compensation, working hours,
and organizational realignment. The Senior Executives Committee
represents the interests of senior management, while the Merck
Euroforum represents our employees at the European level,
focusing on the economic situation, employment rates and significant changes within our company.

The Innovation Center regularly conducts events, workshops,
seminars, and webinars. Through these channels, we introduce
our employees to new innovation methods such as design
thinking. There is already a great deal of interest in this initiative.
We also hope to accelerate the exchange of innovative ideas
within the company and build a Group-wide network of innovation ambassadors. Furthermore, we plan to expand the scope of
our Accelerator program, with a focus on locations with a thriving
or burgeoning start-up culture. The first offshoot of this program
took root in 2015 in Nairobi (Kenya).

Progress
Testing new forms of collaboration

Rewarding employee ideas

In 2015, we launched our new collaboration platform EVA, which
encompasses our global intranet for all subsidiaries and business
sectors and furthermore consolidates numerous collaboration
applications in one central location. According to an employee
survey, EVA ranks as one of the most important internal communication media – second only to e-mail – receiving approximately
1.3 million hits from across 64 countries per month.

In 2016, our employees used our idea management program to
submit approximately 2,300 suggestions for improvement, with
3,200 having been submitted in 2015. These ideas led to savings
of approximately € 3.4 million in 2016 and approximately
€ 1.7 million in 2015. In recognition of their contributions, our
employees received bonuses totaling € 0.7 million in each year.
In the 2015-2016 period, we reached out to our employees
through our Innospire innovation program and asked them
for proposals on new materials, systems and business
models across 12 categories. This resulted in the submission
of 680 proposals, more than twice as many as in 2014. Eight
suggestions were transformed into actual business plans,
four of which are currently being implemented.

Globally harmonized employee engagement survey
Between December 2013 and June 2015, we conducted an
Organizational Health Index (OHI) survey in all business units
and Group functions, using the results to identify strategic focus
topics and devise initiatives. In 2016 we continued our efforts
to embed these topics more deeply into the organization. In
November 2016, we conducted a global employee survey in 23
languages. Approximately 42,500 employees (83%) took part.
A measure of employee engagement, our company-wide score
was 60%, a level comparable to other companies in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries. As of early 2017, we will be
working with the results across the company.

Recognizing innovation
The team that won the 2016 Merck Biopharma Innovation
Cup proposed an innovative approach to controlling the transmission of schistosomiasis. Overall, more than 900 scientists from
across 53 countries competed for this renowned honor.

Sparking young interest in science

Presented every year, the Merck Awards recognize
outstanding employee ideas. In 2016, prizes were presented
in the categories of Innovation, Change, Customer Focus,
and Employee Development. In total, 55 teams and individuals competed for the awards. The project “Fertility technologies” won in the Innovation category.

Launched in 2016, the SPARK Global Volunteer Program (p.
100) offers our Life Science employees an opportunity to
make a difference in the community by igniting a passion for
science in the next generation.
Through our efforts to promote scientific education and
research, we hope to have a positive impact on the local
community. Beyond school programs, we are also supporting
causes such as the San Diego Festival of Science & Engineering in San Diego, CA (USA) and the Royal Society of
Chemistry in Bangalore (India).

Turning ideas into innovations
In 2015, the first group of project teams took up residence
in our modular Innovation Center in Darmstadt, which is
serving as a prototype for the future Innovation Center.
Within the facility's walls, ten internal project teams are
currently developing their ideas. We have also invited
numerous external startups to take advantage of the center
as part of the Merck Accelerator program, an initiative that
supports fledgling enterprises. The startup teams move into
the Innovation Center for three months at a time and receive
financial assistance, training and access to Merck experts

In the vicinity of our global headquarters in Darmstadt, we support
a wide array of educational initiatives such as “Jugend forscht”,
a state-level science competition for students that we host every
year.

73

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

Good leadership
Within our company, teams collaborate across sites and
international boundaries. Team members bring a variety of
skills, strengths and experience to the table, creating great
potential that can be leveraged by management. Our
management processes fundamentally follow an international approach. Global collaboration is also playing an
increasingly important role in the development of our next
generation of managers.

now more clearly defines the leadership culture through
which we will grow our business. Our six core competencies
are purposeful, future-oriented, innovative, results-driven,
collaborative, and empowering. In our day-to-day work,
these core competencies play an important role in our
success. Our competency model provides the foundation for
all development activities within our HR work – for
employees, but also for our managers, who act as role
models and are therefore key to building employee buy-in for
the competency model.

Our principles
Strategic competency model
Our strategic competency model describes core competencies on which employees of all levels should base their
conduct. Our competency model was revised in 2015 and

Our competency model

Be purposeful

Be empowering

our
competencies

Be future-oriented

Be innovative

Be collaborative

Be results-driven

Mi
ssi

on S
tatement and V

74

t
duc
Merc
k Code of Con

onsibility
Resp

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Employees

managers have taken part. Since the 1990s, our up-andcoming managers have also had the opportunity to complete
the International Management Program, where participants
work on an interdisciplinary project over a period of six
months. The results are presented to the Executive Board.
Moreover, we also partner with universities across the globe
in an effort to help our employees obtain qualifications such
as an executive MBA.

Management program
We have instituted three programs to enhance the leadership
skills of our managers. Our goal is for at least 50% of our
senior managers and promising Global Grade 14+ employees
to have participated in one of the programs by the end of
2018. We always adapt the programs to the particular needs
of various countries.
We use our Performance and Potential Management Process
(p. 64) to gauge the impact of these development initiatives.
Furthermore, our employees also take surveys (p. 72) to rate
the quality of leadership within Merck.

Leveraging growth-market potential
In the training of our managers, we also offer opportunities
for employees in growth markets. In 2015, for instance, we
launched our Growth Markets Management Program for local
managers in India and Latin America. Over a period of up to
two years, this training covers business administration topics
such as marketing and financial analysis, along with content
specific to our business such as our strategy and corporate
culture. We launched similar programs in China in 2013, and
in the Middle East, Latin America and Asia-Pacific in 2016. To
date, 235 managers have taken part.

Progress
We have three programs in place to develop our managers.
The Managerial Foundation and Advanced Management
programs were both launched in 2013, while the Global
Leadership program was established in 2016 based on the
results of an evaluation of our leadership and business
model. The Global Leadership Program teaches our
managers how to think and act with a global focus so as
to ensure successful international collaboration. Within two
years, we intend for all top 400 managers (Global Grade
16+) to have completed this program. Since the introduction
of these initiatives, approximately 2,400 managers have
taken part in total.

Furthermore, in 2015-2016 three of our employees successfully completed “Afrika kommt!”, a one-year scholarship
program offered by the German Society for International
Cooperation (GIZ). This program aims to help specialists
and managers from Sub-Saharan Africa obtain qualifications,
thereby building a pool of regional partners for German
industry. Five former scholarship recipients now work for us,
two of them in their home countries of Ghana and Nigeria
and the remaining three still in Darmstadt. In 2016, eight
new candidates were chosen for the fifth round of “Afrika
kommt!”

Expanding talent development Group-wide
Since 1999, we've been working in partnership with top
international universities to offer Merck University, a multiregional and modular program. Over a period of ten months,
participants complete classes on management techniques
and unique features of growth markets. To date, 373 senior

75

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

Environment
We are dedicated to environmental stewardship, working to conserve resources such as
energy, water and raw materials while also
reducing emissions and waste.

Climate impact mitigation and resource scarcity are key challenges facing society, ones for
which we naturally accept our share of the responsibility. Through certified environmental
management systems and targeted environmental measures, we work to minimize the environmental impacts of our activities.

Read More
77

Environmental stewardship

86

Plant and process safety

79

Climate

88

Biodiversity

82

Resource efficiency

76

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

Environmental stewardship
t
duc
M e rc
k Code of Con

Mi
ssi

As a science and technology company with manufacturing
operations, we utilize resources and materials that could
have a potentially negative impact on the environment if not
handled properly. To mitigate this effect, all our sites meet a
strict set of environmental requirements.
es
alu
on S
tatement and V

energy and water both sparingly and efficiently while also
cutting emissions and waste.

Clearly assigned responsibilities

Ultimate responsibility for environmental stewardship is
borne by Kai Beckmann, Executive Board member and Chief
Administration Officer. The Group function Environment,
Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) is in charge of steering
all environmental measures Group-wide. At our individual
sites, each site director is responsible for environmental
stewardship as well as occupational health and safety at
Our principles
the operational level. At larger facilities, the site directors
ba
R
receive day-to-day nsupport
and advice from Environment,
l
We continuously seek to reduce our environmental
footprint,
Co
a
m
Health
and
Safety
(EHS)
managers,
with EHS coordinators
m
u
which requires us to utilize resources such asp raw materials,
H
ac
performing
this
t
ck role at smaller facilities.
r
e
Re s
ponsible Care M
G

ig
ht
s

UN

Ch
ar
ter

A holistic approach is needed to minimize negative impacts
on the environment and sustainably preserve resources in
the long run. Intelligent environmental stewardship reduces
resource use and lowers costs.

lo

Our Group function EQ (Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality)

Executive Board
Kai Beckmann

Group Governance and Service Unit
Environment, Health, Safety,
Security, Quality (EQ)

Local operating units

Develop and maintain Group EQ
strategy

Competencies in local sites:
Wastewater treatment

Performance of environmental and
safety audits

Waste management
Environmental analysis

Compliance audits to review
adherence to standards

Plant safety

Implementation of EQ management
systems

Occupational health and safety
Fire protection/risk prevention

Conducting EQ improvement
programs

Approval procedures

Consulting for investments,
process development and
acquisitions
Conducting training programs

77

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

certified environmental management system. New sites must
incrementally establish a corresponding environmental
management system and obtain ISO 14001 certification.
Every year, we contract a third party to perform a certification audit. Furthermore, we conduct internal surveillance
audits to ensure compliance with our requirements.

Fundamental strategy for environmental sustainability
Our approach to environmental stewardship is built on our
Corporate Environment, Health and Safety Policy, which we
updated in 2016. This policy is now aligned more closely with
the stipulations of the chemical industry's Responsible Care
® Charter, as well as environmental management standard
ISO 14001, and it emphasizes our management's responsibility toward environmental stewardship, health and safety
(p. 70). Moreover, it addresses our suppliers (p. 89), encouraging them to adopt similarly high standards for environmental sustainability and safety. In doing so, our Corporate
Environment, Health and Safety Policy complements the
Responsible Sourcing Principles of our Group Procurement
function.

Progress
ISO 14001 certification expanded
In 2015 and 2016, we passed all ISO 14001 surveillance
audits. Seven Sigma-Aldrich sites already had ISO
14001-certified environmental management systems, which
were transferred to our Group certificate in 2016. Our certificate now covers 57 sites worldwide. In 2017 and 2018, we
intend to integrate 30 additional Sigma-Aldrich sites into the
certificate.

The principles of our EHS policy are implemented through
internal guidelines, standards and operating manuals. For
instance, our Group EHS, Security and Quality Manual
describes how environmental stewardship and occupational
safety are organized across the company. We ensure compliance with all requirements through internal and external
audits. Additionally, employees have the option of reporting
compliance violations to Group Compliance (p. 11). In the
2015-2016 period, no significant violations of environmental
laws or regulations were recorded within the company.

All manufacturing facilities of AZ Electronic Materials, a
company we acquired in 2014, have been ISO 14001 certified and integrated into our Group certificate since early
2015. Moreover, we have also incorporated all AZ sites into
our internal audit program. Corrective measures have been
taken to remedy any defects found.

Switch to ISO 14001:2015

We regularly review and update our internal guidelines, standards and operating manuals. Following the 2015 acquisition
of the U.S.-based life science company Sigma-Aldrich, all
their existing EHS standards were reviewed and aligned with
ours.

In September 2015, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) introduced ISO 14001:2015, an updated
version of this standard. Among other changes, ISO
14001:2015 more strongly emphasizes a supply chain
approach. We have to adapt our environmental management
system to reflect the new version by 2018. In 2015, we
conducted internal audits to determine the extent to which
we were already meeting the new requirements. In 2016,
we then analyzed our individual sites in detail to see where
changes still needed to be made. We expect the results in
early 2017 and will use them to adapt our approach to environmental management.

ISO 14001 Group certificate
We manage our environmental sustainability efforts via an
ISO 14001:2004 certified management system. Since 2009,
our company has had a corresponding Group certificate,
which means that all production sites with more than 50
employees must implement the requirements of the certificate. Smaller sites are not obligated to implement an ISO-

78

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

Climate
Climate change is one of the most pressing challenges of the
21st century. Thus far, it has only directly impacted us to a
minor extent. Nevertheless, because our operations generate
greenhouse gas emissions, we intend to do our part to mitigate our impact on the climate. In view of burgeoning regulations and rising energy costs, climate impact mitigation is
also becoming an increasingly smart investment.

With the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change now in
place and phase four (2021-2030) of the EU emissions
trading program due to start soon, we expect to see a tightening of greenhouse gas emission regulations. Going forward
in phase four, we foresee having to purchase the emissions
allowances that we're still mostly obtaining for free during
phase three (2013-2020).

Our principles

Strategic approach to climate impact mitigation

Doing our part

In 2009, we launched our strategic Edison program to
consolidate all our initiatives for improving energy efficiency
and reducing process-related greenhouse gas emissions.
Under Edison, our Group function EQ collaborates with a
working group comprising representatives from all business
sectors. Any site can propose a project. The working group
assesses the proposals according to three criteria: 1.) the
total absolute CO₂ savings, 2.) the potential cost savings,
and 3.) the ratio of CO₂ savings to required spend.

We are taking action to mitigate our impact on the climate.
Our goal for 2020 is to reduce our direct greenhouse gas
emissions (Scope 1) and indirect emissions (Scope 2) by
20% relative to the 2006 baseline. Scope 1 covers emissions
that we produce ourselves, for instance by burning fossil
fuels to generate power, while scope 2 pertains to emissions
from the consumption of purchased energy, such as electricity or district heating. Across the globe, 37 of our sites
account for roughly 80% of our greenhouse gas emissions,
which is why we are focusing our efforts here.

Internal standards and external certification
Our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) standards on energy management and emissions from coolant
ensure that energy and process-related emissions are
managed consistently across the Group. In 2016, these standards were also implemented for Sigma-Aldrich sites. Site
management conducts local audits at random to verify
compliance with all EHS standards.

Energy conservation represents an important component of
our climate impact mitigation activities. By adapting and
modernizing our technology, we are improving the energy
efficiency of our R&D operations, our production processes
and our buildings.
We are further lowering greenhouse gases by increasing our
use of renewable energies. Moreover, we are also reducing
emissions that stem directly from energy generation and
manufacturing operations.

Efficient energy management plays a particularly important
role in climate impact mitigation and is also increasingly
important to our customers. With this and other reasons in
mind, 13 of our sites decided to obtain ISO 50001 certification, the international standard for energy management, by
the end of 2016. Further facilities are currently preparing for
this certification process.

Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security,
Quality (EQ) is responsible for globally overseeing all climate
impact mitigation measures (see Environmental stewardship
(p. 77)). At our individual sites, operating units are responsible for implementing the actions and initiatives stipulated
by EQ.

Educating employees on climate impact mitigation
We encourage our employees to do their part to preserve
the climate. We regularly report on our Group-wide climate
impact mitigation activities in our employee magazine “pro”
(p. 72) and in our employee newsletter, while also providing
helpful information and tips on our Intranet. Moreover, we
support employees who prefer greener modes of transport.
For instance, we are constantly updating our pool of leased
vehicles with more efficient models to reduce the average
CO₂ emissions of our business car fleet by 30% by 2020,
relative to 2013. We also provide further incentives in the
form of the Jobticket (p. 81) for public transport and attractive deals for leased bicycles (p. 81).

Regulatory framework for climate impact mitigation
We are subject to a wide array of national and international
energy and emissions regulations, such as the German
Energy Conservation Act, the German Renewable Energy
Sources Act and the European Union emissions trading
system. For instance, EU Directive 2012/27/EU stipulates
that we must establish energy management systems and
regularly audit our energy consumption. The sites subject to
these requirements are responsible for implementing them
and furthermore undergo audits conducted by internal or
external experts.

79

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

acquisitions, we set an interim goal for the sites of our
Life Science business sector of lowering the greenhouse gas
emissions of our former Merck Millipore business by 10% by
2015, relative to 2006. By the end of 2015, we had even
managed to surpass this target by achieving a reduction of
11%.

Switching to sea freight
In an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting
from the transport of our products, we utilize sea rather than
air freight whenever possible. However, this is only an option
for products that are not damaged by protracted transport
times. At the same time, we cannot allow the quality of
customer service to suffer due to extended transport times.

Hundreds of climate projects initiated
Through the approximately 270 Edison projects initiated
since 2012, we aim to annually save around 94 metric kilotons of CO₂ in the medium term. Since the program's launch,
these efforts have conserved around 82,000 MWh of energy
in total. At nearly 64,000 MWh, electricity use accounted for
the greatest savings. For 2017, 81 new projects have been
approved, in the hopes of achieving additional savings of
around 34,000 metric tons of CO₂ annually.

Transparency for CO2 emissions and energy consumption
Since 2008, we've been reporting in detail on our climate
impact mitigation efforts as stipulated by the CDP (previously
Carbon Disclosure Project). We track our greenhouse gas
emissions in line with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol,
an internationally recognized standard, reporting on scopes
1 and 2, as well as parts of scope 3. Scope 3 includes other
indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production
of purchased materials, transport-related activities, waste
disposal, and employee travel. Tracking scope 3 emissions is
a rather complex undertaking. We track emissions from business trips and employee commuting, from waste management, and from the manufacture and transport of fuel.

In 2015 and 2016, we carried out projects such as:
Our site in Onahama, Japan is one of the highest energy
consumers within our Group, requiring large quantities
of steam for pigment production. In 2015, we therefore
switched process steam generation for production from
kerosene to natural gas combustion. In addition, our
pigment kilns are now fired with natural gas instead of
liquefied gas. These changes will reduce CO₂ emissions by
approximately 3,200 metric tons per year. In 2016, we
successfully replicated this change at other facilities. At
our Shizuoka site, for instance, we switched from heavy oil
to natural gas for steam generation while also revamping
the boiler and conduit system. In doing so, this site cut
back its CO₂ emissions from the manufacture of hightech chemicals for the microchip and display industry by
approximately 850 metric tons per year.

Besides emissions, we also measure energy consumption at
our sites. This does not, however, include energy use outside
our field of activity, such as the production of our raw materials, as we do not have sufficient data available to perform
these complex calculations.

Progress
Slight drop in energy consumption
In total, we used 2,253 gigawatt hours of energy in 2016,
versus 2,256 gigawatt hours in 2015. Our energy intensity
relative to sales totaled 0.150 kWh/€ in 2016.

Our production sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim,
Germany account for approximately 29% of our global
energy consumption, which led us to invest roughly
€ 27 million in the construction of two state-of-the-art
energy stations, one of which went online in 2014 and the
other at the end of 2015. These energy stations provide
our pharmaceutical production operations, pharmaceutical
research facilities, chemical plants, and chemical labs with
electricity, heating and cooling. The new installations will
reduce our CO₂ emissions by around 2,500 metric tons per
year.

Emissions lowered despite growth
Despite growth in our operating business, we managed to
reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 10% relative to the
2006 baseline. In 2016, we emitted 715,000 metric tons of
CO₂ equivalents, with 729,000 metric tons in 2015.
Between 2006 and 2016, we more than doubled our sales,
which means that, relative to sales, our emissions have
dropped significantly. Due to the previously mentioned

In Shanghai, China, we commissioned a new photovoltaic
plant in 2015 that is lowering this site's CO₂ emissions by
roughly 280 metric tons annually.

80

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

Total greenhouse gas emissions (metric kilotons)1
(Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol)

784

2013

736

729

715

2014

2015

2016

1

In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions have been
calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. SigmaAldrich in 2015) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted).

initiative, we are sponsoring an additional 50 bikes in the
city.

Green mobility: Jobtickets, leased bikes and subsidies
We offer our workforce in Darmstadt a “Jobticket”, an annual
subscription to use local public transportation for which we
cover part of the cost. In 2016, more than 3,800 employees
made use of this option. Since 2016, our people have also
had access to an online tool that helps them organize
carpools.

In the United States, too, we provide our people with financial incentives to live greener. For instance, they receive
up to US$ 1,000 in subsidies towards the construction of
a private solar power unit and up to US$ 100 towards an
energy consultant for their private home. They are also
eligible for as much as US$ 3,500 towards the purchase of a
hybrid or electric car, an incentive that has motivated more
than 200 employees to switch to one of these types of vehicles.

Our Life Science employees in the United States can charge
their electric vehicles for free at special charging stations
directly on site. Our Darmstadt facility introduced such
charging stations in 2016. Individual sites in France and
Ireland likewise offer this service.

Reduction in transport-related CO₂ emissions

As of January 2017, we further lowered the CO2 emission
rate for newly registered company cars from 150 g/km to a
maximum of 135 g/km. At most of our German subsidiaries,
we offer a subsidy of € 100 towards monthly lease payments
to employees who voluntarily choose a greener car model.
Relative to 2013, we have managed to decrease the CO₂
emissions of our company car fleet by 12%, and intend to
expand this incentive to include all employees in Germany.

In 2016, we switched additional transport routes from air
transport to sea freight. Our Performance Materials business
sector is now shipping its products between Germany and
Japan, as well as between Japan and Korea, by boat instead
of plane. Our Life Science business sector has also switched
transport between the United States and Argentina to sea
freight. These changes are cutting our annual CO₂ emissions
by a total of 300 metric tons.

Our workforce in Darmstadt and Gernsheim also have the
option of leasing a bike with payments coming out of their
pre-tax income (bike4me). In 2017, we intend to offer this
option to all employees in Germany.

Positive rating from the CDP
In 2016, the CDP reworked its scoring methodology and
now only gives one rating per company. The score incorporates more than just successes in and strategies for reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. The CDP also assesses the ways
in which companies are working to minimize the risks and
consequences of climate change. The rating scale ranges
from A to D-, with A being the top score.

Furthermore, our employees can also use the Call a Bike
service throughout Germany at reduced prices to rent a
bike for short periods of time. Deutsche Bahn, the German
national rail company, is also setting up further rental
stations all around our sites in Darmstadt. In support of this

81

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

According to this new methodology, we received an A- in
2016. As a Sector Leader for the DACH Region, we rank
among the top 16% of companies in the Healthcare, Pharma
& Biotech category in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. In

2015, when the CDP was still using the old evaluation model,
our performance scored a C and our reporting was rated 98
out of 100 points, putting us in sixth place in the Healthcare
category in Germany, Austria and Switzerland.

Resource efficiency
efficiency through a wide array of initiatives. Under our
Edison program, for instance, we are investing in measures
to boost energy efficiency, which form just one part of our
commitment to the climate (p. 79).

Natural resources are growing ever scarcer, which makes
it imperative for us to use raw materials as efficiently as
possible and contribute to waste reduction. By conserving
energy, water and materials, we are not only mitigating our
impact on the environment, but are also lowering our costs.

We use water primarily for cooling, as process water and
for exhaust air purification. Our water management (p. 84)
approach combines water use reduction with wastewater
treatment. Alongside climate impact mitigation, water
management is a key focus of our environmental stewardship efforts.

We work continuously to reduce the environmental footprint
of our products and even help our customers lower their own
resource use, thus improving our competitive advantage.

Our principles
Holistic approach to resource efficiency

We primarily use chemical and pharmaceutical raw materials
for our manufacturing operations. Additionally, we also
employ operating supplies and packaging materials such as
folding boxes, glass bottles and ampules. Our waste and
recycling (p. 82) management approach helps us efficiently
utilize materials and maximize reusage.

Our holistic approach to resource efficiency helps us minimize our consumption of energy, water and materials while
also maximizing resource reuse. Because we utilize the
majority of resources for the manufacture of our products (p.
29), resource efficiency is a critical factor in product development and production processes. The measures required to
accomplish this are an integral component of our approach
to environmental stewardship (p. 77) and are organized by
Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ).

Progress
Higher material consumption
We utilized 330.6 metric kilotons of material in 2015
(excluding Sigma-Aldrich) and 798.1 metric kilotons in 2016
(including Sigma-Aldrich). We only track the weight of materials that are directly used in our pharmaceuticals and chemicals.

Reducing resource use
Our manufacturing operations consume a great deal of
energy, but our buildings likewise require energy in the form
of electricity and heat. We are working to improve our energy

Waste and recycling
Waste material contains valuable raw materials that can be
reused in the production stream, which is why we consider it
highly important to prevent or recycle as much of our waste
as possible.

means that we first attempt to prevent waste. However, this
not always being feasible, we seek to recycle as much of our
waste as possible. Waste that cannot be recycled is discarded
in an environmentally sustainable manner in line with the
most stringent waste disposal standards.

Our principles

Waste management at Group and site levels

Preventing, recycling and disposing waste

Waste management is part of our Group-wide ISO 14001certified environmental management system. The Group
function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ),

We work to minimize the environmental impacts of our waste
as far as possible and limit the loss of raw materials. This

82

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

which is in charge of environmental stewardship (p. 77),
bears overall responsibility for waste management. As well
as undergoing external certification, we also conduct internal
Corporate Environment, Health and Safety audits to review
our waste management approach and programs. We regularly inform and educate our local EHS managers and site
directors on various waste disposal issues in an effort to
ensure Group-wide compliance with our environmental standards.

then multiplied by the percentage that results from dividing
the waste quantity of the given disposal method by the waste
quantity. The sum of the scores of each level provides the
total Merck Waste Score.

Our Group-wide EHS standard “Waste Management”
provides a consistent framework for waste management
across all our sites, defining organizational structures and
minimum requirements. In line with this standard, all facilities document their waste by type and quantity, reporting
this data to EQ.

Responsibility for entire waste disposal process

In 2017, we plan on using this system to assess waste
disposal Group-wide. This assessment will help us define a
target for the Merck Waste Score and gauge the progress of
our waste management efforts.

As a generator of waste, we are responsible for the final
disposal of our waste products and therefore choose our
service providers with the utmost care, contractually stipulating disposal requirements. Each of our vendors must
be able to prove that they have properly discarded our
waste. We conduct regular audits to ensure that our waste is
disposed of in an appropriate fashion, especially in the case
of hazardous substances.

The Merck Waste Scoring System
At Merck, we use several methods for recycling and disposing
of waste. In an attempt to better manage our various waste
streams, in 2016 we developed the Merck Waste Scoring
System, which is based on a five-level waste hierarchy:

Progress
Decline in waste generated

1.

Waste prevention

2.

Materials recycling

3.

Waste-to-energy

4.

Thermal disposal

5.

Landfill

The amount of waste we produced in 2016 dropped
to 254 metric kilotons, versus 317 metric kilotons in 2015.
This sharp decrease is primarily attributable to lower quantities of construction and demolition waste, which continued
to account for the majority of our total waste – 30% in 2016
and 49% in 2015. In particular, the remodeling of our Group
headquarters in Darmstadt has generated large quantities of
such waste material.

In terms of the resource footprint of the waste, it progressively worsens from level one through level five. Waste
prevention is the best, most desired form of waste management as it avoids using raw materials and prevents negative
environmental impacts. Materials recycling allows raw materials contained in the waste to be recovered. Depending on
the waste type, this process saves significant quantities of
raw materials and energy even though it somewhat reduces
product quality (downcycling). Waste-to-energy is the
conversion of non-recyclable waste materials into usable
heat, electricity, or fuel through a variety of processes.
Power generation through waste incineration plants, which
reduce the use of fossil fuels, is a perfect example. Waste
for disposal is either incinerated or sent to landfills, making
it impossible to recover raw materials.

Employees help separate trash
At our site in Molsheim, France, we implemented a recycling
system over five years ago and have been continuously
refining it ever since. This facility performs function testing
and lab tests that regularly produce large quantities of waste.
In response, our local EHS officers have developed a trash
separation system, conducted training and enhanced the
necessary processes. Today, employees at this site separate
up to ten different types of waste, allowing more than five
metric tons of plastic to be recycled per year.

60% less solvent used
In the 2015-2016 period, our site in Shizuoka, Japan started
using special plastic liners in our containers for specialty
chemicals. This change considerably reduced the required
amount of an acetic ester derivative that had previously been
utilized as a solvent to clean the containers. As a result,
this facility is saving 70 metric tons of this solvent per year,
representing a 60% reduction of the acetic ester derivative
used for washing processes at this site.

Each individual type of waste – plastic, paper, metal, glass,
hazardous waste, etc. – requires individual evaluation.

Merck Waste Score as a performance indicator
In 2016, we created the Merck Waste Score to help us quantify the resource conservation target for our waste streams
and compare the amount of waste our sites are producing.
Under this system, each site's waste is allocated a score for
each of the five steps of the waste hierarchy. This score is

83

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

Shizuoka reduces filter waste

Recycling process saves on solvent

In 2015, we switched the multi-step filter process for
photoresists at our Shizuoka site in Japan to a single-step
process. Instead of requiring several filters, the process now
uses only one, thus decreasing filter waste by 70%. In 2016,
we introduced the single-filter process at our facilities in
Hsinchu, Taiwan, and Suzhou, China, where we eliminated
50% of our filter waste at each site. We are currently investigating whether we can implement the new filter process at
other facilities as well.

At our facility in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, we implemented a recycling process for the solvent diisopentyl ether in 2012, which
we have since worked to continuously improve. Thanks to
this effort, we recycled 88% of the solvent used in 2016.
Within four years, we thus saved approximately 200 metric
tons of solvent waste and more than € 2 million. We have
introduced a similar recycling process at Kaohsiung for the
solvents acetone and pentane.

Water management
For our sustainable water management efforts, we use an
assessment tool of the European Chemical Industry Council
(CEFIC) to evaluate water management practices and
progress at our sites. Based on this assessment, our facilities
draft a list of steps that need to be taken and implement
them one at a time.

An increasing number of regions across the globe are facing
potable water supply issues. At our sites, we too are dependent on a reliable supply of water that meets certain quality
standards. We use water in our manufacturing operations
as process water as well as for functions such as cooling
and exhaust air purification, which makes sustainable water
management a key focus of our environmental stewardship
(p. 77). Because our wastewater may contain traces of heavy
metals or pharmaceutical active ingredients, protecting
water as a resource is one of our primary considerations.

But we also encourage efficient water management at facilities in areas of low or moderate water stress, which is
why we are continuously expanding our best practice sharing
platform for water management projects. Through this
medium, our EHS officers can share ideas and lessons
learned.

Our principles
Reducing use, minimizing impacts

Reducing water use

We seek to lower our water use, especially in those regions
where water is growing ever scarcer. At the same time, it is
our responsibility to minimize the impact of our wastewater
across all our sites.

Sites in areas of high water stress must transparently report
their water use and identify the process steps that require a
particularly high amount. We then define measures to help
our individual facilities reduce their water use.

The Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security,
Quality (EQ), which is in charge of environmental stewardship, bears overall responsibility for water management.
At our individual sites, technicians collaborate closely with
our Environment, Health and Safety managers on implementing measures to reduce water use and furthermore
receive regular training from EQ.

Our production sites in Mexico City (Mexico), Mollet del Vallès
(Spain), Kankakee, IL (USA), and Norwood, OH (USA) are
located in areas of high water stress and consume more
than 30,000 cubic meters of water per year. Furthermore,
our facilities in Savannah, GA (USA), Hsinchu (Taiwan) and
Taoyuan (Taiwan) are at increased risk due to the local
groundwater shortage or seasonal water scarcity. At each of
these sites, we aim to reduce water use by 10% by 2020,
relative to the 2014 baseline.

Sustainable water management
We systematically analyze our water use data utilizing tools
such as the Water Risk Filter of the World Wide Fund For
Nature (WWF) and the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas of the
World Resources Institute (WRI). These tools help us determine whether a site is located in areas of high water stress,
meaning regions where water consumption exceeds the
supply. At the beginning of 2016, we set the goal of implementing a sustainable water management system at sites
with high consumption levels by 2020.

Water Protection standard
Our processes and responsibility for clean wastewater are
defined in our EHS Water Protection standard, which is based
on the commitments we've made under Responsible Care®.
In line with this global initiative, all our sites are required to
measure and assess the risks and impacts of the hazardous
substances in their wastewater.

84

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

residue in our wastewater as much as possible. All pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities also have wastewater treatment plants in place and regularly measure the composition
of their wastewater.

We regularly conduct internal audits to check compliance
with our EHS Water Protection standard. Our Group-wide ISO
14001-certified environmental management system (p. 77)
also covers aspects of water management, with a greater
focus on manufacturing sites than administrative facilities.

Progress

Minimizing residues

Water from our own sources

We seek to minimize the residues in our wastewater. In
support of this goal, all our sites develop and implement a
water pollution response plan.

For the most part, we draw groundwater from our own
wells and drinking water from local suppliers. We never do
anything to compromise sensitive water sources.

Our EHS Water Protection standard particularly focuses on
trace residues that impact the environment. For instance,
we are optimizing production and purification processes to
reduce the amount of pharmaceutical active ingredient

In the 2015-2016 period, our water use was broken down as
follows:

Water consumption (millions of m3)

13.6

13.7

7.0

6.3

0.03

Rain water and
other sources

7.2

5.3

1.2

0.3

0.01

2015
Surface water
(rivers, lakes)

2016
Drinking water
(from local
suppliers)

For the most part, our cooling water for production processes
runs in a circular system. Depending on regulatory standards, we sometimes use fresh water in a once-through
cooling system if it improves our energy footprint. For certain
applications, we treat production wastewater and reuse it.
In 2015, we reused 23.0 million cubic meters of water, with
22.7 million cubic meters reused in 2016.

Groundwater

in Savannah, GA (USA) without the use of nitrates. Thanks
to this innovation, we no longer utilize hazardous materials
such as nitrate and nitric oxide and have reduced water
usage by approximately 85%, meaning 21,500 cubic meters
per year. At our Hsinchu site in Taiwan, we started recycling
HVAC water condensate in 2015, enabling us to reduce water
usage by 5% per year in the 2015-2016 period. In 2016, we
thus saved more than 1,300 cubic meters of water.

Water stewardship

Our facility in Kankakee, IL (USA) also uses a great deal of
water. In 2015 and 2016, we achieved approximate savings
of 30% by optimizing our own fresh water treatment plant.

At the end of 2015, we developed a new process that enables
bismuth oxychloride products to be manufactured at our site

85

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

We also implement measures to minimize our negative
impacts at sites that are not located in high water stress
regions. Our manufacturing facilities in India abide by a zero
discharge policy that requires used water to first be treated
before being allowed to drain back into the soil. Furthermore,
our Goa site collects rain water and lets it seep back into the
soil as well, a process that has enabled us to stop the water
level there from sinking further.

and approximately 263,000 cubic meters of liquefied gas
(around 57% less).

Wastewater continuously monitored

China: Simultaneously reducing energy and water

In 2015 and 2016, our wastewater management activities
were continuously monitored and reviewed in line with our
Water Protection standard. As such, 77 internal EHS audits
were conducted, as were 18 external ISO 14001 certification
audits.

A project at our site in Suzhou, China shows how the
consumption of different resources can be interconnected.
Through a single measure, we have cut down the water
and energy used for recycling a solvent mixture by distillation. We leave a portion of the water in the solvent mixture
that would otherwise have to be discarded as wastewater.
In doing so, we have reduced wastewater by nearly 633,000
cubic meters per year, which represents a 66% decrease
in wastewater. When customers reuse the solvent mixture,
they need not add more water, creating additional water
savings. This change furthermore allowed us to save more
than 390,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity (around 22% less)

In 2016, we generated 12.1 million cubic meters of wastewater, with 11.8 million cubic meters in 2015. The wastewater generated at our Darmstadt site is treated in our
state-of-the-art treatment plants before being fed into
Schwarzbach-Ried Creek, a tributary of the Rhine River. In
2016, we discharged a volume of water representing approximately 5% of the average annual discharge of SchwarzbachRied Creek. We continuously work to meet the increasingly
stringent quality regulations set forth by law, regularly coordinating our efforts with the respective authorities. In the
2015-2016 period, we did not discharge any other wastewater into bodies of water.

Plant and process safety
The safety of our plants and processes is a key element
of our environmental sustainability efforts. This approach
allows us to ensure the safety of our workforce as well as the
people in the vicinity of our sites. Functional safety systems
also help minimize production errors, which in turn reduces
the risk of economic losses.

Safety requirements
All sites are subject to the same requirements for plant and
process safety set out by our Group-wide EHS Plant and
Process Safety standard, which describes the safety rules
for all production plants and warehouses. These requirements encompass the entire life cycle of a plant, from cradle
to grave. Before we commission a plant, we draft a safety
concept that is continuously updated until the facility is
decommissioned. This concept contains an overview of
potential risks and the corresponding protective measures.
In the 2015-2016 period, we started implementing our Plant
and Process Safety standard for Sigma-Aldrich sites as well,
with completion expected in the course of 2017.

Our principles
Preventing disruptions
We seek to eliminate as many manufacturing hazards as
possible to prevent workplace accidents, production outages,
and chemical leaks. We attempt to detect technical defects
before they have a chance to cause damage. By providing
training for our employees, we prevent human errors as
much as possible.

Minimizing risk
Our Group-wide EHS Spillage Control standard governs the
handling of hazardous materials and stipulates organizational
measures to prevent toxic substances from spilling or leaking
during storage and transport. In addition to this standard,
our Risk Management Process guides all our sites in identifying and assessing risks. As needed, this process can be
used to develop and implement measures to minimize such
risks. In 2016, we conducted our Group Procedure Hazard
and Operability Study, which clearly defined the individual
responsible for identifying potential hazards during a project

Group-wide organization
Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security,
Quality (EQ) is in charge of environmental stewardship and
safety worldwide, and oversees plant and process safety at
Merck. At the operational level, responsibility for plant and
process safety falls to our individual sites and their EHS
managers. Our local EHS organizations report to and work
hand in hand with EQ.

86

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

as well as the manner in which risks should be identified and
documented.

deviations identified during external reviews and audits

The calculation of the EHS Incident Rate includes the number
of incidents and the severity of the accident relative to the
number of man-hours worked. The lower the EHS Incident
Rate, the safer the site is.

Training employees
The safety of our plants and processes is predicated on the
successful interaction between man and machine, which is
why it's crucial for us to educate our employees and provide
them with regular training. Our internal continuing education
programs for site, production, engineering, and EHS officers
also cover plant and process safety. Likewise, newly hired
EHS managers are trained in plant and process safety during
their onboarding.

Learning from incidents across all sites
It is important to share best practices and lessons learned,
an approach that enables all our production sites to learn
from the incidents at other facilities and thereby implement
preventive measures. For instance, once a month, site directors and EHS managers participate in safety leadership calls
to share new lessons learned.

Legislative changes
The EU Directive adopted in 2012 on the control of major
accident hazards involving dangerous substances (aka
Seveso III) was transposed into German law at the end
of 2016. In 2017, we will therefore be updating existing
processes and documents on the assessment and communication of potential hazards in production plants and warehouses.

Progress
Steady decline in accident rate
Our EHS Incident Rate (EHS IR) indicates that the number
of accidents within our company is steadily sinking. In 2015,
our EHS IR was 4.3, with 3.4 in 2016.

Making safety measurable

Spills without significant adverse effects

Through our EHS performance indicators, we make it
possible to measure safety and thus identify opportunities
for improvement. We track EHS performance indicators at
all production and warehouse facilities, as well as at major
research sites such as Chilworth (UK) and Billerica, MA
(USA). In doing so, we record both accidents and nearaccidents. We investigate each individual incident before
devising appropriate countermeasures in an effort to prevent
such accidents in the future.

Across all production, research and storage sites, we
recorded a total of 32 incident-related spills in 2015 and 41
incident-related spills in 2016, none of which led to significant environmental pollution.

Taking countermeasures after a fire
In February 2015, a filter fire in a pigment production facility
in Gernsheim led to damage costing millions of euros. We
investigated the incident and, as a preventive measure,
installed a temperature monitoring system for the filter inner
area of all pigment production lines at the site. We are now
better equipped to promptly detect when the production lines
grow unusually hot.

For instance, since 2013 we have been tracking the EHS Incident Rate, an indicator that synthesizes the following four
categories of data:
the number of workplace accidents involving Merck
employees and contractors who work at our sites

Training new personnel

environmentally relevant incidents as defined by the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) and the German
Chemical Industry Association (VCI), for instance product
spills

In 2016, 25 new employees, primarily from Sigma-Aldrich,
took part in our onboarding process, where they received
training on many topics, including plant and process safety.
The U.S.-based EHS managers from Sigma-Aldrich participated in a separate onboarding process in the United States.

the activation of operational safety precautions that do not
have an adverse impact on people and the environment,
such as a preemptive systems shutdown

87

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Environment

Biodiversity
The increasing loss of biodiversity is a global challenge that
impacts our company as well. After all, we depend on ecosystems for natural resources such as raw materials. A prime
example from our Healthcare business sector is comfrey root
extract, which is used in our Kytta® pain relief cream. We
therefore have a vested interest in preserving and promoting
biodiversity.

up in the ecosystem. Our goal is to increase the percentage
of unsealed surfaces insofar as safety requirements permit.

Our principles

Before acquiring a company, we first investigate ecological
risks, taking into consideration information from public
sources such as neighbors and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The results of the investigation influence
whether we decide in favor of the acquisition. Most recently,
we conducted such risk assessments for the acquisitions of
AZ Electronic Materials and Sigma-Aldrich.

Environmental risk assessment for acquisitions
Our production sites are located in established industrial and
commercial zones.

Holistic approach to conserving biodiversity
Our wide array of environmental sustainability efforts, such
as water management (p. 84) and climate impact mitigation
(p. 79), directly contribute to the conservation of biodiversity. Representing part of our commitment to environmental
stewardship (p. 77), our measures to protect biodiversity are
overseen by our Group function Environment, Health, Safety,
Security, Quality (EQ).

Implementing the Nagoya Protocol
The Nagoya Protocol is an international supplementary
agreement to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD). Its aim is to implement one of the three objectives
of the CBD, namely the fair and equitable sharing of benefits
arising from genetic resources, with the other two convention
objectives being the conservation of biological diversity (or
biodiversity) and the sustainable use of its components.
In October 2015, the Nagoya Protocol was transposed into
German law. We are currently reviewing our processes in
preparation to implement the new legislation within our Life
Science business sector.

Across all our sites, we take into consideration the unique
features of the ecosystems in our immediate vicinity with the
goal of minimizing our direct impacts as far as possible.

Designing with biodiversity in mind
Substances that could compromise biodiversity should not be
discharged into the environment, which is why we design and
operate our plants in accordance with our Group-wide safety
and environmental requirements. For instance, our Corporate Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) standards define
the manner in which we manage waste (p. 82) and wastewater (p. 84) treatment as well as improve plant safety (p.
86).

Progress
Biodiversity conservation at our sites
Our Darmstadt site is a prime example of our commitment to
preserving biodiversity. Since 2016, we've been conducting
an assessment of our facilities in both Darmstadt and Gernsheim to evaluate their nature conservation efforts.
The results will help us develop an action plan for improving
the surrounding ecosystem for plants and animals. 30% of
the premises (0.4 square kilometers) have already been
greened. In 1995, we developed a green open space concept
for our Darmstadt site, while a 2008 agreement with the
city of Darmstadt stipulates how nature conservation is to be
integrated into the land use of our site.

In designing new sites and plants, we always include our
EHS unit to ensure that ecological aspects are also taken into
consideration.

Minimizing surface sealing
Unsealed surfaces represent an important habitat for plants
and animals. At our facilities, however, we are required to
seal certain surfaces to minimize the risk of chemicals ending

88

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Suppliers

Suppliers
We take on responsibility for our supply chain,
expecting all our suppliers to adhere to our
compliance, environmental and social standards.

Our approach to supplier management focuses on more than just quality, delivery reliability
and competitive pricing – for us, compliance with fundamental environmental and social
standards is also key. To achieve this, we have implemented commensurate strategies,
processes and guidelines that we consistently work to improve. Our objective is to prevent
violations of our standards in the supply chain.

Read More
90

Supply chain standards

93

89

Mica supply chain

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Suppliers

Supply chain standards
Merck requires numerous raw materials, packaging materials, technical products, components, and services, which
we procure from more than 70,000 suppliers across 130
countries.

Organization and responsibilities
Our Group function Procurement is responsible for integrating corporate responsibility requirements into each stage
of our sourcing and supplier management processes. An
office within Group Procurement coordinates all relevant
measures, such as regularly updating our guidelines, revising
existing processes and coordinating our participation in
industrial initiatives. Our Procurement employees in all countries receive training on our guidelines and processes.

Our principles
Supplier management
Our supplier management aims to maintain fundamental
environmental and social standards – as well as high quality,
delivery reliability and competitive pricing. To this end, we
have introduced strategies, processes and guidelines that we
continuously improve to prevent violations of our standards
in the supply chain.

If the legal framework is modified, we incorporate these
changes and, if necessary, initiate the appropriate measures.
A recent example is the UK Modern Slavery Act (p. 14) 2015,
which requires all companies with a certain turnover in the
United Kingdom to produce a statement detailing the steps
they are taking to address slavery and human trafficking in
their business. We intend to issue our first such statement in
2017.

We assign our vendors a risk category, taking into account
their country risk, product category and the share of their
sales that come from Merck. In doing so, we pay particular
attention to suppliers from non-OECD countries as we
consider vendors in these countries to be at higher risk of
disregarding environmental and social standards.

Supplier monitoring: TfS membership
In 2014, we joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS)
initiative, which provides extensive supplier assessments via
its EcoVadis platform. We encourage our vendors to be
assessed by EcoVadis and now have access to the assessments of more than 670 of our key suppliers – 400 of
which we initiated. Suppliers are assessed either on selfreported and publicly accessible information or via audit.
Since joining this initiative, 26 Merck-initiated TfS audits
have been conducted on our vendors. After first implementing the TfS methodology for our raw material suppliers,
we have now expanded it to all our procurement activities,
including consultancy services, information technology and
logistics services. We are currently developing a method to
systematically incorporate TfS results when evaluating and
choosing vendors.

Guidelines establishing supplier requirements
We expect all our suppliers and service providers to uphold
our environmental and social standards, which are primarily
derived from the core labor standards of the International
Labour Organization (ILO) and the UN Global Compact.
As well as these standards, we also support the Compliance
Initiative of the German Association for Supply Chain
Management, Procurement and Logistics (BME), which is
committed to promoting compliant procurement practices.
Moreover, we have signed the BME Code of Conduct, which
sets out rules for combating corruption, antitrust violations
and child labor, as well as for upholding human rights,
protecting the environment and promoting fair working
conditions.

FAST FACT

Our Group Procurement Policy stipulates our expectations of
our suppliers and specifies how we monitor compliance with
our standards. This policy reflects both internal and external
guidelines, such as the Merck Code of Conduct, the Merck
Human Rights Charter, our EHS Policy (Environment, Health
and Safety Policy), ISO 14001 (an environmental management standard), and the BME Code of Conduct.

TFS INITIATIVE
The TfS initiative was launched in 2011 by
companies in the chemical industry and aims to
systematically assess and improve sustainability
practices within global supply chains, with a focus
on ecological and social aspects. The results of
the supplier assessments are shared among
member companies in compliance with all restrictions stipulated by competition law.

In the Merck Responsible Sourcing Principles, we define what
we require of our suppliers in terms of corporate responsibility and obligate them to apply these standards to their own
vendors. The Merck Responsible Sourcing Principles are integrated Group-wide with our general terms and conditions.

90

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Suppliers

Giving preference to local suppliers for certain products

Conducting our own risk-based audits
In addition to the TfS audits, we also conduct our own annual
CR audits on select suppliers based on the potential risk
they pose. To do so, we assign our vendors a risk category based on their country risk, product category and sales.
We generally assign higher risk categories to suppliers from
non-OECD countries. Regardless of their OECD status, we
also audit vendors who show evidence of non-compliance
with our requirements.

We have no internal guidelines stipulating that preference be
given to local suppliers in allocating contracts. We generally
procure our goods and services globally, depending on availability and price. For instance, the availability of production
technology across production sites plays a role and means
that not all products are equally available in each country.
However, in some cases local vendors do have an advantage.
Products bought locally may be less expensive as additional
transport costs are eliminated. This is often the case with
packaging materials. Country-specific regulations such as
import duties and licenses also help us decide whether to
source our goods locally or globally. Furthermore, in some
countries statutory provisions require contracts to be
awarded to regional suppliers, which especially applies in the
pharmaceutical industry.

Any deviations from the Merck Responsible Sourcing Principles or from national statutory requirements identified during
an audit are classified as critical, major or minor. We provide
suppliers with a report detailing the audit results, and the
audit team additionally sets a timeline for follow-up audits.
When an audit reveals non-conformances, we require the
vendor to present a corrective action plan that describes
the steps needed to address these issues. Regarding defects
classified as critical or major, we also check whether the
corresponding corrective action has been taken. If the problems are not sufficiently rectified, we consider terminating
the business relationship.

Global procurement
All goods and services purchased in 2015 totaled around
€ 5.2 billion, with € 6.5 billion in 2016 (including SigmaAldrich). Of the goods and services (including R&D services)
procured in 2016, we purchased 48% from suppliers based
in EU countries and 37% from vendors in OECD countries
outside the EU. The share of goods and services sourced
from non-OECD countries outside the EU decreased from
15% in 2015 to 14% in 2016.

FAST FACT

DEFECT CLASSIFICATION
Critical defects: Any defect rated as critical
must be rectified or mitigated as soon as possible.
The supplier must submit a corrective action plan
to Merck within one week of receiving the audit
report.
Major defects: For major defects, the supplier
must respond and submit a corrective action plan
within one month of receiving the audit report.
Minor defects: Minor defects do not require a
formal corrective action plan, nor do we monitor
implementation of the corresponding corrective
actions.

91

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Suppliers

Share of overall goods and services purchased

14%
Non-OECD countries
outside the EU

48%
EU countries

37%
OECD countries
outside the EU

Progress

fied. We have not yet performed these assessments on new
suppliers.

Recent audit results
Supplier workshops on CR standards

In addition to TfS audits, we also conducted four risk-based
CR audits in 2015 and three in 2016, in which we assessed
our suppliers according to environmental and social criteria.
The non-conformances identified as having an environmental
impact were related to exceeding emissions limits and the
disposal of waste. In terms of social aspects, in one case
there was no clear evidence to prove that minimum wages
had been paid. To address these findings, we worked with
the relevant suppliers to define a course of action and
checked whether the corresponding improvements had been
made. Owing to the identified defects, we had to sever our
relationships with two suppliers. Our audits found no indication of infringements of freedom of association or collective agreements, nor any form of child, forced or compulsory
labor.

We aim to build long-term relationships with our suppliers
and endeavor to support them in adhering to our standards.
In line with this ethos, in 2016 we ran a workshop for our
vendors in China that covered topics such as quality requirements as well as our CR and EHS standards. Moreover, we
also take part in local and regional supplier workshops organized by the TfS initiative. One such workshop was held in
Brazil in 2015, while another took place in India in 2016.

Good EcoVadis rating
As a member of the TfS industry initiative, we encourage our
suppliers to be assessed by the independent rating agency
EcoVadis. We too have been evaluated by EcoVadis and
in 2016 were awarded a gold medal for our sustainability
performance. At 75 out of 100 points, we are among the
top 5% of all companies rated. EcoVadis assesses suppliers
from 101 countries and 150 sectors across the four categories of Environment, Labor Practices, Fair Business Practices, and Sustainable Procurement. Our holistic environmental management system and clear guidelines on human
rights earned especially high marks. This excellent score also
benefits our business, as customers who value corporate
responsibility are increasingly inquiring after such assessments.

Supplier assessments
In conducting TfS supplier assessments in 2015 and 2016,
we focused our efforts on the CR performance of key existing
suppliers, identifying possible adverse impacts for 45
vendors. In 20 cases, the issues pertained to environmental
impacts, in 38 to labor practices and human rights, and in
14 to impacts on local communities and society as a whole.
Some suppliers had multiple issues. In 2017 we’re implementing measures to address the negative impacts identi-

92

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Suppliers

Mica supply chain
We utilize mica as a primary raw material in effect pigment
production. These pigments are then used in automotive and
industrial coatings, as well as in the cosmetics and food
industries. Mica naturally occurs in many countries around
the world. We mainly procure our mica from India, where it is
mined in the states of Jharkhand and Bihar. Plagued by political instability and poverty, child labor is widespread in this
region, so we’ve taken special measures to ensure compliance with our environmental and social standards.

their children. This is a clear violation of our Values and
the principles of our Human Rights Charter. We do not
tolerate child labor and, as a signatory to the United Nations
Global Compact, are actively working to end this practice.
We require all our suppliers to act accordingly and as such
prohibit child labor in our contracts.
We have made a conscious decision to maintain our business
relationships in the north of India and are taking on responsibility for this region by safeguarding jobs there. To ensure
that the mica we procure has been mined without the use of
child labor, we have completely overhauled our supply chain,
only sourcing this raw material from regulated mines. This
formal work environment is the only way to ensure compliance with our standards, as we cannot rule out the use of
child labor for mica collected in publicly accessible areas.

Our principles
Responsibility in the mica supply chain
During a study conducted in 2008, we discovered that people
in Jharkhand and Bihar were collecting mica from the tailings
of abandoned mines or off the ground – sometimes with

Governance of the mica supply chain

Process steered by Merck

Legal mines
that are
also certified
by Merck

Processor

We maintain direct contact both with the mine operators and
the mica processing plants, which is why we have set up an
office in Jharkhand. Through this proximity to our business
partners, we can better educate them on our social and environmental standards as well as monitor adherence to them.
Local mine owners and processing plants help us keep the
mica supply chain free of child labor.

Conducting audits
To ensure that all mines and processing plants comply with
our requirements regarding environmental stewardship,
safety and labor standards, we monitor the practices of
our business partners. In addition to comprehensive audits
announced in advance, surprise checks also take place. Once
a month, for instance, the local organization IGEP performs
unannounced investigations into the working standards in
the mines, monitoring work safety and ensuring compliance

93

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Suppliers

with the ban on child labor. Moreover, the international
organization Environmental Resources Management (ERM)
performs annual audits that review working conditions, as
well as environmental, health and safety standards. Audit
reports are compiled to document any identified issues and
specify corrective action. Our employees in Jharkhand then
make sure that the issues have been resolved.

Finding new mica sources in other countries
We have found additional sources of mica outside of India
that meet our stringent quality, social and environmental
standards. Now, for example, part of our mica volume is
supplied by companies in Brazil, and we also have access
to a certified source in the United States. In this way, we
are ensuring the availability of this raw material over the
long term and avoiding potential supply bottlenecks. Furthermore, to provide an alternative to pigments based on natural
mica, we also manufacture effect pigments based on
synthetic substrates.

Tracking system to guarantee certified origin
Using a tracking system, we ensure that the mica supplied
to us does not come from unregulated sources, but instead
exclusively from legally operated mines that have undergone
our certification process. All mine owners have a logbook in
which they record the daily amount of mica produced in their
mines. These records provide the basis for the license fees
that they pay to the government. Were they to use mica from
an unregulated source, they would also have to pay license
fees for the additional amounts. Such a practice would be
uneconomical, as it would cost more than the mica from their
own mine. Every month, we crosscheck the amounts of mica
recorded in the logbooks and delivered to processing units.

Progress
Business relationship with a supplier ended
The international organization Environmental Resources
Management (ERM) conducted six audits in early 2016. At
the time of the audit, 90% of the necessary corrective
measures specified in previous audits had already been taken
or were still being implemented. The defects identified were
primarily related to occupational safety precautions and gaps
in the implementation of management systems. However, we
terminated our business relations with one of our suppliers
because they failed to carry out the required corrective
action in a satisfactory manner.

Community outreach in the mica supply chain
The states of Jharkhand and Bihar are among the most
impoverished regions in India. In partnership with IGEP, we
are working to improve the living conditions of the families
in the mica mining regions. According to a 2016 study by the
international organizations Terre des Hommes and Stichting
Onderzoek Multinationale Ondernemingen, the literacy rate
and the number of children who go to school there are
far below the national average. In an effort to remedy this
situation, we are running three schools in Jharkhand with
adjoining nursery schools, as well as two vocational training
centers for tailoring and carpentry. More than 500 children
and young people are now enrolled at these institutions. At
a fourth school opened by one of our mica suppliers in 2014,
we also provide scholarships for 150 children, with plans to
increase this number to 200 in 2017.

In 2015 and 2016, IGEP performed monthly unannounced
inspections of our mica suppliers. These efforts revealed
improvements in the management processes of our vendors,
such as occupational safety and regular updating of important documentation. Our suppliers also provided the
requested training courses for their employees. Overall, no
relevant deviations from our standards were noted.

Stakeholder dialogue on the mica supply chain
We keep interested customers and other stakeholders regularly informed on our mica sourcing activities. The employees
in our Jharkhand office are in contact with our project partners and other advocacy groups, as well as local and national
authorities. In February 2016, we attended the Mica Summit
in Delhi, hosted by the Natural Resources Stewardship Circle
(NRSC). As a partner of this initiative, we also helped to
organize the event. Following this summit, we have become
involved in the Responsible Mica Initiative, also established
by the NRSC, which aims to improve the traceability of mica
in the supply chain and sustain the natural environments of
the communities living in mica mining regions.

In addition to our education efforts, we are also committed
to improving access to healthcare. To this end, in 2010 we
established a health center operated by IGEP to serve the
region’s 20,000 residents. The facility has two doctors and
a nurse, who also provide health services at schools. Previously there was no healthcare of any kind in this region.

94

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Community

Community
We take on responsibility for the community,
focusing our resources primarily on those
areas where we can leverage our expertise to
achieve the most.

We are part of the community, which makes corporate responsibility an integral pillar of our
culture. Our efforts focus primarily on health, culture and education. We provide disaster
relief in emergency situations, especially in those regions in which we operate.

Read More
96

Community involvement

97

Health

100

95

Culture & education

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Community

Community involvement
Progress

We take on responsibility for the community in those areas
where we can leverage our expertise to achieve the most. In
particular, we support health, culture and education projects
in the vicinity of our sites and in the countries where we
operate. Moreover, we provide disaster relief in emergency
situations.

Partnership with the German Red Cross
In April 2015, we entered into a three-year partnership with
the German Red Cross (DRK) that aims to provide quick and
straightforward assistance in the event of a catastrophe. In
December 2015, for instance, we donated € 50,000 to run
medical emergency stations in refugee camps in Lebanon in
an effort to fight local causes for fleeing and support the
people in these regions.

Our principles
Organization and management
Our Group function Public Affairs and Corporate Responsibility coordinates our Group-wide community involvement
and manages global projects, reporting directly to the Executive Board. In addition, our business sectors and subsidiaries
initiate their own projects, choosing for themselves the
spheres of activity within our CR strategy that they would like
to support.

Supporting refugees
In response to the rapidly increasing numbers of refugees,
we rendered aid at various sites in 2015. Our subsidiary
in Austria, for example, donated € 19,000 in medicines and
medical equipment to relief organizations and emergency
accommodation for refugees. Moreover, we also supported
causes such as hospitals in Lebanon by providing medical
expertise, and Iraqi cancer patients by sending free medicines.

The Merck family, too, has long been committed to
addressing social issues. Their activities fall under the
umbrella of the Merck Family Foundation.

In October 2016 – based on our “Start in die Ausbildung”
program – we launched the “Integrating refugees through
training” program in Darmstadt to support people forced
to flee their home countries. This initiative is preparing 12
young people for vocational training and thus for the German
labor market. The project comprises linguistic, technical,
cultural, and career-related training.

Framework for our projects
Our individual business sectors and subsidiaries align their
projects with our Group-wide Responsibility for the Community Policy, which emphasizes that our activities should have
a positive effect on the community. That is why we mainly
promote long-term initiatives through which we seek to
strengthen our relationship with our stakeholders and reinforce our social license to operate.

Our apprentices, too, have helped out. In November 2015,
for instance, 88 of them renovated refugee accommodations
in Darmstadt. As part of our Merck Rest Cents campaign,
we also donated € 20,000 to build a playground in front of
the housing facility, along with € 3,500 to create a mobile
studio that will be used for art therapy. Moreover, we offered
the use of our gym for the activities of clubs and schools in
Darmstadt that have made their own gymnasiums available
to accommodate refugees. Employees at our various sites
have also organized their own initiatives and in the last two
years have continually been collecting donations of supplies
and cash for refugees.

Our community involvement in numbers
In 2016, our subsidiaries were involved in 197 projects, while
in 2015 they were involved in 138. In 2016, we spent a total
of around € 43 million (€ 100 million in 2015). This figure
does not include initiatives that primarily serve to market our
products.

96

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Community

FAST FACT

FAST FACT

MERCK REST CENTS PROGRAM

RAKS THAI FOUNDATION

For 28 years, many of our employees in Germany
have been donating the cents or euros from their
payslips. We double the total amount at the end
of the year and give the money to charitable
organizations in the region. In 2016, we raised
more than € 90,000 together with our employees.

A local branch of the global humanitarian organization CARE International, the Raks Thai Foundation deploys development programs in the most
impoverished regions of northern and southern
Thailand. The aim of these programs is to
empower people to earn their own income while
still safeguarding their natural resources.

Award-winning efforts in Thailand
China: Award for school water project

Our site in Thailand is a shining example of how our
subsidiaries take on corporate responsibility in their communities. For ten years, our employees there have been
supporting the reforestation of rain forests through the
“Together we Grow” project. In 2015, for instance, 300
employees planted around 10,000 trees in just one day.
Moreover, we have been partnering with the Raks Thai Foundation since 2002. We support several of the foundation’s
projects, such as an initiative to teach sustainable rice
farming methods. In 2015, we received the Asia Corporate
Excellence and Sustainability Award (ACES Award) in the
sustainability category, in honor of our many years of
purposeful commitment in Thailand.

As part of the School Water Project, our employees in China
teach children at six primary schools about the environment
and clean water, educating around 400 school children per
year. At the same time, we support the schools by providing
drinking water purification systems. In 2016, this project
won the More than a Market Award from the German
Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Shanghai, China. In
recognition of our efforts, we also received the EU Chamber
CSR Award in 2015.

Health
We realize that we’re not going to eliminate this insidious
disease with tablets alone. That is why we launched the
Global Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA) at the end of 2014, to
address the remaining gaps in the fight against schistosomiasis. Its founding members include the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation, the Schistosomiasis Control Initiative, the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), and
World Vision International.

We support health initiatives around the world. While our
efforts are particularly focused on eliminating the neglected
tropical disease schistosomiasis, we are also involved in the
fight against counterfeit medicines in developing countries.

Our principles
Fighting schistosomiasis
More than 200 million people in Africa suffer from the tropical
worm disease schistosomiasis. It is estimated that more than
280,000 people die per year as a result of this parasitic infection.

Within the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, a partnership
we initiated, we are currently working on the development of
a pediatric formulation of praziquantel for children under six
(p. 37). Moreover, we are supporting educational campaigns
at schools in Africa. Using comic booklets and posters, we
teach children about the causes of schistosomiasis along with
ways to prevent the disease.

In the 1970s, we developed the active ingredient praziquantel as part of a joint research partnership. It is the
only active ingredient with which all forms of schistosomiasis
can be treated. Since 2007, we have been donating praziquantel tablets to the World Health Organization (WHO), up
to 250 million per year depending on need.

Fighting counterfeit medicines
Interpol estimates that up to 30% of all medicines in developing countries are illegal, counterfeit or substandard – and
thus pose a deadly hazard.

97

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Community

The Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF), a non-profit initiative funded by our company, is dedicated to fighting counterfeit medicines. As part of its efforts, the GPHF has developed
the Minilab, a portable, compact laboratory in a tropicsresistant suitcase. This kit can detect counterfeit medicines
quickly, easily and inexpensively, and enables trained
personnel to check medicines for external abnormalities,
identity and contents. There is currently no other product like
it. The GPHF provides the Minilabs at cost.

Health projects worldwide

The majority of Minilabs are deployed in countries in Africa
and Asia. These test kits are primarily utilized by national
health agencies – often in partnership with the labs of
governmental drug inspection centers or within multilateral
health initiatives led by various UN organizations (including
WHO, UNOPS, UNICEF), U.S. and German aid organizations
(for example USAID, PQM/USP, PFSCM, GIZ), the Global
Fund (GFATM), and faith-based networks (EPN, Difäm).

Schistosomiasis: 100 million children treated

Our subsidiaries also support health efforts around the world.
These projects primarily focus on supporting the development of local healthcare systems, providing vocational
training and continuing education for medical professionals,
and raising public health awareness.

Progress

In 2016, we donated more than 200 million praziquantel
tablets to WHO for distribution across 33 African countries.
Since starting the program, we have supplied WHO with
more than 500 million tablets free of charge. In total, this
has enabled the treatment of over 100 million patients,
primarily school children.

Alone or in collaboration with international partners, the
Global Pharma Health Fund also trains local health workers
to correctly perform the tests using the Minilabs.

Number of praziquantel tablets donated to WHO (millions)

200

100
75*
50
12

25

22.5

25

27

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

* In 2014, Merck produced around 75 million tablets, 72.2 million of which were supplied to 20 African countries by the year's
end, a collaborative effort with the World Health Organization.

Beyond donating medicine, we are also working on the development of a new formulation of praziquantel (p. 37) so that
children under the age of six can also receive treatment, a
currently unmet need. To this end, we launched a Phase II
study in Ivory Coast in 2016.

Global effort to fight schistosomiasis
Since its establishment in 2014, the Global Schistosomiasis
Alliance (GSA) has become the central platform in the fight
against this parasitic infection. In various working groups,
the members of the alliance are developing projects to eliminate the disease in Sub-Saharan Africa. In October 2015,
for instance, the GSA held a conference in Cotonou, Benin
to step up the dialogue between NTD (neglected tropical

98

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Community

diseases) project managers in endemic countries. Moreover,
in collaboration with China’s National Institute of Parasitic
Diseases, the GSA Research Group hosted a meeting of international schistosomiasis experts in June 2016.

Counterfeit medicines: Expanding Minilab use
In 2016, the Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF), a non-profit
initiative funded by our company, developed testing methods
for five additional active ingredients. As of 2017, the Minilab
can now test 85 active ingredients, ranging from antimalarials and antibiotics, to analgesics and antipyretics.

With its website and social media presence, the GSA has also
developed a successful communication platform. In 2015,
for instance, the digital campaign Something in the Water
managed to create greater awareness for schistosomiasis
and went on to win six prizes, namely the German Digital
Award, the German Brand Award, the Econ Special Award,
all of which are Germany-based, the European silver People's
Lovie Award, the U.S.-based Annual Multimedia Award, and
the U.S.-based W3 Award.

Since 1998, the GPHF has supplied 795 Minilabs to 95 countries at cost, 109 of which were provided in 2015 and 2016
alone. 80% went to nations in Sub-Saharan Africa. Of the
109 test kits, the GPHF donated seven and our company nine
Minilabs to African pharmaceutical regulatory agencies and
health projects in Ghana, Tanzania, Mozambique, Botswana,
the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Ivory Coast.

Schistosomiasis education program expanded

In the 2015-2016 period, we also hosted six Minilab seminars
in Tanzania, Angola, Kenya, Zambia, Rwanda, and Mozambique, with well over 100 participants. In 2016, a oneday Minilab workshop was also held in Germany as part of
the “Pharmacology in international development and disaster
relief” course, which was offered by the Pharmaceutical Institute of the University of Tübingen.

In partnership with WHO, we are providing posters and booklets to African schools that are available in English, French,
Arabic, Portuguese, and Swahili. In 2016, we expanded our
education program and donated a total of 340,000 booklets
to WHO for distribution in ten countries (Ivory Coast, Mali,
Burundi, Congo, Nigeria, Rwanda, Ghana, Sudan, Guinea
Bissau, and Tanzania).

New partnership in fight against counterfeit medicines

Strong partners
In 2015, the team responsible for our Praziquantel Donation
Program received an internal Merck Award of € 10,000.
These employees chose to donate the funds to the NALA
Foundation to support a WASH (water, sanitation, hygiene)
project in Ethiopia that is working to improve the water
supply in schools so as to ensure proper sanitation there. The
WASH project is an example of how the NALA Foundation is
working to combat the root causes of schistosomiasis.

In 2016, the GPHF joined forces with the German Federal
Ministry for Cooperation and Development (BMZ) for the first
time ever to collaborate on a project for the six member
states of the East African Community (EAC). As part of
this effort, the BMZ provided 20 Minilabs in total, with six
sent to Rwanda, and a further six each for Burundi and
Tanzania/Zanzibar. In 2016, the first-ever Central Minilab
Capacity Building workshop was held in the Rwandan capital
of Kigali for participants from the EAC member states of
Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania/Zanzibar.
This project is being spearheaded by the National Metrology
Institute of Germany (PTB).

FAST FACT

Projects across the globe

NALA FOUNDATION
The NALA Foundation works toward eliminating
the root causes of neglected tropical diseases and
other diseases that are often related to poverty.
Through health education and community
engagement, the aim is to facilitate behavioral
change.

In India, we are cooperating with the non-profit organization
Narmada Samagra. Their river ambulance transports health
workers and provides healthcare solutions to local populations living in the remote region along the Narmada River. In
early 2016, we donated a new boat to Narmada Samagra so
that they can reach even more people. The river ambulance
serves around 12,000 people along a 200-kilometer stretch
of river.

In addition to supporting this initiative, in 2015
we also helped the Uraha Foundation Germany
set up a local radio station in the north of Malawi.
Called Radio Dinosaur, the station reports on politics, environmental issues, history, culture, and
health in the local languages of Kyangonde and
ChiTumbuka. It also broadcasts awareness pieces
on schistosomiasis.

We are working to improve medical care around the world.
Every year, our Global Medical Education Department sponsors a number of continuing education initiatives for healthcare professionals. In doing so, we are helping build the
capacities of nurses and physicians, increasing their awareness of symptoms and familiarizing them with advanced
treatment methods. This enhanced expertise ultimately

99

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Community

benefits patients. In 2016, we supported more than 90
different continuing education programs offered by 25 independent educational institutions in the medical sector with
over € 10 million. Via e-learning platforms and continuing
education courses, more than 150,000 medical professionals
benefited from the courses offered by these institutions.

We also support a wide variety of other projects. An overview
of our efforts is provided on our website.

Culture & education
Through cultural and educational initiatives, we are striving
to increase public acceptance and tolerance of new ideas as
well as to bolster creativity and curiosity. We believe that
music and literature in particular help build bridges between
cultures. To us, education is essential to people's intellectual
and professional development. We therefore support education projects at many of our sites by granting scholarships,
for instance, or sponsoring specific classes.

Our principles
Promoting education worldwide
Our goal is to spark a passion for science in the next generation and pave the way for them to pursue a degree in the
STEM subjects. We seek to promote school and university
students with a love of the sciences, which is why we invite
children and adolescents to come to our Junior Lab and
explore their enthusiasm for conducting experiments. In
addition to this program, we have also been supporting the
“Jugend forscht” competition for more than 30 years. Since
1996, we've been organizing the state-level competition for
the German Federal State of Hesse and have also hosted the
nationals twice.

Progress
SPARK: Igniting a passion for science in the next
generation
In early 2016, our Life Science business sector launched the
SPARK initiative to kindle students’ curiosity, ignite a passion
for science, and inspire them to consider a STEM-related
career. Curiosity Labs™ are at the center of SPARK. The
program is designed to educate and inspire students through
hands-on, interactive science lessons – from DNA and chemiluminescence, flavors and fragrances, to water filtration –
typically conducted right in their own classrooms.
The SPARK initiative focuses on skills-based volunteering of
our Life Science employees. In February and March 2016,
3,465 of them participated in SPARK events across 36 countries. Beyond the positive impact SPARK has had on
employees, we have motivated young people around the
world through our Curiosity Lab™ lessons, site tours, career
discussions, and other activities. Building on the positive
feedback from the students, we have begun creating our own
SPARK teams at our various Life Science sites.

Second Junior Lab opened at TU Darmstadt

Music and literature as ambassadors
We founded the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck in Darmstadt
in 1966. What began as a company ensemble is now a
professional symphony orchestra. Our philharmonic is an
integral part of cultural life in Darmstadt and also regularly
goes on international concert tours. In addition to concerts,
we also offer orchestra workshops where children and
adolescents can experience playing in a professional
orchestra.
Like music, literature is also an important ambassador
between cultures. We therefore award five literary prizes
worldwide that particularly recognize authors who distinguish
themselves by unifying cultures as well as science and literature.

Since 2008, we've been partnering with the Technical University (TU) of Darmstadt to operate a junior laboratory for
chemistry. In 2016, we upped our efforts by adding a second
lab to the offering. In the “livfe BioLab”, students can now
also perform biology experiments under guidance from
college students. This initiative links classroom lessons with
trending topics and modern methods of biological research.

Scholarships for students in India
In India, many young people cannot attend university as
they do not have the means to finance a degree. The Merck
India Charitable Trust (MICT) is therefore supporting
students from underprivileged families in Mumbai. In 2016,
89 students received a scholarship that covers five to seven
years of tuition fees as well as study materials.

100

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Community

Helping medical and pharmacology students in China
Since 2011, we've been awarding two-year scholarships to
talented students in China who come from an economically
disadvantaged background. We are focusing our support
particularly on medical and pharmacology students at Fudan
University in Shanghai, which is one of the most renowned
academic institutions in China and ranks among the top 100
universities worldwide. To date, 600 students have benefited
from our scholarships, with 120 in 2016 alone. Recipients
have included PhD fellows and graduates working towards an
advanced degree.
Moreover, since 2016, our Healthcare business sector has
been providing scholarships for MBA students of the National
School of Development (NSD) at the University of Beijing.

India: Making an art of learning
In 2016, we took part in Art By Children, an event held in
India that motivated 5,000 children across 100 schools to
explore their artistic side. This initiative is part of the Kochi
Muziris Biennale, the largest public art event in southern
Asia. Art By Children seeks to link learning with arts education to develop their inherent capacity for creativity.

50 years of the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck
During its second season of 2016, the Deutsche Philharmonie
Merck celebrated its 50th anniversary, and the festivities are
continuing in the first season of 2017. The first highlight was
the opening concert of the anniversary season, which was
held in September 2016 in the basilica of Eberbach Abbey in
Eltville am Rhein, Germany. Moreover, with its “HipHop trifft
Klassik” concert in the same month, the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck performed its first-ever crossover project. This
joint effort with the Munich-based hip hop group Einshoch6
was held in the Frankfurter Jahrhunderthalle.
In 2016, approximately 23,000 people attended the concerts
of the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. In May 2016, our
symphony orchestra played a concert at an internal Merck
event in Madrid (Spain).

Worth € 20,000, this prize went to the author Kathrin Passig
in 2016. According to the German Academy for Language
and Poetry, she was chosen for “her highly original texts,
which address a broad spectrum of topics and expertly span
the blog, book and essay formats.” The journalist and writer
Gabriele Goettle won this award in 2015.
The Merck Kakehashi Literature Prize in Japan was presented
in partnership with the Goethe-Institut Tokyo for the first
time in 2014. Every two years, it recognizes works by
German authors made accessible for a Japanese readership
and comes with prize money totaling € 10,000, split evenly
between the author and their translator. In 2016, writer Ilma
Rakusa and her translator Fuminari Niimoto received the
award.
The 2016 Merck Tagore Award went to Sudhir Kakar, an
Indian psychoanalyst and writer. In numerous landmark
works, Kakar has analyzed the society of the subcontinent
from a psychoanalytical perspective, thereby reflecting upon
the spiritual soul of India. We present the award every two
years in partnership with the Goethe-Institut Kolkata. Worth
500,000 Indian rupees (approx. € 7,200), this literary prize
is granted to authors who have made a significant contribution to cultural exchange between Germany and India.
We have been awarding the Premio Letterario Merck since
2003 in recognition of authors who make science accessible
to a broad audience. The prize is worth € 10,000. In 2016,
the Premio Letterario Merck went to Italian physician Alberto
Mantovani and British historian Helen Macdonald, who have a
special understanding of how to build bridges between literature and science. In 2015, the award went to American
science author and writer David Quammen and French writer
Maylis de Kerangal.
In 2016, we expanded our efforts by launching the Merck
Translation Award in Russia. With € 4,000 in prize money,
this partnership with the Goethe-Institut Russia recognizes
the crucial role that translations play in intercultural
exchange. Presented for the first time in September 2016,
the award went to Vladislava Agafonova, Kirill Levinson and
Alexandra Gorbova for their German-Russian translations.

Literary awards for bridge builders
In Germany, we've been presenting the Johann Heinrich
Merck Award for literary criticism and essays since 1964.

101

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Facts & figures

This section presents our CR targets, describes the advances we have made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and details our work to promote the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The GRI Index documents the extent to
which we are fulfilling the GRI G4 standard. Last but not least, the “Recognition and rankings” section reports on the various awards and recognition we have received.

Read More
103

Report profile

146

Sustainable Development Goals

105

Indicators

149

GRI content index

132

Goals

169

Global Compact CoP

144

Recognition and rankings

172

Assurance Report

102

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Report profile
We have a long tradition of corporate responsibility reporting, with this being our eighth Corporate Responsibility (CR)
Report. This started in 1993 as a series of environmental reports, but then evolved in 2003 into a full CR Report that has
since been published every two years.
With transparency as a key goal, we aim to inform our stakeholders of our activities and successes, as well as the challenges we face. Our 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report documents the progress we’ve made in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (Communication on Progress) and meets the criteria of the German Sustainability
Code (DNK). Our Statement of Compliance with the DNK is publicly accessible in the DNK database.

Reporting framework
This CR report covers the 2015 and 2016 fiscal years and pertains to our entire Group including our subsidiaries in 66 countries. The activities of the U.S.-based life science company Sigma-Aldrich, which we acquired in 2015, are also integrated in
this report. Any deviations from this reporting framework are indicated on a case-by-case basis.

Systems for collecting and consolidating data
Since 2005, we’ve been using a Group-wide electronic data acquisition system to collect environmental and occupational
health and safety data, which is input locally at our individual sites and approved following review. To maximize the quality
of this data, we support the sites in optimizing their collection processes and their corresponding quality assurance
measures. Moreover, our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) conducts internal EHS audits
that review both the processes and the data provided.
We compile environmental performance indicators from all our production sites across the Group, as well as those storage
and research sites that are relevant in terms of their environmental impact and employee count. The scope of consolidation
therefore covers all Merck Group sites that have relevant impacts on the environment.
The data on employees and community outreach pertain to our entire Group. All employee master data is continually
updated in an SAP-based database. Additional employee data, for instance on ILO core labor standards, are generated on an
annual basis using a special data software. We use community data management software to log data pertaining to our
community outreach at subsidiary level.
Some employee data is only disclosed for select sites or countries, which is accordingly indicated in the respective text
passages.

Determining report content
We align the content of our CR Report with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
and the principles of completeness and materiality, as well as input from our stakeholders. The present report was drafted in
accordance with the GRI G4 standard and complies with the “Comprehensive” application level of the GRI guidelines. Moreover, we have taken into consideration the requirements of the capital market for assessing companies' sustainability
performance.
In 2016, we performed a materiality assessment to determine the CR topics of relevance to our Group. As part of this
process, we conducted an international online survey as well as interviews with key stakeholders in summer 2016. In
autumn, we then held an internal materiality workshop at our site in Darmstadt. We have derived the content of this CR
report from the results of the materiality assessment, addressing all issues identified as material. Detailed information on
the materiality assessment and the materiality matrix can be found under Materiality assessment (p. 19).
Our Executive Board has reviewed and approved this report.

103

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

External audit
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the annual financial statements and management report of the Merck
Group for the fiscal year spanning January 1 to December 31, 2016 and issued an unqualified opinion. Furthermore, after
undergoing a limited assurance audit, our company has received an independent audit certificate for the following criteria:
identifying material aspects and boundaries, and involving stakeholders
select management approaches to the material aspects
CR performance indicators

The additional content provided on the company's websites and external webpages indicated in this report is not part of the
information assured by KPMG.

Contact:
We welcome your feedback and are happy to answer any questions.
Merck KGaA
Public Affairs and Corporate Responsibility
Maria Schaad
Frankfurter Str. 250
64293 Darmstadt
Germany
Tel.: +49 6151 72-0
Fax: +49 6151 72-200
Our next CR Report is scheduled for publication in April 2018.

104

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Indicators
We use indicators to measure and assess our corporate responsibility performance. The following key figures have undergone a limited assurance by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft.

Read More
106

Economics

110

Employees

107

Compliance

123

Environment

109

Products

130

Community

105

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Indicators: Economics
Net sales, operating result (EBIT) and research and development costs, by business sector
Healthcare

Life Science

Performance
Materials

Net sales

6,934

3,355

2,556

12,845

Operating result (EBIT)

1,097

301

878

1,843

R&D costs

1,310

197

197

1,709

Net sales

6,855

5,658

2,511

15,024

Operating result (EBIT)

1,593

556

823

2,481

R&D costs

1,496

260

213

1,976

€ million

Group

1

2015

2016

1 As a non-operating segment, Corporate and Other is not shown here as a separate item, but rather under Segment
Reporting in our 2016 Annual Report.

106

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Indicators: Compliance
Internal audits on corruption and Human Rights Charter
2013

2014

2015

2016

1

Number of audits relating to corruption

30

36

49

55

% of audits relating to corruption

64

68

64

68

Number of audits relating to the workplace requirements of our Human Rights Charter

27

32

41

47

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
In 2015, 17% of all subsidiaries (excluding minority holdings, EMD Millipore Corporation, and Merck KGaA, Darmstadt,
Germany) were audited for the period between the third quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of 2014, covering approximately 33% of sales.
In 2016, we audited 12% of all legacy Merck subsidiaries (excluding minority holdings, EMD Millipore Corporation, and
Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany) for the period between the third quarter of 2014 and the second quarter of 2015,
covering approximately 20% of all sales. We also audited 8% of all Sigma-Aldrich sites, a company acquired in 2015.

Reported compliance violations
2013
Number of reported compliance incidents
Number of confirmed cases

2016

1

2014

2015

22

26

33

36

9

11

8

12

2015

2016

2

3

29,764

3

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016

Compliance training
Total number of persons trained on anticorruption guidelines

2013

2014

1

24,168

7,519

3

% of employees trained on anti-corruption

20,404

63

14

43

51

12,390

3,071

12,747

14,379

% of employees Global Grade 10 or higher trained
on anti-corruption

69

17

64

84

% of employees Global Grade 9 or lower trained
on anti-corruption

51

12

22

34

–

–

–

54

by employee category
Number of employees Global Grade 10 or higher
trained on anti-corruption

by region (%)

4

Europe
North America

–

–

–

57

Asia-Pacific (APAC)

–

–

–

38

Latin America

–

–

–

52

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

–

–

–

66

1 In Q1 – Q3 2014, Group Compliance performed a thorough analysis and review of its Compliance Training Program. No
courses were scheduled for these quarters.
2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
3 Includes contractors, external supervised workers (e.g. temps) and contract partners working on-site who were trained
on anti-corruption guidelines (2015: 3,026, 2016: 3,875).
4 As of 2016, we are also reporting the training rate by region. No such data was tracked for the preceding years.

107

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

In order to address the special responsibility held by management personnel, as well as by staff with HR responsibility,
these employees are increasingly receiving training on anti-corruption guidelines. This applies to all employees rated Global
Grade (GG) 10 or higher.
Our compliance and anti-corruption principles are communicated to all our business partners, who undergo a Business
Partner Risk Management (BPRM) process.

Legal actions
2013

2014

2015

1

2016

2

Total number of legal actions pending or
completed (for anti-competitive behavior, violations of anti-trust or violations of monopoly
legislation)

3

2

2

2

pending

2

2

2

2

completed

1

0

0

0

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015
2 As published in the annual reports, the herein listed total number of legal actions refers to the significant legal risks as
per the company’s definition. The significance of legal risks is based on potential negative effects on projected financial
objectives as well as on the probability of occurrence.
For further information please see our annual reports:
Annual Report 2013, pages 132-134 and pages 226-227, no. 48
Annual Report 2014, pages 130-131 and pages 213-215, no. 48
Annual Report 2015, pages 128-129 and pages 212-213, no. 27
Annual Report 2016, pages 135-136 and pages 228-229, no. 26

108

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Indicators: Products
Customer privacy

1

Total number of substantiated complaints received
from outside parties

0

0

0

0

Total number of complaints from regulatory bodies

0

1

0

0

Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of
customer data

0

0

0

1

109

2016

2

2014

1 This data only reflects incidents classified as significant.
2 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway.

2015

2

2013

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Indicators: Employees
We track data on our employees Group-wide. When the legal frameworks are not comparable or no global data is available,
the data will then only reflect our employees in Germany (approximately 25% of our workforce).

Employee facts & figures worldwide
Total number of employees
As of Dec. 31
Total number of employees

2013

2014

2015

1

2016

38,154

39,639

49,613

50,414

Men

22,253

23,273

28,997

28,848

Women

15,901

16,366

20,616

21,566

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015

110

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Number of employees by hierarchical level
As of Dec. 31
Total employees

2013

2014

1

2015

2

2016

3

38,154

39,639

40,718

50,414

63

63

75

87

1,949

2,108

2,333

2,800

36,142

37,468

38,310

47,527

42

41

41

43

10

10

12

15

498

562

633

817

15,393

15,794

16,182

20,734

58

59

59

57

53

53

63

72

Senior management (Global Grade above 17)
Low and middle management (Global Grade
14–17)
Other employees (Global Grade below 14)
% of women (total)
thereof in senior management (Global Grade
above 17)
thereof in low and middle management
(Global Grade 14–17)
thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14)
% of men (total)
thereof in senior management (Global Grade
above 17)
thereof in low and middle management
(Global Grade 14–17)
thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14)

by age group
Up to 29 years old (%)
thereof in senior management (Global Grade
above 17)
thereof in low and middle management
(Global Grade 14–17)
thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14)
30 to 49 years old (%)
thereof in senior management (Global Grade
above 17)
thereof in low and middle management
(Global Grade 14–17)
thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14)
50 years or older (%)
thereof in senior management (Global Grade
above 17)
thereof in low and middle management
(Global Grade 14–17)
thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14)

1,451

1,546

1,700

1,983

20,748

21,673

22,128

26,793

15

15

15

15

0

0

0

0

5

6

5

8

5,901

5,884

5,848

7,411

64

64

64

62

27

24

29

35

1,233

1,340

1,469

1,720

23,302

24,082

24,680

29,768

20

21

21

23

36

39

46

52

711

762

859

1,072

6,939

7,502

7,782

10,348

1 Figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, a company acquired in July 2014, because our Global
Grading System had not yet been implemented for them as of December 31, 2014. These employees are included under
“thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14)”.
2 As of Dec. 31 2015, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a
company acquired in November 2015. These figures therefore exclude Sigma-Aldrich.
3 From 2016 on, these figures include Sigma-Aldrich, but as of Dec. 31 2016 the Global Grading System had not yet been
implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany or for employees of Allergopharma. These
employees are included under “thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14)”.

111

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Average number of employees by functional area
Average number of employees
Group
Thereof women

2013

2

16,110

17,180

21,136

9,985

10,176

11,563

14,829

not recorded

3,202

3,642

4,698

1,779

2,207

2,581

3,955

not recorded

774

913

1459

12,214

12,113

12,871

14,887

not recorded

4,814

5,204

6,401

5,106

6,342

6,763

8,190

not recorded

3,557

3,757

4,421

4,433

4,738

5,097

6,249

not recorded

2,534

2,674

3,274

4,765

3,354

2,636

2,329

not recorded

1,230

990

883

Infrastructure and Other
Thereof women

2016

not recorded

Research and Development
Thereof women

2

50,439

Administration
Thereof women

2015

41,511

Marketing and Sales
Thereof women

1

38,930

Logistics
Thereof women

2014

38,282

Production
Thereof women

1

1 Average headcount (HC) 2014 and 2013 is calculated based on the End HC of the last 5 quarters divided by 5.
2 The average employee headcount for 2015 and 2016 is calculated by adding up all employees at the end of each of the
last 13 months, and dividing this total by 13. Employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired in November 2015, are
only included in the employee headcount calculations as of November 2015.

Number of employees by region
As of Dec. 31
Total

1

2016

49,613

50,414

2013

2014

38,154

39,639

20,013

20,537

23,429

24,438

8,755

8,893

10,316

10,884

4,911

5,092

9,794

10,037

Employees in Europe
thereof women
Employees in North America
thereof women
Employees in Asia-Pacific (APAC)
thereof women
Employees in Latin America
thereof women
Employees in the Middle East and Africa (MEA)
thereof women

2015

2,246

2,272

4,183

4,308

8,862

9,488

11,096

10,754

2,947

3,176

3,706

3,981

3,798

3,883

4,352

4,140

1,699

1,745

1,986

1,910

570

639

942

1,045

254

280

425

483

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015
External contractors are currently not logged in our employee data system, nor do we currently have any plans to integrate
them.

112

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Employees by business sector
As of Dec. 31
Healthcare employees

1

2016

17,757

18,566

18,837

8,130

8,522

9,090

2013

2014

17,278
7,909

Thereof women
Thereof women (%)
Life Science employees
Thereof women
Thereof women (%)

2015

46

46

46

48

9,837

9,796

18,611

19,178

4,124

4,134

7,883

7,928

42

42

42

41

4,709

5,995

6,228

5,469

1,210

1,498

1,531

1,427

26

25

25

26

2013

2014

38,154

Number of employees with permanent contracts
Number of employees with temporary contracts

Performance Materials employees
Thereof women
Thereof women (%)
1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015

Employees by contract type
As of Dec. 31
Total employees

1

2016

39,639

49,613

50,414

36,908

38,410

46,454

46,837

2015

1,246

1,219

3,159

3,577

% of employees with permanent contracts

97

97

94

93

% of employees with temporary contracts

3

3

6

7

34,911

37,573

47,292

48,056

full-time employees
% full-time
thereof women
thereof women (%)
part-time employees
% part-time
thereof women
thereof women (%)
1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015

113

95

98

95

95

13,524

14,497

18,557

19,457

39

39

39

40

1,994

2,066

2,321

2,358

6

5

5

5

1,839

1,869

2,059

2,109

92

90

89

89

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

New employees
Total number of new employee hires

2013

2014

5,007

6,212

1

2016

5,710

7,085

2015

by age group
Up to 29 years old

2,358

2,305

2,088

2,930

30 to 49 years old

2,397

3,361

3,252

3,736

252

546

370

419

Women

2,051

2,513

2,450

3,388

Men

2,945

3,689

3,260

3,697

1,757

2,312

2,119

2,689

526

826

730

1,348

2,060

2,298

1,913

2,201

50 or older
by gender

by region
Europe
North America
Asia-Pacific (APAC)
Latin America

548

619

780

636

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

116

157

168

211

2

13

16

14

14

Up to 29 years old

47

37

37

41

30 to 49 years old

48

54

57

53

5

9

6

6

Rate of new employee hires (%)
by age group

3

50 or older
by gender

3

Women

41

41

43

48

Men

59

59

57

52

Europe

35

37

37

38

North America

11

13

13

19

by region

3

Asia-Pacific (APAC)

41

37

33

31

Latin America

11

10

14

9

2

3

3

3

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

1 These figures exclude the 8,975 Sigma-Aldrich employees, who are not classified as new hires because they joined Merck
as part of the Sigma-Aldrich acquisition.
2 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires: Total number of new employee hires divided by Number of
employees at the end of the fiscal year.
3 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires by age/gender/region: New employee hires of the focus group
divided by the total number of new employee hires. In consequence of the modified calculation method and the new
composition of our regions effective January 1, 2015 corresponding figures for the preceeding years have been retroactively adjusted.

114

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Staff turnover

1

2013
Total turnover rate

2

14.61

2014

2

11.01

2015

3

10.38

2016

3,4

12.07

Turnover rate by gender
Men

13.98

10.75

10.13

12.87

Women

15.00

11.38

10.73

10.96

Up to 29 years old

21.55

18.71

17.49

19.20

30 to 49 years old

13.44

9.72

9.69

11.37

50 or older

13.01

9.49

8.08

9.19

Turnover rate by age group

Turnover rate by region
Europe

14.61

7.05

6.22

6.23

North America

10.51

12.45

12.72

11.50

not recorded

17.55

15.95

22.37

not recorded

13.67

15.29

18.85

not recorded

13.62

12.00

10.80

5,573

4,364

4,168

6,087

Men

3,110

2,502

2,386

3,771

Women

2,385

1,862

1,782

2,316

1,273

1,102

943

1,464

30 to 49 years old

3,300

2,474

2,505

3,589

50 or older

1,000

788

720

1,034

2,367

1,447

1,290

1,490

516

634

638

1,132

Asia-Pacific (APAC)
Latin America

5

5

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

5

Total number of leavers
by gender

by age group
Up to 29 years old

by region
Europe
North America
Asia-Pacific (APAC)
Latin America

5

5

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

5

not recorded

1,665

1,540

2,543

not recorded

531

618

814

not recorded

87

82

108

1 The table contains unadjusted turnover rates. The rate excludes employees who depart due to parental leave or a longterm illness, as well as employees who are transitioning to the non-working phase of partial retirement.
2 Employee turnover for fiscal 2013 and 2014 is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers of the past 12 months multiplied by 100 divided by the employee headcount as of December 31.
3 Employee headcount for fiscal 2015 and 2016 is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers from the past 12 months
divided by the average employee headcount (see table “average number of employees by functional area”) multiplied by
100. These figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich, which is still undergoing integration. In consequence of the modified calculation method for turnover rate, it is only possible to make a limited statement concerning interannual trends.
4 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
5 We have no 2013 data for the Asia-Pacific (APAC), Latin America, and Middle East and Africa (MEA) regions, which were
realigned in 2015.

115

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO)
As of Dec. 31

2014

2015

% of full-time employees (standard contract,
excluding exempts) with contractually stipulated
2
working hours of maximally 48 hours/week

99

99

100

100

% of full-time employees (standard contract) with at
3
least 15 vacation days/year

98

95

97

95

100

100

100

100

% of employees with the right to collective
5
bargaining

97

97

98

92

% of employees working at companies where collective agreements apply

68

66

71

54

% of sites that rule out complicity in child labor as
described in ILO Convention 138

100

100

100

100

Age of youngest employees, excluding apprentices

16

17

17

17

% of female employees with access to maternity
4
leave programs

1
2
3
4
5

2016

1

2013

Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
ILO: Hours of Work (Commerce and Offices) Convention, 1930 (No. 30)
ILO: Holidays with Pay Convention (Revised), 1970 (No. 132)
ILO: Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952 (No. 103)
ILO: Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87)

Local minimum wage
As of Dec. 31
% of sites that guarantee a salary above the local
2
minimum wage

2013

2014

2015

100

100

100

2016

1

100

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
2 Minimum wage as stipulated by law, or derived from other provisions such as collective agreements.
The Global Rewards Policy applies across all our subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure.
Base pay is oriented on the median base pay, and short-term variable compensation is based on the third quartile of the
relevant reference market. All employees within the lowest Grades are paid within this salary band, which corresponds at
least to the local minimum wage.

116

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Work-related accidents

1
2

2016

1.8

1.4

1.3

3.7

2.9

2.6

2.1

0.9

1.0

0.9

1.1

2013

2014

2.2

Europe
North America

Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR=workplace accidents resulting in missed days of work per one
million man-hours)

2015

by region

Asia-Pacific (APAC)

0.3

0.5

0.3

0.4

Latin America

2.1

1.3

0.7

0.4

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

1.8

0.9

0.5

1.6

0

2

2

0

Number of deaths
by region
Europe

0

0

1

0

North America

0

0

1

0

Asia-Pacific (APAC)

0

1

0

0

Latin America

0

1

0

0

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

0

0

0

0

Women

0

1

1

0

Men

0

1

1

0

by gender

1 Including supervised workers
2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015
Despite our efforts to prevent accidents, we had two fatal workplace accidents in 2015; one employee died in a car accident
in the United States, and in Germany one employee suffered a fatal accident involving a forklift.
Both Merck employees as well as contractors have been included in the calculation of these indicators.
Through the LTIR, we record work-related accidents that involve at least one day of missed work. A work-related accident is
an injury that results from the type of work, in the course of doing said work, and that has no internal cause. Work-related
accidents are considered relevant if they occur on the premises, on business trips, during goods transport, as a result of
external influences (e.g. natural disasters), or due to criminal acts involving personal injury. Commuting accidents and accidents during company sporting activities are not included. First-aid incidents are generally not included in the LTIR since
these usually do not result in more than one day of missed work.
By 2020, we intend to sustainably lower the LTIR to 1.5. The aim is to permanently stabilize or outperform this challenging
number, which we achieved for the first time in 2015.
We have defined the LTIR as a key indicator for the Merck Group. Therefore, we do not publish any other indicators such
as workplace accidents, lost days or days of absence. The LTIR is not broken down by gender as this differentiation is not
relevant to our strategic planning.
For the Merck KGaA sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim (about 19% of the employees of the Merck Group), we only report
work-related illnesses if these have been diagnosed and verified by a physician. In the 2015-2016 period, no cases of workinduced illness were recorded.

Spending on advanced training for employees
€
Average continuing education spending per employee
1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016

117

2013

2014

2015

679

718

775

2016

1

736

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

We record and report the costs of vocational training and continuing education for our employees. We are not currently
tracking the average number of continuing education hours consolidated at Group level, but we are working on a technical
solution.

Employees who regularly receive a performance and development evaluation
2013
% of employees who receive a performance and
development evaluation

1

2014

2

2015

3

2016

4

72

79

88

97

Women

75

84

90

97

Men

71

77

87

97

by gender

by employee category
Senior management (Global Grade above 17)

100

97

5

100

100

Low and middle management (Global Grade
14–17)

100

96

5

100

100

78

5

88

97

Other employees (Global Grade below 14)

72

1
2
3
4

The 2013 data is based on a reporting date of March 12, 2014.
The 2014 data is based on a reporting date of March 2, 2015.
The 2015 data is based on a reporting date of February 29, 2016.
From 2016 on, figures include Sigma-Aldrich, but as of Dec. 31 2016, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany and of Allergopharma.
5 The fluctuations in participant numbers by employee category can be explained by the process of Merck’s acquisition of
AZ Electronic Materials.
Regular feedback and employee performance evaluations are essential to fairly ranking individual performance and to helping
all employees follow their own career path at Merck. Our globally uniform Performance and Talent Management Process
requires annual feedback meetings and performance assessments for all employees rated Global Grade 10 and up in the position ranking system that was used in 2016. Apart from evaluating employee performance, this helps us to identify individual
development opportunities.
When it comes to applying this process, our individual subsidiaries can decide for themselves whether to include employees
rated below Global Grade 10. In Germany, all permanent employees have been participating in the Performance and Talent
Management Process since 2013. In 2016, a total of 49,000 employees worldwide were involved in the process. The Performance and Talent Management Process is coordinated via our HR Suite IT system.

Internationality of employees
As of Dec. 31

2013

Number of nationalities

2014

1

2015

2

2016

3

114

122

122

129

Number of nationalities in management positions
(Global Grade 14 or above)

64

67

64

70

% of non-Germans in management positions (Global
Grade 14 or above)

60

60

61

65

1 These figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, a company that was acquired in July 2014. As of
December 31, 2014, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented there.
2 These figures do not include the employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company that was acquired in November 2015. As of
December 31, 2015, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented there.
3 From 2016 on, figures include Sigma-Aldrich. However, as of Dec. 31 2016, the Global Grading System had not yet been
implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany or for employees of Allergopharma.

118

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Employee age by region
As of Dec. 31
Number of
employees
2015

Worldwide

North
America

Europe
(including
Germany)

7,565

1,314

2,912

Germany

Asia-Pacific
(APAC)

Latin
America

Middle East
and Africa
(MEA)

1,624

2,496

666

177

1

Up to 29 years old
thereof women

3,233

522

1,378

649

898

367

68

30 to 49 years old

31,047

5,117

14,589

6,775

7,651

3,092

598

thereof women
50 or older
thereof women
Average age
Total employees

13,242

2,285

6,673

2,674

2,576

1,434

274

11,001

3,363

5,928

3,539

949

594

167

4,141

1,376

2,265

1,241

232

185

83

41.2

44.2

42.4

43.0

36.7

39.5

39.5

49,613

9,794

23,429

11,938

11,096

4,352

942

7,419

1,319

3,087

1,757

2,260

562

191

2016
Up to 29 years old
thereof women

3,331

548

1,470

695

922

312

79

30 to 49 years old

31,523

5,224

15,023

6,938

7,625

2,972

679

thereof women

13,849

2,327

6,985

2,780

2,817

1,405

315

50 or older
thereof women
Average age
Total employees

11,472

3,494

6,328

3,755

869

606

175

4,386

1,433

2,429

1,333

242

193

89

41.3

44.3

42.4

42.9

36.7

39.9

39.3

50,414

10,037

24,438

12,450

10,754

4,140

1,045

1

2016

1 Figures include Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015

Global voluntary insurance benefits (voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed)
As of Dec. 31

2013

% of employees with healthcare benefits

2

% of employees with Group accident insurance
% of employees with life insurance

3

4

% of employees with disability insurance (short-term
5
and long-term)

1

2014

1

2015

–

–

–

90

–

–

–

39

–

–

–

57

–

–

–

32

1 Since 2016, we’ve been reporting global voluntary insurance benefits that we offer our employees. No such data was
tracked for the preceding years.
2 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed healthcare benefits for employees and possibly their dependents.
Not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover (Mostly covered by an insurance policy).
3 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed accident insurance that pays a defined amount in case of death or
disability caused by a work-related accident (not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover, e.g.
workman's compensation).
4 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed life insurance cover that pays a defined amount of money in case
of natural death (not accidental).
5 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed insurance cover that disability pays for salary continuation in case
of inability to work caused by an insured incident.

119

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

All our employees are covered by either statutory or voluntary accident and health insurance.
We offer a company pension in numerous countries along with various programs for supplemental company pensions and
survivor's benefits.
The global benefits listed in the table above are designed to provide additional security to our workforce and their families
and to improve their quality of life. Benefits represent voluntarily employer-initiated as well as employer-financed assistance
to our workforce in addition to the regular compensation package.
Our benefits offer meaningful choices, where possible, to support a diverse workforce and are sensitive to the needs and
customs of the employees who use them, regardless of country, age, family status, interests, or values.

Long-term pension obligations and post-employment benefits
1

2016

3,813

4,153

4,698

157

210

226

€ million

2013

2014

Present value of all defined benefit obligations as of
Dec. 31

2,737
147

Pension expenses

2015

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015
Depending on the legal, economic and fiscal circumstances prevailing in each country, different retirement benefit systems
are provided for the employees of the Merck Group. Generally, these systems are based on the years of service and salaries
of the employees. Pension obligations of the Merck Group include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and
comprise both obligations from current pensions and accrued benefits for pensions payable in the future. In the Merck Group,
defined benefit plans are funded and unfunded (see our Annual Report 2016, Note on Provisions for pensions and other postemployment benefits).

Flexible working hours
As of Dec. 31
% of employees with the option of working flexible
hours
1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016

120

2013

2014

2015

75

74

80

2016

1

78

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Employee facts and figures, Germany
Parental leave in Germany

1

As of Dec. 31
Number of employees with a right to parental leave
thereof women (recorded via maternity leave in
the respective year)
thereof men (recorded via special paternity leave
in the respective year)

2013

2014

2015

2016

254

331

317

359

120

165

149

191

134

166

168

168

433

507

485

480

thereof women

292

349

301

303

thereof men

141

158

184

177

81

99

102

102

77

94

99

95

4

5

3

7

Number of employees who took parental leave

2

Number of employees on parental leave who worked
part time during their leave
thereof women
thereof men
Number of employees who returned from parental
leave

151

187

183

174

thereof women

60

83

51

62

thereof men

91

104

132

112

Return to work rate (%)

34.9

36.9

37.7

36.3

thereof women

20.6

23.8

16.9

20.5

thereof men

64.5

65.8

71.7

63.3

152

137

184

Number of employees still working for Merck one
year after their return from parental leave

–

3
3

thereof women

57

35

55

–

thereof men

95

102

129

–

3

93.8

90.7

96.8

–

3

thereof women

91.9

58.3

98.2

–

3

thereof men

95.0

112.1

96.3

–

3

Retention rate (%)

1 Figures only pertain to the Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany (which accounted for around 20.9% of Merck
Group employees in 2016). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also includes those
employees who took parental leave during the calendar year, but who had not returned by Dec. 31.
2 Since parental leave can be taken for a period ranging from one month to three years, it is possible for employees to be
recorded across a period of up to four calendar years. This explains why the number of employees on parental leave
exceeds the number of employees who have a right to it.
3 Figure will be available on Dec. 31, 2017.

1

Employees with disabilities (%)
As of Dec. 31
Employees with disabilities

1

2013

2014

2015

2016

5.0

4.7

4.7

4.5

1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA (which accounted for around 20% of Merck Group employees in 2016, calculations based on
the German Social Code IX - SGB IX).

121

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Apprentices
As of Dec. 31

2013

2014

1

2015

2

2016

3

Number of apprentices

516

498

506

576

% of apprentices

5.6

5.4

5.3

4.6

1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA sites in Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Grafing, Germany (which accounted for roughly 24% of
the Merck Group's employees in 2014).
2 Only pertains to Merck KGaA (roughly 19% of the Merck Group's total employee headcount in 2015).
3 Reflects only those Merck sites in Germany (approximately 25% of the Group's total workforce in 2016).

122

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Indicators: Environment
Spending on environmental protection, safety and health
€ million

2013

2014

2015

Spending

142

145

148

2016

1

189

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
These figures include both investments in as well as internal and external spending on waste and wastewater management,
water, occupational safety, fire protection, noise reduction, air pollution prevention, decontamination, preservation of nature
and the landscape, climate impact mitigation, and energy efficiency. We do not further break down our spending on environmental protection by type.

Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the GHG Protocol)
metric kilotons

2

2013

2014

2015

2016

790

784

736

729

715

2006

3

Total CO2eq emissions

1

Thereof
direct CO2eq emissions

378

417

390

393

386

indirect CO2eq emissions

412

367

346

336

329

6

6

11

54

56

Biogenic CO2 emissions

1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions
have been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. Sigma-Aldrich in 2015) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolioadjusted).
2 Baseline for our emission targets is 2006.
3 eq = equivalent
The increase in biogenic carbon emissions was caused by the biomass power plants that were commissioned in Goa, India
and Jaffrey, New Hampshire (USA) at the end of 2014.
Our response to the Carbon Disclosure Project contains a detailed description of our calculation methods.
We have included the following gases in our calculation of direct and indirect CO 2eq emissions:
Direct CO2 emissions: CO2, HFCs, PFCs; CH4/N2O negligible; SF6/NF3 not available.
Indirect CO2 emissions: CO2.

In 2016, we emitted 0.048 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales.

123

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol)
2014

2015

64

319

349

426

Total gross other indirect emissions (metric
1
kilotons CO2eq )

2016

2

2013

Fuel- and energy-related emissions, not included
in Scope 1 or 2 (category 3)

not recorded

97

95

127

Waste generated in operations (category 5)

not recorded

96

123

127

Business travel - air travel (category 6)

63

74

79

Business travel - rail travel (category 6)

0.05

0.02

0.02

0.02

1.3

1.2

1.1

0.6

not recorded

51

51

68

not recorded

0

4

0

4

0

4

0

5

0

5

0

5

Business travel - rental car travel (category 6)
Employee commuting (category 7)
Upstream leased assets (category 8)
Processing of sold products (category 10)

not recorded

103

3

Downstream leased assets (category 13)

not recorded

0

0

0

Franchises (category 14)

not recorded

0

0

0

1 eq = equivalent
2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
3 This figure covers roughly 80% - 85% of the employees of the Merck Group because the data for the employees of
Sigma-Aldrich, acquired in November 2015, are only partially available.
4 Already covered under Scope 1/2 emissions
5 Merck produces a huge variety of intermediate products for various purposes. Due to their many applications and our
customer structure, the associated GHG emissions cannot be tracked in a reasonable fashion.
No data is available for Scope 3 categories not listed above. Their relevance to Merck is assessed in the Scope 3 document.
Biogenic emissions (Scope 3), if present, are not being recorded.

Emissions of ozone-depleting substances
metric tons
Total emissions of ozone-depleting substances
CFC-11eq

1

2014

2015

2016

2.5

2.0

2.5

2.2

0.1

0.1

0.1

0.1

2013

2

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich from 2013 onwards
2 CFC-11eq is a unit of measure used to compare the potential of various substances to deplete the ozone. Reference figure
1 indicates the potential of CFC-11 to cause the depletion of the ozone layer.
Substances included: R-12, R-22, R-141b, R-402a, R-409a, R-401a.
Source for the emission factors: Montreal Protocol.

Other air emissions
metric kilotons

2013

2014

Volatile organic compounds (VOC)

0.2

0.3

Nitrogen oxide

0.2

0.2

Sulfur dioxide

0.02

Dust

0.01

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
2 Figure retroactively adjusted.

124

2015

2016

1

0.3

0.3

2

0.2

0.02

0.05

0.05

0.02

0.06

0.02

0.3

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

The VOC, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, and dust emissions reported here are attributable to production activities as well as
energy generation. These figures do not include emissions from vehicles. Emissions are determined partially based on
measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters.

Transport of finished goods, by means of transportation
2013

1

2014

1

2015

1

2016

2

% Truck

56

56

53

71

% Boat

37

38

41

18

7

6

6

11

% Airplane

1 The figures for 2013 through 2015 pertain to goods shipped by our Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Hohenbrunn sites in
Germany (excluding Sigma-Aldrich).
2 From 2016 on, the figures contain the volumes of the biggest global distribution centers of our Healthcare, Life Science
and Performance Materials business sectors. These figures pertain to the total weight of transported products and indicate
the primary means of transport (including Sigma-Aldrich).
In shipping finished goods from our production sites to the local warehouses of our subsidiaries, we have been working to
reduce the use of air shipping in favor of sea freight. This change aims to both reduce costs as well as lower transportrelated CO2 emissions.

125

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Energy consumption

1

In GWh
Total energy consumption
Direct energy consumption
Natural gas
Liquid fossil fuels

2

Biomass and self-generated renewable energy
Indirect energy consumption
Electricity
Steam, heat, cold

2013

2014

2015

2016

2,108

2,158

2,256

2,253

1,286

1,354

1,451

1,443

1,157

1,212

1,212

1,272

114

115

104

30

15

27

135

141

822

804

805

810

743

707

709

715

79

97

96

95

Total energy sold

0.4

0.6

0.5

0.5

Electricity

0.4

0.6

0.5

0.5

0

0

0

0

2013

2014

2015

2016

Steam, heat, cold
In TJ
Total energy consumption

7,589

7,769

8,122

8,111

4,630

4,874

5,224

5,195

4,165

4,363

4,363

4,579

410

414

374

108

54

97

486

508

2,959

2,894

2,898

2,916

2,675

2,545

2,552

2,574

284

349

346

342

Total energy sold

1

2

2

2

Electricity

1

2

2

2

Steam, heat, cold

0

0

0

0

Direct energy consumption
Natural gas
Liquid fossil fuels

2

Biomass and self-generated renewable energy
Indirect energy consumption
Electricity
Steam, heat, cold

1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the energy consumption has
been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions
or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted).
2 Light and heavy fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), diesel and gasoline
At our sites in Billerica (MA, USA), Bedford (MA, USA), Molsheim (France), Tel Aviv (Israel), Rome (Italy), Guatemala City
(Guatemala), Shizuoka-ken (Japan), and Shanghai (China), we use photovoltaics to produce power. Since 2015, the
increase in biomass and self-generated renewable energy consumption has been attributable to the biomass power plants
that were commissioned in Goa, India, and Jaffrey (NH, USA) in 2014.
The reduction in liquid fossil fuel consumption primarily stems from a project at our Onahama site in Japan that switched
energy generation from kerosene to natural gas.
Merck currently only records purchased secondary energy – this is primarily electricity and, to a lesser extent, heat/steam/
cold. Details on the local energy mix, including the respective percentage of primary energy, renewable energy, etc. are not
available. Data on local energy efficiency in electricity or heat generation are not available either. Our production sites are
located in countries with a widely varying energy mix.
Our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany consume the most energy, representing 29% of our Group-wide total. At
these sites, fossil energy (coal, gas, etc.) accounts for approx. 53%, nuclear energy approx. 15% and renewable energies
approx. 32% of the energy mix. Renewable energies account for a higher share of electricity generation at production sites
in Switzerland, with nuclear energy taking the lead in France. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 37% for the
conversion and distribution of generated electricity, this results in a primary energy consumption of 1,931 GWh for 2016.
Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 85% for heat/steam/cold, this results in a primary energy consumption of
112 GWh for 2016. This yields a total primary energy consumption of 2,043 GWh for 2016. The calculation is based on
factors stated in the “Manual for energy management in practice - Systematically reducing energy costs” published by
DENA, 12/2012.

126

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

In 2016, Merck's energy intensity relative to net sales totaled 0.150 kWh/€ compared to 0.134 kWh/€ in 2015.

Water consumption
millions of m

3

Total water consumption
Surface water (rivers, lakes)

13.6

13.7

2

1.2

2

1.2

6.3

7.0

2

7.2

3.6

2

5.4

2

5.3

0.01

2

0.01

2

0.01

2

3.4

Rain water and other sources

11.1

9.6
5.4

Drinking water (from local suppliers)

2016

2014

0.8

Groundwater

1

2013

2

0.01

1.2

2015

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015
2 Figure retroactively adjusted.
These figures do not include the ground water that we use for safety measures at our Gernsheim site in Germany. Here, the
water is fed back directly into natural circulation.

Water reused
millions of m

3

Water reused

2013

2014

16.6

16.0

1

2016

23.0

22.7

2015

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015
The increase in reused water in 2015 is attributable to the recirculating cooling system that went online at our facility in
Darmstadt, Germany. This system provides recirculating cooling water to both our new co-generation unit as well as our
new cold and compressed air generator. The recirculating cooling system largely accounts for the amount of reused water as
it allows the water to be re-utilized multiple times. The volume of reused water is thus greater than the total volume of
consumed water.

Wastewater volume and quality
2013

2014

2015

1

2016

3

Total wastewater volume (millions of m )

8.6

10.1

11.8

12.1

Chemical oxygen demand (metric tons of O2)

756

1,319

1,933

1,535

7

10

10

12

330

303

2

451

42

34

Phosphorous (metric tons)
Nitrogen (metric tons)

77

Zinc (kg)

406

Chromium (kg)

2

23

Copper (kg)
Nickel (kg)

81
410

2

36

498

36

34

84

53

110

128

128

124

Lead (kg)

42

55

54

56

Cadmium (kg)

10

10

13

11

Mercury (kg)

1

1

2

2

Arsenic (kg)

4

4

5

4

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015
2 Figures retroactively adjusted.
The wastewater volume includes indirect discharge into both public and Merck-owned wastewater treatment plants, as well
as direct discharge (such as rainwater and cooling water).

127

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

The wastewater treatment plant at our Gernsheim, Germany site also treats wastewater from the neighboring municipality
of Biebesheim. The communal wastewater from Biebesheim is included in the wastewater volume as well as in the emissions
stated in the table.
Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some
sites are required to measure individual parameters.

Hazardous and non-hazardous waste
metric kilotons
Total waste
Hazardous waste disposed

2

Non-hazardous waste disposed
Hazardous waste recycled

2

3

Non-hazardous waste recycled

3

1

2016

228

317

254

53

55

50

55

35

44

2013

2014

161
37
31

2015

50

49

73

75

43

71

154

85

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015
2 Disposed = incineration (without energy recovery) and landfill
3 Recycled = incineration (without energy recovery) and material recycling
The increase in “non-hazardous waste recycled” in 2015 can be attributed to the sharp rise in construction, excavation and
demolition waste. Construction, excavation and demolition waste accounted for 49% of our waste in 2015 and 30% in 2016.

Exported/Imported hazardous waste
metric kilotons
Exported

1

2016

9.6

5.1

4.6

0.003

0.01

0.01

2013

2014

2

7.1

3

0.01

Imported

2015

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015
2 Disposal within the EU and the United States.
3 As part of the return system for our cell tests, these kits are brought to our Gernsheim site in Germany for proper
disposal.

Waste by disposal method
Total waste (metric kilotons)

2013

2014

2015

1

2016

161

228

317

254

Disposed waste (metric kilotons)

67

108

90

94

Landfilled waste (metric kilotons)

13

37

16

15

Incinerated waste (metric kilotons)

54

71

74

79

Recycled waste (metric kilotons)

94

120

227

160

Material recycling (metric kilotons)

69

93

195

128

Waste-to-energy (metric kilotons)

25

27

32

32

58

53

72

63

Recycling rate (%)
1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015

As in previous years, the total waste generated continues to be heavily influenced by the waste from construction and
remodeling activities. Construction, excavation and demolition waste accounted for 49% of our waste in 2015 and 30% in
2016. In 2015, around 124 metric kilotons of construction, excavation and demolition waste was recycled, with roughly 53
metric kilotons recycled in 2016.

128

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Significant spills
Total number of significant spills
1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015

129

2013

2014

0

0

1

2016

0

0

2015

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Indicators: Community
Spending on community involvement
€ million
Total spending

2013

2014

2015

46.2

50.8

100.0

2016

1,2

43.0

1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
®
2 From 2016 on, we are separating spending on patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance
Program from our community involvement figures.
We calculate the value of pharmaceutical product donations according to the WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations; for
other product donations, we apply their fair value.

Community involvement spending by region

1

Europe

North
America

Asia-Pacific
(APAC)

Latin
America

Middle East
and Africa
(MEA)

10.1

2.3

4.4

1.1

25.1

24

5

10

3

58

2016
€ million
%

1 This table presents the regions across the globe in which we support initiatives. For projects that benefit multiple regions,
we have calculated the amount per region by dividing the project spending evenly per country.

Focus of our local community involvement

1

%
Health

2016

2,3,4

2013

2014

2015

23

33

33

35

Culture and education

42

38

33

36

Environment

10

10

7

5

6

4

6

2

19

15

21

22

Disaster relief
Other

1 Based on number of projects
2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
3 Since 2016, we have integrated our global projects into our community outreach figures, specifically the Global Pharma
Health Fund, the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. This change in approach
was due to the increasingly international nature of our efforts. We are spearheading a rising number of global projects
that account for a growing percentage of our project portfolio. To ensure maximal accuracy, we are therefore including all
international initiatives in our figures as of 2016.
®
4 From 2016 on, we are separating spending on patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance
Program from our charitable spending figures.

130

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Motivations for our community involvement

1

%

2016

2,3,4

2013

2014

2015

Charitable activities

20

9

3

4

Community investment

59

59

92

87

Commercial initiatives in the community

21

32

5

9

1 Based on total spending on all projects
2 Including Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016
3 Since 2016, we have been integrating our global projects into our community outreach figures, specifically the Global
Pharma Health Fund, the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. This change in
approach was due to the increasingly international nature of our efforts. We are spearheading a rising number of global
projects that account for a growing percentage of our project portfolio. To ensure maximal accuracy, we are therefore
including all international initiatives in our figures as of 2016.
®
4 As of 2016, we are separating patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our
charitable spending.
We categorize the motivations for our activities based on the London Benchmarking Group model as well as the guidelines of
the Bertelsmann Foundation for corporate social responsibility. Projects that primarily aim to make improvements within the
community are classified as community investment.
Initiatives that are predominantly aimed at company-relevant factors such as image or personnel recruitment are classified as
commercial initiatives in the community. Charitable activities cover any other projects that benefit a charitable organization,
but cannot be listed under either of the other two motivation categories due to missing data or their narrow scope.

131

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Goals
Our corporate responsibility goals set the course to be followed for the next
several years. This section presents these objectives and reports on the progress
we've made towards achieving them.
Legend:

New goal

Goal achieved

In progress

Goal not achieved

Products
Access to health
We seek to improve access to health for underserved populations in low- and middle-income countries.
Goal: Monitor and assess the progress and efficacy of our Access to Health programs
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Develop quantitative and qualitative
performance indicators for the 4 A's:
Availability, Accessibility, Affordability,
and Awareness.

End of 2016

Indicators were developed for the 2014 and
2016 CR report for each A of the “4As of
Access” framework.

Status:

Goal achieved

Goal: Availability: Address unmet needs through the research, development and refinement of health solutions

Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Develop a pediatric formulation of praziquantel to treat schistosomiasis in children under the age of six

2017 (program
to enter Phase
III)

In 2015, both the Phase I bioavailability trials
in healthy volunteers (South Africa) as well as
the swill and spit taste study with school-age
children (Tanzania) were completed.
In 2016, we launched a Phase II study in Ivory
Coast to test the efficacy and safety of two
different formulations for orodispersible tablets
in schistosomiasis-infected children under the
age of six. Results are expected in the course
of 2017.

Develop a new anti-malarial drug

2017 (program
to enter Phase
I)

In March 2015, we obtained the rights to an
investigational promising antimalarial
compound from Medicines for Malaria Venture
(MMV). The compound potentially represents a
novel mechanism of action and is intended to
be developed for both treatment and prevention of malaria in young children. The project
completed the preclinical phase in 2016 and is
progressing to Phase I to start in 2017.

2017 (for start
of clinical
testing)

In 2016, the feasibility of two malaria assays
was validated and the detection levels are
meeting the defined TPPs in terms of specificity and sensitivity for new competitive diagnostic assays.

Develop a new diagnostic kit for
measuring the presence and type of
malaria parasite, and potentially
measure co-infection with HIV based on
our Muse Auto CD4/CD4%.

132

Status:

In progress

In progress

In progress

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Goal: Affordability: Address inability to pay
Measure(s):

By when:

Participate in at least one collaboration
with a public partner to share our IP and
knowledge of infectious and neglected
diseases.

End of 2018

Develop an IP-sharing platform with a
non-commercial entity.

End of 2018

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

New goal

New goal

Goal: Awareness: Empower health workers, communities and people
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Develop an integrated initiative of our
Healthcare and Life Science business
sectors to raise awareness.

End of 2016

In 2016, we initiated the PPP “Water for
Health” in Ghana. Our aim is to raise awareness for water quality and to improve local
capacity for water testing. The project will be
fully operating in 2017.

Through dialogue identify key access
challenges and opportunities for our A2H
strategy.

End of 2018

Status:

Not achieved and postponed

New goal

Goal: Accessibility: Strengthen supply chains and provide localized solutions
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Engage stakeholders to address supply
chain and delivery issues in developing
countries.

End of 2018

We established the dialogue platform (Accessibility Platform). In 2016, two meetings took
place.

Organize one to two meetings of the
Accessibility Platform.

End of 2018

Develop a collaboration to improve point
of care delivery in developing countries.

End of 2019

Status:

Goal achieved

New goal

New goal

133

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Safety of chemical products
Our customers should be able to use our chemical products safely.
Goal: Use precautionary principle to establish a globally aligned hazard and risk communication system for
all our relevant chemical products in the supply chain
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

Implementation of REACH: Register
substances produced in quantities of
1-100 metric tons per year (phase 3 of
REACH implementation) and register
non-phase-in substances.

Mid-2018

In 2016, we registered 41 phase 3 substances
and integrated the relevant substances from
the Sigma-Aldrich portfolio into our REACH
project.

In progress

Implementation of the Global Product
Strategy: Issue product safety
summaries for all hazardous substances
registered under REACH.

End of 2020

Projects for hazard communication:
Update safety data sheets for nonhazardous chemical products.

End of 2020

Harmonize safety data sheets to align
with a globally uniform standard.

End of 2020

Another five product safety summaries were
issued in 2016.

We have updated safety data sheets for
around 30% of all non-hazardous substances
(excluding the Sigma-Aldrich portfolio).
In the course of integrating Sigma-Aldrich, we
created a new standard and harmonized
hazard communication for roughly 60% of all
shared substances.

In progress

In progress

In progress

Counterfeit products
We want to reduce the risk of product crime.
Goal: Integrate safety into relevant business processes for Healthcare and Life Science business sectors
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

Identify strategic and commercial data
that require greater protection; minimize risks by modifying processes.

End of 2018

We performed risk assessments in our
Biopharma business.

In progress

Goal: Step up interdisciplinary collaboration within global security networks
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Develop Group-wide guidelines that
describe duties and processes.

End of 2016

The following guidelines were adopted in
2016:
Product Crime Investigation Standard
Product Security Standard (risk-based
approach to authenticating the supply
chain, identifying risks, and ensuring supply
chain integrity and security)
Product crime officers were appointed for all
business sectors and subsidiaries.

134

Status:

Goal achieved

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Expand organizational structures; train
and certify employees who deal with
product-related crime.

Ongoing

Implement a Group-wide notification
system for counterfeit products.

End of 2017

We developed and implemented a training
program for our product crime officers. Our
MACON network was expanded.
We rolled out a new reporting system for
cases of product crime.

In progress

In progress

Goal: Educate employees and other target groups on the strategic relevance of counterfeit medicines
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Host conferences and seminars; best
practice sharing and lessons learned
through international networks.

End of 2016

We conducted five seminars at sites outside
Germany and reported on product crime at
internal conferences such as the Global Quality
Conference or the Global Drug Safety
Academy.
Our product crime officers met at a conference
in Darmstadt.
We established anti-counterfeiting networks in
high-risk countries, consisting of internal and
external partners.

Status:

Goal achieved

Goal: Develop and implement security technology and solutions for supply chain authentication, identification, integrity, and security
Measure(s):

By when:

Pilot a project to improve product safety
in high-risk regions of Africa using
software-based solutions.

End of 2016

Support regional activities to counter
product crime.

End of 2016

Monitor the number of unreported cases
of counterfeit medicines in select countries and step up internet searches to
track down trademark infringement and
counterfeit products.

End of 2016

Support regional activities in five highrisk countries.

End of 2017

Monitor counterfeit pharmaceuticals in
conventional distribution channels as
well as online sales.

Ongoing

Progress by end of 2016:

We supported 68 investigations across 24
countries in 2016. We participated in workshops and seminars with law enforcement in
the United States, Mexico and Singapore and
engaged German federal authorities in
dialogue.
We collaborated with internal and external
partners in high-risk countries to step up
efforts of networks to monitor the Internet for
incidents of counterfeiting involving Merck
products. We succeeded in significantly raising
the detection rate for product crime incidents.
Launch “Evaluating product crime in the
darknet” project.

Status:

Goal achieved

Goal achieved

New goal

New goal

135

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Transport & storage safety
In the transport and storage of our products, we seek to prevent risks to people and the environment.
Goal: Ensure warehouse and transport safety for our company and our suppliers
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Integrate all service providers into our
audit process.

End of 2016

All service-provider warehouses have been
integrated into our audit process. In 2016, we
audited six third-party warehouses (2015: 4).

Integrate all freight forwarders into our
audit process.

End of 2017

Roll out improvement programs in countries and regions that handle products
with special risks where our audits identified need for improvement.

End of 2016

Analyze safety-related customer
complaints to identify necessary
improvements for transport and warehouse safety.

End of 2016

Harmonize transport and warehouse
safety master data through global ERP
systems.

End of 2022

In 2016, we developed a concept for integrating freight forwarders into our audit
process and plan to implement the concept in
2017.
After a running a pilot program in India in
2015, we successfully made improvements to
warehouse and transport safety. In 2016, we
also audited suppliers and third-party warehouses to identify improvement opportunities
and defined corrective actions.
In 2015, we enhanced our packaging concept
for certain chemicals. In 2016, we started
taking steps to optimize our shipping packaging for customer orders in Asia and South
America.

Status:

Goal achieved

In progress

Goal achieved

Goal achieved

New goal

Animal welfare
We work to safeguard the welfare of animals used by our company, contract research organizations, suppliers,
and other partners.
Goal: Ensure consistently high quality across our animal facilities
Measure(s):

By when:

Inspect Life Science animal facilities in
preparation for potential accreditation:
Conduct a feasibility study and make a
decision about accreditation.

End of 2018

Re-accredit relevant animal facilities.

Ongoing

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

New goal

Three animal facilities were re-accredited in
2015 and 2016.

New goal

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

Goal: Promote the 3Rs
Measure(s):

By when:

Develop a Group-wide 3R program.

End of 2019
New goal

136

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Goal: Ensure animal welfare in our supply chain
Measure(s):

By when:

Identify animal welfare risks in our
supply chain and develop a strategy for
certifying suppliers.

End of 2017

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

New goal

Employees
Our employees are key to our success, which makes it imperative for us to attract, develop and retain the right
talent.

Diversity
Goal: In 2011, we set the strategic goal of raising the percentage of leadership roles held by women to
25%-30%.
Status: We achieved this objective in 2016. Group-wide, women currently make up 28.8% of management positions.

Goal: By 2021, we aim to have stabilized the percentage of female managers at 30%, and we are continuing our efforts to raise the percentage of women in leadership roles and business units in which they are
still underrepresented.
Measure(s):

By when:

Deploy teams at departmental level to
develop goals and measures to move
women into positions in various units
and at various levels.

End of 2021

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

New goal

Attractive Employer
Goal: Consistently fill at least two-thirds of positions ranked Global Grade 16 and up with internal candidates
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

Use the Talent Management Process to
identify suitable employees with
management potential and optimize the
process to systematically advance them.

Ongoing

In 2016, 81% of our vacant management
positions were filled internally.

In progress

Build a talent pool that reflects our
demographic structure.

Ongoing

The structure of our talent pool is a reflection
of the diversity within our company.

In progress

137

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Goal: Position Merck as an attractive employer for university graduates
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

Participate in university fairs and organize in-house events for graduates;
position Merck via employer branding
channels.

Ongoing

Thanks to our efforts at fairs and internal
events, we succeeded in attracting ten graduates to participate in our Functional Graduate
Program by March 31, 2017.

In progress

Good leadership
Goal: We value good leadership, an approach that enables our employees to unlock their full potential and
advance in their careers.

Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Have at least 50% of managers rated
Global Grade 14+ take part in a
management program.

End of 2018

Nearly 50% of our top 400 have taken part in
our Global Leadership Program, our latest
initiative for top leaders. Similar figures apply
to our other management programs (AMP,
MFP).

Implement a regularly occurring process
to measure employee engagement in an
effort to establish a baseline for engagement and define a target.

Ongoing

At the beginning of 2016, we revised our
approach to employee surveys and conducted
a company-wide survey. In doing so, we have
defined the baseline against which to measure
future improvements.

Status:

In progress

In progress

Health & safety
Goal: Reduce the lost time injury rate Group-wide (to 1.5 or less).
Status: By 2016, we’d reached this objective with an LTIR of 1.3
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Implement the OSHAS 18001 occupational health and safety management
system for all Performance Materials
production sites.

End of 2016

By the end of 2016, all Performance Materials
production sites had been certified to the
international standard OHSAS 18001. Furthermore, our Life Science sites in Buchs (Switzerland), Bangalore (India) and Irvine (UK) have
been included in our Group certificate, as have
our pharmaceutical operations at our sites in
Goa (India), Atsugi (Japan) and Mollet
(France).

Reinforce our safety culture to prevent
behavior-related accidents/Roll out our
BeSafe! program at all newly acquired
sites and monitor ongoing implementation via appropriate performance indicators.

End of 2020

Status:

Goal achieved

New goal

138

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Environment
Environmental stewardship
We want to minimize our environmental footprint and mitigate our impact on the climate as far as possible,
which is why we are working to continuously improve energy and resource efficiency while also reducing our
greenhouse gas emissions.
Goal: Integrate all production sites in the Group ISO 14001 certificate for environmental management
systems
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

At newly acquired production sites,
introduce environmental management
systems in line with the Merck Group
ISO 14001 certificate and certify them
accordingly.

Ongoing

Seven Sigma-Aldrich production sites had an
ISO 14001-certified environmental management system and were transferred to the
Merck Group certificate.
Due to the size of the Sigma-Aldrich group and
the integration process, the transfer of all sites
to the new system must be done gradually.
In 2016, the sites started a gap analysis that
is still ongoing.

Status:

In progress

Climate impact mitigation
Goal: 20% reduction in our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 2020 (2006
baseline).
Status: By the end of 2016, we had lowered our greenhouse gas emissions by around 10% relative to the 2006 baseline,
despite growth in our operating business.
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Systematically examine the energy
consumption at our individual production
sites.

End of 2020

We continued to systematically examine
possible energy savings at our production
sites.
In line with the EU Directive on energy efficiency, energy audits were conducted at our
sites in Eppelheim and Berlin (Germany), as
well as in Calais, Meyzieu and Semoy (France).
In addition, we also performed energy checks
at our sites in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil),
Naucalpan (Mexico) and Kankakee, IL (United
States).

Identify potential energy savings and
implement appropriate measures.

End of 2020

Reduce process-related emissions.

End of 2020

In 2016, we completed 42 Edison projects (p.
79). Around 60% of the Edison projects
planned Group-wide have already been or are
being rolled out.
In 2017, we intend to launch 81 new projects
with the potential to cut CO2 emissions by
around 34,000 metric tons.
Our Life Science business sector is making a
significant contribution to reducing processrelated emissions. In 2014, process optimizations resulted in a two-thirds reduction in our
process-related emissions per production unit
at our facility in Jaffrey, NH (USA).
In 2015, we initiated a project to further cut
emissions that is scheduled to end in 2017.
Other projects are in planning.

139

Status:

In progress

In progress

In progress

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Waste & recycling
Goal: By the end of 2017, set a reduction target for the quantity of waste we generate

Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

Implement a waste scoring model to
quantify our waste reduction efforts and
set a baseline.

End of 2017

We implemented the Waste Scoring Model and
expect to have a baseline established by the
first quarter of 2017, from which a quantitative target will be set.

In progress

Water management
Goal: Introduce a sustainable water management system at seven appropriate sites in water-stressed
areas and reduce their water consumption by 10% by the end of 2020 (2014 baseline).
Status: By the end of 2016, we had reduced our water consumption at relevant sites by around 12% compared with 2014.
Going forward, we want to ensure a 10% sustainable reduction in water consumption.
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

To achieve this goal, we need a variety
of primarily local measures tailored to
our individual sites.
One inter-site measure is the creation of
a water balance to provide a baseline.

April 2017

To help our sites in their efforts, we provided
the necessary expertise in the form of documentation and an Intranet site.

Status:

In progress

Goal: Introduce a sustainable water management system at 23 production sites with high water consumption by 2020

Status: Our sites are implementing the water management system in three stages using the CEFIC flagship self-assessment
tool. We expect to complete Stage 1 (basic) by April 2017, Stage 2 (progressed) by May 2018 and Stage 3 (advanced) by
May 2020.
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

Meet the basic requirements set out in
the CEFIC flagship self-assessment tool
(Stage 1). These include water quantity
and quality evaluations at the sites, as
well as an environment analysis.

April 2017

The sites will be asked to provide an initial
report on their progress in April 2017.

In progress

140

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Suppliers
Goal: Ensure our suppliers adhere to ethical, social, environmental, and compliance standards.
Measure(s):

By when:

Perform a qualitative analysis of the
available assessment and audit results
and define potential courses of action.

End of 2017

Create a holistic approach to managing
sustainability in global supply chains.

End of 2017

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

New Goal

New Goal

141

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Community
Health
Hand in hand with our partners, we aim to eliminate the tropical worm disease schistosomiasis worldwide.
Goal: Eliminate schistosomiasis in African school children: Since the start of our donation program, 100
million patients have been treated, primarily school-aged children.
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Incrementally increase annual tablet
donation by a factor of ten, from 25
million in 2012 to up to 250 million in
2016.

End of 2016

In 2016, we boosted our production capacity
so as to produce 250 million tablets. In collaboration with WHO, we donated more than 200
million of these for distribution in 33 African
countries.

Donate up to 250 million praziquantel
tablets annually to WHO for African
school children.

Ongoing

Optimize the praziquantel formulation.

End of 2019

Status:

Goal achieved

New goal

Develop a pediatric formulation of praziquantel for children under the age of
six.

End of 2019

Initiate new partnerships to promote
behavioral change in African school children.

Ongoing

Maintain the educational program and
provide WHO with educational booklets
to teach children about the disease and
ways to prevent it.

Ongoing

Position the Global Schistosomiasis
Alliance as the key partnering platform
for advocacy, implementation, research,
communications, and strategy development.

Ongoing

In 2016, the study design for the bioequivalence study was approved. The study
will be conducted in 2017.
In 2016, we launched a Phase II study in Ivory
Coast to test the efficacy and safety of two
different formulations for orodispersible tablets
in schistosomiasis-infected children under six.
At the same time, we completed preparation
of the Phase III study.

In progress

In progress

New goal

In 2016, we expanded the educational
program and donated 340,000 educational
booklets to WHO for distribution in 10 African
countries.

New goal

New goal

142

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Minilab
Through the GPHF Minilab™, we seek to fight counterfeit medicines in developing countries and emerging
economies.
Goal: Provide and further develop the portable compact GPHF Minilab TM
Measure(s):

By when:

Progress by end of 2016:

Status:

Develop new test methods for five
active ingredients and expand manuals
to describe the new testing methods.

End of 2016

In 2016, the GPHF developed test methods for
five new active ingredients, meaning that a
total of 85 test protocols are now available.
The manuals have been updated accordingly.

Goal achieved

Conduct two training seminars on the
use of the GPHF MinilabTM; sell at least
40 Minilabs.

End of 2016

Develop new test methods for five
active ingredients and expand manuals
to describe the new testing methods.

End of 2017

Conduct three training seminars on the
use of the GPHF MinilabTM; sell at least
35 Minilabs.

End of 2017

In 2015 and 2016, the GPHF conducted six
Minilab training seminars in Tanzania, Angola,
Kenya, Zambia, Rwanda, and Mozambique
with well over 100 participants. The GPHF sold
a total of 109 Minilabs.

Goal achieved

New goal

New goal

143

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Recognition and Rankings
The following overview presents a selection of major ratings and rankings for 2015 and 2016. Information on additional
ratings and accolades received by individual businesses or sites can be found in the respective chapter of our 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report, or on our company’s website.

Access to Medicine Index
In 2016, Merck moved up to fourth place in the Access to Medicine Index (2014: sixth place). This index assesses 20 pharmaceutical companies with respect to their efforts to improve access to medicine in developing countries. It is published
every two years by the Access to Medicine Foundation, an international non-profit organization.
www.accesstomedicineindex.org

Carbon Disclosure Project
In 2016, we scored an A- in the CDP Index, thus achieving “Sector Leader Health Care, Pharma & Biotech” status for climate
change reporting in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. As such, Merck is one of the top companies in this sector in the
above-mentioned three countries and, ranking fourth, has moved up two places over the previous year. In 2015, we
received a C for our performance and a score of 98 out of 100 points for our reporting.
www.cdp.net

Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register
In 2015, Merck was added to the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe, which selects the 200 top-rated European companies based on their corporate responsibility performance. We are also included in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE
Investment Register.
forumethibel.org

Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index
Since 2015, Merck has been included in the Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index, which comprises the 120 highest-ranking
European companies in terms of their environmental, social and governance efforts.
www.vigeo-eiris.com

FTSE4Good Index
Since 2008, Merck has been included in FTSE4Good, an internationally leading sustainability index that annually measures
the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and ethical practices.
www.ftse.com

144

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Good Company Ranking
In 2016, Kirchhoff Consult, a management consultancy, published its fifth Good Company Ranking. Among the 30 DAXlisted companies, we took tenth place.

oekom research Sustainability Rating
In 2016, the sustainability ratings agency oekom research AG gave Merck a B- on a scale of D- to A+ (top grade). Merck
thus once more achieved Prime Status.
www.oekom-research.com

STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Index
In 2016, Merck was once again included in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders sustainability index, which assesses companies
based on key environmental, social and governance criteria.
www.stoxx.com

Vigeo Eiris Human Rights Study
Vigeo Eiris, a sustainability rating and research agency, analyzed how 3,189 companies meet their social responsibility to
respect human rights. Merck ranks among the top 30 companies and achieved a total of 69 out of 100 points (“advanced”).
www.vigeo-eiris.com

145

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Sustainable Development Goals
In 2015, the United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are aimed at all countries and organizations across the globe. We too play an active role in achieving these goals.

Our efforts
Under our Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy (p. 9), we are already working to solve key challenges through efforts in
the spheres of health, environment, and culture and education. We especially support SDG 3 (Good Health & Well-Being),
SDG 4 (Quality Education) and SDG 7 (Affordable & Clean Energy). To achieve these goals, we join strategic partnerships
(SDG 17) that allow us to work hand in hand with other companies, non-governmental organizations and governments.

SDG 3: Good health and well-being
“Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.”
Across the globe, approximately 400 million people lack access to effective and affordable medical care, a situation we
intend to rectify through our Access to Health strategy (p. 34). Recognizing that we can’t solve these challenges alone, we
have joined forces with strong partners to work towards a solution.
Examples of our activities:
Global awareness campaigns (p. 175)
Eliminating schistosomiasis (p. 97)
Efficient supply chains for better access to health (p. 39)
SDG 17: Partnerships to improve healthcare (p. 16)

146

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

SDG 4: Quality education
“Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.”
The sciences in particular play a key role in the development of pioneering solutions. A well-educated and well-trained workforce is also essential to our future as a science and technology company, which is why we are working to ignite a passion
for science in the next generation. To this end, we conduct a number of education projects (p. 100) across our sites worldwide, going to great lengths to provide underprivileged students with access to education.
Examples of our activities:
Global scholarship programs (p. 183)
Support for education at our Darmstadt site and at our facilities worldwide (p. 100)
SDG 17: Partner in “Afrika kommt!” (p. 75), a GIZ managerial program

SDG 5: Gender equality
“Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.”
Promoting women's health and economic participation in developing countries (p. 42)
Attractive working conditions for parents (p. 64)

SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation
“Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.”
Protecting water as a resource (p. 84)
Clean water at schools in China (p. 97)

SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy
“Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all.”
Our materials create ultra-efficient solar cells that can be used in innovative applications. Moreover, our products help
customers save energy. For instance, state-of-the-art liquid crystals and OLED technology from our Performance Materials
business sector make displays more energy-efficient. You can find more information under Sustainable products (p. 29).
Examples of our activities:
Liquid crystals in windows save energy (p. 180)
Energy-efficient products (p. 29)
Materials for innovative photovoltaic technology (p. 29)

SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth
“Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent
work for all.”
Respect for human rights and compliance with ILO core labor standards (p. 14)
Social standards in our supply chain (p. 89)

147

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities
“Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.”
Partnership to provide integrated waste disposal and water treatment systems in cities in China

SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production
“Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.”
Design for Sustainability (p. 30)
Preventing and recycling waste (p. 82)

SDG 13: Climate action
“Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.”
Edison, our climate impact mitigation program (p. 79)

SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals
“Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development.”
Partnerships to improve healthcare (p. 16)
Partner in “Afrika kommt!” (p. 75), a GIZ managerial program

148

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

GRI content index
The CR Report 2016 is based on the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and meets the criteria for the application level “Comprehensive”. The following GRI Index provides an overview of general standard disclosures, the GRI indicators (specific Standard Disclosures) identified as relevant, and where the corresponding contents are described.

Read More
150

Company and report profile

157

Environmental performance indicators

155

Economic performance indicators

161

Social performance indicators

149

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

GRI Content Index
Company and Report Profile
DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Link

Strategy and Analysis
G4-1

Statement from the most senior
decision-maker of the organization

Letter from the CEO (p. 3)

G4-2

Key impacts, risks, and opportunities

Strategy (p. 5)
Goals (p. 132)

Organizational Profile
G4-3

Name of the organization

Company profile (p. 6)

G4-4

Primary brands, products, and
services

Company profile (p. 6)
Products & Industries

G4-5

Location of the organization’s
headquarters

Company profile (p. 6)

G4-6

Number of countries where the
organization operates, and
names of countries where either
the organization has significant
operations or that are specifically
relevant to the sustainability
topics covered in the report

Company profile (p. 6)
List of shareholdings

G4-7

Nature of ownership and legal
form

Company profile (p. 6)

G4-8

Markets served (including
geographic breakdown, sectors
served, and types of customers
and beneficiaries)

Company profile (p. 6)
Macroeconomic and SectorSpecific Environment

G4-9

Scale of the reporting organization

Company profile (p. 6)
Indicators Employees (p. 110)
Indicators Environment (p. 123)
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Net Equity
Consolidated Balance Sheet

G4-10 Total number of employees by
Supervised workers such as
Attractive employer (p. 64)
employment contract and gender temps are currently not logged in Indicators: Employees (p. 110)
our employee data system. We
are investigating possibilities to
record information on supervised
workers at the Group level.
G4-11 Percentage of total employees
covered by collective bargaining
agreements

Employee Engagement (p. 72)
Indicators: Employees (p. 110)

G4-12 Organization's supply chain

Supply chain standards (p. 90)

G4-13 Significant changes during the
reporting period regarding size,
structure, ownership, or its
supply chain

Company profile (p. 6)
Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Fundamental Information about
the Group

150

External
Assurance

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is
addressed by the organization

Transport and warehouse safety
(p. 50)
Safety and health (p. 70)
Environmental stewardship (p.
77)
Climate protection (p. 79)
Plant and process safety (p. 86)

G4-15 Externally developed economic,
environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization
subscribes or which it endorses

Governance (p. 8)
Compliance (p. 11)
Human rights (p. 14)

G4-16 Memberships of associations

Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16)
Environmental stewardship (p.
77)

Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial
statements

Report profile (p. 103)
Company profile (p. 6)

G4-18 Definition of report content

Report profile (p. 103)
Materiality Analysis (p. 19)

G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the
process for defining report
content

Materiality Analysis (p. 19)

G4-20 Material aspects within the organization

Materiality Analysis (p. 19)

G4-21 Material aspects outside the
organization

Materiality Analysis (p. 19)

G4-22 Effect of any restatements of
information provided in previous
reports, and the reasons for such
restatements

Report profile (p. 103)

G4-23 Significant changes from previous
reporting periods in the Scope
and Aspect Boundaries

Report profile (p. 103)
Materiality Analysis (p. 19)

Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by
the organization

Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16)
Materiality Analysis (p. 19)

G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom
to engage

Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16)
Materiality Analysis (p. 19)

G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement

Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16)
Materiality Analysis (p. 19)

G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised
through stakeholder engagement

Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16)
Materiality Analysis (p. 19)

Report Profile
G4-28 Reporting period

Report profile (p. 103)

G4-29 Date of most recent previous
report

Report profile (p. 103)

G4-30 Reporting cycle

Report profile (p. 103)

G4-31 Contact point for questions

Report profile (p. 103)

G4-32 GRI Index

GRI Content Index (p. 149)

G4-33 External Assurance

Report profile (p. 103)
GRI Content Index (p. 149)

151

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Governance
G4-34 Governance structure of the
organization

Strategy (p. 5)
Management
Statement on Corporate Governance

G4-35 Process for delegating authority
for economic, environmental and
social topics from the highest
governance body to senior executives and other employees

Strategy (p. 5)
Procedures of the corporate
bodies

G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics

Strategy (p. 5)

G4-37 Processes for consultation
between stakeholders and the
highest governance body

Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16)
Materiality Analysis (p. 19)
Employee Engagement (p. 72)

G4-38 Composition of the highest
governance body and its committees

Management
Statement on Corporate Governance
The Executive Board

G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the
highest governance body is also
an executive officer

Statement on Corporate Governance
Management

G4-40 Nomination and selection
processes for the highest governance body and its committees

Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
The Executive Board
Objectives of the Supervisory
Board
Empowering women

G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of
interest are avoided and
managed

Compliance (p. 11)
Information on corporate governance practices

G4-42 Highest governance body's and
senior executive's roles in the
development, approval, and
updating of the organization's CR
strategies, policies, and goals

Strategy (p. 5)
Values and compliance
Report of the Supervisory Board

G4-43 Measures taken to develop and
enhance the highest governance
body's collective knowledge of
economic, environmental and
social topics

Strategy (p. 5)
The Executive Board
Statement on Corporate Governance

G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with
respect to governance of
economic, environmental and
social topics

Board of Partners
The Supervisory Board
Articles of Association
Statement on Corporate Governance

G4-45 Highest governance body's role in
the identification and management of economic, environmental
and social impacts, risks, and
opportunities

Strategy (p. 5)
Report on Risks and Opportunities
Statement on Corporate Governance
Compliance (p. 11)

G4-46 Highest governance body's role
on reviewing the effectiveness of
the organization's risk management processes for economic,
environmental and social topics

Strategy (p. 5)
Report on Risks and Opportunities
Report of the Supervisory Board

152

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

G4-47 Frequency of highest governance
body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts
risks, and opportunities

Strategy (p. 5)
Report on Risks and Opportunities
Report of the Supervisory Board

G4-48 Highest committee or position
that formally reviews and
approves the organization's
sustainability report

Report profile (p. 103)

G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest
governance body

Compliance (p. 11)
Values and compliance

G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance
body

Compliance (p. 11)
Values and compliance

G4-51 Remuneration policies for the
highest governance body and
senior executives

Compensation report

G4-52 Process for determining remuneration

Compensation report

G4-53 How stakeholders' views are
sought and taken into account
regarding remuneration

Attractive employer (p. 64)
Compensation report

G4-54 Ratio of annual total compensation for the organization's
highest-paid individual to the
median annual total compensation for all employees in the
same country

Competitive salaries and additional benefits not only increase
our attractiveness as an
employer; they also motivate our
people and build loyalty to the
company. The compensation we
offer is based on market analyses
in the relevant field and the value
of the respective position, as well
as the employee's skill set and
performance. Our Global Rewards
Policy defines the framework for
compensation and benefits across
the entire Group. As far as
possible, we strive to offer all our
employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore,
we monitor compliance with
minimum standards. We do not
consider the information required
under G4-54 and G4-55 to be
relevant to assessing the fairness
of our compensation structures.

153

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in
annual total compensation for the
organization's highest-paid individual to the median percentage
increase in annual total compensation for all employees in the
same country

Competitive salaries and additional benefits not only increase
our attractiveness as an
employer; they also motivate our
people and build loyalty to the
company. The compensation we
offer is based on market analyses
in the relevant field and the value
of the respective position, as well
as the employee's skill set and
performance. Our Global Rewards
Policy defines the framework for
compensation and benefits across
the entire Group. As far as
possible, we strive to offer all our
employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore,
we monitor compliance with
minimum standards. We do not
consider the information required
under G4-54 and G4-55 to be
relevant to assessing the fairness
of our compensation structures.

Ethics and Integrity
G4-56 Organization's values, principles,
standards and norms of behavior

Governance (p. 8)
Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
Good leadership (p. 74)

G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on
ethical and lawful behavior, and
matters related to organizational
integrity

Compliance (p. 11)
Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)

G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns
about unethical or unlawful
behavior, and matters related to
organizational integrity

Compliance (p. 11)
Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
Supply chain standards (p. 90)

* Disclosure on Management Approach.
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter “Facts and
figures“, including explanatory notes, and chosen DMAs in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business
year 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report (p. 172).
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group
Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can
find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report.

154

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

GRI Content Index
Economic Performance Indicators
DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Link

Aspect: Economic Performance
G4-DMA Management Approach

Economic performance
Pension schemes
Report on Risks and Opportunities
Employee Engagement (p. 72)

G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated
and distributed

Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Information by business sector
/country and region
Personnel expenses
Indicators: Community (p. 130)

G4-EC2 Financial implications and other
risks and opportunities for the
organization's activities due to
climate change

We report in detail on various
aspects of climate change as
part of our participation in the
CDP (formerly known as the
Carbon Disclosure Project).

Climate protection (p. 79)
Water management (p. 84)
Global Compact CoP (p. 169)
CDP
Report on Risks and Opportunities

G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's
defined benefit plan obligations

Indicators Employees (p. 110)
Pension schemes

G4-EC4 Financial assistance received
from government

Accounting: Property, plant and
equipment
Property, plant and equipment
Research and development costs

Aspect: Market Presence
G4-DMA Management Approach

Good leadership (p. 74)
Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
Employee Engagement (p. 72)

155

External
Assurance

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level
wage by gender compared to
local minimum wage at significant locations of operation

This indicator is not relevant to
Indicators: Employees (p. 110)
us, which is why we do not
Human Rights Charter
collect data on the ratio of the
standard entry level wage
compared to local minimum
wage. As a company in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries, we employ highly qualified
individuals. Our Global Rewards
Policy applies to all our
subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure. Base pay is
oriented to the median base pay,
and short-term variable compensation is based on the third
quartile of the relevant reference
market. The overall compensation package thus exceeds the
market median. Even those
employees in the lowest pay
brackets are paid the local
minimum wage at the very least.

G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local
community at significant locations of operation

We encourage both local hiring
Diversity and equal opportunity
and international appointments
(p. 67)
across all levels of the company.
The percentage of local
managers is not recorded as it is
not relevant to our strategic
personnel planning.

Aspect: Procurement Practices
G4-DMA Management Approach

Supply chain standards (p. 90)

G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local
suppliers at significant locations
of operation

Supply chain standards (p. 90)

* Disclosure on Management Approach.
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter “Facts and
figures”, including explanatory notes, and chosen DMAs in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business
year 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report (p. 172).
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group
Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can
find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report.

156

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

GRI Content Index
Environmental Performance Indicators
DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Link

Aspect: Materials
G4-DMA Management Approach

In all our endeavors, we attempt Packaging (p. 32)
to efficiently utilize materials
Reuse and recycling (p. 33)
and recycle as much as possible. Resource efficiency (p. 82)
Where feasible, we use recycled
materials (in packaging, for
instance). Overall, material
consumption is not a major
concern for us. There are few
opportunities to use recycled
material in our production
processes because our business
model puts us at the start of the
value chain. We therefore do not
collect such data at the Grouplevel. Individual data and
measures are reported under
the respective chapters.

G4-EN1

Materials used by weight or
volume

See G4-DMA

G4-EN2

Percentage of materials used
See G4-DMA
that are recycled input materials

Sustainable product design (p.
29)
Packaging (p. 32)
Resource efficiency (p. 82)
Design for Sustainability
Green Chemistry
Packaging (p. 32)
Reuse and recycling (p. 33)
Resource efficiency (p. 82)

Aspect: Energy
G4-DMA Management Approach

Climate protection (p. 79)
Environmental stewardship (p.
77)
Sustainable product design (p.
29)

G4-EN3

Energy consumption within the
organization

Climate protection (p. 79)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN4

Energy consumption outside of
the organization

Climate protection (p. 79)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN5

Energy intensity

Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN6

Reduction of energy consumption

Climate protection (p. 79)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN7

Reductions in energy requirements of products and services

Sustainable product design (p.
29)
Resource efficiency (p. 82)
Product examples Performance
Materials

157

External
Assurance

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Aspect: Water
G4-DMA Management Approach

Water management (p. 84)

G4-EN08 Total water withdrawal by
source

Water management (p. 84)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN09 Water sources significantly
affected by withdrawal of water

Water management (p. 84)

G4-EN10 Percentage of total volume of
water recycled and reused

Water management (p. 84)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

Aspect: Emissions
G4-DMA Management Approach

Climate protection (p. 79)

G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions (Scope 1)

Climate protection (p. 79)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions (Scope 2)

Climate protection (p. 79)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions (Scope3)

Climate protection (p. 79)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)
Carbon Disclosure Project

G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity

Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions

Climate protection (p. 79)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)
Carbon Disclosure Project

G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting
substances (ODS)

Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant
air emissions

Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

Aspect: Effluents and Waste
G4-DMA Management Approach

Plant and process safety (p. 86)
Waste and recycling (p. 82)

G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality
and destination

Water management (p. 84)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type
and disposal method

Waste and recycling (p. 82)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN24 Total number and volume of
significant spills

Plant and process safety (p. 86)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported,
exported, or treated waste
deemed hazardous under the
terms of the Basel convention
annex I, II, III, and VIII, and
percentage of transported waste
shipped internationally

Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

158

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status,
and biodiversity value of water
bodies and related habitats
significantly affected by the
organization's discharges of
water and runoff

Water management (p. 84)

Aspect: Products and Services
G4-DMA Management Approach

Sustainable product design (p.
29)
Packaging (p. 32)
Reuse and recycling (p. 33)

G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of
environmental impacts of products and services

Owing to the multitude of products we supply and the minimal
comparability of our various
initiatives, we do not collect
quantitative data at the Group
level. The individual measures
taken by our various businesses
are reported in the respective
chapters.

Sustainable product design (p.
29)
Packaging (p. 32)
Reuse and recycling (p. 33)

G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and
their packaging materials that
are reclaimed by category

Owing to the multitude of products we supply and the minimal
comparability of our various
initiatives, we do not collect
quantitative data at the Group
level. The individual measures
taken by our various businesses
are reported in the respective
chapters.

Packaging (p. 32)

Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA Management Approach

Environmental stewardship (p.
77)

G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant
fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental
laws and regulations

Environmental stewardship (p.
77)

Aspect: Transport
G4-DMA Management Approach
G4-EN30 Significant environmental
impacts of transporting products
and other goods and materials
used for the organization's operations, and transporting
members of the workforce

Transport and warehouse safety
(p. 50)
We do not consider relevant any
data queried under this indicator
that goes beyond the data
already reported.

Climate protection (p. 79)
Transport and warehouse safety
(p. 50)
Indicators Environment (p. 123)

Aspect: Overall
G4-DMA Management Approach

Environment (p. 76)

G4-EN31 Total environmental protection
expenditures and investments
by type

Climate protection (p. 79)
Indicators: Environment (p.
123)

159

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment
G4-DMA Management Approach

Supply chain standards (p. 90)

G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that
were screened using environmental criteria

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)

G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential
negative environmental impacts
in the supply chain and actions
taken

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)

Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms
G4-DMA Management Approach
G4-EN34 Number of grievances about
environmental impacts filed,
addressed, and resolved through
formal grievance mechanisms

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Compliance (p. 11)
We track all complaints via our
central reporting system and
categorize them based on their
content. In the future we will
implement appropriate subcategories to adequately reflect
the specific subject matter of
the complaints.

Compliance (p. 11)

* Disclosure on Management Approach.
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter “Facts and
figures”, including explanatory notes, and chosen DMAs in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business
year 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report (p. 172).
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group
Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can
find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report.

160

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

GRI Content Index
Social Performance Indicators
Labor Practices and Decent Work

DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Link

Aspect: Employment
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Attractive employer (p. 64)
Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
Health and safety (p. 70)

G4-LA1

Total number and rates of new
employee hires and employee
turnover by age group, gender,
and region

Indicators: Employees (p. 110)

G4-LA2

Benefits provided to full-time
employees that are not provided
to temporary or part-time
employees, by significant locations of operation

G4-LA3

Return to work and retention
rates after parental leave, by
gender

At Merck KGaA in Darmstadt,
Attractive employer (p. 64)
Germany (20% of the company's Indicators: Employees (p. 110)
total workforce), part-time
employees receive the same job
benefits as full-time workers.
Employees with temporary
contracts, however, are not entitled to all company benefits,
such as a company pension.
Attractive employer (p. 64)
Indicators: Employees (p. 110)

Aspect: Labor/Management relations
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-LA4

Minimum notice periods
regarding operational changes,
including whether these are
specified in collective agreements

Attractive employer (p. 64)
Health and safety (p. 70)
Indicators: Employees (p. 110)
The regulations on periods of
notice vary worldwide. We apply
the rules that are in force locally.
There is not need for us to track
periods of notice at Group level.

Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-LA5

Percentage of total workforce
represented in formal joint
management-worker health and
safety committees that help
monitor and advise on occupational health and safety
programs

Health and safety (p. 70)
Occupational health and safety
committees are required by law
in Germany, which is why all
employees of Merck KGaA sites
(Darmstadt and Gernsheim,
Germany) are represented by
such a committee, one per site.
These employees account for
around 19% of our total workforce. The majority of facilities
outside of Germany also have
health and safety committees to
represent their employees. Each
individual site is responsible for
arranging and maintaining such
committees.

161

Health and safety (p. 70)

External
Assurance

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

G4-LA6

Type of injury and rates of
injury, occupational diseases,
lost days, and absenteeism, and
total number of work-related
fatalities by region and gender

We have identified the lost time
injury rate (LTIR) as a key
performance indicator for our
company.

G4-LA7

Workers with high incidence of
high risk or diseases related to
their occupation

G4-LA8

Health and safety topics covered Health and safety issues are
in formal agreements with trade governed Group-wide by our
unions
EHS Policy. The organizational
implementation of the policy is
the responsibility of our individual sites and is subject to
local laws and regulations. The
facilities of Merck KGaA (Darmstadt and Gernsheim - approx.
19% of our total workforce) are
subject to bylaws on occupational health and safety.

Health and safety (p. 70)
Indicators: Employees (p. 110)

Health and safety (p. 70)
Indicators: Employees (p. 110)

Aspect: Training and Education
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Good leadership (p. 74)
Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
Attractive employer (p. 64)

G4-LA9

Average hours of training per
year per employee by gender
and by employee category

Indicators: Employees (p. 110)
Compliance (p. 11)
Drug safety (p. 46)
Chemical product safety (p. 44)
Counterfeit products (p. 48)
Animal welfare (p. 58)
Attractive employer (p. 64)
Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
Health and safety (p. 70)
Good leadership (p. 74)
Water management (p. 84)
Plant and process safety (p. 86)

G4-LA10 Programs for skills management
and lifelong learning that support
the continued employability of
employees and assist them in
managing career endings

Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
Attractive employer (p. 64)

G4-LA11 Percentage of employees
receiving regular performance
and career development reviews,
by gender and by employment
category

Attractive employer (p. 64)
Indicators: Employees (p. 110)

162

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-LA12 Composition of governance
bodies and breakdown of
employees per employee category according to gender, age
group, minority group membership, and other indicators of
diversity.

Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
Objectives of the Supervisory
Board
Since there is no globally
uniform definition of the term
“minority”, we do not record this
sort of data. Moreover, many
countries in which we operate
have strict data privacy regulations governing the recording of
personal employee data.

Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)
Indicators: Employees (p. 110)
The Executive Board
The Supervisory Board
Objectives of the Supervisory
Board

Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men, by
significant locations of operation

Attractive employer (p. 64)
Compensation report
The salaries we offer are prediAttractive employer (p. 64)
cated on the respective job
description and are based on our
Global Job Catalog, which has
fixed salary bands that are identical for men and women. Variable salary components that fall
under performance-based
compensation are paid on the
basis of whether mutually
agreed targets have been
achieved. A performance
management system governs
this process.

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Supply chain standards (p. 90)

G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that
were screened labor practices
criteria

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)

G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential
negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and
actions taken

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)

Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-LA16 Number of grievances about
labor practices filed, addressed,
and resolved through formal
grievance mechanisms

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Compliance (p. 11)
We track all complaints via our
Supply chain standards (p. 90)
central reporting system and
Compliance (p. 11)
categorize them based on their
content. In the future we will
implement appropriate subcategories to adequately reflect
the specific subject matter of the
complaints.

163

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Human Rights

DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Link

Aspect: Investment
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-HR1

Total number and percentage of
significant investment agreements and contracts that include
human rights clauses or that
underwent human rights
screening

G4-HR2

Total hours of employee training
on human rights policies or
procedures concerning aspects of
human rights that are relevant
to operations, including the
percentage of employees trained

Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Our Responsible Sourcing Principles and our Global Policy Business Partner Risk Management
identify human rights issues as
the foundation for significant
investments.

Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)
Merck Responsible Sourcing Principles
Human rights (p. 14)

Aspect: Non-discrimination
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)

G4-HR3

Total number of incidents of
discrimination and corrective
actions taken

Diversity and equal opportunity
(p. 67)

Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Human Rights Charter

G4-HR4

Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise
freedom of association and
collective bargaining may be
violated or at significant risk,
and measures taken to support
these rights

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)

Aspect: Child Labor
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Human Rights Charter

G4-HR5

Operations and significant
suppliers identified as having
significant risk for incidents of
child labor, and measures taken
to contribute to the effective
abolition of child labor

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)
Indicators: Employees (p. 110)

164

External
Assurance

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Human Rights Charter

G4-HR6

Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for
incidents of forced or compulsory
labor, and measures to
contribute to the elimination of
all forms of forced or compulsory
labor

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)

Aspect: Assessment
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)

G4-HR9

Total number and percentage of
operations that have been
subject to human rights reviews
or impact assessments

Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Indicators: Compliance (p. 107)

Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)

G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that
were screened using human
rights criteria

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)
Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)

G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential
negative human rights impacts
in the supply chain and actions
taken

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)
Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)

Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-HR12 Number of grievances about
human rights impacts filed,
addressed, and resolved through
formal grievance mechanisms

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
We track all complaints via our
Supply chain standards (p. 90)
central reporting system and
categorize them based on their
content. In the future we will
implement appropriate subcategories to adequately reflect
the specific subject matter of the
complaints.

165

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Society

DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Link

Aspect: Anti-Corruption
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Compliance (p. 11)
Values and compliance

G4-SO3

Total number and percentage of
operations assessed for risks
related to corruption and the
significant risks identified

Compliance (p. 11)
Values and compliance
Indicators: Compliance (p. 107)

G4-SO4

Communication and training in
anti-corruption policies and
procedures

Governance (p. 8)
Compliance (p. 11)
Indicators: Compliance (p. 107)

G4-SO5

Confirmed incidents of corruption As applicable, we report on risks Compliance (p. 11)
and actions taken
from litigation and legal proceed- Report on Risks and Opportuniings in our Report on Risks and
ties
Opportunities.

Aspect: Public policy
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16)
Code of conduct

G4-SO6

Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/
beneficiary

Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16)
Code of conduct
Disclosure on donations to PACs
(EMD Serono)

Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Compliance (p. 11)
Values and compliance
Report on Risks and Opportunities

G4-SO7

Total number of legal actions for
anti-competitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices
and their outcomes

Indicators: Compliance (p. 107)

Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-SO8

Monetary value of significant
fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and
regulations

Compliance (p. 11)
Report on Risks and Opportunities
As applicable, we report on risks Indicators: Compliance (p. 107)
from litigation and legal proceed- Report on Risks and Opportuniings in our Report on Risks and
ties
Opportunities.

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Compliance (p. 11)

G4-SO9

Percentage of new suppliers that
were screened using criteria for
impacts on society

Supply chain standards (p. 90)

G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential
negative impacts on society in
the supply chain and actions
taken

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p. 93)

166

External
Assurance

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Aspect: Grievance mechanisms for Impacts on Society
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-SO11 Number of grievances about
impacts on society filed,
addressed, and resolved through
formal grievance mechanisms

Supply chain standards (p. 90)
Compliance (p. 11)
We track all complaints via our
Supply chain standards (p. 90)
central reporting system and
Compliance (p. 11)
categorize them based on their
content. In the future we will
implement appropriate subcategories to adequately reflect
the specific subject matter of the
complaints.

Product Responsibility

DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Link

Aspect: Customer health and safety
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Drug safety (p. 46)
Chemical product safety (p. 44)
Sustainable product design (p.
29)
Report on Risks and Opportunities

G4-PR1

Percentage of significant product
and service categories for which
health and safety impacts are
assessed for improvement

Drug safety (p. 46)
Chemical product safety (p. 44)
Sustainable product design (p.
29)

G4-PR2

Total number of incidents of
non-compliance with regulations
and voluntary codes concerning
health and safety impacts of
products and services during
their life cycle, by type of
outcomes

As applicable, we report on risks Report on Risks and Opportunifrom litigation and legal proceed- ties
ings in our Report on Risks and
Opportunities.

Aspect: Product and service labelling
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-PR3

Type of product and service
information required by the
organization's procedures for
product and service information
and labeling, and percentage of
significant product and service
categories subject to such information requirements

G4-PR4

Total number of incidents of
non-compliance with regulations
and voluntary codes concerning
product and service information
and labeling, by type of
outcomes

Drug safety (p. 46)
Chemical product safety (p. 44)
Responsible marketing (p. 52)
Interactions with health systems
(p. 61)
Within our businesses, product
labels are both important and
mandatory. All pharmaceuticals
and chemicals are subject to
reporting and notification
requirements that we fulfill. The
individual requirements are
reported in the respective chapters.

Drug safety (p. 46)
Chemical product safety (p. 44)

Drug safety (p. 46)
Chemical product safety (p. 44)
Report on Risks and Opportunities

167

External
Assurance

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

G4-PR5

Results of surveys measuring
customer satisfaction

Within the scope of our B2B
activities, we maintain close
contact with our customers and
endeavor to find out their needs
and their opinion of us as business partners. Individual
customer survey results, which
are used for strategy development, are completely confidential

Stakeholder dialogue (p. 16)

Aspect: Marketing communications
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Responsible marketing (p. 52)
Report on Risks and Opportunities

G4-PR6

Sale of banned or disputed products

Responsible marketing (p. 52)

G4-PR7

Total number of incidents of
non-compliance with regulations
and voluntary codes concerning
marketing communications,
including advertising, promotion,
and sponsorship by type of
outcomes

With regard to marketing activi- Responsible marketing (p. 52)
ties, we do not report on the
Report on Risks and Opportuninumber of regulation violations
ties
or breaches of voluntary rules of
conduct. As applicable, we report
on risks from litigation and legal
proceedings in our Report on
Risks and Opportunities.

Aspect: Customer privacy
G4-DMA

Management Approach

Clinical trials (p. 55)
Compliance (p. 11)

G4-PR8

Total number of substantiated
complaints regarding breaches of
customer privacy and losses of
customer data

Clinical trials (p. 55)
Indicators: Products (p. 109)

Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-PR9

Monetary value of significant
fines for non-compliance with
laws and regulations concerning
the provision and use of products and services

Compliance (p. 11)
Report on Risks and Opportunities
As applicable, we report on risks Report on Risks and Opportunifrom litigation and legal proceed- ties
ings in our Report on Risks and
Indicators: Compliance (p. 107)
Opportunities. We do not report
the monetary value of fines.

* Disclosure on Management Approach.
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance on the indicators in the chapter “Facts and
figures”, including explanatory notes, and chosen DMAs in the online Corporate Responsibility Report for the business
year 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report (p. 172).
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Group
Management’s Report for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt. You can
find the Independent Auditor’s Report in the Auditor’s report.

168

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Global Compact
2016 Communication on progress in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global
Compact
We have been a UN Global Compact participant since 2005. As a signatory of the initiative, we commit ourselves to ten principles based on key UN conventions regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption.
At the same time, the UN Global Compact encourages its signatories to actively engage in propagating the principles within
their own sphere of influence.
The following table presents the key measures we took in 2015 and 2016 to support and implement the principles of the
Global Compact.

Link: www.unglobalcompact.org
UNGC principles:

Key measures in 2015 and 2016:

Relevant GRI
indicators:

Reference:

G4-HR2,
G4-HR7,
G4-HR8,
G4-HR9,
G4-HR12,
G4-SO1,
G4-SO2

Human rights (p. 14)
Standards in the
supply chain (p. 90)
Health (p. 97)

G4-HR1,
G4-HR10–11

Human rights (p. 14)
Standards in the
supply chain (p. 90)

Human rights
Principle 1:
Businesses should support
and respect the protection
of internationally
proclaimed human rights

Performed human rights self-assessments
across our sites
Conducted supplier assessments and audits
under the Together for Sustainability (TfS)
initiative
Donated 300 million praziquantel tablets to
the World Health Organization for the treatment of the worm disease schistosomiasis

Principle 2:
Businesses should make
sure that they are not
complicit in human rights
abuses

Performed human rights self-assessments
across our sites
Conducted CR audits of suppliers and
collected supplier self-assessments
Conducted supplier assessments and audits
under the Together for Sustainability (TfS)
initiative

169

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Labor standards
Principle 3:
Businesses should uphold
the freedom of association
and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining

Conducted internal audits on workplace
aspects of our Human Rights Charter
Performed human rights self-assessments
at our sites

G4-11,
G4-HR4,
G4-LA4

Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Employee engagement (p. 72)
Standards in the
supply chain (p. 90)

G4-HR6

Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Standards in the
supply chain (p. 90)

G4-HR5

Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Standards in the
supply chain (p. 90)
Mica supply chain (p.
93)

G4-10,
G4-EC5–6,
G4-LA1,
G4-LA3,
G4-LA9,
G4-LA11–13,
G4-HR3

Human rights (p. 14)
Compliance (p. 11)
Diversity and inclusion (p. 67)

Conducted CR audits of suppliers and
collected supplier self-assessments
Conducted supplier assessments and audits
under the Together for Sustainability (TfS)
initiative

Principle 4:
Businesses should support
the elimination of all forms
of forced and compulsory
labor

Performed human rights self-assessments
at our sites
Conducted internal audits on workplace
aspects of our Human Rights Charter
Conducted CR audits of suppliers and
collected supplier self-assessments
Conducted supplier assessments and audits
under the Together for Sustainability (TfS)
initiative

Principle 5:
Businesses should support
the effective abolition of
child labor

Performed human rights self-assessments
at our sites
Conducted internal audits into workplace
aspects of our Human Rights Charter
Conducted CR audits of suppliers and
collected supplier self-assessments
Conducted supplier assessments and audits
under the Together for Sustainability (TfS)
initiative
Attended the Mica Summit on the mica
supply chain in Delhi, India

Principle 6:
Businesses should support
the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation

Conducted internal audits on workplace
aspects of our Human Rights Charter
Reached our goal to increase percentage of
leadership roles occupied by women; set
new goal for 2021
Expanded internal diversity programs
Provided global SpeakUp Line for employees
to report discrimination anonymously

170

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Environment
Principle 7:
Businesses should support a
precautionary approach to
environmental challenges

Obtained ISO 14001 Group certificate for
environmental management
Annually reduced CO2 emissions (reduction
target by 2020: 20% versus 2006 baseline)
Implemented more than 400 climate impact
mitigation projects since 2012

G4-EC2,
G4-EN1,
G4-EN3,
G4-EN8,
G4-EN15–17,
G4-EN20–21,
G4-EN27,
G4-EN31

Environmental stewardship (p. 77)
Climate impact mitigation (p. 79)
Resource efficiency
(p. 82)
Water management
(p. 84)
Waste and recycling
(p. 82)
Sustainable product
design (p. 29)
Drug safety (p. 46)
Chemical product
safety (p. 44)
Transport and warehouse safety (p. 50)

G4-EN1–34

Climate impact mitigation (p. 79)
Plant and process
safety (p. 86)
Transport and warehouse safety (p. 50)
Water management
(p. 84)
Waste and recycling
(p. 82)
Drug safety (p. 46)
Chemical product
safety (p. 44)
Recovery and reuse
(p. 33)

G4-EN6–7,
G4-EN19,
G4-EN27,
G4-EN31

Sustainable products
(p. 29)
Performance Materials

G4-56–58,
G4-SO3–SO6

Compliance (p. 11)

New goal: Introduce sustainable water
management system at high-use sites by
2020
Implemented measures to ensure product
safety (such as REACH, GHS and our Global
Product Strategy)
Develop and implement Merck Waste Score
Principle 8:
Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote
greater environmental
responsibility

Performed ISO 50001 audits (energy management) of 13 sites
Reduced average CO2 emissions of our
business car fleet by 12% compared to
2013 (goal for 2020: 30% reduction);
reduced maximum CO2 emissions for new
company vehicles
Offered employees sustainable mobility
options such as rental bicycles
Conducted internal and external EHS audits
Performed energy checks at our sites
Labeled products
Took back packaging

Principle 9:
Businesses should
encourage the development
and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies

Performed product life cycle analyses
Developed sustainable products

Anti-corruption
Principle 10:
Businesses should work
against corruption in all its
forms, including extortion
and bribery

Consolidated our antitrust and anticompetition principles into a single Groupwide guideline
Performed internal corruption audits
Reviewed compliance standards of our business partners
Strategically reorganized our Group function
Compliance
Trained employees on anti-corruption
Provided global SpeakUp Line for employees
to report corruption anonymously
Published first EFPIA transparency report

171

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Assurance Report
Independent Assurance Report1
To the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt
We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on disclosures on the stakeholder dialogue and the
materiality analysis, selected qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the sustainability performance including the accompanying explanatory notes in the chapter “Facts & figures – Indicators” and selected disclosures on management approaches
in the “Corporate Responsibility Report 2016” (further “Report”) of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt (further “Merck”) for the fiscal
year 2016 published at http://reports.merckgroup.com/2016/cr-report.
The selected disclosures on management approaches included in the scope of the assurance engagement apply to the
aspects Procurement Practices, Energy, Water, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, Employment, Occupational Health and
Safety, Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Supplier Environmental Assessment, Supplier Human
Rights Assessment, as well as Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society each described in the subchapters “Our principles”.
The selected qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the sustainability performance and the management approaches
included in the scope of the assurance engagement are marked with the symbol
in the GRI G4 Content Index, published
at http://reports.merckgroup.com/2016/cr-report/facts-figures/gri-content-index.
It was not part of our engagement to review product or service related information, references to external information
sources, expert opinions and future-related statements in the Report.

Management’s Responsibility for the Report
The legal representatives of Merck are responsible for the accurate preparation of the Report in accordance with the
Reporting Criteria. Merck applies the principles and standard disclosures of the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the
Global Reporting Initiative, the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 und 2), and the Corporate Value
Chain (Scope 3) Standard of World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development, as described in
the section of the Report “Report profile”, as Reporting Criteria.
This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the
Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures which
are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, this responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining
systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Report in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements.

Independence and quality assurance on the part of the auditing firm
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants
issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA-Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior.
The quality assurance system of the KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft is based on the International Standard on
Quality Control 1 “Quality Control for Audit, Assurance and Related Service Practices” (ISQC 1) and, in addition on national
statutory requirements and professional standards, especially the Professional Code for Certified Accountants as well as the
joint statement of WPK (Chamber of Public Accountants) and IDW (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany): Requirements
for quality assurance in the auditing practice (VO 1/2006).

172

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed and the evidence obtained on the information
disclosed in the above-mentioned assurance scope.

Nature and extent of the assurance engagement
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised):
“Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” of the International
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). These standards require that we comply with our professional duties and
plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to preclude that the above mentioned
qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the
aforementioned Reporting Criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited
than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance
engagement. The choice of the audit procedures is subject to the auditor‘s own judgement. This includes the assessment of
the risk of material misstatement in the Report under consideration of the Reporting Criteria.
Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following procedures when conducting the limited
assurance:
Inquiries of personnel on Group level responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an understanding of the
processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries of Merck.
A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for Merck in the reporting period.
Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of
the indicators, including the consolidation of the data, at corporate and site level.
Interviews with relevant staff on corporate level responsible for providing and consolidating the data, as well as carrying
out internal control procedures on the data including the explanatory notes.
Visits to the sites Darmstadt (Germany) and Gernsheim (Germany) as well as Sante Meyzieu (France) and Martillac
(France) to assess local data collection, validation and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data.
Evaluating internal and external documentation, to determine whether qualitative and quantitative information is
supported by sufficient evidence and presented in an accurate and balanced manner.
An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all sites for consolidation at group level.
Use of the insights and relevant work performed for the group and statutory audit of the (consolidated) financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 of Merck KGaA with regard to audit procedures on those information and
indicators that were derived from those consolidated financial statements.
An evaluation of the overall presentation of the information, including the explanatory notes, within the scope of our
engagement.

Conclusion
Based on the procedures performed and evidence received to obtain limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention
that causes us to believe that the disclosures for the business year 2016 included in the scope of this engagement,
published in the report and marked with the symbol
in the GRI G4 Content Index are, in all material respects, not
prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria.

Purpose of the assurance report
This assurance report is issued based on an assurance engagement agreed upon with Merck. The assurance engagement to
obtain limited assurance is issued on behalf of Merck and the assurance report is solely for information purposes of Merck on
the results of the assurance engagement.

173

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Facts & figures

Limited liability
This assurance report must not be used as basis for (financial) decision-making by third parties of any kind. We have
responsibility only towards Merck. We do not assume any responsibility for third parties.
Frankfurt am Main, 12. April 2017
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
[Original German version signed by:]

Fischer
Wirtschaftsprüferin
[German Public Auditor]

Glöckner
Wirtschaftsprüfer
[German Public Auditor]

1

Our engagement applied to the German version of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2016. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language, whereas the German text is authoritative.

174

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

MAGAZINE

Enriching
lives
INTERVIEW WITH DR. SHINTA
PRIMASARA
Dr. Shinta Primasara (36) from North Sumatra, Indonesia,
is the mother of three children. Muhammad Harits Zaki
(10), Amirah Fatimah (4) and Azizah Aisyah (6 months) all
suffer from hypothyroidism. Even though Primasara is
herself a physician, it took a long time to find a diagnosis
for her first child and get proper treatment.

175

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

Interview
Dr. Primasara, what made you think that
something was wrong with your oldest
child Muhammad Harits?

You are a doctor yourself. How did you
take the diagnosis?

As a baby, my son initially seemed very healthy; up to six
months old, his progress was normal for his age. He would
occasionally come down with a fever or diarrhea, but
nothing that would have worried me. I noticed something
was wrong when he was nine months old. Harits could not
sit up on his own; but his pediatrician still didn’t think
anything was seriously wrong. Later, our son’s development
became regression, and we took him to see a neurologist to
figure out the cause. Harits was diagnosed with thyroid
hormone deficiency (hypothyroidism). We then consulted an
endocrinologist, who prescribed hormone thyroid treatment.

How is your son doing today?
The hormone deficiency caused by hypothyroidism impacts
brain development, which is why my son's mental development was delayed. He has severe learning difficulties,
cannot do things on his own and his hearing is impaired so
that he can only hear low-pitched sounds.

At first I was shocked when I learned of the diagnosis – it
had never even crossed my mind. This disease was rarely
heard of when I was in college. I didn’t expect it, as Harits’s
early development was normal. I also didn’t know that I
suffered from hypothyroidism when I was pregnant.
Screening for hypothyroidism is thus essential to diagnosing
the disorder in newborns.

Your daughters were also diagnosed with a
thyroid disorder, but luckily this happened
right after birth.
I have learned a lot about thyroid disease and now understand it. It is quite difficult to identify clinical symptoms in
newborns, as they do not appear immediately. In both of
my pregnancies with my daughters, I received treatment for
hypothyroidism. They were both screened for hypothyroidism four or five days after birth and were subsequently
also diagnosed with the disease. Thanks to prompt treatment, they are both developing normally, for which I am
very grateful.

Indonesia: Thyroid awareness
Indonesia has one of the highest levels of thyroid
disorder in Southeast Asia. Yet only 1% of patients
receive proper treatment. Children particularly suffer
from the effects of this disease because the hormonal
imbalance can impact their development.

20 Million

We want to educate the public on thyroid disorders. Since
2014, we've been working with the Indonesian government
to accomplish exactly that. Within the “Set yourself free
from Thyroid” campaign, we are hosting events such as
symposia, lectures and seminars for physicians and the
public. Above all, however, we’re working to promote
hypothyroidism screening of newborns across the country.
Although decreed a standard procedure by the Indonesian
government in 2014, implementation so far has been slow.
Our experts are currently partnering with the Indonesian
Pediatric Society to develop a manual on pediatric thyroid
disorders that will help pediatricians to diagnose the
disease.

The control tower of the metabolism

In 2016, we reached approximately 20 million people
through our worldwide thyroid awareness campaigns. More
than 14,500 individuals received thyroid checkups.

The butterfly-shaped thyroid gland is the primary regulator
of the body's metabolism. Its main job is to produce thyroid
hormones – messengers that are needed to make sure the
tissues and organs of the body work properly and at the
right speed. Through its hormones, this gland controls all
bodily tissues and organs. A thyroid disorder means that the
thyroid gland is either producing and releasing too much
(overactivity/hyperthyroidism) or too little (underactivity/
hypothyroidism) thyroid hormone into the bloodstream,
which can accelerate or slow down one's metabolism. There
are many possible symptoms. For example, some people
who suffer from thyroid disease may experience excessive
sweating or restlessness, while others may be fatigued and
depressed.

176

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

In response, we collaborated with TFI to develop a film, a
children's book and an informational brochure for parents.
These tools feature two butterfly cartoon characters called
“Hypo” and “Hyper”, who explain the symptoms of hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. Worldwide, 34 of our sites
supported this campaign through initiatives such as social
media activities, drawing contests, info fairs, and free
checkups for children.

“Catching butterflies” – across the globe!
Merck is working to raise global awareness of the thyroid
gland and possible disorders. Hand in hand with Thyroid
Federation International (TFI), we've been supporting International Thyroid Awareness Week for the last nine years.
Held in May every year, the 2016 campaign was called
“Catching Butterflies: Spotting the Symptoms of Thyroid
Disorders in Children”. A survey we commissioned in 2016
revealed that 84% of mothers worldwide could not correctly
identify typical symptoms of thyroid disorders in their children.

“Millions of people around the world suffer from some
form of thyroid disease. Most of them, however, are
unaware of their condition. They grapple with health
limitations that could easily be alleviated with the
right treatment. Thyroid Federation International
aims to change this and is working to raise awareness
of thyroid disorders.”
Ashok Bhaseen
President of Thyroid Federation International

177

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

Greater awareness
Initially, many diseases go undetected. People often know
too little about diseases such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis
(MS) and cancer. Our company has in-depth knowledge and
expertise regarding these diseases. We therefore run global
awareness campaigns in which we work closely with various
partners such as patient advocacy groups. Many of our
employees get involved in these initiatives as well. In addition to external campaigns, we also regularly organize
awareness campaigns within our own company.

17
In 2015 and 2016, we organized 17 awareness campaigns
around the world on diseases such as cancer, diabetes,
multiple sclerosis, and thyroid disorders.

Dispelling the stigma of infertility
Since launching our More than a Mother campaign in 2015,
we have been working in partnership with ministries of
health and social welfare, academia, parliaments, and
fertility societies to raise awareness about infertility prevention and break the stigma around infertile women in Africa.
This initiative, originally launched in Kenya, was expanded
in 2016 to Uganda, Nigeria, Tanzania, Ghana, Central
African Republic, and Ivory Coast, where we are providing
practical training for embryologists and fertility specialists in
an effort to build fertility care capacity on the continent. We
are also helping governments define policies to improve
access to safe and effective fertility care. In 2016, we
furthermore helped more than 1,000 affected women to set
up their own business and thus achieve financial independence. The More than a Mother campaign is championed by
the first ladies of Nigeria, Central African Republic and
Sierra Leone. It is publicized through social media to spread
awareness of the stigmatization endured by these women
and share their stories.

“Advocating for better health creates a ripple effect,
uplifting entire families, communities and future
generations. We are proud to support disease awareness campaigns around the world in order to take
medical education in developing countries to the next
level. By promoting global access to health services,
we are taking a significant step toward achieving the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.”
Belén Garijo
Executive Board member and CEO Healthcare

Educating the public in rural India
With our Su-Swastha project, we are working to improve
the quality of healthcare in rural India. We educate both the
public and physicians in these regions on commonplace
health problems and how to treat them. For instance,
experts provide information on coughs and childhood
illnesses, explaining ways to prevent them. In addition, we
offer free check-ups for patients and continuing education
for physicians.

178

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

MAGAZINE

Exploring the
future
INTERVIEW WITH JOHANNES CANISIUS
Johannes Canisius, who holds a PhD in Chemistry, is one of the minds behind our latest vision for liquid crystal technology.
Since 2012, the 49-year old Merck employee has been working with his team on the development of liquid crystal windows
(LCWs). Head of the LCW business field within our Performance Materials business sector, Canisius explains the benefits of
this innovative application.

179

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

Interview
You and your team have developed a new
way to shade windows from the sun. What
inspired you?
When the sun shines into an office, the bright light warms
up the room and makes it hard to see – so you put down
the blinds. But the problem is that these darken the room,
meaning you then have to turn on a light. And people often
use air conditioning to cool the room down. We asked
ourselves whether there might not be a better, more
sustainable solution. We have essentially put sunglasses on
the windows. Our liquid crystal technology allows the level
of incoming light to be adjusted at the touch of a button. If
the sun is shining, the room can be immediately darkened,
which means it is less prone to heating up. This technology
reduces the amount of energy consumed by air conditioning
and lighting. Blinds can be done away with altogether,
boosting the general feel good factor – with an uninterrupted view of the great outdoors, people become more
creative and productive!

Seems like a brilliant idea – how did it
come about?
Our company is the world market leader in liquid crystal
technology. For a long time, we focused our efforts on
reducing the energy consumed by the liquid crystal displays
of smartphones, tablets and TVs. But then in 2012 we realized that we could use our liquid crystals for so much more.
We heard about the Dutch start-up Peer+, a small team
that was experimenting with liquid crystals in windows. We
partnered with them for two years before acquiring the
company. With our ideas and expertise, we complement
each other perfectly.

What role does sustainability play in your
work?
Fortunately, it plays a major role. Every day, I have the
chance to work on new, sustainable ideas. In developing our
liquid crystal window technology, we received a lot of
support from the Executive Board, even during challenging
stages. The drive to blaze new trails requires top-down buyin, which we definitely have at our company!

Saving energy
Our liquid crystal windows can help save energy.
Since they absorb a portion of the sunlight and therefore the heat, the room does not grow as warm,
reducing the need to use air conditioning. Light still
enters the building, just not so bright that it's
blinding. People no longer need to draw the curtains
or drop the blinds, nor do they need to turn on the
lights. All in all, liquid crystal windows can thus save
up to 40% of the energy that would normally be used
for air conditioning or lighting.

Up to

40 %
Buildings outfitted with liquid crystal windows consume up
to 40% less energy otherwise required for air conditioning
or lighting.

180

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

Liquid crystal windows as a sunshade – how it works
A mixture of liquid crystals and pigment molecules is placed between two panes of glass. The alignment of these crystals
changes when an electrical current is applied. When users push the button to alter the current, the liquid crystals arrange
the pigment molecules so that they absorb more or less light, depending on their positioning. This controls how much light
the window transmits. If it’s set to “bright”, light penetrates the window. If darkened, light and heat are absorbed – but it’s
still possible to see out.

100 %
Our liquid crystal windows are 100% recyclable after the
end of their useful life.

Producing their own electricity
Liquid crystal windows could be made to generate their own
electricity. The liquid crystal mixture can be designed so
that it functions as an optical waveguide. Incoming light
would be conducted to the inner frame of the window, which
contains small solar cells. These would then produce enough
electricity to enable the windows to operate.

Conserving resources
Buildings with giant window façades have one major
problem: it takes a lot of time, effort and money to block
the sun. Electric blinds require repairs - and it is expensive
as well as time-consuming to install a new motor. As a
result, large office buildings often have all the motors
changed at once, even the ones that still work, thereby
wasting a lot of materials. With our liquid crystal windows,
however, blinds are no longer needed. These windows
require practically no maintenance and are 100% recyclable.

“Our people have creative ideas and develop innovative and sustainable solutions with the full backing of
our company. Johannes Canisius' team is a quintessential example: Their liquid crystal windows have
taken our liquid crystal technology in a completely
new direction and will soon be an integral component
of state-of-the-art architecture and sustainable
building management.”
Walter Galinat
Executive Board member and CEO Performance Materials

181

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

Cool to the touch

Commercializing liquid crystal windows

At our global headquarters in Darmstadt, we have already
installed our liquid crystal windows in our modular Innovation Center as well as our OLED materials production
building. “During the summer, you can immediately feel the
room cool down when the windows are darkened and the
sunlight is blocked out,” says Johannes Canisius, reporting
on the successful test phase.

Our windows are on the verge of market launch, and our
first production facility in Veldhoven (Netherlands) is scheduled for completion some time in 2017. Our initial target
group will be the premium architecture segment, where
large window façades envelop high rises and corporate
headquarters, and the task of regulating the incident
sunlight is complicated and expensive. Once these windows
have established a firm foothold in this sector, we will turn
our attention to the mass market. We believe that liquid
crystal windows will soon become the window of choice.

The feel-good factor
Displays? No problem! But windows? With our new technology, we were faced with the major challenge of breaking
into the market of the construction industry, a sector that is
relatively conservative when it comes to innovations.
However, modern architecture is increasingly catering to the
feel-good factor, which played right to our strengths. Over
the last several years, the percentage of glass used in both
private homes and large office complexes has increased
exponentially. This is the perfect time for our liquid crystal
windows.

5 years
It took 40 people – among them engineers, scientists, and
quality managers – five years to develop our liquid crystal
windows, from the initial idea in 2012 to market maturity in
2017.

“Modern buildings are becoming more and more like
living organisms, where the façade works like our
skin in keeping the interior comfortable. Like in a
human body, all parts of a building must function in
harmony. Our liquid crystal windows fit the bill
perfectly because they can be seamlessly integrated
with other lighting and climate controls in a building,
optimally making use of available daylight and all
working together to make the building a pleasant
place to be.”
Caspar van Oosten
CEO Merck Window Technologies, co-developer of the LCW
technology, founder and joint owner of the start-up Peer+

182

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

MAGAZINE

Fostering
talent
INTERVIEW WITH BHAVYA VIJAY VAKIL
Bhavya Vijay Vakil, a medical professional from Mumbai,
India, knew early on that he wanted to be a doctor. Yet his
family could not afford to send him to university. Thanks to
financial support from the Merck Scholarship Program,
Bhavya has made his dream come true. Now 26 years old,
he works as an anesthesiology resident in Mumbai.

183

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

Interview
Why did you want to become a doctor?

What form of support has Merck provided?

I come from a humble background. My father was an engineer but worked as a teacher – that was his passion. My
mother is a housewife. Until the eighth grade, I'd never
really considered what I wanted to be when I grew up. But
then my father died of a heart attack – that day, I knew
that I wanted to become a doctor and help people.

Starting in 2006, Merck covered 90% of my tuition at the
Maharashtra University of Health Sciences. This support
lasted for about seven years. There are many local scholarships available in India, but Merck's is one of the most
extensive. However, Merck also expects good performance
and continually checks on the progress of scholarship recipients. I had to get good grades in my classes to keep the
scholarship, which kept me really motivated. And ultimately,
I succeeded!

How did you achieve your goal?
It was very difficult at first. After my father's death, we had
little money and I needed tutoring at school. My mother had
no idea how she would pay for it. When I was in tenth
grade, my uncle happened to read about Merck's scholarship program in the newspaper. That was my window of
opportunity – I applied immediately.

... and you were accepted. Do you still
remember the moment you heard the good
news?
When Merck called to tell me I'd won a scholarship, it was
one of the most pivotal moments of my life. I'd never
dreamed it would actually happen! I was sure I'd messed up
the application. Far from it – I’d been accepted! I was unbelievably grateful.

You are now a medical resident. Do you
have new goals?
I am currently working as an anesthesiology resident at a
hospital in Mumbai. This comes with a great deal of responsibility, and I have to maintain high levels of concentration
at work. I enjoy it a lot and would like to continue in this
field of medicine. After finishing my residency, I would like
to go to London and apply for the fellowship offered by the
Royal College of Anaesthetists. For anesthesiologists,
successful completion of this fellowship comes with a lot of
cachet. Afterwards, however, I would like to return to
Mumbai. It’s my home; it's where my friends and family
live. I want to be with them and serve my nation.

A springboard …
… for great dreams: Our Merck India Charitable Trust
(MICT) has been providing scholarships to underprivileged students since 2005. These scholarships cover a
five- to seven-year period, generally enough for recipients to pay for their tuition fees and study materials.
Since the scholarship's launch, 54 recipients have
successfully completed their degrees and found good
jobs, primarily in the fields of IT and medicine.
“With this scholarship, Merck is nurturing the future
of the nation. We believe that a lack of financial
resources should not be a barrier to young talent
reaching their full potential and achieving a
respectable life. That is why we have made a longterm commitment of financial support to these
talented students who are starting a new phase in
their education.”
Anand Nambiar
Managing Director of Merck in India

184

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

Furthermore, in 2016 our Healthcare business in China
launched a scholarship program for MBA students enrolled
in the National School of Development (NSD) of Beijing
University. In Ghana, Nigeria and Kenya, we award prizes to
outstanding students on an annual basis.

275 students
We are currently funding university degrees for 275
students in Mumbai and Goa, India.

Finally going to school – Other projects in
India

Progress through curiosity

We procure mica used in the production of effect pigments
for the cosmetics industry from Jharkhand, India. Many children and adolescents in this region do not attend school. We
are collaborating with the IGEP Foundation to remedy this
situation. In Jharkhand, we operate three schools with adjacent nursery schools along with a vocational training center
for tailoring and carpentry, which provide services to 500
children and teenagers. At a fourth school, we provide
scholarships that enable 200 children access to a basic
school education.

China and Ghana: Supporting the health
experts of tomorrow
Because young, skilled individuals are key to the future
success of entire regions, we are committed to facilitating
education in other developing and emerging countries as
well. Since 2011, for instance, we've been awarding twoyear scholarships to talented students in China who come
from an economically disadvantaged background. We are
focusing our support particularly on medical and pharmacology students at Fudan University in Shanghai. Fudan
University is one of the most renowned academic institutions in China and ranks among the top 100 universities
worldwide. To date, 600 students have benefited from our
scholarships, with 120 in 2016 alone. Recipients have
included PhD fellows and graduates working towards an
advanced degree.

“With the constantly changing kaleidoscope of new
issues we encounter and completely new forms of
collaboration, we are always searching for inquisitive,
capable young people who share our passion for
science and technology. We are therefore committed
to inspiring children and teenagers to explore the
sciences. To this end, we promote a number of educational projects – particularly in the communities near
our sites across the globe.”
Kai Beckmann
Executive Board member and Chief Administration Officer

Jugend forscht: Three decades of
pioneering spirit
“Jugend forscht” is Europe's largest youth science and technology competition. We have been supporting this initiative
for more than 30 years. Since 1996, we have also been
hosting the state-level competition held in the German
Federal State of Hesse, and have hosted the nationals twice.
We have been selected to host the nationals again in 2018
and are already looking forward to it. Furthermore, 80% of
the Hessian Jugend forscht competitors came from schools
with which we partner.

185

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Magazine

More than

20,000
Since 2008, more than 20,000 students have paid a visit to
the Merck-TU Darmstadt student chemistry lab, where
they've tinkered about and conducted experiments.

Inspiring teachers
Teachers also need inspiration. For many years, we have
been supporting more than 60 schools in Darmstadt and
Gernsheim by providing class materials and continuing
education for teachers. Our efforts here focus on subjects in
which we're experts, such as chromatography, spectroscopy
and lab safety.

When science makes sparks fly
Launched in 2016, our SPARK volunteering program works
to bring science to life. It motivates employees across the
Life Science business sector to volunteer to share their
scientific knowledge with students at schools in 192 cities
around the world. To date, around 4,500 employees have
provided exciting insights into the world of science in classrooms and at Merck sites in 36 countries. More than
60,000 pupils have put on lab coats and had fun conducting
hands-on experiments.

Having fun in the lab
Gilding copper coins, removing rust from iron, isolating
pigments from carrots: young students are curious and love
to experiment. They have ample opportunity to explore their
curiosity in our top-notch Junior Lab, a facility that is
perfectly equipped for school classes. In October 2016, we
launched a similar learning laboratory for biology known as
the “livfe BioLab”. This is an initiative that links classroom
lessons with trending topics and modern methods of biological research. We partner with the Technical University (TU)
of Darmstadt in the operation of both laboratories.

186

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Glossary

Glossary
3R principle

Design thinking

The international guiding principle for all animal testing. The
number of laboratory animals used as well the stress placed
on them before, during and after testing are to be kept to
an absolute minimum by using methods to replace animal
experiments (replacement), reduce the required number of
tests and animals (reduction), and improve the test
methods (refinement).

An approach to developing new ideas. Design thinking uses
the designer’s sensibility and methods to match people’s
needs with what is technologically feasible and what a viable
business strategy can convert into customer value and
market opportunity.

Biodiversity

The impact of a health problem, often measured in terms of
quality-adjusted life years or disability-adjusted life years,
both of which quantify the number of years lost due to
disease.

The diversity of ecosystems, habitats and landscapes on
earth, the diversity of the species, and the genetic diversity
within a biological species or population.

Disease burden

Dual-use products

Biosimilars

Goods that are normally used for civilian purposes, but that
may also have military applications.

Officially approved subsequent versions of innovator
biopharmaceutical products made by a different sponsor
after the original product's patent or exclusivity expires.
Based on guidance from the EMA (European Medicines
Agency), biosimilars must demonstrate comparability, or
biosimilarity, to an existing approved product.

Due diligence
A risk analysis exercised with particular care that is done in
preparation for a business transaction.

Ecotoxicology

Chromatography

Focuses on the effects of substances on the ecosystem.

A technique used to separate mixtures.

EHS

CLP

Environment, Health and Safety describes environmental
management, health protection and occupational safety
throughout the company.

The European CLP regulation (Classification, Labelling and
Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) is based on the
Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and
Labelling of Chemicals.

End-user declaration

CO2eq

A binding customer statement regarding the intended use of
a product.

CO2 equivalent: This indicates how much a specified quantity of a specific greenhouse gas has contributed to the
greenhouse effect and uses the global warming potential of
carbon dioxide as a reference.

Essential medicines
Defined by the World Health Organization as “those drugs
that satisfy the healthcare needs of the majority of the
population”.

Compliance
Adherence to laws and regulations as well as to voluntary
codices that are internal to the Merck Group. Compliance is
a component of diligent corporate governance.

Exposure

CRISPR/Cas
A biomolecular method for targeting, cutting and editing the
DNA of an organism (gene editing). Experts think this technique has great potential for curing diseases or generating
plants and animals with new traits.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency defines exposure
assessment as the determination or estimation (qualitative
or quantitative) of the magnitude, frequency, duration, and
route of exposure between an agent and an organism. This
analysis forms part of the chemical safety assessment
process.

187

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Glossary

FDA
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is the U.S. government agency responsible for protecting and advancing
public health, especially as concerns food and drugs.

days to develop innovative solutions and ideas for predefined issues or challenges.

HazCom 2012

Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling
of Chemicals: An international standard system to classify
chemicals that covers labeling as well as safety data sheets.

A U.S. OSHA standard pertaining to the safe handling of
chemicals in the workplace, with an emphasis on occupational safety and environmental protection. This standard
requires manufacturers and distributors to provide information on the hazards posed by a product as well as ways to
minimize risks.

Global Grade

IATA

Merck uses a market-oriented method to rate positions
within the company. The Merck Group has 23 Global Grades
that enable a consistent rating system for positions across
the organization.

International Air Transport Association

GHS

Global Product Strategy
An initiative of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) through which participating companies of the
chemical industry make a commitment to comprehensive
product responsibility.

GMP
Good Manufacturing Practices is a system for ensuring that
products are consistently produced and controlled according
to quality standards. These guidelines are used in the
production of medicines, pharmaceutical active ingredients
and cosmetics, as well as foodstuffs and feed.

Good clinical practice (GCP)
An international quality standard that enforces tight guidelines on ethical aspects of clinical studies.

Good distribution practice (GDP)
An EU guideline that regulates the proper distribution of
medicinal products for human use.

Greenhouse gases
Gases in the atmosphere that contribute to global warming.
They can be either naturally occurring or caused by humans
(such as CO2 emissions caused by burning fossil fuels).

GxP
The general term for good (anything...) practice quality
guidelines and regulations that are used in many fields,
including the medical, pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical
chemistry industries.

Hackathon
Portmanteau from the words hacking and marathon. A
hackathon is an event attended by people from different
professional backgrounds. Teams are given a few hours or

ICH
The aim of the International Council for Harmonisation of
Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use
(ICH) is to promote uniform assessment criteria for product
registration in Europe, the United States and Japan. The ICH
makes recommendations toward achieving greater harmonization in the interpretation and application of technical
guidelines and requirements for pharmaceutical product
registration.

In vitro
Procedures involving components of an organism that have
been isolated from their usual biological surroundings (e.g.
test tube experiments).

In vivo
Latin for “within the living”, this term describes processes
that take place within a living organism.

Interpharma
A federation of research-based pharmaceutical companies in
Switzerland.

Investigational drug
A pharmaceutical form of an active ingredient or placebo
being tested or used as a reference in a clinical trial,
including approved as well as unapproved products when
used or assembled (formulated or packaged) in a way
different from the approved form, when used for an unapproved indication, or when used to gain further information
about an approved use.

ISO 14001
This international environmental management standard sets
globally recognized requirements for an environmental
management system.

ISO 50001
This international standard defines globally recognized
requirements for energy management systems.

188

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Glossary

ISO 9001

OLED

This international standard defines globally recognized
requirements for a quality management system.

Organic light-emitting diodes are a new technology for
displays and lighting.

Least developed countries (LDC)

Onchocerciasis

Countries that, according to the United Nations, exhibit the
lowest indicators of socioeconomic development.

A chronic parasitic infection caused by nematodes that
occurs in the tropical regions of Africa and South America.
In approximately 10% of those infected, the disease leads
to blindness, which is why onchocerciasis is also referred to
as river blindness.

Liquid crystals (LC)
Liquid crystals are a hybrid of a crystalline and liquid state.
In general, molecules are perfectly arranged only when in a
solid crystal state, in contrast to the liquid state, when they
move around chaotically. However, liquid crystals are a
hybrid of the two states: Although they are liquid, they
exhibit a certain crystalline arrangement. Their rod-shaped
molecules align themselves like a shoal of fish. In addition,
they respond to the electromagnetic waves of light like tiny
antennae. Therefore, such swarms of molecules can either
allow specially prepared “polarized” light to pass through, or
they can block it. This takes place in the pixels of liquid
crystal displays – as it does similarly in liquid crystal
windows, which can provide shade against sunlight.

LTIR
The lost time injury rate measures the number of accidents
resulting in missed days of work (one or more days) per one
million man-hours.

Merck Competency Model
This model describes the behaviors needed to drive our
strategic orientation and success. These behaviors therefore
provide key guidance for all learning and development activities.

Merck Employee Engagement Survey
This survey is conducted annually to measure the engagement of our employees and to gauge the twelve drivers
thereof.

Organizational Health Index (OHI)
An index developed by the consulting firm McKinsey that
uses pre-defined parameters to benchmark companies
against peers in the same industry, of the same size, orientation, etc. One component of the process is an employee
survey on the organization's performance capacity.

Orodispersible tablet
A tablet that dissolves in the mouth within 30 seconds and
does not have to be taken with water. The active ingredient
is absorbed through the mucous membrane in the mouth
and also partly through the lining of the stomach.

Patent pool
A consortium of at least two competing companies that
allows partners to share the use of patents relating to a
particular technology.

Patient support program
Any organized system providing services, direct patient or
patient-caregiver interactions that are intended and
designed to educate patients about certain diseases, help
patients with access to and/or the management of
prescribed medication and/or disease outcomes, or provide
healthcare professionals with support for their patients.

Pharmacovigilance

Mutagen

The continual, systematic monitoring of a drug's safety.

A substance that changes the DNA of an organism.

Phase I study

Neglected tropical disease (NTD)

Phase I clinical trials test a new biomedical intervention in a
small group of people (e.g. 20-80) for the first time to evaluate safety (e.g. to determine a safe dosage range and to
identify side effects).
Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/

Diseases that occur primarily in developing countries. NTDs
include schistosomiasis, intestinal worms, trachoma,
lymphatic filariasis, and onchocerciasis. This group of
diseases is called neglected because, despite the large
number of people affected, they have historically received
less attention and research funding than other diseases.

OHSAS
The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series
(OSHAS) is an international occupational health and safety
management system.

Phase II study
Phase II clinical trials study the biomedical or behavioral
intervention in a larger group of people (several hundred) to
determine efficacy and to further evaluate its safety.
Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/

189

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Glossary

protect employees as well as the tangible and intangible
assets of Merck.

Phase III study
Phase III studies investigate the efficacy of the biomedical
or behavioral intervention in large groups of human subjects
(from several hundred to several thousand) by comparing
the intervention to other standard or experimental interventions as well as to monitor adverse effects, and to collect
information that will allow the intervention to be used
safely.
Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/

Product safety summaries

Spontaneous report
An unsolicited communication by healthcare professionals or
consumers to a company, regulatory authority or other
organization that describes one or more adverse drug reactions in a patient who was given one or more medicinal
products and that does not derive from a study or any organized data collection scheme.

Stakeholder

Intended to provide a general overview of the chemical
substance and its use. It cannot take the place of a safety
data sheet.

People or organizations that have a legitimate interest in a
company, entitling them to make justified demands. Stakeholders include people such as employees, business partners, neighbors in the vicinity of our sites, and
shareholders.

PS-VA
Abbreviation for polymer-stabilized vertical alignment: A
polymer layer pre-aligns the molecules inside the display in
a certain direction. In the black state, the liquid crystals are
not exactly vertical, but slightly tilted, which allows the
liquid crystals to switch more quickly. The light transmittance of the display is significantly higher, thus reducing the
backlighting, one of the most costly components to produce.

Public-private partnership (PPP)

STEM
Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.

Stem cells
Undifferentiated cells with the potential to develop into
many different cell types that carry out different functions.

Sugar cane bagasse

A collaboration between public sector (government) organizations, private companies and/or not-for-profit organizations.

A fibrous waste product of sugar refining, which is left when
sugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice.

REACH

Sunshine laws

A European Union chemical regulation (EC No. 1907/2006)
that took effect on June 1, 2007. REACH stands for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals.

The Sunshine Provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act aim to create more transparent relationships between manufacturers of drugs, medical devices and
medical aids on the one hand, and doctors and teaching
hospitals on the other.

Reproductive health

Traces

The term covers various areas such as pregnancy, sexually
transmitted diseases, contraception, and infertility.

Regulation concerning international carriage by rail.

Substances dissolved in water that are present only in
minute amounts. Also referred to as micropollutants, these
are synthetic substances present in concentrations ranging
from one nanogram to one microgram per liter of water.

Schistosomiasis

TRIPS

A parasitic disease spread in warm lakes and ponds by
snails that serve as intermediate hosts.

The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual
Property Rights is an international legal agreement between
all the member nations of the World Trade Organization.
TRIPS seeks to ensure that the measures and procedures
for enforcing intellectual property rights do not become a
barrier to lawful trade.

RID

Security
This term stands for all necessary measures and governance
activities to detect, analyze, handle, and mitigate securityand crime-based threats to the company. This helps to

190

Corporate Responsibility Report 2016
Imprint

Publication
contributors
Published on April 28, 2017 by
Merck, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility
Frankfurter Strasse 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany

Concept and implementation of HTML, PDF & Print:
nexxar GmbH, Vienna – Online annual reports and online
sustainability reports

Tel.: +49 (0) 6151-72 0
Fax: +49 (0) 6151-72 5577

Text and consulting:
Stakeholder Reporting GmbH
www.stakeholder-reporting.com

Website: www.merckgroup.com
Contact for questions regarding this report:
Maria Schaad, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility
Friederike Segeberg, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility

Photos and graphics:
art4stock/Fotolia, Ingmar Kurth, Frank Bauer, Merck

191

