corporate responsibility
report 2013/14
3

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Gesellschaftliches Engagement

CN

shanghai, china
shanghai pipigou
W o o l e n te x t i l e c o . , l t d .

m a r g a r e t ch a n

Executive Manager of Corporate Social Responsibility at
MGB METRO GROUP Buying Hong Kong (China)

5 out of
249,150
Our employees are the main focus
of the METRO GROUP Corporate
Responsibility Report 2013/14. They
fulfil social responsibility every day,
both at work and in their free time,
and give our company a face through
their commitment. In this publication,
we would like to introduce five of
our employees – and show you what
motivates them.

m a r ek k a p u sni a k

g a br iel e er b

r a l f cr emer

j ul i a sel l e

Transformation Manager at MAKRO
Cash & Carry, Rybnik (Poland)

Customer Manager at
METRO Cash & Carry, Neuss (Germany)

Head of Customer Service at Real,
Düsseldorf (Germany)

Lead Manager of Events &
Sponsoring at METRO GROUP,
Düsseldorf (Germany)

this Corporate responsibility report 2013/14 was prepared in accordance with the guidelines
of the Global reporting initiative (Gri G3.1). an overview of all figures, the metrO GrOup
carbon footprint, the uN Global Compact Communication on progress 2013/14 and the Gri
Content index can all be found at:

RepoRts.metRogRoup.De/2013-2014/coRpoRate-Responsibility-RepoRt
63

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

LETTER FROM THE MANAGEMENT BOARD

Dear
Readers,
We believe in doing the right things better and better. In the context of our sustainability vision,
this means creating added value for customers while reducing detrimental effects at the same time.
We made important progress on this front in the financial year 2013/14. This is confirmed not least
by our positive performance in leading sustainability indices and rankings: in 2014, METRO GROUP
was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indices (DJSI) as well as the
­F TSE4Good Global and Europe Indices. This is a great achievement, which shows us that the
measures we are taking are bearing fruit and that our commitment is widely acknowledged.

we create added
value for
our customerS while
reducing detrimental
effects at
the same time.

In this Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14, we show which targets
we have set ourselves in the field of sustainability, which approaches we are
taking and which measures our four ­M ETRO GROUP sales lines implemented during the reporting period. The main focus here is on our principal
courses of action at the different stages of our supply chain – beginning
with procurement, production and processing, then moving on to transport,
warehousing and stores before showing how the products we sell are used
by our customers and finally disposed of at the end of the product life cycle.
The various facets of our social engagement also form part of the Corporate
Responsibility Report.

In this way, we not only give an overview of the main ways in which we comply with the Global
Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) sustainability reporting requirements but also show how we have integrated the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact into company processes and taken
them on board in our work. All key performance indicators relating to sustainability, our carbon
footprint, the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress and the GRI Content
Index can be found in a supplement on our website,
reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/corporate-responsibility-report.

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

LETTER FROM THE MANAGEMENT BOARD

Taking centre stage in this report are five of our employees. Our portraits of them show how they
contribute to sustainability efforts on both, a personal and a professional level. They represent all
those people in our company who work to meet the needs of our customers every day. Their tireless
efforts help us to tackle social challenges and to make the vision of responsible business practices
an everyday reality in our company.
In order to overcome global challenges, it is necessary for many players to join forces to find solutions
and determine the most efficient action to take. If you would like to join the conversation, we would
be delighted to hear from you.

For M
­ ETRO GROUP, our sales lines and
our colleagues
Düsseldorf, December 2014

Olaf Koch
Chairman of the
Management Board
of ­METRO AG

Mark Frese
Chief Financial
Officer

Pieter Haas
Member of the
­Management Board

Heiko Hutmacher
Chief Human
­Resources Officer

metro group and its segments

­M E T R O

G R O UP

M E T R O AG

Metro
Cash & Carry
Makro
Cash & Carry

Media Markt
Saturn
Redcoon

Real

Ser v i ce com p a n i e s

4

Galeria
Kaufhof

20

ta ble of c ontent s
Our scope for action

6

Corporate Responsibility
Approach of METRO GROUP

7

Corporate Responsibility
Strategies of the Sales Lines

15
margaret chan

Our main
spheres of action
PROCUREMENT | PRODUCTION |
PROCESSING
Management approach

– E xecutive Manager of Corporate Social Responsibility
at MGB M
­ ETRO GROUP Buying in Hongkong –
believes it is important to maintain a dialogue with
suppliers and employees.

19

38

20
23

Interview: “We want to communicate that
­sustainability is key for long-term viability.”

25

Projects and measures

28

TRANSPORT | WAREHOUSING | STORES 30
Management approach

33

Projects and measures

35
m
 arek k apusniak

CUSTOMER

38

Management approach

41

Projects and measures

42

WASTE DISPOSAL

46

Management approach

49

Projects and measures

50

SOCiAL commitment

–

Transformation Manager at MAKRO Cash & Carry in
Rybnik (left) – keeps a close eye on water ­consumption.

30
gabriele erb

46

–C
 ustomer Manager at ­METRO

Cash & Carry in Neuss – makes
delivery processes transparent
for her customers.

54

Management approach

57

Projects and measures

58

Join in the dialogue

61

About the report

62

Imprint

63

julia selle –
	Lead Manager of Events & Sponsoring at

r alf cremer

5

–H
 ead of the Customer Service

department at Real in Düsseldorf –
attaches importance to sustainable
partnerships.

­ ETRO GROUP in Düsseldorf (right)
M
– coordinates the company’s social commitment activities.

54

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Our scope for action

M E T RO GROU P

Our scope
for action

W

SAFEGUARDING
FOOD SUPPLIES

CONSERVING
RESOURCES

DEMOGRAPHIC
CHANGE

SUSTAINABLE
CONSUMPTION

e all live and go about our activ­

global population has lived in towns and

Our consumption and the resulting waste

ities on a single planet, whose

cities, and this process of urbanisation is

are exhausting finite resources, inhibiting

population continues to grow. By 2030, an

continuing. Meanwhile, less developed

the regeneration of renewable resources

estimated eight billion people will live on

areas are becoming deserted.

like soil, air, oceans and water, as well as
depleting biodiversity.

earth – that’s 16 per cent more than in
2014. All of them want the necessities of

Due to worldwide population growth and

life. While stagnating birth rates in many

changing living conditions caused, for

But life always involves the use and con-

European countries and other industrial-

example, by migration or access to edu-

sumption of goods. With this in mind, we

ised nations are leading to ageing soci­

cation, demand for resources is rising

need solutions that enable waste avoid-

eties and declines in working populations,

steadily. We are already using 1.5 times

ance and ensure the long-term availabil-

birth rates in the developing and emer­

the Earth’s carrying capacity, meaning its

ity of water, fertile soil, intact natural

ging countries are climbing. In the search

ability to produce resources and absorb

environments and the goods necessary

for employment and a place to live, large

pollutants. According to calculations by

for life. These solutions are aimed at ren-

numbers of people are moving to urban

the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF),

dering both products and consumption

centres. Since 2009, the majority of the

by 2030 we will actually need two planets.

ecologically and socially responsible.

6

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Approach of Metro Group

Our ethos
­METRO GROUP sees itself as part of society and contributes
towards social value added. In the light of the global challenges
we have already described, our company has a responsibility to
go beyond legal requirements in reconciling economic goals
with society’s requirements and the demands of our customers, staff, investors and partners. At the same time, we have to
remain within the boundaries imposed by the environment.
Doing all of this enables us to act today with tomorrow in mind.
In line with ­METRO GROUP’s sustainability vision – “We offer
quality of life” – this means we need to ensure our business
activities generate additional value and simultaneously reduce
any negative impact they may have. We are working with our
employees to achieve this in various areas: for example, we
trace where our resources and the raw materials for our products come from and record how efficiently they are used in the
manufacturing process and at our locations. We monitor the
social and environmental conditions in which our products are
made and take steps – where relevant – to ensure they are disposed of properly. We promote responsible consumption and
foster dialogue and collaboration in our work with different
stakeholder groups and partners.

Our approach – embedding sustainability
in the heart of our company
Strategically embedding sustainability in our core business is
imperative for us to fulfill on our sustainability pledge. It is
crucial that every individual understands how important sustainability is and behaves accordingly. To support and drive this
process, ­METRO GROUP is encouraging people to act in a sustainable way by means of strategic and procedural guidelines.
At the same time, it aims to share knowledge and generate
awareness for this issue by constantly providing concrete
information. In this way, sustainability will become part of
each employee’s autonomous decisions and actions.
In order to embed sustainability in the heart of the company
and in the employees’ minds, it is essential that we link it with
our corporate strategy, shape our business processes and
programmes accordingly, and implement our sustainability
management system.

S usta i n a bi l i t y v i s io n
... We offer quality of life …

… Because we are acting more sustainably, …

… for our customers, …

… we are working on a responsible range of products
and assortment design.

… for our employees, …

… we systematically make sustainability a part of our work.

… for all who work for us, …

… we support humane working conditions.

… for society, …

… we are working on solutions to global challenges
with a steadfast commitment to the issue and a trusting
relationship with our stakeholders.

7

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Approach of Metro Group

S usta i n a bl e Per f orm a n c e Pl a n
According to the Sustainable Performance Plan (SPP),
the variable long-term incentive for members of the Man­
agement Board not only includes figures based on share
prices but is also partially linked (25 per cent) to the realisations of sustainability targets. The exact size of this
share of the variable long-term incentive, taking into ac­count
sustainability components, depends on the position achieved by
­METRO AG in the RobecoSAM/Dow Jones Sustainability Index
(DJSI) ranking in comparison to competitors in its own sector.
SPP has since also been taken into account in the remuner­
ation of ­METRO GROUP senior management worldwide.

Embedding sustainability in the
­corporate strategy
­METRO GROUP’s prime objective is to generate value added
for its customers. We can do this in a long term perspective if
we take their needs into account and reconcile them with other
stakeholder groups’ requirements. Our formula for achieving
this is: enhancing quality of life in the sense of value added for
society and reducing any negative impact on our environment,
be it ecological or social. This strategic emphasis on sustainability is being further strengthened by linking the remuneration paid to the Management Board and the global senior management with ­METRO GROUP’s performance in the Dow Jones

TOPIC

OBJECTIVES

Embedding sustainability
in the company

STATUS – GOAL
ACHIEVEMENT

METRO GROUP is systemat­
ically making sustainability part
of its work.

Sustainability Index (DJSI). This rating is produced by independent experts who pool internal and external stakeholder
groups’ requirements to create a representative assessment
profile and use this as a basis to analyse the overall impact our
business activities have on society. That means they evaluate
our sustainability performance. This annual assessment is a
management tool for ­METRO GROUP and a strong motivator
for continuously improving our performance. The proposed
improvement in sustainability performance defines our stra­
tegic target range. The individual sales lines are free to set
specific strategic goals and define their contribution to the
overall improvement within these parameters. Our commitment to constantly improving our corporate sustainability is
visibly bearing fruit. ­METRO GROUP succeeded in ranking
among the most sustainable businesses in 2014. The
­METRO AG share is listed in both the Dow Jones Sustainability
World Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index. As
well as this, we were included in the FTSE4Good Global and
FTSE4Good Europe Index. The FTSE4Good Index Series also
lists companies with outstanding performance in the Environmental, Social and Governance categories.

Embedding sustainability in
processes and programmes
We are also embedding sustainability in the heart of our company and in our employees’ minds by adjusting processes
accordingly. Guidelines and job instructions help us to do this.

STATUS –
­MEASURES

MEASURES

Integrating sustainability in all (key) business processes by 2016. Step one:
identifying key processes and how they are linked to this issue.

Enhancing employees’ awareness of sustainable behaviour by 2016. Step
one: developing an overall concept for conducting a group-wide sustainability
campaign including a sustainability day.

Integrating sustainability into the training programme. Training courses
focusing on corporate responsibility will be developed and offered to all staff
by 2016. Step one: preparing a general training format.

Measure
not yet
launched

Measure
launched

Measure
ongoing

Measure
completed

8

Goal
recently set

Work in
progress

Goal
achieved

Goal not
achieved

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Approach of Metro Group

For instance, an obligation to environmental responsibility is a
fixed part of our environmental guidelines. Our commitment to
social responsibility can be seen in the guidelines on fair working conditions and social partnership. Our Business Principles
for employees are currently being revised – among other things,
we are further fleshing out the aspects relevant to sustainability. Our aim is to make the target group of our Business Principles even more keenly aware of how important it is to incorporate sustainability into their own behaviour. ­The new
METRO GROUP company car guideline, which came into effect in
June 2014, also aims to achieve this. The guideline defines limits
and benchmarks for company car CO2 emissions, encouraging
the use of environmentally friendly models. In addition to this,
the group has stepped up its efforts to promote alternatives to
company cars, such as the use of public transport and a scheme
whereby employees who decide against a company car can have
the money saved paid into their pension pot.

Finally, proactive knowledge sharing via training programmes
helps us to embed sustainability in our processes. One examp­le
of this is the e-learning module “Sustainability at ­METRO”
developed in the financial year 2013/14 for existing and new
employees. It is also possible to raise staff awareness of sustainability by showing how it relates directly to their working
environment. For instance, ­METRO AG’s Corporate Compliance and Corporate Responsibility units conducted a workshop at this year’s compliance conference during which they
held a discussion with local Compliance Officers about the
interface between their field of work and a range of sustainability issues.

EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY

PROCESSES

TRAINING PROGRAMMES

BEHAVIOUR

Integrating sustainability into key
processes

Integrating sustainability into
courses and training packs at
managerial and staff level

Considering sustainability at work
and in everyday life

OUTCOME
Sustainability becomes the norm in day-to-day business and decision-making processes

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT

9

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Approach of Metro Group

Responsibility
for our employees
Our

249,150

employees

are responsible for the success of ­METRO GROUP and its
sales lines. Their dedication and the decisions they take in their
everyday work generate added value for our customers and for
society. In keeping with our sustainable approach to corporate
management, we therefore see it as our duty to create and
maintain an attractive, fair and safe working environment. We
strive to appreciate the individuality of our employees, foster
their diversity and strengthen their personal responsibility. In
this way, we are able to offer them the support they need to
successfully implement our corporate strategy.

10

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Approach of Metro Group

Offering fair working conditions
­METRO GROUP has made a commitment to its employees to
comply with the company’s self-imposed guidelines for fair
working conditions and social partnership. One of the instruments used to ensure transnational, social employee involvement is the Euro Forum, ­
the European works council of
METRO GROUP. As part of our commitment to providing fair
working conditions, we have also reconfirmed the joint declar­
ation with the UNI Global Union, an international union feder­
ation with more than 900 affiliated organisations through
which it represents over 14 million employees in 150 countries.
This underscores ­METRO GROUP’s commitment to the standards
of the International Labour Organization (ILO).

Recognising diversity as a value
In everyday business, it is our employees who are confronted
with the widely varying needs and demands of our customers
and other stakeholder groups. In order to ensure that they are
well equipped to deal with these, we have made diversity a key
component of our strategic personnel management and our
corp­or­ate culture. As early as 2013, ­METRO GROUP joined the
Board of Charta der Vielfalt e.  V., a trade association that works
to promote a non-discriminatory work environment. In addition, we are creating an environment in which diversity is recognised as a value and in which our employees are given the
scope to contribute and further develop their individual expert­
ise. Inclusion and diversity are fundamental principles for
­METRO Cash & Carry as well as the root of three key philosophies: “Lead, Link and Live”. With “Lead”, managers are
encouraged to foster understanding for inclusion and diversity
within the organisation and to set an example with their leadership. “Link” involves connecting global measures with the
activities of both decentralised and centralised units. “Live”
means putting these principles into practice in everyday business through such things as employee networks and events
and by incorp­or­ating them in everyday business decisions.

increase each employee’s self-management ability while making them aware of their potential for professional and personal
development. In the financial year 2013/14, approximately
91,000 people from 26 countries took part in these workshops.
At Real, head office and hypermarket managers participate in
the “Leadership for Growth” workshops. Meanwhile, Galeria
Kaufhof actively assists its staff with the process of changing
from stationary-only retail to multichannel sales with a training and information offensive that is tailored to its employees’
needs under the slogan “MCR – Mehr Chancen realisieren”
(Seizing more opportunities).

Strengthening personal
responsibility
We believe that corporate responsibility delivers the best – and
most visible – results when it is understood as a shared
responsibility. That is why it is our goal to make each employee
aware of the impact their individual actions have on sustain­
ability and to strengthen their personal responsibility by sharing
knowledge. Our sales lines use various information formats for
this purpose. In the reporting year, for example, an e-learning
module was developed that can be adapted to the specific
requirements of each sales line and which helps to make
employees aware of the links between our sustainability
approach and our everyday business. ­METRO Cash & Carry
also took advantage of the Top Management Conference 2014
to explore the significance of sustainability for the company.
Galeria Kaufhof’s management conference in June 2014 saw
the pre­sentation of the brochure “Gemeinsam Verantwortung
tragen” (Sharing responsibility), which was subsequently
made available to all staff in Germany. This brochure gives
employees an overview of the wide range of sustainability
projects conducted by the company and calls on them to take
part. Real included a flyer about the company’s sustainability
efforts with its employees’ payslips. In addition, our sales lines
gave purchasers training on specific issues, such as compliance with social standards, and provided them with general
information on sustainable purchasing requirements, such as
those which apply to fish and palm oil.

Supporting the change
in corporate culture
Our sales lines are constantly working to shape and drive the
change in their corporate cultures so that they can optimise
their response to changing market requirements. At ­METRO
Cash & Carry, the cultural change is being supported by the
“Leadership for Growth” workshop series. The aim is to

11

A comprehensive overview of the group’s efforts for our employees and
­ ETRO GROUP’s personnel policies, as well as the associated key figures, can be
M
found in the METRO GROUP annual report, chapter 6 of the group management
report, “Employees”. We also publish staff figures relating to sustainability
online at reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/corporate-responsibility-report.

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Approach of Metro Group

An external perspective
on our activities
In defining strategic objectives and designing concrete measures in the field of sustainability, we do not rely solely on our
internal viewpoint and our own experiences. Rather, we attach
importance to taking on board the opinions and expertise of
different stakeholder groups and external experts. This influences our business in two ways: the interaction helps to re­inforce
trust in our company and the dialogue helps to increase the
chances of our activities succeeding.
By taking part in economic and sociopolitical discourse and
working together with external stakeholder groups, we are in a
position to identify their requirements concerning our activ­
ities and address relevant issues at an early stage. In the case

of a number of issues, interacting with others on an ongoing
basis is fundamental in enabling us to take an efficient, solutionoriented approach to social challenges. This is because we
firmly believe that, when many players pool their know­ledge
and act together systematically, the leverage and impact that
this produces is all the greater.
The measures that we implement in the field of sustainability
are evaluated among other things by our stakeholder groups in
the form of ratings. These assessments are an important
source of motivation for us and also act as a management tool
by illustrating progress and potential for improving our
­activities.

Evaluation in relevant sustainability indices and rankings

INDEX/RANKING

Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World/Europe
Oekom Corporate Rating
CDP Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) DACH region

FTSE4Good Global / Europe Index

12

RATING/SCORE

SCALE

YEAr

71
Listed

0 to 100

2014

C

D– to A+

2014

98/A–
(disclosure/performance)
listed
Sector Leader
Consumer Staples

0 to 100/
E to A

2014

Listed

–

2014

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Approach of Metro Group

Our sustainability
management
Sustainability management serves to help embed sustainability in the core business and ensure that whenever economic
and environmental or social considerations affect one another,
overlaps are dealt with in an efficient, solution-oriented way. It
also assists in shaping sustainability-related guidelines such
as legal requirements or standards that apply to the company.
As there are many different units and company formats within
­METRO GROUP, clear structures have been put in place to
ensure that strategic and operational elements interlock
optimally. Our objective is to preserve the sales lines’ operational independence so that we can meet the requirements of
local markets and customers. At the same time, it is important to tap synergies with a view to achieving the group’s
shared strategic goals. The structure and processes of the
­METRO GROUP sustainability management enable us to deliver
on this.
As an official ­METRO GROUP body, the Sustainability Board
makes sure that the right strategic course is pursued with
respect to the group’s sustainability performance and key
issues are covered by means of relevant targets. The board
consists of the director responsible for sustainability, the
CEOs of the sales lines, and the sustainability managers from
­METRO AG and the sales lines.
The sustainability managers are responsible for making sure
that sustainability is integrated into the business at the sales
lines and at group level. This is done by rolling out this concept
in the various corporate divisions and taking it into account
­during decision-making.
The round table on corporate responsibility acts as an interface between the strategic and operational dimensions of
sustainability. This body prepares decisions to be approved

13

by the Sustainability Board and helps to implement them.
Actions taken by the individual sales lines contributing to
achieve ­METRO GROUP’s sustainability targets are coordinated by the round table. Its primary role is to act as a platform
that brings together all the sustainability managers and allows
them to pool their expertise. Synergies are created, for example when the participants discuss how they view certain topics
and deal with them. These can help the operating divisions to
manage their specific issues. When necessary, project groups
are also selected from interdisciplinary teams within or across
the sales lines to deal with particular questions in a targeted
­manner.
The sales lines are responsible for defining specific targets
and measures at operational level, acting on these in day-today business and ensuring that goals are met in a sustained
fashion. They inform the Sustainability Board about their progress via the round table.
Each ­METRO GROUP sales line has developed its own
approach – based on the specific requirements of its oper­
ational business – to deal with relevant aspects of sustainability.
These approaches are outlined on the next few pages.

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Approach of Metro Group

SUSTAINABILITY BOARD
ceos of the sale s line s chaired by the director re sponsible for sustainabilit y,
sustainabilit y managers from the sale s line s and me tro ag .

determines metro group’s sustainability strategy.

ROUND TABLE ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
sustainabilit y managers from the sale s line s and me tro ag .

pools sustainability-related expertise,
supports the Sustainability Board and the sales lines at operational level.

SALES LINES
responsible for their own sustainability management and operational implementation,
send experts to take part in project groups.

14

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Strategies of the sales lines

“

Potential
to

help counter global

c h a l l e n g e s.
”
At ­METRO Cash & Carry, we not only
acknowledge the significant impact
global challenges have on our business
as a wholesaler but also see it as an
opportunity to come up with solutions
to tackle those challenges. We recognise the need to contribute to the sustainable development of our common
future.

Through our customers, our offerings
reach more than 10 per cent of the global
population as end consumers. This figure underscores the huge potential
­METRO Cash & Carry has to help counter global challenges. We can therefore
achieve our greatest impact on sustainable development by being an enabling
partner for our customers and helping
them to run a responsible business.
Simul­taneously, we aim to minimise the
negative impact our own business operations have on the environment and on
society.
We initiated our Corporate Responsibility Programme in 2014. We focus on the
continuous development of our product
range with a view to having a comprehensive, sustainable assortment. The

metro Ca sh & Carry

“Sustainability is not just an
obligation. We need to turn it
around and see it as making
­METRO Cash & Carry
competitive, generating value
for the company and creating
new opportunities.”

o l a f ko ch

Chairman of the Management Board
of M
­ ETRO AG, CEO of ­METRO
Cash & Carry

15

steps we are taking to achieve this
encompass everything from carefully
selecting manufacturers, agricultural
growers and both food and non-food producers to taking a responsible approach
to transport, storage and distribution,
and operating our wholesale stores in a
way which conserves resources. We are
also working to constantly improve collaboration with our suppliers and expect
them to comply with certain social standards in their factories. Within our business processes, our operations are
arranged with regard to energy and
resource efficiency. In order to reduce our
carbon footprint, we are tracking the CO2
emissions we produce, continuing our
energy-saving programme and switching
to more sustainable heating, cooling and
lighting systems wherever possible.
Our commitment to corporate responsibility starts with ourselves. Our ambition is to be a good employer for our own
people and to encourage end consumers
to pursue a more sustainable lifestyle
through our offers and collaboration
with our customers.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Strategies of the sales lines

“

Embedding

s u s t a i n a b i l i t y
in the

corporate strategy.
”
Media-­Saturn is attaching greater
importance to corporate responsibility
and sustainability as it moves forward
and is embedding sustainable thoughts
and actions in its corporate strategy.
With this aim in mind, the group of companies has initiated a sustainability
programme that is based on the values
of Media-­Saturn: entrepreneurship
and consistent customer orientation. It
combines environmental, social and
employee-oriented measures in two
action areas: “Responsibility” and
“Customers”. To ensure successful
implementation within the company,
the programme also focuses on motiv­
ating employees to act in a sustainable
way.

Responsibility
The action area “Responsibility” comprises projects that encourage and
demand individual and corporate
responsibility for sustainability within
the company and at its suppliers. Protecting the environment through
energy-saving and resource-friendly
measures is just as much a part of this
as compliance with human rights, fair
wages and also occupational health and
safety. Maintaining a healthy work-life

m e d i a- s at u r n

“We aim to embed sustainable
principles in the thoughts
and actions of all our employees
as well as in our business
­processes. By the end of 2015, we
plan to implement approximately
20 projects in the areas of
supply chain, customer
information, product range and
presentation, but also in the
management of our commercial
real estate.”

balance is an important part of the sustainability programme as well.
Customers
In this action area, products and services
are enhanced in such a way that they are
also attractive for customers in terms of
sustainability aspects. By means of various projects, Media-­Saturn aims to
increase transparency for customers
regarding the environmental friendliness
of the product range – both online and on
mobiles. Projects in this area include the
introduction of a purchasing guideline
with unambiguous sustainability criteria
as well as optimised labelling of sustain­
able items in stores and in e-commerce.
Employee motivation
Sustainable principles can only be put
into practice if they are embedded in the
way all employees think and act. Therefore, one focus of the sustainability programme is on internal communications.
It is not only a matter of educating
employees, but also motivating them to
boost sustainability in their autonomous
actions and decisions.

p ie t er h a a s

Deputy Chairman of the Management
Board, Media-­Saturn

16

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Strategies of the sales lines

“

Responsible
business

practice s
”

Under the slogan “Responsible business practices”, we pursue our sustainable efforts in four different areas.
Working for a healthy environment,
maximum conservation of resources
and fair working relationships in a
spirit of partnership are all an important part of our strategy. In this way, we
make our contribution to ensuring that
generations to come will also be able to
grow up in a healthy physical and social
environment with good prospects for
the future.

Product range:
sustainable purchasing
From producer to supplier and from
logistics to sales, we are committed to
sustainability and social responsibility
throughout the supply chain. At the time
of writing, we already have an extensive
range of products selected in accordance with ecological and social criteria.
One focal point is the issue of regionality – our corresponding assortment of
20,000 products comes from more than
1,000 regional and local suppliers.

real

“Sustainability means future
viability for us. Therefore
we expanded our product range
in terms of ecological and
socially responsible factors. New
environmentally friendly energy
systems and cooling technology
were installed over a large
area. We are constantly searching
for new sustainable ways. So
one of the important topics for
2015 will be the introduction of
fruits from permaculture.”

Employees:
future oriented
workplace
As a future oriented employer, we attach
importance to a positive corporate culture geared towards performance and
customer needs. Family-friendly and
fair working conditions are important
elements in this regard. At Real, weekly
working hours and salaries are both
based on collective agreements. We
encourage new talents and provide
training to our staff in order to give them
the best possible preparation for the
challenges associated with demographic
change.
Customers:
social responsibility

Environment:
eco-friendly actions
To cut down on its CO2 emissions at Real
stores, the company made investments
in energy-saving technology. Further

optimisation and installation measures
are planned for the coming years with a
view to further reducing greenhouse
gas emissions.

d id ier f l e ur y

CEO,
Real

17

Another central pillar is social involvement. Together with our customers, we
donated a total of €800,000 to charities
and social institutions over the last year.
Our commitment to the Tafel food banks
and UNICEF is complemented by a wide
range of local activities initiated by
employees.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Corporate Responsibility Strategies of the sales lines

“

The

f u t u r e
GReeN
is

”

As far as Galeria Kaufhof is concerned,
one thing is for sure: our future is as
green as the colours of our logo. We
are convinced that only social, ecological and ethical behaviour can form
the basis for sustainable commercial
success. It is also becoming increasingly important as regards our customers to take a responsible approach
to people, animals and resources.

That is why we have embedded sustainability in our mission statement: our
actions are geared towards achieving
commercial success while treating people
with respect, protecting the environment and taking social responsibility.
For some years now, we have been pursuing a long-term sustainability strategy which underlines and consolidates
our commitment as one of Europe’s
leading department stores. This primarily focuses on measures that will
deliver concrete benefits for our customers. These include our selection of
top-quality own brands, produced under
fair working conditions and in an envir­
onmentally friendly manner, a broad
eco-friendly range including textiles

galeria k aufhof

“We have consistently tailored
Galeria Kaufhof to meet
customers’ requirements. Our
customers trust us to take
responsibility for people, the
environment and society. We
want to strengthen this trust
even further.”

l o v r o m a nd a c

CEO,
Galeria Holding

18

which are very gentle on the skin, natural skincare and meat products from
livestock able to express natural behaviour, and a store design that makes
shopping a more pleasant experience
for people of all ages. All this is complemented by improvements across the
entire company: the reduction of our
ecological footprint and a commitment
to both society and our own employees.
In the eyes of our customers, it is
­primarily our products that underscore
our commitment to corporate responsibility. They help us to credibly and tangibly demonstrate that sustainability is
not merely a buzzword for Galeria
­Kaufhof – it is a principle that guides all
our actions.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Our main spheres of action

M E T RO GROU P

Our main spheres
of action

T

he requirements of various stakeholder groups reflect the global social challenges that are particularly relevant for ­METRO GROUP as a retail company:
safeguarding food supplies, conserving resources, demographic change and sustainable consumption. We can contribute most effectively to overcoming these
challenges by incorporating relevant actions into our core business. This is because
it is here that we can exert the greatest influence on issues, structures and processes. In our core business, we identify spheres of action that are relevant from
an economic perspective and are also significant for the environment and society
as a whole.

20

30

Accordingly, the following are of central importance for ­METRO GROUP:
	Dealing with employees and shaping their working conditions
	Working with suppliers and helping them to comply with quality,
social and environmental standards
	Procuring resources, using them efficiently and avoiding waste
	Providing customers with high-quality products with the soundest possible
social and environmental credentials and offering sustainable alternatives
	Social commitment with regard to our core business and in areas where
help is urgently needed
	In this Corporate Responsibility Report, we present these main spheres of
action along a typical supply chain – beginning with procurement, production and
processing, then moving on to transport, warehousing and stores before showing
how the products we sell are used by our customers and disposed of at the end of
the product life cycle. The report concludes with a chapter on our social commitment – yet another way in which we are addressing the challenges faced by society.

19 19

38

46

54

I ’ m

“

committed
upholding

to

social standards.
there’s no

room
for

compromise
”

O n e o f us

margaret chan

Executive Manager of Corporate Social Responsibility at
MGB METRO GROUP Buying Hong Kong (China)

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

cn

Shanghai, China
Shanghai Pipigou
W o o l e n Te x t i l e C o . , L t d .

name

c o m pa n y

Margaret Chan

MGB METRO GROUP Buying
Hong Kong

role

Executive Manager of Corporate Social Responsibility
in

since

Hongkong (CN)

1995

As Executive Manager of Corporate Social Responsibility,
margaret chan makes sure that suppliers comply with
­METRO GROUP’s exacting requirements for social standards
and quality. When asked what she loves about her job, she
says it is the fact that she can actively help her business
partners to bring about improvements with her ­expertise
and experience. Manufacturers are not the only ones who
benefit from her commitment – Margaret Chan also makes
a valuable contribution for ­METRO GROUP and its
customers. She finds the strength and energy she needs in
meditation: maintaining balance is her motto.

22

Ongoing dialogue:
Margaret Chan is a regular
visitor to suppliers’ operations
in order to interact with her
business partners.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Procurement | production | processing

M E T RO GROU P

Procurement | production |
processing

M

ETRO GROUP gears its product ranges towards

We help our sales lines to implement these requirements

customers’ wishes across its various retail for-

and assist the various players throughout the supply

mats. Our aim is to procure products that offer reliable

chain by championing transferable and extendable

quality and safety and have sound social and environ-

approaches and avoiding stand-alone solutions devel-

mental credentials. In the interests of product responsi-

oped by individual companies. That means we accept dif-

bility, we trace the origins of our products. As well as

ferent standards with comparable criteria as being of

this, we define verifiable criteria with respect to quality

equal quality. For instance, we are involved in the Global

and sustainability. These criteria apply to the nature of

Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) and the Global Sustainable

the products themselves, their environmental impact

Seafood Initiative (GSSI), which aim to harmonise food

and manufacturing conditions. This enables us to take a

safety standards and international certifications for sus-

systematic and transparent approach to monitoring the

tainable fish respectively. We also provide training to

origins of raw materials, responsible use of resources,

help suppliers meet these requirements. In this way, we

respect for the environment and decent working condi-

do not only help to secure a supply of marketable goods.

tions. Our work in this field is based on our group-wide

By demanding and monitoring adherence to standards

sustainable purchasing policy for all products, which was

and specific criteria, we also prevent the risks associated

adopted in 2013. The policy defines basic requirements

with irresponsible practices. At the same time, inspec-

and brings together guidelines that address specific

tions by independent auditors confirm to customers that

questions relating to individual product or raw material

we are committed to high-quality products and pro-

categories. These include, for example, our purchasing

cesses that are socially and environmentally sound. In

policy for fish and policy for palm oil and packaging. Our

doing so, we make use of technical solutions such as

specifications draw on widely recognised standards. In

traceability in the cloud, which allow us to track products

addition, we are involved in developing new frameworks

from their origins to the customer’s purchase.

for action.

23

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Procurement | production | processing

Social responsibility
­METRO GROUP assumes social responsibility throughout the
supply chain by ensuring that social standards are adhered to.
The key labour standards defined by the ILO are a fixed part of
­METRO GROUP’s conditions of purchase. As one of the founding members of the Business Social Compliance Initiative
(BSCI), we have also been involved for years in systematically
establishing socially fair working conditions in the manufacturing of our own-brand products. Our approach here is to
assist our suppliers or production facilities in setting up a suitable management process. As evidence of fair and socially
equitable working conditions, we accept either audits based on
the BSCI requirements or equivalent social standard audits.
We also focus on raising awareness about specific aspects of
safe working conditions among our partners. For instance,
the BSCI requirements also extend to fire protection – such
as fire protection precautions and management systems
including emergency exits, escape routes, fire extinguishers
and fire drills. For example – in addition to our ongoing auditing programmes – ­METRO GROUP’s import organisation,
MGB ­METRO GROUP Buying Hong Kong, has been conducting
fire protection and occupational safety training courses for
sup­pliers in Bangladesh and other risk countries in conjunction with TÜV Rheinland since February 2013. In June 2013, in
order to improve the structural safety of textile factories in production countries, we signed the agreement on better fire protection and building safety in Bangladesh’s textile industry. The
agreement came about as part of a multi-stakeholder initiative
involving corporate representatives, trade unions and non-governmental organisations. By signing the fire protection agreement, we can further extend our commitment to improving
working conditions in the supply chain.
All producers in defined risk countries (based on BSCI evalu­
ation) that supply ­METRO GROUP with clothing, shoes, toys
and consumer durables via its import organisation MGB
­METRO GROUP Buying Hong Kong are audited in accordance
with BSCI or equivalent standards. As at 30 September 2014,
this was a total of 835 producers. Of these, 58 per cent passed
the audit with the score “good”. Producers who do not pass
the audit are given 18 months – as of the audit date – to provide

proof of improvement. If they fail to do so, they will receive no
further orders until they can provide evidence of sustainable
improvements in their organisational processes. 12 per cent of
sup­pliers who failed the original audit succeeded in bringing
about the required level of improvement in the financial year
2013/14. However, the total share of suppliers passing the
audit has fallen, which can be attributed above all to the even
stricter requirements placed by the BSCI on the audit process.

Social audits relating to own imports by MGB Hong Kong
as of closing date

BSCI-relevant
suppliers (active)

Thereof with
passed audit
in %

Suppliers who passed the audit
Active suppliers are those for which actual sales are recorded on
the reporting date. Suppliers who pass the audit can obtain a
certificate from an independent third party showing that they have
successfully implemented the BSCI social standard system or an
equivalent set of norms.

24

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Procurement | production | processing

“

W e w a n t t o
communicate
that

sustainability
is key for long-term viability.

”
As import organisation for ­METRO GROUP,
MGB ­METRO GROUP Buying Hong Kong
is responsible for the international
purchasing of non-food products for all
sales lines. The company cooperates
with more than 900 suppliers and producers. In order to ensure the highest
levels of quality and safety in the procurement process and to make the supply chain transparent for consumers,
MGB sets high standards with its CR
strategy. Close communication with
producers regarding challenges and
opportunities for improvement is essential here. In an interview, Margaret
Chan, Executive Manager of Corpor­ate
Social Responsibility at MGB Hong
Kong, and Michael Ciesielski, Ma­­
naging Director of MGB Hong Kong,
spoke with two business partners:
Vicky Wang is the manager of outdoorfurniture manufacturer Yotrio. Robin Qin
is the manager of Pipigou in Shanghai, a
producer of cashmere clothing.

mi ch a el cie siel sk i
Managing Director, MGB Hong Kong

Mr Ciesielski, the implementation of
social standards, especially in
Asian suppliers’ premises, has been
gaining increasing public attention.
What is the philosophy behind
your CR strategy at MGB Hong Kong?

The object­
ive of MGB Hong Kong is to have

michael ciesielski

25

100 per cent of the goods sourced
from factories that are socially compliant. This strategy certainly benefits
society but also clearly responds to
our customers’ expectations of decent
and fair factory conditions in relation
to the products they buy. Therefore,
having a strong and well-implemented
CR strategy is our social obligation.
CR is an effective sales tool; we can
win customers with our strict social
standards for the supply chain. MGB
Hong Kong currently works with about
1,700 factories and we know all of
them. In this way, we ensure that a
high level of transparency is present
in our supply chain.
Yet in practice, it is a true
challenge to ensure all
suppliers and factories adhere to the
required social standards.
So how does MGB Hong Kong
customise its approaches
and measures to effectively
address the local risks as well as
common concerns?

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Procurement | production | processing

tions such as shift changes and product­
ivity improvements to address overtime.

Social responsibility – a joint effort: interview with business partners.

michael ciesielski
It is indeed
a challenge. In practice, we carry out a
mix of measures. For us, as a member of
the Business Social Compliance Initia­
tive (BSCI), a global initiative to promote good working conditions among
suppliers, the first step is always to
have our suppliers’ production facilities
audited. Based on three possible outcomes – non-compliant, improvement
needed or good – we take decisions.
Severe violations concerning safety
issues, child labour, fire prevention or
discrimination will result in the immediate termination of cooperation with the
supplier. In the case of minor faults
which can be corrected, we instruct and
help suppliers to address the problem
accordingly to fit our standards within a
defined time window. The objective is to
make suppliers understand that sustainability is a key topic for their longterm viability. This is apparent when we
do major business with them.

“MGB Hong Kong
fully ­complies with
BSCI and
International ­Labour
Organization (ILO)
standards.”
Of course, we must always keep in mind
that circumstances differ from country
to country. In Bangladesh, for instance,
the main challenge facing us is safety
issues. The common high building
structure and the lack of safety installations there make it prone to accidents.
But overall in Asia, the most common
concern is the practice of overtime.
MGB Hong Kong fully complies with
BSCI and International Labour Organ­
ization (ILO) standards, or with local
regulations if they are stricter. Our CSR
team takes the initiative to communicate
with suppliers and discuss possible solu-

26

margaret chan
MGB has compiled a package of designed measures to
optimise and strengthen social compliance in our supply chain. Our supplier
factories are divided into two categor­
ies – new and existing. New factories
must be examined thoroughly by MGB
before being listed, while we audit the
existing factories regularly to ensure
their CR compliance. In the case of noncompliance, factories are given a max­
imum of 18 months to improve on the
faults to fit our criteria, and are further
monitored. We regularly arrange freeof-charge workshops for our active suppliers and business partners, especially
in countries like Bangladesh, India and
China. They focus on the top causes of
non-compliance. Our CSR team invites
them to take part in the focused courses
to prepare for the required audit processes. It is crucial for them to apply the
acquired knowledge in practice, to
achieve appropriate improvements.
robin   qin
After we failed the
BSCI review the first time, we analysed
the failure ourselves. MGB staff provided the necessary guidance. They visited our factory and trained us in the
correct practices on site. The improvement steps made my workers realise
that their own safety and interests are
protected by being compliant with the
BSCI standards, and this serves as
strong motivation for them to take the
right steps in practice. Now they have
self-protection awareness and more
care for the factory.

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Procurement | production | processing

However, non-compliance
may still occur and when that
happens, MGB Hong Kong
implements more concrete
measures to improve and enhance
suppliers’ awareness of
and compliance with the social
standards.
Yes, we
offer our support wherever we see
opportunities. Actually, the suppliers
don’t only improve compliance with
social standards but also raise their
productivity through our joint efforts. To
reduce or even eliminate overtime work,
for example, we help suppliers with our
ILO SCORE project to optimise oper­
ational processes and workplace cooper­
michael ciesielski

ation in order to increase efficiency,
including better capacity planning,
ordering or booking. This results in less
stress for the supplier and more reliabil­
ity – a win-win situation.
vicky wang
I think we have
benefited a lot from MGB, especially in
the area of order management. Due to
fluctuating demand, it is not always easy
to adjust resources smoothly to meet
the demands of different phases. Now
we encourage our clients to place busyseason orders or long-term orders during our slack season to secure balanced
production around the year. As a result,
we maintain a stable workforce without
big fluctuations between busy and slack
seasons.

“Since MGB Hong Kong helped us pass the BSCI audit
and standardise the factory processes,
we have also attracted some other European clients.”

How do MGB Hong Kong
employees who are
involved in the daily assessment of
the suppliers’ qualifications
receive the necessary
sustainability training and
working tools to possess
the right knowledge and expertise
in this regard?
margaret chan
We have regular internal training for our staff, especially our colleagues in the Purchasing
and Quality Control departments. They
also learn about the BSCI standard and
equivalent social standards: occupational health and safety, building, fire
and electrical safety, the new BSCI Code
of Conduct, etc. Buyers are in direct and
close contact with suppliers and factor­
ies so they can clearly specify our
requirements. For the Quality Control
department, this training can enhance
their understanding and knowledge of
the relevant standards, as they also
support checks on fire safety in f­ actories.

Mr Qin, how has your
business developed
since implementing the
social standards?
What role does
sustainability play in your
corporate vision?

r o bin q in
Manager of Pipigou in Shanghai

v i ck y wa n g
Manager of outdoor-furniture manufacturer Yotrio

27

robin qin
Since MGB Hong Kong
helped us pass the BSCI audit and
standardise the factory processes, we
have also attracted some other European clients, who were very impressed
with our standardised operations when
visiting our factory. Actually, it has
helped us get more orders from clients.
In the future, we will continue to invest in
sustainability-related projects because
we see sustainability as a key element of
our corporate agenda and thus we are
willing to make an effort in this area.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Procurement | production | processing

Projects
and measures
are produced or grown. This applies
above all to fresh produce such as fruit,
vegetables and meat.

Procuring products
­directly from their place
of origin
	In order to be able to provide our
customers with high-quality, safe products, we attach importance to adhering
to social standards, which we monitor
on a regular basis. But that is not all:
direct contact with our suppliers also
plays a key role in our procurement and
supply chain management. This is
because close relations with producers
and growers allow us to directly influence the availability, condition, quality
and sustainability of our products. We
take two approaches in this regard.
Firstly, we count on pooling procurement via our seven International Trading Offices (ITO). Secondly, we pay
attention to purchase goods where they

TOPIC

INTERNATIONAL
­LABOUR NORMS/
SOCIAL STANDARDS
1

International trading
­o ffices:
pooling purchasing
	­METRO GROUP developed the International Trading Offices concept in 2009
with a view to sourcing products directly
from their place of origin and making
better use of market potential and synergies in the procurement process. We
now pool purchasing for the ­METRO
Cash & Carry national organisations via
a total of seven of such trading offices,
each with a specific area of expertise.
For instance, our procurement centre
in Valencia specialises in Mediterranean
citrus fruits and vege­tables, year-round
produce from abroad such as pineap-

OBJECTIVES

­METRO GROUP is expanding its
efforts to ensure its suppliers
provide fair working conditions.

STATUS – GOAL
ACHIEVEMENT

ples and processed products like dried
fruit.
	The change from a procurement
model with local intermediaries to
direct sourcing allows us to further
improve the quality, freshness and
safety of the products and also to establish transparent long-term working
relationships with our suppliers. Even at
the initial stage of selecting suppliers,
we set the bar high: agricultural produ­
cers must comply with the specifications
of the International Featured Standard
(IFS). Almost all suppliers – for the most
part independent medium sized enterprises – are certified accordingly. In
addition, we have developed a protocol
to allow smaller local suppliers to be
integrated into the network as well.
Our trading office employees are
also in close contact with suppliers and
regularly visit them at their premises. In
this way, they are able to interact directly
with our suppliers, establishing a rapport of trust and gaining insight into how
they operate. In 2013, we purchased

MEASURES

Inclusion of all non-food own-brand suppliers1 in a BSCI or equivalent
social standard system by the end of 2014 if the final product is produced in
a risk country (based on BSCI definition).

This covers producers of merchandise (own brands and own imports) that perform the last significant and value-adding production step.

Explanations of the symbols can be found on page 8.

28

STATUS –
­MEASURES

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Procurement | production | processing

more than 200,000 tonnes of fruit and
vegetables from growers in Spain, Italy,
Morocco, Greece, Turkey and further
afield via the trading office in Valencia
alone. In the future, our aim is to further extend our partnership with suppliers through our International Trading Offices.

Back to the roots:
regional purchasing
When designing and putting together
product ranges, our sales lines make a
point of including regional goods in a
large number of categories. By procuring products such as fruit, vegetables
and meat from local growers and manufacturers, we not only meet the growing
demand for regional products among
our customers but also help our sup­
pliers to build up their operations,
thereby contributing – together with our
customers – to economic development
in the respective regions. Thanks to our
local procurement strategy, we also
make an important contribution to sustainability: shortening transport routes
pushes down the cost of goods while
also reducing their carbon footprint.
	An exemplary initiative launched
within the framework of ­METRO
Cash & Carry’s local procurement strategy is its “De-ale noastre” programme.
Established by ­METRO Cash & Carry in
2012, this scheme helps farming companies in Romanian vegetable-growing
regions to market native fruit and vegetables. Around 100 farmers from
33 regions distribute their produce
through Romanian ­METRO Cash & Carry

stores under the “De-ale noastre”
brand name. The available product
range was increased by around a third in
2014 and now consists of 45 types of
regional fruit and vegetables.
	As part of the programme, ­METRO
Cash & Carry provides expert advice to
local farmers on the whole production
process – for instance on selecting
types of fruit and vegetables, production
and harvesting techniques, and marketing and distribution models. In this way,
“De-ale noastre” benefits both the fruit
and vegetable producers and the end
customers. ­METRO Cash & Carry helps
producers to practise sustainable agriculture, thereby contributing to the
development of local communities. At
the same time, our sales line enables
customers to enjoy products from controlled origins which were grown using
traditional farming methods. Fruit and
vegetables sold under the “De-ale noastre” brand are regularly inspected from
seed to shelf. In this way, ­METRO
Cash & Carry Romania guarantees the
traceability of products and, in turn, the
high quality and safety of its food.
	­METRO Cash & Carry also takes
sim­ilar approaches to boost regional procurement in other countries. In France,
for example, our sales line signed the
“100% regional” charter with the French
vegetable producers’ association Fédér­
ation Nationale des Producteurs de
Légumes de France back in 2010. This
initiative promotes local vegetable
farming and guarantees that ­METRO
Cash & Carry wholesale stores are
supplied with vegetables that were
harvested that same morning or the
night before by agricultural companies
within a maximum radius of 50 kilometres. In the financial year 2013/14,
METRO Cash & Carry France procured
some 20,600 tonnes of vegetables from

29

regional growers as part of this collaboration.
	In Turkey, ­METRO Cash & Carry
makes use of regional procurement and
the strategic marketing of regional products to safeguard the existence of especially rare products. This is because the
demand for regional products ensures
that they will continue to be grown.
These include garlic from the Black Sea
district of Taşköprü, which is in danger of
becoming extinct. This is marketed by
­METRO Cash & Carry under its own
brand Horeca Select. The aromatic bulb
also bears the geographic label – an official confirmation of the product’s origin
and of its outstanding quality.
	Regionality also plays a central role
in Real’s product range strategy. Its
hypermarkets already offer customers a
wide range of products bearing the logo
“Gutes aus der Heimat” (Prime local
produce). These include fruit, vegetables
and dairy products. Real’s “Meistermetzger” (Master butcher) concept also
has a regional focus, with some 70% of
the cold meats available at its hypermarkets consisting of regional products.
Local produce already accounts for
around a quarter of sales at Real’s fresh
food counters, where the hypermarkets
offer 222 articles from nearby produ­
cers, including own brands.

“

finding ways
to use

resources
in a sustainable way,

that ’ s my
contribution
t o

protecting the
environment.

”
O n e o f us

M a r e k K a p u s ni a k

Transformation Manager at MAKRO Cash & Carry,
Rybnik (Poland)

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

PL

Rybnik, Poland
M A K RO C a s h & C a r r y
wholesale store, Rybnik

name

c o m pa n y

Marek Kapusniak

MAKRO Cash & Carry

role

Transformation Manager
in

Rybnik (PL)

As a Transformation Manager, marek kapusniak is
involved in optimising the MAKRO Cash & Carry
wholesale stores in Poland and adapting them to
customers’ needs. Making sustainable improvements
is also the idea behind the ­METRO Cash & Carry
“Energy Saver of the Year” competition, which rewards
suggestions for how to reduce power and water
consumption. Marek Kapusniak entered without
hesitation. He won bronze for his idea of fitting aerators
to taps. These small nozzles regulate the flow of water,
helping to reduce the amount which is used.

32

Simple idea – major impact.
Thanks to Marek Kapusniak, all
taps in the MAKRO Cash & Carry
wholesale store have been fitted
with aerators, a difference that
is readily apparent on the water
meter.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

TRANSPORT | WAREHOUSING | STORES

M E T RO GROU P

TRANSPORT | WAREHOUSING |
STORES

A

s a retail company, our aim is to provide products

procuring products via International Trading Offices,

and services for our customers in our stores and

and pooling goods at central warehouses and logistics

outlets – at the right time and in the volume and quality

platforms, for instance. As well as this, we select vehi-

they require. The resources needed to transport, store

cles with low fuel consumption and pollutant emissions

and refrigerate products properly and to operate our

for our own transport fleets, and train our employees in

stores and back offices include energy – electricity, gas,

environmentally friendly driving. We also design our

oil and district heating – as well as refrigerants, fuel and

packaging to be as space-saving as possible and optimise

water. This use of resources generates operating costs

the loading of transport vehicles.

and has a negative impact on the environment.
Several different factors determine the consumption of
By taking a responsible approach to resources, we can

resources such as energy, refrigerants and water at our

directly influence the cost of our business activities and

stores, outlets and head offices. These include the com-

make an immediate contribution to protecting the climate

position of our product ranges – particularly the propor-

and the environment. With this in mind, we are constantly

tion of fresh and ultra-fresh products – as well as open-

working to improve our use of resources, our behaviour

ing times and the design, size and operation of our stores.

and our internal processes to make them more efficient.

We are implementing a number of different measures at
our sales lines to reduce our use of resources and cut

In order to transport and store goods in a sustainable

climate-relevant emissions from our commercial oper­

way, we are constantly working on further shortening the

ations. Above all, these are geared towards optimising

distance between manufacturers or agricultural grow-

the operation of our stores and lowering our energy

ers and our stores – this applies to all of our sales lines.

requirements – by increasing efficiency and promoting

This means sourcing more products locally, focusing on

awareness of responsible energy usage.

33

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

TRANSPORT | WAREHOUSING | STORES

­METRO GROUP climate
protection target
With regard to transport, warehousing
and stores, our overriding aim is to
bring about a 20 per cent reduction in
­METRO GROUP’s specific greenhouse
gas emissions by 2020 compared with
the 2011 figure. In concrete terms, this
means that we want to cut our emissions per square metre of selling space
from 330 kilograms of CO2 equivalents
to 264 kilograms per annum.
From October 2013 to September 2014,
­METRO GROUP generated 273 kilograms
of CO2 equivalents per square metre of
selling space. This means that our groupwide emissions fell by some 28 kilograms of CO2 per square metre of selling
space compared with the corresponding
prior-year period. As a result, we are

very close to reaching our target of 264
kilograms of CO2 per square metre. The
marked decrease in emissions compared with the reference year 2011 can
be essentially attributed to three reasons: a 6.5 per cent reduction was due to
measures for lowering consumption
with respect to energy, company cars,
paper, business travel and emissions
from refrigerant losses. Through the sale
of locations in Eastern Europe and Turkey,
which were in general very emissionintensive, it was possible to reduce emissions by a further 6.6 per cent. Another
4 per cent reduction can be attributed to
general technical and scientific advancements reflected in the emission factors for
calculating the CO2 equiva­lent of consumption.

More information and further key perform­
ance indicators relating to our carbon footprint can be
found online at: reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/
corporate-responsibility-report

Status – climate protection target1
Greenhouse gas emissions in kg of CO2
(CO2 equivalents) per m² of selling space

METRO GROUP

 Unlike in previous years, portfolio adjustments will no longer be made for environmental key performance indicators as of this reporting period (Real sales in Poland, Russia, Ukraine, Romania and Turkey in
2012 and 2013). This means that the prior-year data and the figures for the reference year 2011 differ from those cited in previous years. There are also deviations from emission levels stated in earlier reports;
this is due to emission factors being updated and estimates corrected. Particularly in the case of emissions from refrigerants, this gives rise to a slight change in figures all the way back to the reference year 2011.

1

TOPIC

Climate protection/
resource management

STATUS – GOAL
ACHIEVEMENT

OBJECTIVES

METRO GROUP is reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 per cent,
from 330 kg/m2 in 2011 to 264 kg/m2 in 2020.
METRO GROUP is reducing the greenhouse gas emissions caused
by its electricity consumption by 21 per cent between 2011 and 2020.
METRO GROUP is reducing the greenhouse gas emissions
caused by its heating energy consumption by 10 per cent
between 2011 and 2020.
METRO GROUP is reducing the greenhouse gas emissions
caused by its refrigerants by 29 per cent between 2011 and 2020.
METRO GROUP is reducing the greenhouse gas emissions
caused by its company cars by 10 per cent between 2011 and 2020.
METRO GROUP is reducing the greenhouse gas emissions
caused by its use of paper by 11 per cent between 2011 and 2020.

Explanations of the symbols can be found on page 8.

34

MEASURES

Continuation of the Energy Saving/
Energy Awareness Programme.
Further measures cover the use
of natural refrigerants, the adoption
of a company car guideline with
defined limits for CO2 emissions and
steps to use paper efficiently.

STATUS –
­MEASURES

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

TRANSPORT | WAREHOUSING | STORES

Projects
and measures

Modernised
fleet

Certified building
management

	In Germany, ­METRO LOGISTICS has
a total of 150 vehicles for delivering to
­METRO Cash & Carry, Real and Galeria
Kaufhof stores. In the reporting year
2013/14, the logistics company replaced
a number of vehicles at eight locations
which have their own fleets. The 77
newly registered vehicles boast lower
fuel consumption as well as CO 2 emissions and conform with the Euro 6
standard. The latter defines the limits
permitted for exhaust and particulate
emissions and is mandatory for newly
registered trucks. By modernising its
fleet, ­METRO LOGISTICS plans to
reduce its fuel consumption by 140,000
litres and its CO2 emissions by around
2.5 per cent.

	Until 31 December 2014, ­METRO
PROPERTIES will be responsible for
choosing locations, constructing and
managing commercial properties and
taking care of energy and facility management for the ­METRO Cash & Carry
sales line. Our primary objective is to
increase the value of our real estate
assets on a long term basis.
	In the financial year 2013/14, an office
building at the ­METRO GROUP headquarters in Düsseldorf and a shopping centre
in Poland were awarded the BREEAM
certificate. This certificate confirms that
a building fulfils certain sustainability
criteria. Among other things, the audit
rates CO2 emissions, water consumption,
energy efficiency, the environmental

35

impact of construction materials, waste
generation and building management. In
order to speed up the certification of further buildings, six ­METRO GROUP
employees were trained as BREEAM
assessors during the reporting year and
are now qualified to prepare the evalu­
ation process internally.

Systematic energy data
management
	The bulk of our energy requirements
can be attributed to the lighting, heating
and cooling technology used in our stores
and outlets and to air-conditioning in our
buildings. Because of this, our aim is to
identify efficiency potential and optimise
our energy usage. In the reporting year,
we continued with our programmes to
promote energy saving and eco-friendly
behaviour on this basis.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

TRANSPORT | WAREHOUSING | STORES

Electricity and heating energy consumption
In kWh per m² of selling space

METRO GROUP

energy consumption totalled 435 kWh
per square metre of selling space. This
is 36 kWh or 7.7 per cent less than in the
corresponding period of the previous
year.

434
Media-­Saturn

Heat

Electricity

metro Cash & Carry

	As part of ­METRO GROUP’s EnergySaving Programme (ESP), our ­METRO
Cash & Carry sales line invested some
€24 million in energy-saving technology
for refrigeration units and lighting. In
the reporting period, this programme
included around 1,600 individual projects with an energy-saving potential of
over 126,000 MWh per year. In this way,
­METRO Cash & Carry was able to reduce
its energy costs by over €13.6 million in
the reporting period.
	In March 2014, ­METRO Cash & Carry
in India signed an agreement to source
wind energy from the wind farm operator
ReNew Power. The power from the wind
farm in Chikodi – located in the state of
Karnataka in south-west India – covers
approximately 90 per cent of the needs of
our two ­METRO Cash & Carry wholesale
stores in Bangalore. By using renew­
ables, the two locations succeeded in
reducing their CO2 emissions by 1,750
tonnes per year and their electricity
costs by the current rate of 14 per cent.
	In the financial year 2013/14, ­METRO
Cash & Carry’s electricity and heating

	The financial year 2013/14 saw our
Media-­Saturn sales line make further
investments in energy-efficient lighting
for its locations. LED light strips have
now been installed in almost 20 stores.
This allows savings of around 40 per
cent in energy usage compared with the
lighting that was previously used (T5). In
comparison with older lighting solutions
(T8), the savings potential is even higher.
In the reporting year, our sales line
achieved a Return to invest ROI of two
to four years for these lighting updates,
each of which allows an average of over
55,000 kWh to be saved every year.
Media-­Saturn is also striving to further
optimise energy efficiency in other
countries. In June 2014, the energy
management systems at eleven Italian
stores were certified by the local
organisation Certiquality in accordance with the ISO 50001 ­standard.
	In the financial year 2013/14, Media-­
Saturn’s total electricity and heating
energy consumption was 248 kWh per
square metre of selling space. This is
just under 18 kWh or 6.7 per cent lower
than in the corresponding period of the
previous year.
Real

	Real is taking a bundle of measures
at its hypermarkets to protect the envir­
onment, save energy and reduce costs.
These include installing more energyefficient ovens at its in-store bakeries
and fitting glass doors to the chiller
cabinets containing fresh products.

36

Measures such as optimising the lighting, replacing the fans in the chillers
and gradually replacing ready-to-use
refrigerators also help to improve
energy efficiency at the various locations. In the reporting year 2013/14,
these measures brought about energy
savings of around 36,500 MWh.
	Real raised the bar for climate and
resource protection with its store in
Essen’s Altendorf district which opened
in October 2013. Not only were 150 trees
planted in the store’s grounds but
greenery was also planted over much of
the roof. This serves as natural insulation that saves on heating costs, cools
the urban space and also helps to protect against flooding owing to its high
water retention capacity. The wooden
roof support structure also helps to
reduce CO 2. A combined heating and
cooling system and modern LED lighting
in the chillers both ensure energy is
used efficiently. The entire store is
geared towards minimising the use of
resources, thereby setting an example
for modernising other hypermarkets.
	In the financial year 2013/14, Real’s
total electricity and heating energy consumption was 394 kWh per square
metre of selling space. This is 53 kWh or
just under 12 per cent less than in the
corresponding period of the previous
year.
galeria kaufhof

Galeria Kaufhof is also working to
drive down energy requirements even
further at its outlets by means of various
measures and projects. Since 2011, our
sales line has reduced its consumption
of electricity and heating energy at its
outlets by over 13 per cent. Energy-­
saving bulbs have replaced area lighting
in 68 outlets and escalator lighting in

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

TRANSPORT | WAREHOUSING | STORES

69 outlets. In a further 41 outlets, the
“starry sky” ceiling lighting and a number of advertising boards have been
replaced with LEDs. Galeria Kaufhof
makes a point of switching its illumin­
ated advertising to LEDs every time an
outlet is renovated.
	Thanks to the use of CO2 detectors,
the fresh-air circulation system at the
department stores now supplies fresh
air automatically whenever required. In
addition, the heating, ventilation and
cooling systems have been optimised.
This step was taken in 14 further outlets
in the financial year 2013/14. The introduction of systems for measuring and
controlling indoor parameters such as
temperature, air quality and air flow volume forms part of an agreement
between Galeria Kaufhof’s management
and its Works Council. This agreement
aims to optimise the heating and ventilation systems and their usage in order to
further reduce energy consumption at
the outlets. Involving employees helps
to ensure the long-term success of such
measures.
	In the financial year 2013/14, Galeria
Kaufhof’s total electricity and heating
energy consumption was 353 kWh per
square metre of selling space. This is
25 kWh less than in the corresponding
period of the previous year – equivalent
to a reduction of 6.7 per cent.

refriger­ation systems is a major source
of greenhouse gas emissions as well as
being a significant cost factor for the
company. Accordingly, our aim is to
reduce emissions from refrigerant
losses by a total of 29 per cent by 2020.
During the past year, we developed
the refrigeration system logbook (Locs*)
with a view to identifying leaks in refriger­
ation systems early on and shortening
response times. Among other things, it
records the quantities of refrigerants
used and the amounts required for
refilling. In January 2014, we started
rolling the programme out gradually at
all our sales lines.
We have been conducting at least
four leak tests a year on all refrigeration
systems at Real and Galeria Kaufhof in
Germany since 2012. At 15 Real and
­METRO Cash & Carry outlets, we have
also switched our commercial refrigeration systems to natural refrigerants
such as carbon dioxide. These have a far
lower greenhouse gas potential than the
gases that are conventionally used.
­METRO Cash & Carry has also agreed
on a programme for phasing out the use
of F-gases by 2025, which it has started
implementing.

Energy awareness
in practice
Managing refrigerant losses
We need refrigerants to store and
transport our products properly as well
as to present them to our customers at
our outlets. Leakage losses in our

Our efforts to meet our climate protection targets do not only rely on technical innovations but also on changes in
each and every employee’s behaviour.
To this end, each of our sales lines has
launched its own energy-saving pro-

37

grammes designed to motivate employees to use energy efficiently, thereby
bringing about a significant reduction in
the company’s overall consumption.
	­METRO Cash & Carry’s Energy
Awareness Programme (EAP) aims to
reduce energy consumption by means of
various initiatives coupled with tech­
nical measures. For example, since
spring 2013, employees have been
invited to take part in a company-wide
“Energy Saver of the Year” competition.
This included the categories “Best
energy saver at home” “Best energy
saver in a store” and “Best energy-saving idea”. In May 2014, prizes were
awarded to the entrants with the best
ideas and the wholesale stores which
saved the most electricity.
	In January 2014, Real published an
employee guide to saving energy, illustrating easy ways to reduce energy use.

“
Transparency

throughout 

the

supply chain
offers
our customers

added value.
”

O n e o f us

G a b r ie l e Er b

Customer Manager at
METRO Cash & Carry, Neuss (Germany)

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

GER

Neuss, Germany
Vogthaus Brauerei-Ausschank

name

c o m pa n y

Gabriele Erb

­METRO Cash & Carry

role

Customer Manager
in

since

Neuss (GER)

2011

As a customer manager, gabriele erb pays regular
visits to the owners of bars, restaurants, hotels and
catering companies at their business premises. She
knows from experience that customers value and
expect excellent product quality, outstanding advice
and professional service. For Gabriele Erb, fulfilling
these expectations and giving 100 per cent every day
is both challenging and motivating. It also lays the
foundations for a trust-based partnership with her
customers. This is one of the reasons why it is impor­t­ant
to Gabriele Erb that she can provide extensive
information about the products’ quality, origin
and supply chain. This ensures transparency – for
her customers’ customers as well.

40

Transparency guaranteed.
With the aid of the “follow ­METRO”
app, Michael Mylord, owner of Vogt­
haus Brauerei-Ausschank in Neuss,
can trace the origins of the salmon
on his menu any time.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

CUSTOMER

M E T RO GROU P

CUSTOMER

O

ur sales lines aim to create added value for their

require that compliance with quality and sustainability

customers. They put together their specific ranges

standards is monitored on a regular basis. We also

of products and services in such a way that they are able

ensure transparency through the direct working relation-

to meet even the most diverse needs of private and com-

ships that we have with our business partners and through

mercial customers optimally. As well as conforming to

innovative technical solutions with which the individual

the highest standards of safety and quality, it is becoming

stages in the supply chain can be traced. When it comes to

increasingly important that these products and services

interacting with our customers, it is important for us to be

are socially and environmentally sound – from produc-

able to understand and rely on these steps – not least

tion and procurement to usage and ultimately disposal. It

because, for instance, our commercial customers have to

is important to us that our customers can have complete

provide their own customers with information on the ori-

trust in these aspects of our products and services when

gin and nature of goods that they are selling. In order to

buying and using them. Because of this, we focus on

provide better customer orientation, we also use labels

measures with which we can influence the safety, quality

that certify products according to specific quality or sus-

and sustainability of the products in our various ranges.

tainability standards. As well as this, we label our own-

Our aim is to provide a high degree of transparency

brand products accordingly, provide specially prepared

throughout the entire value chain. We want to know

information in our stores and interact with our custom-

where our products came from and what resources

ers. In this way, we support and encourage responsible

were used – and we want to be able to trace how they

consumption among our customers.

were processed. Within the scope of our supply chain and
product management activities, we achieve this by implementing our guidelines for sustainable purchasing.
These define quality and sustainability criteria and

41

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

CUSTOMER

Projects
and measures
Traceability throughout
the supply chain
We proactively support traceability
so that we can guarantee that our products conform to the highest safety and
quality standards. We take a number of
innovative approaches in this connection. Since 2013, we have been working
with other retailers, high-profile partners and the standardisation organisation GS1 Germany to develop an inter­
national, multi-industry solution. The
aim is to establish seamless transparency with regard to the use of resources
and the procurement of products.
	In December 2013, we took the first
step in Germany by launching a pilot
project for the fish product group. The
project centres on recording relevant
data electronically, thereby significantly

TOPIC

Conserving resources/
securing food supply/
sustainable procurement

simplifying access to this information
for everyone involved – we call it “Traceability in the Cloud”. All players in the
supply chain record their data via a
standardised interface – this begins
with the fishing companies and extends
to the processing firms, importers,
exporters, distributors and retailers.
Following on from this decentralised
input step, the data is brought together
via an integrated software platform.
Finally, a special search engine allows
all players to retrieve detailed information about individual batches. The whole
system is based on open, international
standards and can be used by large and
small companies alike.
	This data is also available to consumers, who can find out where and
how the fish was caught using the barcode on the packaging or information on
the invoice via the Internet platform
www.ftrace.de or the smartphone application “follow ­METRO.”
	In Germany, METRO GROUP already
offers this traceability solution for fresh

OBJECTIVES

­METRO GROUP is initiating and
promoting the development of
an international, multi-industry
technical traceability solution that can be used for all
products.

STATUS – GOAL
ACHIEVEMENT

fish, for the frozen fish and fish delicatessen product groups as well as for
meat. Having successfully completed
the pilot project, we will now apply the
system to further product groups such
as fruit and vegetables in the medium
term. Non-food products are also to
be included. As well as this, we will
gradually roll out this solution in other
European countries in 2015.
	­METRO Cash & Carry has been
offering fresh salmon with end-toend traceability in all of its wholesale
stores in China since 2013. Our sales
line purchases the fresh fish from certified salmon farms in Norway, Scotland, Canada, Australia and the Faroe
Islands and delivers it to China by air
twice a week. This involves the use of a
continuous cold chain that guarantees
freshness, quality and safety. It also
means that customers can trace the
salmon’s origin and its entire transport
route. To this end, the fish are tagged
with barcodes that can be found on the
labelling on their fins. The code can
be scanned or inputted using devices

MEASURES

After successfully piloting the traceability solution for the fish and meat
product categories at MCC in Germany and the subsequent roll-out, the traceability solution will be launched in other countries starting in early 2015.
The project will also be extended to other interested suppliers from selected
product areas in 2015.

Explanations of the symbols can be found on page 8.

42

STATUS –
­MEASURES

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

CUSTOMER

in the wholesale stores, the website
www.starfarmcc.com or a suitable
smartphone application. In this way,
customers have access to comprehensive information about the product – from rearing, processing and
packaging to transport and sale.

Line-caught
fish
	There are also a number of add­
itional projects through which we
encourage specific methods of catching
fish. ­METRO Cash & Carry set the ball
rolling in Cologne in March 2014 with the
“À la ligne” project, through which the
wholesaler actively promotes catching
fish by line. This is a particularly sustainable and resource-friendly method,
allowing specific fish types to be caught
selectively with virtually no by-catch
and without damaging the seabed. As
well as this, exceptional freshness is
guaranteed as the boats are at sea for
no more than one day. They then deliver
their catch directly to the processing
companies or fish markets and the fish
is dispatched on the same day. This
means that it is available in German
wholesale stores within 48 hours. At
present, ­METRO Cash & Carry Germany
offers 20 types of line-caught fish. In
order to draw customers’ attention to
these products, the fish are presented
prominently in wholesale stores under
the label “À la ligne”.

Sustainable
product range
	As a retail company, we aim to provide our customers around the world
with safe, high-quality products and
goods that have been produced by
socially and environmentally sound
means with a minimum of resources.
Various labels are used to inform customers about the individual sustainability aspects of our products and to help
them to make their decisions. Our sales
lines’ product ranges include, for
instance, fair-trade articles and food
products that bear the European
organic symbol. In Germany, products
certified in accordance with the EU Regu­
lation on organic farming accounted for
around €96 million in sales at ­METRO
Cash & Carry, Real and Galeria Kaufhof
during the reporting period.
	As well as this, our range includes
products caught using eco-friendly fishing practices which preserve stocks.
These can be readily identified by the
Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) logo.
In the financial year 2013/14, our sustainable fish range in Germany consisted of
90 MSC-certified own-brand products
and 775 brand-name articles, generating
revenue in the region of €56 million.
Our sales lines also offer their customers a wide range of environmentally
and socially responsible products in
many other categories. These include,
for example:
—	Efficient electrical appliances with
energy ratings from A+ to A+++
—	Stationery complying with the Blue
Angel ecological standards or using
fibre from sustainable forestry

43

—	
Natural skincare products in
accordance with BDIH and NATRUE
standards
—	Textiles made from organic cotton
or from cotton complying with the
“Cotton made in Africa” standard

Umbrella label
“natürlich GALERIA”
	At Galeria Kaufhof outlets, the
“Natürlich GALERIA” (naturally GALERIA) label is used to denote products
that have been manufactured in line
with superior environmental and social
standards. Our sales line introduced
this label in autumn 2011 with a view to
helping customers take a more sustainable approach to consumption. The
label – depicting a green leaf and the
words “Natürlich GALERIA” – is given to
products that conform to a widely recognised standard. These include, for
instance, the Global Organic Textile
Standard (GOTS), the natural skincare
certification system NATRUE and the
Blue Angel eco-seal. To help customers,
the “Natürlich GALERIA” label is shown
in the department stores’ advertising
supplements, on signs throughout the
sales floor and, in some cases, on the
goods themselves. Some 13,600 products from our sales line’s product
range – from children’s clothing and
underwear to stationery and toys – now
comply with one of these recognised
sustainability standards. In September
2014, the sales line provided over 1,600
articles in the textiles category alone
that were produced in accordance with
the GOTS, Biore, Fairtrade or Bluesign
standards or that were made out of
organic cotton. The revenue that Galeria

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

CUSTOMER

Kaufhof generated with these sustain­
able articles more than doubled between
2011 and the financial year 2014.
	The outlet in Cologne Nippes district
launched a three-week pilot project in
October 2013 to draw customers’
attention to the label and substantially
boost sales of sustainable products.
This also aimed to test marketing and
communication measures that could be
used at other Galeria Kaufhof department stores. To this end, our sales line
made increased use of marketing mater­
ials such as stickers and floor graphics
in the departments, set up special sales
and promotional areas for “Natürlich
GALERIA” products and increased the
relevant information available for customers at the point of sale. As a result,
the department store in Cologne Nippes
achieved its goal of doubling sales of
“Natürlich GALERIA” products in October 2013. On top of this, the outlet’s
commitment to sustainability was rated
positively in customer surveys. In order
to bring about this increase in sales and
improved reputation at other locations
as well, the Cologne Nippes store developed a set of recommendations relating
to the pilot project. These include
employee training, clear identification of
own brands that comply with “Natürlich
GALERIA” criteria and improved pre­
sentation of goods in the various departments.

Responsible shopping
at Real
Customers will also find an extensive
range of environmentally friendly and
socially ethical products at Real hypermarkets. Our sales line’s product range

includes, for instance, organic foods, a
wide selection of fish and fish products
with the MSC seal, paper and wooden
products from sustainable sources as
well as sustainable textiles conforming
with the GOTS or “Cotton made in Africa”
standard. A number of different certifications and labels guarantee that the
articles have been inspected by independent organisations.
	Real’s product range also includes
items that bear the Fairtrade logo,
which is only awarded to goods that are
produced in strict adherence with
demanding social criteria. For example,
by paying a guaranteed minimum price
above the global market price level, producers are guaranteed a higher, reliable
income. Real supports fair trade and
now stocks 60 articles bearing the Fairtrade symbol. By purchasing these
products, customers are able to make a
contribution to improving social conditions in the producing country.
	Real is aiming to take another major
step towards improved sustainability by
gradually changing the ingredients used
for all its own-brand products containing cocoa. It aims to switch exclusively
to cocoa approved by the Rainforest Alliance, the Fairtrade organisation or the
UTZ Certified programme for these art­
icles by 2015. These certificates guarantee that the cocoa is produced in a way
that benefits the farmers and protects
the environment. Customers can
already find sustainable chocolate products with the UTZ label at the company’s
hypermarkets.
	Real is also actively involved in
improving animal welfare. Since January 2013, our sales line’s range has
included poultry products bearing the
official label of the German Animal Welfare Federation. This guarantees adherence to specific animal welfare standards that are not yet required by law.

44

The label’s requirements relate to all
stages of the animal’s life: from proper
rearing and housing conditions to transport and slaughter. Products with this
certification can now be found in around
200 Real stores.
	Real also assumes responsibility in
the way it puts together its range of textile products and is actively expanding
the selection of sustainable products on
offer. In January 2014, our sales line
joined forces with the Augsburg-based
textile company Manomama, which
operates a consistently regional value
chain, creates new jobs with transparent, fair working conditions and manufactures 100 per cent organic clothing.
The products are made exclusively in
Germany. Manomama-brand underwear and jeans made entirely of organic
cotton can now be found in 50 Real
hypermarkets. The company also produces organic cotton shopping bags for
Real, thereby adding a further sustainable option to the retailer’s range of
reusable shopping bags. Since back in
2011, the hypermarkets have offered
their customers a loop-handle shopping
bag made from recycled plastic which is
certified under the Blue Angel scheme.

More sustainable
product alternatives
	In France, our sales line ­METRO
Cash & Carry works closely with its
suppliers with the aim of continually
improving the sustainability of ownbrand products in the interests of our
customers, particularly with regard to
product formulations. The main focus
here is on products which contain palm

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

CUSTOMER

oil or have a high sugar or salt content.
­METRO Cash & Carry compiled a list of
these articles and asked suppliers to
consider replacing palm oil or to reduce
the levels of sugar and salt used. In cases
where no alternative to palm oil was
available, ­METRO Cash & Carry encouraged its suppliers to use sustainable
palm oil. All new formulations and proposals were tested by our sales line to
ensure a consistently high level of quality. In the financial year 2013/14, these
joint efforts allowed around 219 tonnes of
palm oil, 131 tonnes of sugar and over
1.2 tonnes of salt to be saved in the manu­
facture of own-brand products.

Energy-efficient and
resource-friendly appliances
Our Media-­Saturn and Real sales
lines make a point of including energyefficient and resource-friendly appliances in their product ranges. These
include, for example, washing machines,
dishwashers and fridge-freezers. 75 per
cent of all washing machines sold by
Media-­Saturn are rated A++ or A+++.
The proportion of A+++ washing
machines sold at Media-­Saturn in 2014
rose by 16 per cent year on year. Taking
all product groups together, A++ and
A+++ appliances made up just under
60 per cent of the retailer’s sales.
	Employees explain the link between
purchase price and cost savings from
lower energy consumption to their customers by offering specialist advice
backed up with guides to specific appliances. In this way, Media-Saturn and
Real contribute to protecting resources
and encourage shoppers to choose
sustainable products.

Encouraging
sustainable consumption
­METRO GROUP actively helps consumers to opt for sustainable products. One
way in which the sales lines do this is by
labelling ethical products so that customers can identify them quickly. In
addition to this, they systematically
improve in-store product presentation,
highlight products in their ranges which
conserve resources and have good envir­
onmental and social credentials, and
they provide information about various
aspects of sustainability in their brochures and other advertising, on their
websites and in external media.
	In 2014, for instance, Real developed
an extensive CR communication strategy and rolled out initial measures in all
its hypermarkets. Central to this was
the aim to cater for customers who
wished to buy sustainable products. Our
sales line approached this in a number
of ways: at various points in store, customers are provided with information on
sustainable products and their backgrounds. Posters and shelf talkers also
help customers to spot ethical products;
in addition, they are informed about the
company’s commitment to sustainability
via in-store TV and radio features. The
Internet portal www.gesundheit.real.de
and the quarterly brochure “Besser
Leben” (Better living) also provide useful
information on nutrition, exercise and
health.
	­METRO Cash & Carry also proactively encourages customers to consider
sustainability when making purchasing
decisions. In France, for example, all of
the wholesale stores support the

45

“Mr. Goodfish” initiative launched by
the World Ocean Network, which works
to promote sustainable consumption of
fish and fish products. The label “Good
for the sea, good for you” is used on
products that are especially environmentally and resource-friendly. Further
information is avail­able for customers in
the form of a quarterly updated list of
fish and fish products recommended by
independent experts and a brochure
that is available at the wholesale stores.
	As well as its sales floor design and
systematic product labelling, Galeria
Kaufhof actively engages in employee
communication on the subject of sustainability. To enable its sales assistants
to answer customer queries more effect­
ively, the company provided them with
category-specific information on the
various sustainability standards. In
2014, our sales line also published the
sustainability brochure “Gemeinsam
Verantwortung tragen” (Sharing responsibility). This gives an overview of the
company’s various sustainability activities and aims to motivate employees to
actively support these projects in their
everyday work.

“

le a d
by

example!
”

O n e o f us

r alf cremer

Head of Customer Service at
Real, Düsseldorf (Germany)

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

name

c o m pa n y

Ralf Cremer

Real

role

Head of Customer Service
in

since

Düsseldorf (GER)

1976

r a l f cr emer has declared war on the throwaway culture that

prevails in our society. In his role as head of customer service,
his responsibilities include product returns. He has set himself
the goal of stopping electrical appliances with minor defects
from ending up on the scrap heap. In his efforts, he has found
valuable assistance in the form of Hephata Werkstätten, a nonprofit company that employs people with disabilities. Here, the
appliances are repaired so that they can be sold again as seconds. Making an active contribution to society is an important
part of Ralf Cremer’s private life as well as his working life – he
has been involved with the German Red Cross for years.

GER

Mönchengladbach, Germany
Hephata Werkstätten

Successful cooperation. Employees at Hephata Werkstätten
ensure that electrical appliances with small defects are not
disposed of but repaired instead.

48

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Waste disposal

M E T RO GROU P

Waste disposal

A

s a retail company, ­METRO GROUP depends not

Through thermal utilisation – for instance, generating

only on the long-term availability of food but also

heat or electricity by incinerating waste – we can prevent

on that of resources such as wood, metal, crude oil and

this rubbish from ending up in landfill and putting a strain

water. This is because these raw materials are used both

on the environment. We attach importance to promoting

to produce and to package the products that we sell in our

innovative production and recycling technologies and by

stores. We see it as part of our responsibility to carefully

thinking in cycles. This is because the disposal options –

consider – right at the beginning of the value chain –

along with handling and storage – are determined by the

where the raw materials for products and packaging come

nature and design of the core product and its packaging

from. Similarly, at the end of a product’s useful life, we ask

right at the beginning of the life cycle. As our products

ourselves whether and how its raw materials can be reused

and packaging are in our customers’ possession when

or disposed of with the minimum environmental impact.

they reach the end of their useful life, we also see it as
our responsibility to advise customers on the best way to

The first approach is a waste avoidance strategy, which

dispose of them. This means that we raise their aware-

aims to prevent rubbish from being generated in the first

ness of the need to conserve resources, inform them

place. This is done, for example, by optimising the use of

about ways to avoid waste, and create incentives and

resources for products and packaging and by leaving out

options for disposing of products and packaging prop-

certain components completely or replacing them with

erly. In this way, we play our part in ensuring that waste is

more environmentally friendly alternatives.

transformed into raw materials again.

Another approach concerns reusing resources. Rather
than throwing away products and packaging which are
no longer needed, we put them to good use again.
There is also commercial potential in reusing resources
directly or in recycling them – our third approach.

49

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Waste disposal

Projects
and measures

Group-wide
packaging guidelines
	A wide variety of packaging is used
at all ­METRO GROUP sales lines on a
daily basis. This is necessary to protect
products, extend their shelf life, make
them recognisable for customers at the
point of sale and provide information
about them. ­METRO GROUP has set
itself challenging sustainability targets: while it needs to provide the high
level of quality and hygiene that customers have come to expect, it is also
aiming to reduce the strain on the envir­
onment caused by packaging throughout the entire life cycle. In order to
meet this challenge, ­METRO GROUP
put group-wide packaging guidelines in
place in 2013. In this way, we have
established a binding framework for all
own-brand product packaging. The

guidelines define five areas in which we
are implementing measures: avoiding
packaging, reducing packaging, utilising return systems, and using both
renewable resources and recycled
material.

Operational
implementation
Based on the group guidelines, each
sales line has defined processes and
measures for its own-brand products.
Packaging has been part of ­METRO
Cash & Carry’s overall own-brand strategy since 2013. The company has prepared a technical handbook on the subject of own-brand packaging together
with a requirement profile when communicating and negotiating with suppliers. Since April 2014, the life cycle
analysis programme Packaging Impact

50

Quick Evaluation Tool (PIQET) has been
used to assess the effects of packaging
on the environment.
When dealing with its suppliers, Real
also uses a specification for products,
which defines concrete aspects and targets relating to own-brand packaging.
In this way, the company is striving to
avoid using plastics such as PVC and
PVdC in future. As well as this, lowmigration printing inks should be used
and transport packaging should have
modular dimensions. An accompanying
technical handbook with a detailed list
of requirements for suppliers will be
prepared by the end of the year.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Waste disposal

Reducing
materials
	In order to conserve resources, cut
down costs and avoid negative effects
on the environment, our sales lines proactively work with their suppliers to
optimise the packaging of their ownbrand products. They design the packaging to use as little material as pos­
sible, replace existing material with
more environmentally friendly alternatives, opt for packaging that can be used
for both transport and in-store presentation, or do away with additional pack­
aging components.
For example, ­METRO Cash & Carry
has been marketing some of its ownbrand Horeca Select products in plastic
pouches rather than tins since 2012.
This reduces the total pallet weight by
34 kilograms, which has a positive effect
on transport: as the pallets are significantly lighter, suppliers can load more
products onto a single vehicle or use a
smaller one. This lowers transport
costs, saves on fuel and reduces CO 2
emissions.
	A ­METRO Cash & Carry project in
France also shows that small changes
can have a significant impact. Here, the
company has left away the add­
itional
cardboard sleeve on its smoked salmon
packaging, selling the fish in printed
plastic packaging instead. This allows
­METRO Cash & Carry to save 1.2 tonnes
of cardboard every year.

mentally friendly materials to produce
it. Accordingly, ­METRO Cash & Carry now
uses plastic sleeves made of chlor­inefree polypropylene (PP) for pack­
aging
various textiles. Previously, the sleeves
consisted of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), a
chlorinated plastic that releases dioxin
when incinerated. With this move,
­METRO Cash & Carry is helping to avoid
these emissions.
	Real is also active in optimising the
functionality of its packaging. For
example, the plastic wrapper used for
500-gram packs of Tip spaghetti is by far
the lightest on the market – weighing in at
just 2.68 grams compared with the market average of 3.46 grams. Real has also
optimised the roll bags used for fruit
and vegetables: together with its supplier, our sales line developed thinner
bags, thereby reducing the material and
resources required. According to calculations, this optimisation alone allows
19,000 litres of water to be saved during
manufacturing and 92 tonnes of CO2 to
be avoided in the transport and logistics
process every year. This measure is also
cost-effective, saving Real around
€65,000 per annum.
	In October 2014, we started replacing
the PVC film used for cheese packed in
store with a PVC-free variant. The packaging machines are gradually being
modified for this purpose. Following
this, the same measure will be rolled
out for meat products.

Extending
the life cycle
We attach importance to preventing
wastage of raw materials at all stages of
the process chain. In view of this, we not
only focus on improving our use of
resources and avoiding specific mater­
ials – we also work on lengthening the
life cycle of products and resources and
enabling our customers to engage in
responsible consumption. A prime
example of this is the cooperation
between Media-­Saturn and Flip4New, a
leading recommerce provider in which
our sales line has been owning a stake
since October 2012. At all ­Saturn
stores, selected Media Markt stores
and online via the ­Saturn website, customers can hand in electrical products
and media that they no longer need in
exchange for a shopping voucher. Flip4New tests the used goods and then
sells them via online platforms, thereby
extending the lives of these elaborately
manufactured products. This service for
buying used products is already available at bricks-and-mortar outlets in five
European countries, while customers
from Germany, Austria and the Netherlands can also use Flip4New online.
	Reuse instead of disposal is also the
principle behind a project that ­­METRO
Cash & Carry France is implementing
together with Veolia Propreté, a group
that develops and implements solutions
for sustainable water, waste and energy
management. Together, the cooperation
partners offer ­METRO Cash & Carry’s
food service customers an environmentally friendly way to dispose of and re­­

Optimising the sustainability of packaging also means using more environ-

51

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Waste disposal

cycle used cooking oil. To this end, Veolia
provides the food service outlets with
containers for used oil and collects these
at regular intervals. The used oil is then
converted into biofuel. Customers with
a standard ­METRO customer card are
reimbursed the full cost of this disposal
service; customers with a “­METRO
Reflexe” card can even earn money
from their used oil – around €0.15 per
litre. With this model, the cooperation
partners not only ensure that used oil is
recycled in a sustainable way but also
make a contribution to protecting the
climate: 1 litre of converted cooking oil
reduces CO2 emissions by 3 kilograms.
This
approach
allowed
­METRO
Cash & Carry France and its customers
to save around 1.2 million kilograms of
CO2 in the reporting period.

Recycling
products – reusing
materials
	Electrical and electronic appliances
are characterised by increasingly short
life cycles, rising sales figures and a
large proportion of reusable materials.
The German Ministry for the Environment estimates that some 800,000 old
appliances accumulate every year in
Germany alone. As these contain many
different substances and materials,
they can pose a risk to the environment
if they are not disposed of correctly.
However, apart from pollutants such as
heavy metals and CFCs, old appliances
also contain various materials that can
be reclaimed and recycled. With the aim
of encouraging this, the German Electric­
­al and Electronic Equipment Act (Elek-

troG), which came into effect in 2005,
defines specific obligations for manufacturers, retailers, local authorities,
owners and disposers. To date, retailers
have not been required by law to take
back electrical appliances. However,
this is set to change with the amendment to the Electrical and Electronic
Equipment Act, which – among other
things – will make it mandatory for
retailers to do so.
	The Real and Media-­Saturn sales
lines have been involved for years in the
German retail industry’s voluntary initia­
tive for taking back old electrical appliances. Since 2005, Media-­Saturn customers have been able to give back their
old electrical and electronic appliances
free of charge when buying a new one.
Old appliances are not disposed of via
municipal collection points but are
introduced directly into the recycling
process required by law. Real is also
among the retailers that take back old
appliances on a voluntary basis – customers who purchase new appliances at
Real hypermarkets can hand in their old
ones free of charge.
	In Russia, Media Markt has introduced a nationwide battery recycling
programme. This scheme, first introduced in the Media Markt stores in Moscow in November 2013, allows customers to take used batteries back to the
stores and have them disposed of correctly. The programme has now been
extended to all Russian stores. In Russia, batteries are not classified as hazardous waste and retailers are not
required by law to collect used batteries. Nonetheless, Media Markt launched
this scheme in line with European
standards, making it the first authorised
battery collection point in Russia.

52

	In 2014, ­Saturn published a guide
entitled “Altgeräte richtig entsorgen”
(Disposing of old appliances properly)
explaining to customers the correct way
to dispose of old electrical appliances.
The brochure, which among other things
explains about valuable materials and
resources contained in old appliances
and about recycling and disposal
options, was produced in collaboration
with Utopia, an Internet platform for the
promotion of sustainable consumption.

Avoiding
waste
	In Germany alone, approximately
11 million tonnes of food is thrown away
every year. According to figures from
the Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture, 61 per cent of this can be attributed to private consumers, 17 per cent
each to industry and large-scale consumers, and 5 per cent to retailers and
wholesalers. Reducing food loss and
waste as much as possible is one of
­METRO GROUP’s central concerns. In
doing so, we take a holistic approach
throughout all stages of the value chain,
from farming to logistics and from instore processes to the end consumer.
Our activities in the field of procurement
include training our suppliers on subjects such as food safety, hygiene standards and product processing. Thanks to
our professional logistics operations, we
also reduce food losses at the various
stages of the value chain. Seven International Trading Offices are in charge of
sourcing specific product groups.
­METRO Cash & Carry also sets up local
collection centres for farmers near the

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Waste disposal

cultivation areas, which reduces the
time between harvesting and delivery of
the produce to the stores. Best-before
dates are actively monitored at our
stores to ensure that products nearing
their sell-by date are offered for sale in
time. Service counters and in-store
baker­ies also help to prevent food loss
by allowing customers to purchase the
exact amount they need and enable us to
maximise the freshness of the products
on sale there every day. Goods that cannot be sold in time but are still suitable
for consumption are made available to
Tafel food bank organisations.
We run specific campaigns to raise
awareness among customers about
handling food correctly. This helps to
avoid not only waste but also health
risks for consumers. Various campaigns
dedicated to avoiding food wastage were
carried out at 31 hypermarkets in Germany by retail assistants and BA students from our Real sales line together
with trainees. These illustrate the
extent of our commitment to this issue.
In the Real store in Tönisvorst, for example, the junior staff provided information
about elimin­
ating food waste with a
campaign en­
titled “Verschwendung
geht uns alle an” (Waste concerns us
all). A similar campaign was organised
by a retail assistant together with trainees at the Real hypermarket in MoersHülsdonk. Their customer information
campaign centred on food-related
issues such as using food, storing food
and keeping it fresh. The diverse activities undertaken by the young managerial employees met with a great
response in the media and above all
among customers: with their campaign,
the trainees met an estimated 540,000plus consumers (including media contacts).

ities undertaken by our sales lines, we
are continuing our involvement in the
“Bündnis für Verbraucherbildung” (Alliance for Consumer Education) backed by
the “Deutsche Stiftung Verbraucherschutz” (German Foundation for Consumer Protection) and the “Verbraucherzentrale Bundesverband” (Federation of
German Consumer Organisations). This
is another way in which we help to share
our responsible approach to food.

Waste
Waste generated in kg per m² of selling
space at METRO GROUP stores/recycling rate
in %
METRO GROUP

	Above and beyond the current activ­

53

“
helping

people
in need should be

second nature
for

everyone.
”

O n e o f us

Julia Selle

Lead Manager of Events & Sponsoring at METRO GROUP,
Düsseldorf (Germany)

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

name

c o m pa n y

Julia Selle

­METRO GROUP

role

Lead Manager of Events & Sponsoring
in

since

Düsseldorf (GER)

2005

In her role as lead manager of events and sponsoring,
julia selle’s work includes coordinating ­METRO GROUP’s
long-standing involvement in the Düsseldorfer Tafel e. V.
food bank organisation. What she particularly likes about
her work is that ideas take shape and are put into action
quickly. This also applies to supporting the food bank: help
goes directly to those who need it. ­METRO GROUP’s
commitment is a matter close to Julia Selle’s heart because
it allows her to provide hands-on assistance and really
make a difference.

GER

Düsseldorf, Germany
D ü s s e l d o r f e r Ta f e l e . V.
food bank organisation

Joint effort.
Heike Vongehr, Chairwoman of food
bank organisation Düsseldorfer
Tafel e. V., and Julia Selle share an
important goal: to provide food to
people in need in Düsseldorf on a
regular basis.

56

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Social commitment

M E T RO GROU P

Social
commitment

A

s a retail company, it stands to reason that

At the same time, we support our employees who work to

­METRO GROUP has close ties with its various social

implement these activities – helping them to hone their

environments. Every day, we cultivate relationships with

social skills and allowing them to work on their own ini-

many millions of people: people who work for or with us at

tiative. This is because enabling staff to address social

our locations, people who shop at our stores, or people

issues at work heightens awareness of ­METRO GROUP’s

with whom we have some other relationship. Our social

close ties with society and the associated cause-and-

and environmental engagement in the places where we

effect relationships. The ability to identify these relation-

are based and interact with people is something that we

ships ultimately affects a company’s chances of surviving

also see as a means of adding value. This is because it

on the market. At the same time, our employees have the

helps to overcome social challenges. Our commitment to

satisfaction of knowing that they are able to make a

environmental and social issues therefore aims to foster

difference to society with the backing of their employer

intercultural dialogue, to lend support to our locations

and share this with their family and friends. This in turn

and their local communities, and to provide assistance

helps people to identify more strongly with the company.

directly to those in need. In this way, ­METRO GROUP
meets its social responsibility as a corporate citizen.

57

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Social commitment

Projects
and measures
	As a company with a sustainable
outlook, we do not only aim to contribute
to society through our core business,
but also to meet our responsibility as a
corporate citizen. We achieve this in all
sales lines by supporting local projects, getting involved in corporate volunteering projects, helping people in
need and contributing to disaster alleviation efforts.

International
Care & Share initiative
	Since 2008, ­METRO Cash & Carry
has been organising its voluntary work
and social engagement projects under
the umbrella of the international Care &
Share initiative. To begin with, many
projects focused on food donations and
working together with the Tafel food
bank organisations. In 2014, our sales
line revamped Care & Share with a view
to coordinating the charity work undertaken in the individual countries and
locations more effectively. In its new
form, the initiative also includes further

activities relating to environmental or
social engagement. In this way, ­METRO
Cash & Carry is reinforcing existing initiatives and putting its weight behind
new ideas in all the countries in which
the sales line is present. Three main criteria apply to all Care & Share projects:
they must be voluntary, they should
involve employees directly wherever
possible and they should aim to give
something back to society. This allows
us to use our retailing expertise in a
social context for a good cause.

Combating
paper waste
	Providing customers with information on products and offers is
extremely important in the retail sector. This means that large numbers of
printed brochures are still produced,
using resources such as paper and
water. The “Trees instead of leaflets”
project implemented by MAKRO
Cash & Carry Czech Republic and
­METRO Cash & Carry Slovakia aims to

58

address this very issue. The aim of this
Care & Share initiative, which was
launched in 2009, is to reduce paper use
within the company on a long-term basis
and to make a contribution to protecting
the environment – all with a relatively
simple idea. For each customer who
subscribes to the digital version of the
advertising brochure – and therefore
does without the printed version – the
company makes a donation of approximately €1. This money is used by volunteers to plant trees in the region in
conjunction with the Partnership Foundation and the Ekopolis Foun­
dation.
Customers can vote on the company’s
website to determine the exact location of the trees. Since 2009, ­METRO
Cash & Carry has collected over €50,000
with this campaign and planted some
880 trees and 150 bushes.

Protecting
fish stocks
Fish is an important product group
for ­METRO Cash & Carry. Every year,

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Social commitment

our sales line sells over 180,000 tonnes
of fish and fish products. Because of
this, it is essential for us to take a sustainable and responsible approach to
fish stocks. The Care & Share initiative
also includes projects for protecting and
preserving specific types of fish. In the
Czech Republic, MAKRO Cash & Carry
is supporting efforts to reintroduce
salmon into Czech rivers, having joined
a national CR repopulation initiative in
October 2013. Fishing, pollution and
hydraulic engineering have altered the
fish’s natural habitat to such an extent in
recent decades that salmon had disappeared completely from Czech waters
since the 1950s. In the course of a
joint campaign, MAKRO Cash & Carry
employees helped to release around
200 salmon fry in the Kamenice, a tributary of the River Elbe, in the Bohemian
Switzerland National Park.
	In Turkey, ­METRO Cash & Carry has
been working with Turkish marine
research institute TÜDAV for over two
years on the sustainability project
“Where are the Bonito?”. The aim of the
initiative is to record the migration
routes of this endangered species of
tuna and to learn how to ensure sustainable fishing. To this end, some 2,500
microchipped fish were released on the
coast of the Black Sea, in the Bosporus,
in the Aegean Sea and in the Mediterranean in 2013. Every fisherman who
returned the chip – together with information about where and when they
caught the fish – received a free gift
from ­METRO Cash & Carry. The first
findings are now available and provide
an insight into the bonitos’ migration
routes. The information – focusing particularly on how stocks of this type of
tuna are being affected by environmental pollution, climate change and overfishing – is to be presented to the public
following the three-year project.

Active involvement
in food banks

Hands-on
sustainability

One of ­METRO GROUP’s most successful and longest-standing charity
activities is its involvement in food bank
initiatives both in Germany and elsewhere. For 19 years, we have been
working together with the Düsseldorfer
Tafel food bank and, for over ten years,
we have also been backing the national
food bank organisation Deutsche Tafel
as its main financial sponsor and
through food donations. In addition, our
employees regularly help those in need
at local food banks and in our stores as
volunteers. At a European level, we
coordinate our activities with the European Federation of Food Banks (FEBA),
which we joined in 2013. Internationally,
we also work with various local organ­
isations to provide assistance where it is
needed. We assume social responsibility by donating money and food for
people in need. At the same time, this
ensures that food products which are in
perfect condition but can no longer be
sold are put to good use.

Our Real sales line is also actively
involved in avoiding food waste. This
was one of the many issues covered in
the project “Handeln aus Verantwortung – Azubis zeigen wie!” (Acting
responsibly – trainees show the way!).
Implemented throughout Germany, this
initiative for junior staff members
aimed to illustrate aspects of sustain­
ability and to raise awareness of this
topic among customers and employees.
To this end, retail assistants, BA students and trainees at a total of 31 Real
hypermarkets carried out a wide range
of sustainability campaigns. Among
other things, this project involved hold­ing
special campaign days about reducing
food waste. Real was presented with the
“Ecocare” sustainability award in September 2013 for its efforts in this regard.

	­METRO Cash & Carry supports this
initiative in virtually all countries in which
the company is active. In 2014, our sales
line took the pioneering step of introducing
the food bank project at all six wholesale
stores in Shanghai. ­METRO Cash & Carry
China now regularly donates food to the
Shanghai Charity Foundation (SCF), which
distributes it among people in need, such
as the children of migrant workers or
elderly people in nursing and retirement
homes. Since the project began in September 2013, the pilot store in Putuo alone
has donated food worth €45,000.

59

Voluntary work
in the community
Our employees do not only demonstrate their awareness of social responsibility by taking part in campaigns and initiatives at our stores and company head
offices. As well as this, they help local
people as part of corporate volunteering
projects. For instance, in April 2014,
13 trainee managers at Real renovated a
crèche near Parchim in the German state
of Mecklenburg-West Pomerania.

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Social commitment

	­METRO Cash & Carry presented the
“­METRO Community Stars” award for
the first time in its anniversary year,
2014. Independent businesspeople were
invited to visit the award website and
submit their own story about their social
and environmental engagement. These
stories were evaluated by readers, with
winners chosen afterwards by a panel of
judges in each country. With this award,
­METRO Cash & Carry pays tribute to
exemplary entrepreneurs as well as
motivating other businesspeople to
tackle social or environmental issues.
All in all, some 1,400 submissions were
made in the 17 participating countries
outlining entrepreneurs’ engagement
activities. There was a great response to
the unusual stories, with more than
a million readers taking part in the
online poll.

Local fund-raising
and assistance
	In addition to these voluntary activ­
ities and projects, we also help to alleviate crises and social emergencies by
means of donations and immediate aid.
For example, employees at our Real
sales line have for years organised
regu­l ar local events such as cake sales,
raffles and barbecues to raise money
for charities and social projects. The
company acknowledges these efforts by
doubling the money raised. In 2013, over
€800,000 was generated at Real by
events of this nature.
For more than six years, Galeria
Kaufhof and Real have been joining
forces with charities that work with children from socially disadvantaged back-

grounds. In all Real hypermarkets and
in the German outlets and headquarters
of Galeria Kaufhof, charity trees are set
up every year in the run-up to Christmas
– hanging from the branches are notes
indicating the gift that each child would
like. Customers take the notes from the
tree, buy the articles in question and
hand them in at a central collection
point. Real and Galeria Kaufhof organise
the initiative and step in if any gift
requests are still left on the tree. In this
way, our sales lines and customers help
to make some 30,000 children’s wishes
come true each year.
	The charity tree idea was adapted by
Galeria Kaufhof department stores in
Frankfurt and Offenbach for two campaigns in the back-to-school period.
With the slogan “Ein Teil mehr” (One
more item), the Frankfurt store encouraged its customers to buy an extra item
of school equipment to be donated to a
child in need. These small gifts were
distributed afterwards by the Frankfurter Tafel food bank organisation. At
the Galeria Kaufhof department store in
Offenbach, customers were invited to
fulfil the wishes of children from the
Theresien-Kinderheim children’s home
who were starting school.

ing up after the hurricane in North
Rhine-Westphalia.
During the flood disaster in the Balkans in May 2014, ­METRO Cash & Carry
in Serbia donated some €100,000 to the
Red Cross and sent vans with food and
drinking water to the affected areas.
	­METRO Cash & Carry also provided
humanitarian assistance in August 2014
following the earthquake in south-west
China. The wholesale store in Kunming
Beichen provided more than 40,000 parcels of food and water and arranged for
these to be delivered to the centre for
disaster management.

We also contribute to emergency
and crisis aid to help alleviate the effects
of disasters. In June 2014, for example,
­METRO GROUP donated €50,000 to feed
the fire brigade and teams of helpers in
Düsseldorf who were involved in clean-

Community investment
In € thousand

2013/14

Charitable donations

2,943

Community investments

524

Commercial initiatives

4,058

Total

7,525

60

­M ETRO GROUP

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Join in the dialogue

Join in
the

dialogue
Dialogue with our readers is important to us because it shows
us what you expect of our company and where we can make
further improvements.
We would therefore like to hear any questions or comments you
may have about the METRO GROUP Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14
and our sustainability activities in general.
To share your thoughts, use one of our online dialogue tools
or send us an e-mail.

CR@metro.de
reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/sustainability-report

61

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

About the report

About
the report

Printed with Sap
Printed on Circle Offset Premium
White bearing the EU eco-label,
registration number FR/11/003.

Reporting period

Disclaimer

The reporting period is the current financial year
2013/14 (1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014). To provide updates on developments, information has also
been included that relates to periods prior to 2013/14.
In the interests of topicality, we have also taken into account events which occurred up to the time of going to
press (7 November 2014). The frame of reference for
each of our targets and measures is indicated in the
relevant section.

This Corporate Responsibility Report contains forwardlooking statements that are based on certain assumptions and expectations at the time of its publication.
These statements are therefore subject to risks and
uncertainties, which means that actual results may
differ substantially from the future-oriented statements made here. Many of these risks and uncertainties
are determined by factors that are beyond the control of
­METRO GROUP and cannot be gauged with any certainty
at this point in time.

Reporting scope

This includes future market conditions and economic
developments, the behaviour of other market participants, the achievement of expected synergy effects as
well as legal and political decisions.

The scope of applicability of the information is given
in the respective texts, key performance indicators or
goals.

Assurance on Carbon Footprint 2013/14
Printed with Saphira Eco

KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft provided
limited assurance on selected key performance indicators relating to sustainability in accordance with ISAE
3000. The independent assurance report can be found
online at reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/
corporate-responsibility-report.

United Nations Global Compact
Since 2010, ­METRO GROUP has subscribed to the principles of the UN Global Compact, a United Nations-led global
initiative that aims to encourage businesses to adopt universal sustainability principles. By subscribing to the
United Nations Global Compact, we have committed ourselves to continuous improvements in the areas of human
rights, labour standards, environmental protection and
anti-corruption measures. With the Communication on
Progress 2013/14 that is available online, ­METRO GROUP
meets its obligation to demonstrate how improvements
have been made within these areas:
reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/
corporate-responsibility-report.

Certifications
This Corporate Responsibility Report is printed on
paper from sustainable forestry. By purchasing such
products, we foster responsible forest management
that is controlled according to the strict social, ecological and economic criteria. We only use fully recycled
paper bearing the EU Ecolabel in this publication. In
addition, this progress report carries the Saphira Eco
label of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG.
This certifies that the material used in the production of
this publication, such as inks, lacquers, chemicals and
printing plates, fulfills the requirements of the most
important international environmental certificates. For
additional information, see www.heidelberg.com.

62

­METRO GROUP does not feel obliged to publish corrections to these forward-looking statements to reflect
events or circumstances that have occur after the publication of this material.

METRO GROUP has been publishing Sustainability and
Corporate Responsibility Reports since 2002, which you
can find online at
reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/
corporate-responsibility-report.

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

Gesellschaftliches Engagement

publisher
metrO aG
metro-straße 1
40235 Düsseldorf, Germany
pO Box 23 03 61
40089 Düsseldorf, Germany
METRO gROup
on the internet
www.metrogroup.de
Corporate Responsibility
phone: +49 211 969-2217
cr@metro.de
Responsible
Hans Jürgen matern
Nina von radowitz
Concept and editorial
Chantal Wagner
interview
leiding Chen
alice lan Xiao
Online editorial team
Chantal Wagner
silvio schmidt
project management
Chantal Wagner
Creative execution
strichpunkt GmbH, stuttgart / Berlin
Editorial support
and realisation
ketchum pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf
printing
Druckstudio GmbH, Düsseldorf
photo credits
urban Zintel, except page 15 (Boris Zorn), page 16 (martin
Hangen), page 17 (Carlos albuquerque) and page 18 (Galeria
kaufhof GmbH, Cologne)

64

METRO group

Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14

musterkapitel

I ’ M

“
C O M M I T T E D

T O

upholding

social standards.
THERE’S NO

room
F O R

compromise
”
OnE Of US

maRgaRet chan

executive manager of Corporate social responsibility at
mGB metrO GrOup Buying at Hong kong (China)

4

