R EPORT ON TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY OF OU R VALU E CR EATION 2015

T h e Wa y A h e a d
Report on the Sustainability of our
Va l u e C r e a t i o n 2 0 1 5

W W W . O T T O G R O U P. C O M

ABOUT THIS REPORT

About this report_ With our Report on the Sustainability

of our Value Creation 2015 we provide an account of the ecological and
social impacts along our value chain. We report transparently on our

GRI ASPECT

Raw Materials
& Processing

Final
Production

Trade

Customer

G4 – 20

G R I cat e go r y E N V I R O N M E N T (corresponds to ecological impacts)

G4 – 21

performance in relation to our CR Strategy 2020 and in doing so, on how

Emissions

X

X

X

X

sustainable our business activities are.

Energy

X

X

X

X

Reference framework_ The Report on the Sustainability

Materials

X

G4 – 22 of our Value Creation 2015 complements the Otto Group’s reporting on

Water

X

G4 – 23 important developments relating to its CR Strategy and its key indicators

Biodiversity

X

G4 – 17

in the Group’s Annual Reports 2013/14 and 2014/15. It covers the period
1 March 2013 to 28 February 2015 (financial years 2013/14 and 2014/15).

X

Transport

Key indicators have been recorded primarily on an annual basis since 2013,

G R I cat e go r y S O C I E T Y (corresponds to social risks)

with any exceptions stated.

Evaluation of
suppliers regarding
human rights

X

Evaluation of
suppliers regarding
working conditions

X

The key figures relate to 14 Group companies, except where exceptions
are explicitly indicated. These cover the 13 Group companies which were
already included in the previous reporting period: baumarkt direkt, Baur,
bonprix, EOS, Frankonia, Heine, Hermes, OTTO, OTTO Office, Schwab,
SportScheck, UNITO und Witt. myToys is a new addition. Details on the
businesses belonging to the Group companies as well as their legal struc-

The Otto Group’s impACT management process covers topics which are

tures are provided in the brief company portraits from page 6 onwards.

managed centrally by the Group. This means that employee, governance
and societal topics which are decentrally managed by the individual

Consequently, all companies in the Report on the Sustainability of our Value

Group companies are included in the reporting process under materiality

Creation 2015 have their headquarters in either Germany or Austria and

criteria, but not as a result of the impACT process.

report annual revenue of more than 100 mn€. The Report comprises
companies from all three of the Otto Group’s business segments – Multichannel Retail, Services and Financial Services. Together, these companies

G4 – 18

Auditing_ The Report on the Sustainability of our Value Creation
2015 was audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) under the Interna-

generate 57% of Group revenue.

tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. The CR Strategy

Reporting structure and content_ Prior to the

2020’s five key indicators were audited (see p. 20). Key figures audited by

reporting process, the Otto Group evaluated the ecological and social

impact of its activities along the value chain. This approach forms part of

PwC are marked in the text with

and are indicated in the GRI Index.

Editorial remarks_ The Report on the Sustainability of

the impACT sustainability management process (see p. 12 et seq.). Among

our Value Creation 2015 is available in German and English. The editorial

other things, it serves to prioritise topics for presentation in this report.

deadline was May 2015. The next Report on the Sustainability of our Value
Creation is scheduled for publication in summer 2017.

For the first time, this Report on the Sustainability of our Value Creation
2015 was produced in accordance with the Core option of the new Global

For the sake of readability, this report omits gender-based dual entries and

Reporting Initiative Guidelines (GRI G4). It also represents the Communica-

uses the masculine form. In such cases, however, both women and men

tion on Progress on the extent to which the Group has implemented the

are intended.

UN Global Compact.

List of material GRI aspects_ The Otto Group has

assigned those topics which are identified as important in the Materiality

Additional remarks_ The Report on the Sustainability

of our Value Creation 2015 is available online at www.ottogroup.com/
sustainabilityreport.

Analysis to the aspects defined by the GRI (see table). Key topics are those
which have been assigned the strategy types ‘Priority’, ‘Innovation’ and
‘Base’ in the Materiality Matrix (see p. 18). From page 29 onwards the
Otto Group will report on at least one GRI indicator in relation to the
aspects listed here.

G4 – 19

This symbol denotes where the Otto Group meets specific Global
Reporting Initiative G4 indicators e.g. (G4-19). For further
information, please visit www.globalreporting.org.

01

CONTENTS

Award-winning CR management: In September 2014 the
Otto Group received the German federal government’s
CSR Award. This recognises innovative companies that
integrate social and environmental sustainability
into their business operations. The Otto Group was
rated highly on the centrepiece of its sustainability
management: the impACT process.

Contents
C2
2

37

About this report
Foreword by the CR Board

4 The �tto Group
4
6

Business model and profile of the Otto Group
Portraits of the 14 reporting companies

10 The �tto Group’s value chain
12 S ustainable value creation in
the �tto Group
12
20
23
26

Sustainability management process impACT
CR Strategy 2020
CR organisational structures
Involving stakeholders

29
			

Raw Materials &
Processing

30 Challenges identified by impACT
32 The Otto Group’s scope of action
32	Textile, Furniture and Paper Strategy
and additional management approaches
33 Textile Strategy status
34 Furniture Strategy status
35 Paper Strategy status

38
39
40
40
43
44

Final Production
Challenges identified by impACT
The Otto Group’s scope of action
Social Programme and additional management approaches
Social Programme status
Climate and environmental protection
Collaborations and alliances

45
46
47
47
48
51
53

Trade
Challenges identified by impACT
The Otto Group’s scope of action
Climate Strategy and additional management approaches
Climate Strategy status
Environmental protection
Employees

59

Customer

60
61
61
61
63
63

Challenges identified by impACT
The Otto Group’s scope of action
Management approaches
Product transparency and quality
Environmental protection
Data protection and information security

64
66
68
U3

Assurance statement
GRI-G4 Content Index
Glossary
Imprint

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

02

FOREWORD BY THE CR BOARD

We intend
to be judged against
our claim to
act responsibly.
Otto Group CR Board
Hans-Otto Schrader

NAME:
POSITION:

 Chairman

of the Executive Board and

Chief Executive Officer Otto Group (CEO)

NAME:
POSITION:

Dr Michael Heller

NAME:

Member of the OTTO Management Board
for Categories

POSITION:

Hanjo Schneider

 Member

of the Executive Board,

Services Otto Group

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

03

FOREWORD BY THE CR BOARD

Dear Reader,
We have long been convinced of the fundamental necessity
of structuring our business activities sustainably, regardless
of the prevalent economic situation. Our principles become
especially evident when our company must unfortunately
report a loss, as it has for the 2014/15 financial year.
Amongst other factors, this was due to the planned revenue
shortfalls resulting from the restructuring of the business
model of some of our subsidiaries. Furthermore, the Group
has invested in its own future viability – investments that
will begin to pay off in the medium and long term. The
company has invested in the digital transformation of its
ongoing activities and in establishing new business models
such as the multi-award winning start-up Collins.
We are also benefiting from our forward-looking approach
in terms of sustainability. Our deep-rooted understanding
of ourselves as a responsibly acting group of companies
enabled the Otto Group to achieve considerable progress
in the reporting period. A further milestone in the ongoing
development of our sustainability management process
has been achieved thanks to impACT. Through this, the
Otto Group is revolutionising the way in which it identifies
the impact of its business activities on people and nature
along the entire value chain, evaluates them, and then
derives efficient countermeasures. Our company has
received much praise for this innovative approach. Indeed,
we were especially pleased to receive the German federal
government’s CSR Award.
Within the Otto Group, the firm anchoring of the topic of
sustainability goes hand in hand with unwavering support
for the topic, both from the Group Executive Board and
the Executive Boards of the Group companies. In 2014 an
important new decision-making board was established to
manage the Group’s CR activities: the Sustainable Supply
Chain Management Board.

It focuses on sustainability topics in the value chain, putting
the spotlight on topics which pose the greatest environmental and social challenges. As CR Board members we
can be sure that through involving the Executive Directors
of the Group companies in this committee, sustainabilityrelated decision papers are thoroughly reviewed to ensure
their feasibility and practical benefit.
Our company is also taking a fresh approach with this
Sustainability Report 2015 itself, in which the Group company myToys is included for the first time. This breaks new
ground, as our reporting is now in accordance with the new
G4 version of the internationally respected Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) guidelines. At the same time, this publication
also represents our Report on Progress in the implementation
of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact.
The Otto Group’s many activities and achievements in
the reporting period show that it is on the right path with
this approach – precisely in the spirit of the motto of this
year’s report: The Way Ahead. In the reporting period the
company came another step closer to achieving the five
goals of its CR Strategy 2020. This Sustainability Report
provides a detailed insight into our progress, complementing the information on sustainability provided in the Otto
Group’s Annual Report 2014/15.
We hope you find our report informative, and that you
enjoy reading it.

On behalf of the Executive Board,

Hans-Otto Schrader

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

Hanjo Schneider

Dr Michael Heller

04

BUSINESS MODEL AND PROFILE OF THE OTTO GROUP

Business model and profile
of the 0tto Group
At the heart of our vision and mission is our responsibility to people and nature. It is the foundation on
which we build to achieve our business, social and environmental goals. As a component of our overarching Group
strategy, the CR Strategy is derived from these goals.
The Group can look back on 60 years of family ownership.
The businessman Dr Michael Otto has now transferred
the majority of the shareholdings in the Group to a foundation under German civil law.
In financial year 2014/15 the Otto Group generated
revenues of 12.1 bn€. The Multichannel Retail segment
generated the largest share, at 9.9 bn€.
The Otto Group’s business mandate specifies within
which frameworks and guidelines sustainable, profitable
business models are to be developed and implemented.
In conjunction with the vision and mission of the Otto
Group, the business mandate forms the basis for developing the Group strategy further.
’The Power of Responsibility’ mission embeds a set
of values, and calls upon employees to engage in profitability, innovation, diversity and sustainability issues.

G R O U P ST R AT E G Y
The business mandate as well as the vision and mission
place an emphasis on sustainability – whereby business
goals are combined with social and environmental
responsibility. The Group strategy (see Otto Group
Annual Report 2014/15, p. 50 et seq.) is derived directly
from this basis. It comprises three essential elements:
strategies in the segments, the e-commerce strategy,
and the strategy for complying with social and environmental responsibility (CR Strategy 2020). These strategies are transferred to the Group companies by means
of portfolio management and other control mechanisms, and are therefore closely interlinked. The Group’s
Executive Board is also incentivised to achieve both the
business and Corporate Responsibility goals.

S T R AT E G I E S I N T H E S E G M E N T S
In the Multichannel Retail segment the further
development of e-commerce is a fundamental strategic
goal, as the sales channel with the strongest growth and
a major driver of future business. In terms of the further
development of the various retailing business concepts,
particular focus will be placed in future on the growth
area of the Group’s own brands. The use of over-thecounter channels will also be important, particularly
for these business models, and the objective will be to
integrate these with online and mobile activities in a
way that creates added value.
In the Financial Services segment, financial year
2014/15 saw the Otto Group invest in companies such
as Yapital which develop and offer innovative financial
services. The focus in this segment is on the growth of
services relevant to the end-consumer.
Services are becoming an increasingly significant factor
in business activities with end-consumers. Under the
Hermes umbrella brand, the Otto Group’s strategy in the
Services segment places particular emphasis on B2C and
B2B customers. Besides speed, reliability and the transparency of the supply chain, the Group places particular
importance on service quality at all points of contact
with the end-consumer. The Group’s strong position as a
provider of retail-related services is being expanded both
in Germany and internationally in attractive e-commerce
markets such as the United Kingdom.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

05

BUSINESS MODEL AND PROFILE OF THE OTTO GROUP

Revenue by region (whole Group)

G E R M A NY ST I L L T H E MOST
I M P O R TA N T S A L E S M A R K E T

in mn€

As in previous years, in financial year 2014/15 Germany
remained the most important sales market for the
Otto Group, generating 59% of the Group’s revenue.
The share of revenue generated by the other European
countries was 28%.

11,784

11,597

12,057

12,001

6,666

6,752

7,064

7,139

3,513

3,472

3,488

3,369

1,172
246

1,316
244

1,262
187

1,366
183

S TA B L E E M P L O Y E E S T R U C T U R E
In financial year 2014/15 the Otto Group’s employee
headcount – converted to FTEs (full-time equivalents) –
was 54,037. The 14 Group companies included in this
report employed 43% of the Group’s workforce. A detailed
breakdown of the employee structure can be found in
the chapter Trade (see p. 53 et seq.).
Key operating figures

2011/12

Germany

2012/13

Europe*

2013/14

2014/15

North and South America

Asia

in mn€
*without Germany.

2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
Revenue
whole Group

2014/15

11,597

11,784

12,001

12,057

Revenue
reporting companies

6,107

6,254

6,596

6,897

Equity
whole Group

2,000

1,910

2,022

1,620

978

1,005

972

985

23

146

194

- 196

2011/12 2012/13 2013/14

2014/15

Equity
reporting companies
Profit/loss
for the year
whole Group

Number of employees, rebased as full-time equivalents (FTEs)

53,103

23,630

53,823

24,417

54,257

23,035

54,037

23,185

Revenue by business segment (whole Group)
in mn€

Multichannel Retail
Financial Services
Services

10,035

10,057

10,017

9,918

532

594

683

644

1,030

1,133

1,301

1,495

2011/12
Whole Group  

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

2012/13

2013/14

Reporting companies

2014/15

06

PORTRAITS OF THE 14 REPORTING COMPANIES

Multichannel Retail
G4 – 17

82%

revenue share

Multichannel Retail generates the largest share of the Otto Group’s
revenue. It comprises Group companies which offer their products
via the three distribution channels of e-commerce, print catalogues
and over-the-counter retail. With a share of 65%, the internet is
the most important sales channel.

O V E R V I E W : Retailer of DIY products and market-leading mail-order
retailer in this sector.

Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S : 172 • M A R K E T S : AT, CH, DE, NL •
None • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 50.1% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D
B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T: baumarkt direkt GmbH & Co. KG • W E B S I T E S :
www.baumarktdirekt.de, www.hagebau.de
H EADQUARTERS:
STOR ES:

OVE RVI EW:

E-commerce and retail-related services.

Burgkunstadt • E M P L O Y E E S : 3,747 • M A R K E T S : AT, CH, DE •
None • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 49% • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D
B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : Baur Versand (GmbH & Co. KG), BFS Baur
Fulfillment Solutions GmbH and Zweite Hermes TransStore Service
GmbH & Co. KG • W E B S I T E : www.baur.de
H EADQUARTERS:
STOR ES:

In 2015 BAUR published its own sustainability report.

OVE RVI EW:

Globally successful fashion retailer.

Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S : 1,425 • M A R K E T S : 27 countries •
53 in Germany and a further 13 in Austria, Switzerland
and Italy • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100 % • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D
B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : bonprix Handelsgesellschaft mbH, bonprix
retail GmbH • W E B S I T E : company.bonprix.de
H EADQUARTERS:
STOR ES:

O V E R V I E W : Retailer of equipment for hunters, sports marksmen
and collectors as well as premium fashion articles.

Rottendorf • E M P L O Y E E S : 550 • M A R K E T S : AT, CH, DE, FR •
23 plus two outlets in Germany and two stores in France •
O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% • G R O U P CO M PA N Y COV E R E D BY T H I S S U STA I N A B I L I T Y
H EADQUARTERS:
STOR ES:

R E P O RT: Frankonia Handels GmbH & Co. KG • W E B S I T E :

www.frankonia.de

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

PORTRAITS OF THE 14 REPORTING COMPANIES

OVE RVI EW:

07

Retailer of premium fashion articles and furnishings.

Karlsruhe • E M P L O Y E E S : 572 • M A R K E T S : AT, CH, DE, FR,
NL • S T O R E S : None • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y
C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : Heinrich Heine GmbH • W E B S I T E :
H EADQUARTERS:

www.heine.de

G4 – 17

New reporting company

G4 – 23

D E S C R I P T I O N : myToys.de GmbH is headquartered in Berlin. Under the myToys
brand it operates Germany’s leading online shop for toys and children’s products as well as 13 stores by the same name. The extensive
assortment of the myToys online shop ranges from maternity wear,
baby clothes, and toys, to children’s clothes and books for school
leavers. The ‘Tipps und Kaufberatung’ (‘Tips and Shopping Advice’)
section on myToys.de supports parents and children in finding
suitable products and provides information on health and safety
aspects.

Besides myToys, the brands ambellis (womenswear) and mirapodo
(footwear) also belong to myToys.de GmbH. Thanks to the multi-shop
concept, customers can buy from all three online shops using a
single customer account.
The offering of all three online shops almost exclusively comprises
external brands. This means myToys only has an indirect influence
on its products’ production conditions.
H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Berlin • E M P L O Y E E S : 1,189 • M A R K E T : DE (delivery to
all EU member states and Switzerland) • S T O R E S : 13 in Germany •
O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 74.8% • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D B Y T H I S
S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : myToys.de GmbH, myToys Logistik GmbH •
W E B S I T E : www.myToys.de

O V E R V I E W : Germany’s largest online retailer of fashion and
lifestyle products.
H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S : 5,231 • M A R K E T S : AT, CZ, DE, HU,
NL, RU, SK • S T O R E S : None • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y
R E P O R T : Otto (GmbH & Co. KG) • W E B S I T E : www.otto.com

The employee number is a headcount and is not rebased to full-time equivalents (FTEs). It includes employees on indefinite
contracts, as well as working students at the companies covered by this Sustainability Report as at the end of 2014.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

08

PORTRAITS OF THE 14 REPORTING COMPANIES

O V E R V I E W : Mail-order retailer specialising in office equipment,
communications technology and office furniture.
H EADQUARTERS:

G4 – 17

None

Hamburg

: 307 • M A R K E T S : BE, DE • S T O R E S :
100% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y
OTTO Office GmbH & Co KG • W E B S I T E :

• EMPLOYEES

• OT TO G RO U P ’S S H A R E H O L D I N G:

T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T :

www.otto-office.com

O V E R V I E W : Mail-order retailer with a large selection of fashion
trends, consumer electronics and household products. sheego –
a Schwab Versand GmbH brand – specialises in young, fashionconscious women from size 40 (UK size 16) and upwards.
: 1,052 • M A R K E T S : Exports to
Several shop-in-shop stores •
O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : : 99.98% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y
T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : SCHWAB VERSAND GmbH • W E B S I T E S :
www.schwab.de, www.sheego.de

OVE RVI EW:

H EADQUARTERS:

Hanau

21 countries

• STOR ES:

• EMPLOYEES

Germany’s leading multichannel retailer of sports goods.

Munich • E M P L O Y E E S : 1,615 • M A R K E T S : DE, AT, CH •
19 in Germany • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% •
G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : SportScheck GmbH
W E B S I T E : www.sportscheck.com
H EADQUARTERS:
STOR ES:

•

O V E R V I E W : Largest multichannel mail-order group in the Alpine
region. Through its multibrand strategy it optimally serves
assorted markets and various customer requirements.

AT, CH, CZ, DE, IT
67.87% • G R O U P
C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : UNITO Versand &
Dienstleistungen GmbH • W E B S I T E : www.unito.at
H EADQUARTERS:

SK, HU

Salzburg
None •

• STO R E S:

• EMPLOYEES

:

645

• MARKETS:

OT TO G RO U P ’S S H A R E H O L D I N G:

O V E R V I E W : Mail-order retailer of clothing, underwear and home
textiles for customers over the age of 50.
H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Weiden • E M P L O Y E E S : 2,662 • M A R K E T S : In 10 countries
in Europe as well as Russia and Kazakhstan • S T O R E S : Approx.
115 in Germany • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 99.98% • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S
C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : Sieh an! Handelsgesellschaft mbH,
AMBRIA GmbH, Creation L Handelsgesellschaft mbH, Josef Witt
GmbH • W E B S I T E : www.witt-gruppe.eu

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

09

PORTRAITS OF THE 14 REPORTING COMPANIES

Services

13%

revenue share

The Services segment comprises all the services of the retail logistics
value chain – from sourcing, through quality testing, transportation
and warehousing, to final delivery to business and private customers.

O V E R V I E W : International supply-chain service provider that covers
the entire service spectrum along the retail value chain – from
the sourcing of products to distribution to the end-customer.
H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S
: 8,972 • M A R K E T S : AT, DE, GB,
IT, RU • S T O R E S : Over 36,000 ParcelShops in Europe, of which
approx. 14,000 are in Germany • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% •
G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : Hermes Europe
GmbH, Hermes Logistik Gruppe Deutschland GmbH, Hermes Einrichtungs Service GmbH, Hermes Transport Logistics GmbH, Hermes
Fulfilment GmbH • W E B S I T E : www.hermesworld.com

In 2015 Hermes published its own sustainability report.

Financial Services

5%

revenue share

The Financial Services segment covers the Otto Group’s international
financial services offering, focusing on retail-related services such
as receivables management and consumer loans.

O V E R V I E W : One of the leading international providers of
individually tailored financial services, with a focus on
receivables management.
H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S
: 1,842 • M A R K E T S : Over
50 companies in 26 countries in Europe, America and Asia •
O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D B Y T H I S
S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : EOS DID – EOS Deutscher Inkasso-Dienst,
EOS KSI Inkasso Deutschland and 13 further companies •
W E B S I T E : www.eos-solutions.com

The employee number is a headcount and is not rebased to full-time equivalents (FTEs). It includes employees on indefinite
contracts, as well as working students at the companies covered by this Sustainability Report as at the end of 2014.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 17

10

THE OTTO GROUP’S VALUE CHAIN

The 0tto Group’s
value chain
The complexity of the value chain poses the greatest
challenge to our sustainability management. Arranging
the chain into four value-adding stages helps the Otto
Group to better understand the Group’s environmental
and social impacts, and derive strategic measures.

For companies, the greatest share of their business

Moreover, another factor is the increasing range of articles

activities’ environmental and social impacts often lies

offered by the Otto Group to provide its customers with

beyond the factory gates – far removed from their own

the largest possible selection of goods. The result is a

locations and shipments. Consequently, the sustainability

vast network of actors which becomes progressively

management of the Otto Group consider the entire value

more opaque the more comprehensively the upstream

chain. Its incredible complexity represents the greatest

supply chain is taken into consideration.

challenge to effective and efficient sustainability management, as the Group companies’ own brands are produced

To reduce complexity, the Otto Group arranges the value

by suppliers in over 70 sourcing markets. Overall, they work

chain into four stages as part of its sustainability manage-

with many thousands of their own subsuppliers, who in

ment process: Raw Materials & Processing, Final Production,

turn contract out to subcontractors.

Trade, and Customer. The illustration at right shows the
value chain using cotton textiles as an example.

In the first
value-adding stage,
Raw Materials &
Processing, cotton
is harvested, the
fibres are spun
into yarn, then
either woven or
knitted, and then
finished to make
a cloth fabric.

The second stage,
Final Production,
involves sewing
the cloth fabric
into clothing
for instance,
and packaging the
finished products
ready for shipment.

The transportation
of the goods from
the country of
production to the
sales market takes
place in the Trade
value-adding stage.
Once in the sales
market, the products
are first warehoused.
When ordered, they
are delivered to
the end-customer.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

The final stage,
Customer, comprises
the overall phase
of the use of the
product by the endconsumer as well
as its disposal or
recycling at the
end of its useful
life.

11

THE OTTO GROUP’S VALUE CHAIN

Process stages based on textiles

Raw Materials
& Processing

Raw Material Extraction

Spinning Yarn

Weaving & Knitting

Refinement

Final
Production

Sewing

Finishing & Packaging

Trade

Transport

Warehousing

Sales

Distribution

Customer

Disposal & Recycling

Use

By arranging the chain into these four value-adding

an account of the ecological and social impacts of the

stages, the Otto Group’s Sustainability Report 2015

Group’s business activities as well as their evaluation by

reflects the Group’s integrated sustainability management

stakeholders. This forms the basis for agreeing strategic

process for the first time. Furthermore, the report provides

goals and measures to mitigate the impacts identified.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

12

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT

Sustainability management
process impACT
We fundamentally realigned our sustainability management
in 2013: Our company now identifies and evaluates the
impact of its business activities on people and nature
along the whole value chain. This provides a sound
decision-making foundation and allows us to configure
the sustainable orientation of our business model in
an efficient and effective way.

The Otto Group’s impACT sustainability management
process enables the company to focus its financial and
employee resources where these have the most leverage.
This clear orientation towards effectiveness and efficiency,
as well as taking business relevance and risks into account,
is a milestone in anchoring professional sustainability
management at the heart of the Group’s business activity.
The process is based on a quantitative and qualitative
evaluation of the ecological and social impacts of our companies’ business activities along the whole value chain.
In turn, the assessments serve as a basis for developing
strategic targets and operational measures. The impACT
management process was introduced in March 2013.
The German federal government acknowledged the
Otto Group’s sustainability management with
its CSR Award in September 2014, with a particular
reference to impACT.

 
The term ‘impACT’ was coined to signify that the management
process both identifies effects (‘impact’) and generates
measures (‘act’).

impACT as the basis for
reporting according to the
Guidelines of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI)
The impACT sustainability management
process is also used to determine the
scope of the Otto Group’s sustainability
reporting. The process of determining
material topics (see impACT Step 1) corresponds to the GRI Reporting Principles
for selecting report contents: inclusion
of stakeholders, sustainability context,
materiality and completeness.
Sustainability topics that cannot be
measured in terms of either environmental impacts or social risks do not form
part of the impACT process. Besides
employee issues that go beyond social
risks, this also includes governance
topics such as anti-corruption. These
are also incorporated into the Group’s
reporting under the materiality perspective, but not as a result of the impACT
process.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 18
G4 – 26

13

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT

The three steps of impACT –
an overview

1.

2.

Carry out a
Materiality Analysis

3.

Develop measures
and carry out
a cost-benefit
assessment

Implement measures
under the umbrella
of the CR Strategy

Quantitative Assessment

Ben e

fit
to
env
iro
and
nm
soc
– l o w
iet ent
y
er e

– lo w

I n n o vat i o n

P r i o r i ty

Ben e

to

– lo

I n a c t i ve

the

er so

c o lo
g ic a
l im p
c ia l
act
r is k s

fit

O

Co s t

to

Stakeholder Evaluation

100%

sustainable cotton

100%

FSC® furniture

50%

tto
wer
Gro
risk
up
and
s to
bus
– m
i n e s re p u t a t
arke
s
ion
ac ti
t
in
v
ima
g op
ge b
port ity
oost
unit
ies,

Base

CR Strategy 2020

the

Ott
– i n
o G
ve
rou
– p e s t m e n
p
ts
rson
nel
co s t
s

Controlling
measures

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

100%
–50%
+ …

FSC® paper
Social Programme
CO2
…

14

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT

1.
G4 – 18

STEP 1:

impACT
M AT E R I A L I T Y A N A LY S I S

Quantitative identification of external
costs and risks  

The Otto Group Materiality Analysis encompasses a
quantitative analysis of the ecological impacts and
social risks arising from its business activities on the
one hand, and on the other a qualitative stakeholder
assessment of these challenges. These are visualised
in the two-dimensional Materiality Matrix (see diagram,
p. 18) – subdivided into the four value-adding stages
of Raw Materials & Processing, Final Production, Trade
and Customer (see pp. 10 onwards).

Ecological and social impacts are identified along the
four value-adding stages. Ecological impacts are additionally allocated to four distinct impact categories:
Greenhouse Gases, Pollutants, Water Consumption and
Land Use. Social impacts are shown in the Social Risks
impact category (see info box).

The four ecological impact categories and their most
significant effects

Greenhouse Gases

Greenhouse gas emissions such as carbon dioxide (CO2),
methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) as well as their effects
on global warming, people and nature.

Pollutants

Pollutant influx (NH3, SOx, NOx, heavy metals, fine
particulates, dioxins, NMVOC, formaldehyde, toxic organic
substances) into water and air, as well as their effect on
human health and biodiversity.

Water Consumption

Consumption of surface and ground water along the whole value
chain, as well as the associated effects on human health and
biodiversity.

Land Use

Land consumption, e.g. through agriculture and forestry,
pasture as well as industrial land use (incl. buildings,
roads, land sealing) and their negative impact on ecological
systems’ integrity.

The impact category Social Risks and its
underlying criteria

Social Risks

A meta-indicator which includes criteria in the areas of
occupational safety, child labour, forced labour, wages,
working times, discrimination and social dialogue.

The calculation is based on the ‘estell’ model developed by the Group’s internal consultancy company, Systain Consulting
 
GmbH. ‘estell’ is a multi-regional, multi-sector input/output model augmented with environmental and social factors, based
on the Exiobase database. Among the scientifically validated data sources used are NEEDS, TEEB and statistics from the
World Bank and the ILO.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT

To make the various impacts along the value chain
comparable, ecological impacts are assessed in terms
of external costs (in euros) and social impacts in Risk
working hours.
Identifying ecological impacts:
For the calculation of ecological impacts, the Otto
Group combines its purchasing and sales figures with
data from external data sources regarding the effects
on ecosystems and on human health. For example,
clothing manufactured in China causes 1.05 kg of CO2
on average per euro of sourcing volume. Taking a
sourcing volume of 1 mn€ as an example, this would
generate an average of 1,050 tonnes of CO2. According
to the German Federal Environment Agency (Umweltbundesamt), the underlying external costs of one tonne
of CO2 currently amount to €87. Therefore, for this
example in the Final Production value-adding stage,
€91,350 of external costs would arise due to the emission of greenhouse gases.
Identifying social impacts:
To show Risk working hours, the Otto Group determines
the country- and sector-specific risks that working hours
could have been performed in breach of minimum standards. This risk is identified using seven criteria relating
to working conditions and human rights (see info box on
p. 14). For example, if 10 million working hours are performed in textile production in a particular country, and
the risk calculated for the country and sector amounts
to 40%, this results in 4 million Risk working hours.

Results
The calculation, which was last carried out in January
2015, showed ecological impacts amounting to more
than 20% of turnover. At 70% the highest proportion by
far of ecological impacts was in the Raw Materials &
Processing value-adding stage. The highest external
costs here are caused by Pollutants, followed by Greenhouse Gas emissions and Water Consumption. In Risk
working hours, at 64% the largest share is also due to
the extraction and processing of raw materials, while
just under a third of Social Risks arise from Final Production (see diagram, p. 16).

The calculated figures contain the impacts and social
risks that arise from the production, transport and utilisation of all goods traded or used by the Otto Group,
as well as all services that it has used. In addition, the
identified values also contain indirect effects, some of
which lie far beyond those the Otto Group is able to
influence. As an example, a share of the energy and
resource costs of the manufacture of sewing machines
for textile production is included in the figures.

The Otto Group’s influence
on external impacts
Quantitatively determined external costs
and risks correspond to current average
economic activities; the identified
values in euros and Risk working hours
are based on average, region-specific
ecological impacts and social risks of
products and services that correspond
to the Otto Group’s business models. If
other companies with the same business
model, the same sourcing markets and the
same purchasing volume carried out this
calculation, they would arrive at very
similar results.
Improvement measures in the Otto Group –
such as the use of sustainable cotton –
have not yet been taken into account in
the values identified. The figures shown
here rather represent a baseline value
against which the Otto Group will be
able to measure its reduction of negative external impacts.
The calculations of ecological effects and
social risks also include, for example,
effects from third-party brands, and
additionally indirect effects such as
the energy and resource costs of manufacturing sewing machines (see above).
Therefore, even if the Otto Group achieves
its CR Strategy targets completely, the
identified external impacts will only be
partially reducable.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

15

G4 – 18

16

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT

Overview of the ecological impacts and the social risks arising from the Otto Group’s business model

Value-adding
stages
Raw Materials
& Processing

Ecological
impacts

70%

Final Production

6%

Trade

5%

Customer

19%

Greenhouse Gases
Pollutants

Five impact
categories

Water Consumption
Land Use

Social
Risks

64%

30%

6%

Not
relevant

Ecological impacts
Social Risks

G4 – 18

Stakeholder Evaluation

G4 – 26

In addition to this quantitative assessment (y-axis), the
Otto Group’s Internal and External Stakeholders carried
out a qualitative evaluation from June to October 2014
(x-axis) for the individual topic areas (see diagram, p. 18).
Topic areas refer to the effects by impact category and
value-adding stage.

The topic areas encompass one of the five impact categories in one of the four value-adding stages (e.g. CO2
emissions due to transport in the Trade value-adding
stage). In this assessment, the Group includes four perspectives from External and Internal Stakeholders, with
regard to developments in the next two to five years
respectively:

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

17

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT

 xternal Stakeholders formulated their
E
Expectations towards the Otto Group as part of
a workshop. Twelve experts from the spheres of
science and research, non-governmental organisations and government assessed the action priorities
for the Otto Group in the topic areas. For example,
the stakeholders had high expectations of the Otto
Group regarding the reduction of CO2 emissions in
the Trade value-adding stage.
	An internal assessment of Reputation opportu­
nities and risks for the Otto Group with regard to
the topic areas mentioned was carried out by representatives of the Group Divisions CR and Corporate
Communications. Social risks in Final Production
were assigned the highest relevance to reputation.
	The implementation of new environmental and social
legislation in sourcing and sales markets leads to
costs for the Otto Group, due to required changes
in sourcing processes or higher costs of upstream
products, for example. To estimate these Regulation
risks, first the likelihood is determined of whether
regulations will be put in place that are relevant to
the Otto Group business model. These likelihoods are
linked with estimated costs that would arise for the
Otto Group if such regulations were put in place. For
example, the Otto Group is most affected by regulations in China, since this is where more than threequarters of its sourcing volume originates; and in the
EU, since this is the Otto Group’s largest distribution
market by far.
	Finally, the members of the Sustainable Supply Chain
Management Board (see p. 23) assess each of the
topic areas with regard to their relevance to the
Business Activities of the Otto Group, taking
into account both potential financial risks and potential business opportunities. With a view to the
upcoming five years, in particular topics in the valueadding stages Raw Materials & Processing and Final
Production were considered to be material, as rising
costs due to increased CR activities are to be
expected here.

Stakeholder Evaluation weighting

G4 – 18
G4 – 26

50%
Internal Stakeholders

50%
External Stakeholders

16.7%

Business Activity

50%
16.7%

Regulation

Expectations
of External
Stakeholders

16.7%

Reputation

Combined quantitative and
qualitative assessment
The Otto Group’s Materiality Matrix results from combining external costs and social risks with the Stakeholder Evaluation. This shows the topic areas. All values
are converted to a scale running from 1 (very low) to
10 (very high), so that they can be placed in relation
to each other. Depending on where the topic areas fall
on the matrix, they are allocated to one of four strategy
types (see p. 18 et seq.). On this basis, strategic targets
and operational measures are derived (impACT Step 2),
which are implemented under the umbrella of the
CR Strategy (impACT Step 3). In future, the Otto Group
will carry out a corresponding Materiality Analysis every
two years.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

18

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT

G4 – 18

Materiality Matrix with the topic areas

G4 – 27

Pollutants

y-axis

very
high

I n n o vat i o n

Value-adding
stages

Social Risks

Raw Materials &
Processing

P r i o r i ty

Greenhouse Gases

Quantitative Assessment
in EUR or Risk working hours

Final Production

Trade

Water Consumption

Social Risks

Customer

Pollutants

Inactive

Base
Greenhouse Gases

Pollutants
very
low

Water Consumption

Land Use

Water Consumption

Greenhouse Gases
Pollutants
Water Consumption
Land Use

Land Use

Social Risks
Greenhouse Gases
Pollutants

Greenhouse Gases

Land Use

1

2

Impact
categories

x-axis

3

4

5

6

7

8

Stakeholder Evaluation (50% external, 50% internal)

2.

9

very
high

10

Social Risks

The effects by
impact category
and value-adding
stage represent
the topic areas.

Strategic Allocation

STEP 2:

impACT
DERIVING
TA R G E T S A N D M E A S U R E S
For the second step of the impACT management process,
topic areas are initially classified strategically. With the
help of this classification, appropriate targets and measures can be developed for the individual topic areas. All
potential measures are first subjected to a cost/benefit
assessment. This ensures that the Otto Group mitigates
ecological impacts and/or social risks as efficiently as
possible and can take the various Stakeholder Perspectives into account as effectively as possible.

Based on the Materiality Analysis, the topic areas are
allocated to four strategy types according to their quantitative and qualitative assessment:
Priority: Topic areas with a high ecological impact

and/or high social risks and a high degree of action
relevance attributed by the stakeholders (e.g. water
consumption during raw material extraction and
processing). When setting targets and measures,
these are the main focus.
Innovation: Topic areas with high ecological impact

and/or high social risks, but which stakeholders do
not (yet) see as particularly relevant to the Otto
Group. They hold potential for innovative measures.
Base: Topic areas with relatively low ecological

impacts and/or low social risks, to which stakeholders
have, however, allocated a high degree of relevance
(e.g. emission of greenhouse gases a
 t own locations

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT

and during transport). Corresponding measures
therefore aim primarily at lowering reputation and
regulation risks.
	
Inactive: Topic areas with low external impacts
and low action relevance (e.g. water consumption
at own locations and during transport). Due to a
low level of materiality, these topic areas are not
the focus of Group management.

Cost-benefit analysis
In accordance with their strategic allocation, potential
measures are developed for the topic areas, which are
then subjected to a cost/benefit analysis. The assessment of measures encompasses three components:
firstly, it is determined to what extent the respective
measure is capable of mitigating ecological impacts
and/or social risks. Secondly, this is contrasted with
estimated costs to the Otto Group which would arise
from implementing this measure, such as investments
or personnel costs. Finally, the assessment considers
any benefit which would arise for the Otto Group, for
example due to a reduction in reputation and regulation
risks or due to marketing opportunities.
Assortment-specific evaluations show a high degree
of social and ecological impacts in textile production.
Therefore, the Otto Group initially concentrated on developing a comprehensive Textile Strategy that takes all
relevant fibres and all value-adding stages into account,
in addition to the existing cotton target (100% sustainable
cotton in own and licensed brands, see p. 21).

With the help of this cost/benefit analysis the Group
also reviewed the five sub-strategies agreed as part of
the CR Strategy 2020 (see p. 20 et seq.), both with regard
to their contribution towards reducing ecological impacts
and/or social risks, and with regard to the Stakeholder
Evaluation that had meanwhile been carried out more
systematically. The result was that all sub-strategies
have been evaluated as material and effective, and will
continue to be implemented.

3.
STEP 3:

impACT
I M P L E M E N T I N G T H E C R S T R AT E G Y
The potential measures evaluated as material and effective
in Step 2 are discussed by the Sustainable Supply Chain
Management Board (see p. 23) and adjusted where
necessary. Afterwards, they are submitted to the CR
Board and/or the Group Executive Board for a decision.
If implementation of a measure is approved, then managing target achievement falls under the umbrella of
the CR Strategy 2020 (see p. 20 et seq.). In the third and
final step of the impACT management process, the Otto
Group thereby integrates the knowledge gained from
the Materiality Matrix and cost/benefit assessment into
its strategic approach in a long-term and effective way.

Notes on the
Materiality Matrix
While impACT makes it possible to compare the various ecological impacts with each other,
no relationship can be established between these and the social risks. However, they are
shown together in the one Materiality Matrix to provide a better overview. The maximum value
on the y-axis was allocated to those topic areas with the highest ecological impacts or
the highest social risks. The challenges arising from the Materiality Analysis are presented
at the start of each chapter on value-adding stages, which begin on p. 29.: Raw Materials &
Processing, Final Production, Trade and Customer.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

19

20

CR STRATEGY 2020

CR Strategy 2020
The management and implementation of measures under
the umbrella of the CR Strategy 2020 represent the
third and final step of our impACT management process.
The CR Strategy aims at lowering the negative impacts
on people and nature along the value chain, lessening
risks for the Otto Group and utilising business and
reputation opportunities.

Raw Materials & Processing

Final Production

Since 2014, the CR Strategy has been a fixed component
of the overall Otto Group strategy (see p. 4). It encompasses five substrategies which are allocated to the
value-adding stage in which they have the greatest
effect: Strategies for Textiles, Furniture and Paper aim
at saving resources when extracting and processing raw
materials, while the Social Programme focuses on compliance with social standards among suppliers in Final
Production. With its Climate Strategy, the Otto Group
intends to improve its CO2 balance in the Trade valueadding Stage, which includes sourcing and distribution
transports alongside its own locations. The ecological
impacts of product use and disposal by customers are not
currently part of the Group-wide CR Strategy. Activities
in the Customer value-adding stage are carried out by
individual Group companies and are presented in the
chapter of the same name (see p. 59 et seq.).

Trade

Customer

The CR Strategy 2020 was approved by the Otto Group
Executive Board in 2012 and is valid until the end of
2020. It is intended to contribute to the more sustainable alignment of the Otto Group and its companies’
business processes.
Status CR Strategy 2020
in %

Value-adding
stages

Raw Materials &
Processing
Final Production
Trade

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

Sub-strategy

2013

2014

Target
value
2020

Textile

7

11

100

Furniture

26

33

100

Paper

8

18

50

Social
Programme

–

17

100

Climate

- 17

- 24

- 50

21

ge

t achieve

11%

nt in 20
me

With its Paper Strategy, the Otto Group will increase
the share of FSC-certified paper to at least 50% for catalogues and advertising materials by the year 2018. This
includes products manufactured in the gravure printing
process, which makes up about two-thirds of the total
paper volume for the reporting companies. Overall,
the paper volume used for catalogues and advertising
materials by the reporting companies came to around
264,000 tonnes in 2014. This makes the Otto Group one
of the largest paper consumers in German-speaking
countries. For several years, the Otto Group has been
a pioneer in the use of FSC-certified print materials, a
position it intends to consolidate.

Ta
r

t achieve

33%

nt in 20
me

ge

FINAL PRODUCTION
Final Production of merchandising goods by suppliers
causes a significant part of the social risks. In this valueadding stage, the Otto Group focuses on auditing and
qualifying factories to improve working conditions.
For detailed information on the Otto Group’s Social
Programme and progress, please see the chapter on Final
Production from p. 37 onwards.

Ta
r

14

ge

t achieve

17%

The Otto Group Social Programme, which was expanded
in 2013, consists of three levels: by the end of 2015,
all suppliers with factories in risk countries will be
integrated in the programme at the Basic Programme
level. The second level is a Development Programme
for selected factories. The third level, the Excellence
Programme, targets the integrated qualification of
suppliers and includes environmental and economic
aspects alongside the social ones.

 
previously the Durable Goods Strategy

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

nt in 20
me

Wooden furniture is one of the largest durable goods
ranges for Group companies besides electronics. The
Otto Group aims to completely switch its range of
wooden furniture to FSC®-certified articles by 2020.
The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is committed to
protecting forests through responsible felling and the
associated conservation of biodiversity.

Social Programme
TARGET: 100% integration
of suppliers of own and
licensed brands

14

The Otto Group intends to switch the entire volume of
cotton used for its own and licensed brands to sustainably cultivated cotton by 2020. Currently, it uses cotton
from the Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) initiative as well
as from certified organic cultivation. Compared with
the conventional resource- and CO2-intensive cultivation
process, CmiA saves around 2,100 litres of water and
40% CO2 per kilogramme of cotton produced.

Furniture Strategy
TARGET: 100% FSC-certified
furniture products

18%

14

Textile Strategy
TARGET: 100% sustainable
cotton in own and licensed
brands

Ta
r

For detailed information about the Otto Group’s
sub-strategies and progress, please see the chapter on
Raw Materials & Processing from p. 29 onwards.

t achieve

14

R AW M AT E R I A L S & P R O C E S S I N G
The majority of the Otto Group’s ecological impact arises
from the extraction and processing of raw materials.
The Group is countering this challenge with three
sub-strategies, all of which aim at more sustainable
agriculture and forestry.

ge

nt in 20
me

Paper Strategy
TARGET: 50% FSC-certified paper
for catalogues (gravure printing)

Ta
r

CR STRATEGY 2020

22

CR STRATEGY 2020

TRADE
The Trade value-adding stage includes the impacts of
the Otto Group’s business activities at its own locations
as well as of its sourcing and distribution transport.
There is a significant lever here for more sustainability
in the reduction of the greenhouse gas CO2.

ge

t achieve

-24%

nt in 20
me

14

Climate Strategy
TARGET: 50% reduction of
CO 2 emissions

Ta
r

For detailed information about the Otto Group’s Climate
Strategy and progress, please see the chapter on Trade from
p. 45 onwards.

The Otto Group Climate Strategy aims to halve Group
companies’ CO2 emissions by 2020 – whether caused
by locations, transport or mobility – compared to the
2006 base year. This should be done as efficiently and
economically as possible, primarily through increasing
energy efficiency. The operational implementation
of the required measures is done decentrally in the
individual Group companies.

E X PA N D I N G T H E S C O P E
Since 2013, the ‘Scope of the CR Strategy’ procedural
framework has determined which Otto Group companies
are included in the implementation of CR Strategy 2020.
In addition, it sets specific relevance thresholds for every
sub-strategy: once companies exceed these, they are
integrated in the sub-strategy. For example, Group companies are required to contribute towards achieving the
Furniture Strategy targets once they generate more than
10 mn€ revenue in the furniture product group.

In 2013, myToys was integrated into the sustainability
reporting process. This Group company had already
participated in both of the sub-strategies assessed as
relevant to its business: the Social Programme and the
Climate Strategy. For the 2015/ 16 financial year, the
inclusion of Freemans Grattan Holdings and Eddie Bauer
Japan as well as all major foreign companies belonging
to the Hermes and bonprix groups is planned.
Group companies are responsible for implementing
the sub-strategies and augment these with their own
activities in accordance with the specific requirements
of their business models and the expectations of their
stakeholders.

THE RIGHT INCENTIVES
Since the 2014/15 financial year, the annual variable
remuneration of all members of the Group Executive
Board has been linked to achieving the five targets
of CR Strategy 2020. These targets are weighted
according to materiality criteria and summarised
in a CR Strategy Index.

The target
achievement values of
CR Strategy 2020
are components
of variable
Executive Board
remuneration.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

CR ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURES

CR organisational
structures
The various challenges along the value chain, such
as protecting the climate and conserving resources,
as well as responsibility for working standards in
the supply chain, require an integrated approach. We
not only respond to this with the impACT management
process, we have also established an organisational
structure that integrates employees from different
functions and Group companies.
Responsibility for sustainable action in the Otto Group
lies with the Group Executive Board. The central
committee for preparing strategic CR decisions is the
CR Board, which was created in 2012 and is led by the
Chairman of the Executive Board. Other permanent
members are the Group Board Member for Services,
as well as the OTTO Management Board Member for
Categories since the start of 2014, who supplements
the existing body particularly in his function as overall
Head of Purchasing at the Group’s largest trading
company, OTTO. The committee meets two to three
times a year.
Since the 2014/15 financial year, the variable remu­
neration for the Otto Group Executive Board has also
been linked to the degree of target achievement in the
CR Strategy (see p. 20).

S U STA I N A B L E S U P P LY C H A I N
M A N AG E M E N T B OA R D I M P L E M E N T E D
With the Sustainable Supply Chain Management Board
(SSCM Board), another body was created in April 2014
which examines sustainability topics in the supply chain
from an integrated perspective. The committee currently
consists of six Managing Directors and Directors from
the Group companies bonprix, Hermes, OTTO and Witt,
as well as the sourcing company Hermes-OTTO International. The SSCM Board Chairman is the Director of the
Group CR Division. The members of this committee
debate and decide in the interest of all Group companies
on sustainability related topics in the value chain.

They hold an executive management function for
current projects and prepare decisions for the CR Board.
Due to its cross-company composition, the SSCM Board
forms a bridge between the divisions with operational
responsibility and the CR Board.
The Group CR Division holds responsibility for content
preparation and facilitates SSCM Board meetings,
which take place four to five times a year.

C R C O O R D I N AT O R S I N K E Y R O L E S
The Otto Group is decentrally organised. The Managing
Directors of individual Group companies are responsible
for meeting CR targets and for implementing sustainability activities in their companies. The CR Coordinators
in the Group companies have a key role to play here:
they support their company management in managing
the relevant CR activities, initiate new measures, manage
the capture of key figures and therefore represent the
interface to the Group CR Division. OTTO and Hermes
have established their own CR management bodies,
which decide and organise the implementation of CR
activities and include Board Members, Directors and
Divisional Managers.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

23

24

CR ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURES

GROUP CR DIVISION SETS
S T R AT E G I C F R A M E W O R K
The Otto Group CR Division fulfills a Group-wide advisory
and management function within the organisation. It
operates as a change leader and takes responsibility for
the development and planning of Group-wide strategies and pilot projects. In addition, it makes available
measurement tools for planning and management and

advises individual Group companies on implementing
the CR Strategy. Among the central tasks for the Group
CR Division are also controlling stakeholder management and sustainability reporting, as well as networking and knowledge transfer between the Otto Group
and the Group companies. In 2014 a meeting took place
to present and discuss the impACT management process
with the CR Coordinators of the Group companies.

Otto Group CR Organisation
Group Executive Board
CR Board
(led by the Chairman of the Group Executive Board)
Corporate
Division

Corporate
Responsibility (CR)

Sustainable Supply Chain Management (SSCM) Board

Group companies

Company
Executive Boards

CR Coordinators

CR CONTROLLI NG

R O L L O U T F U R T H E R D E L AY E D

The core tools for managing sustainability processes
in the Otto Group are the CR Database, and the Supply
Chain Database (SC Database) which was implemented
in January 2015. Through both of these systems the key
figures are recorded with which the implementation
progress of CR targets and the effectiveness of measures
taken can be reviewed and compared. The reporting
companies enter employee and assortment data, as well
as climate and environmental figures, in the CR Database
on an annual basis. Key figures for measuring and managing the Social Programme are determined every six
months from the SC Database. Through its interfaces,
it brings together data from various systems and from
manual entries, such as those made by auditors. For
example, it enables the viewing of audit results for factories and the status of suppliers regarding the Social
Programme. Every six months, the Otto Group Executive
Board receives a report on the development of strategic
CR targets and measures to achieve them.

In 2011, a Corporate Responsibility Rollout was launched
to make CR management more consistent across the
Group and to include all major international companies.
Progress towards this target once again fell short of
expectations in the reporting period. Instead, a topicspecific rollout of sub-strategies at individual Group
companies took place. Besides an increased degree of
decentralisation in the Group, the reason for this is the
varying economic development of foreign subsidiaries
(see Otto Group Annual Report 2014/15, p. 59 et seq.).
With myToys, all significant companies in the Germanspeaking region are now integrated in the CR Strategy
(see p. 20 et seq.). Likewise, Hermes UK is now integrated
and will be fully included from the next reporting cycle,
as are bonprix’ foreign companies in France, Poland and
Italy, and Venus in the US. In future, Freemans Grattan
Holding in the UK and Eddie Bauer Japan will also be
added. The full integration of Crate & Barrel (USA), Otto
Group Russia, and the 3Suisses Group (France) has been
deferred by the Group Executive Board until at least 2016.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

25

CR ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURES

G O O D C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E
AN D COMPLIANCE
The Otto Group has more than 50,000 employees and
is active worldwide. It is conscious of the fact that in
complying with international laws and guidelines, conflicts of interests and standards can arise that bear risks.
As a significant component of the Compliance Management System currently in place across the Group, the
Compliance Committee ensures compliance with national
and international laws as well as the Group’s own internal
directives. It is composed of officers from relevant Group
departments such as Law, Data Protection, Internal Audit
and Corporate Responsibility. Another central instrument
is the Code of Conduct, which applies Group-wide (see
p. 40) and which is a required component of contractual
relationships between the Otto Group and its suppliers.
Furthermore, Group Directives govern our companies’
approach to anti-corruption, donations, embargo measures, dealing with gifts as well as data protection and
security (see p. 63). Managers are required to instruct
their employees personally about the contents of these
Directives and any changes to them. In case of questions or on suspicion of a breach, employees can contact
an internal department or an external Ombudsman.
If violations occur, the Otto Group imposes appropriate
sanctions by taking measures foreseen by employment
law, or may even terminate supplier relationships.
Complaints
Number

2
1

2
6

4
8

1
3
3
1

2011/12

2012/13

Violations
Number

2011/12 2012/13 2013/14

2014/15

of environmental
standards

0

0

0

0

of health or
safety standards
(product recalls)

6

2

4

1

of product information standards

8

10

3

0

of marketing
standards

4

5

5

0

Of the five product recalls carried out in the reporting
period, the majority were textiles in which raised levels
of azo dyes had been found. In one case, an own-brand
dishwasher was recalled following a technical defect.
The violations of product information and marketing
standards, a total of eight in the reporting period, related
to product descriptions such as an incorrect description
of materials.

PROACTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT

7

4

In the two-year reporting period, four complaints were
received regarding anti-competitive behaviour; of these,
two were related to suspected trademark violations of
a test seal. The four complaints in the area of consumer
protection referred to the unauthorised sending of newsletters and an unsolicited advertising call. All 13 of the
complaints submitted in the reporting period regarding
the violation of diversity and equal opportunities originated from the same person, who felt discriminated
against in the online application process.

2013/14

2014/15

Complaints based on violations of diversity and equal opportunities
Complaints in the area of consumer protection
Complaints based on anti-competitive behaviour

Entrepreneurial activity bears inherent risks. Likewise,
achieving company goals can be endangered by risks.
Therefore, the Otto Group maintains a systematic risk
register both on Group and Group company levels, which
serves at the same time as a Group-wide ‘early warning
system’. Among the short-term risks are currency risks
and economic fluctuations that influence consumers’
willingness to spend. Longer-term risks for the Otto
Group arise for example from climate change, since
the increase in extreme weather events can lead to crop
failures and raw-material scarcity in producer countries.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

26

INVOLVING STAKEHOLDERS

Involving Stakeholders
We address the expectations and demands of our
stakeholders in discussions, through surveys and
at events. Constant exchange is essential to identify their expectations and demands at an early
stage and take account of these in our decisions.
G4 – 24

The Otto Group is in constant contact with numerous
stakeholder groups. The most important are customers,
suppliers, employees, non-governmental organisations
(NGOs), and political, scientific and business representatives.

M A N A G I N G S TA K E H O L D E R
I N T E R E STS
G4 – 25

The significance of the different stakeholder groups to
the Otto Group depends on the relationship they have
to the Group’s business or products. Identification and
involvement of stakeholders, internal responsibilities
and divisions of duties are set out uniformly in a directive.
The CR Division manages this process; it coordinates
stakeholder discussions and, if required, performs risk
assessments.
The key parties for managing stakeholder dialogue are
the Executive Board, the CR Division, Corporate Communications and the Group companies. Approved internal
information flows ensure the Group companies respond
uniformly to external enquiries. These are classified into
those with a high risk to the Group’s reputation, and those
with a low risk. High-risk enquiries are sent directly to
the CR Division for action; CR then works with Corporate
Communications in the case of critical media enquiries.

S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E
The Otto Group is in contact with its stakeholders across
a range of channels, initially by providing information
in its Sustainability Report and on its corporate website.
Subsequently, meetings at events and platforms for
exchange organised by the Group strengthen the dialogue. Involvement through consultation represents
the closest form of stakeholder involvement. For example,
the views of selected stakeholders concerning the
impACT sustainability management process (see p. 16)
are incorporated into the Group’s strategic focus. This
also has a major influence on the scope of this Sustainability Report.

F O C U S O N L A B O U R S TA N D A R D S
At the end of 2013 the Otto Group presented its new
Social Programme at a one-day forum (see p. 40 et. seq.).
By focusing on purchasing processes in risk countries
and with a wider scope of application, the Group intends
to improve working conditions in the supply chain.
The Otto Group gains valuable external assessments
through podium discussions and workshops to improve
its Social Programme.
The Otto Group helped shape, and is a signatory to, the
Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety, which
was a response to the collapse of the Rana Plaza factory
in Bangladesh in 2013 (see p. 44). The Otto Group was
also closely involved in discussions concerning the
Partnership for Sustainable Textiles, a multi-stakeholder
initiative founded by the German Federal Ministry for
Economic Cooperation and Development (see p. 44).

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 26

INVOLVING STAKEHOLDERS

N AT U R A L C A P I TA L E V E N T

D I A L O G U E AT A P O L I T I C A L L E V E L

In November 2014 around 100 companies responded to
the ‘Biodiversity in Good Company’ initiative’s invitation
to meet at the Otto Group’s headquarters in Hamburg.
Under the motto ‘On the doorstep and beyond the
horizon: companies addressing the challenges of
biodiversity’, business representatives and politicians
discussed how natural resources can be conserved, and
presented best practices. ‘Biodiversity in Good Company’
was launched in 2008 by the German Federal Ministry
of the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear
Safety, and today is a company-driven initiative. Since
2011 the Otto Group has chaired the initiative’s Board.

The Otto Group is in constant dialogue with political
institutions. In 2013 and 2014 it took part in workshops
organised by the German Federal Ministry for Foreign
Affairs on social responsibility in the supply chain.
The Group is also represented at the German national
CR forum, which advises the German Federal Ministry
for Labour and Social Affairs on developing and implementing the national German CR strategy. Furthermore,
in 2014 the Group supported the German government’s
Research for Sustainable Development (FONA) agenda
by providing information on natural capitalisation and
measuring external effects, for instance.

T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S K EY M E M B E R S H I P S
A N D C O L L A B O R AT I O N S
	2° – German CEOs for Climate Protection (initiated by Dr Michael Otto and a member since 2007)
	Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety (since 2013)
	Biodiversity in Good Company initiative (founding member 2008)
	Bundesverband der Personalmanager [German Federal Association of Personnel Managers] (since 2009)
	Business For Climate initiative (since 2012)
	Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) (since 2004)
	Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative (CPI2) (founding member 2011)
	Forest Stewardship Council Germany (FSC) (since 2006)
	Founding member of the Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) initiative (since 2005)
German Association for Personnel Management (since the 1980s)
	German Environmental Management Association (B.A.U.M.) (since 1987)
	German Retail Federation (HDE) (since 2009)
	terre des hommes (partner since 2008)
	Textile Exchange (since 2006)
	United Nations Global Compact (since 2002)

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

27

G4 – 26

28

CHAPTER OVERVIEW OF THE FOUR VALUE-ADDING STAGES

Process stages based on textiles
Page 29

Raw Materials
& Processing

Page 37

Final Production

Page 45

Trade

Page 59

Customer

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE

1. Raw Materials &
Processing
Process stages based on furniture

Raw Material
Extraction

Sawmill

Processing

Refinement

Timber is
harvested from
managed forests
and plantations.

At the sawmill,
logs are
processed into
sawn timber
and prepared
for further
processing.

Assorted tools
and processes
are used to
process the
pieces of timber.

The timber is
finished, meaning
it is waxed,
stained, lacquered
or oiled to protect
it from dirt and
stains, etc.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

29

30

RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Raw Materials & Processing
The cultivation and extraction of raw materials,
and their further processing, lie at the start of
the value chain. According to the materiality analysis
this causes the majority of ecological impacts and
social risks. The Otto Group is countering these
challenges with three sub-strategies which all focus
on more sustainable land use and forestry practices.

See p. 12 et seq. for further
information on impACT.

CHALLENGES IDENTIFIED
BY impACT
Overview of Materiality Matrix assessments
for the Raw Materials & Processing
value-adding stage:

Quantitative Assessment

Average Stakeholder Evaluation
(on a scale of 1 [very low] to 10 [very high])
External Stakeholders: 8

Ecological
Impacts

Share of Raw Materials & Processing
value-adding stage in terms of overall
ecological impacts: 70%

Relevance to Reputation: 4
Internal
Stakeholders

Regulation Risks: 3
Business Activity: 7

External Stakeholders: 9

Social
Risks

Share of Raw Materials & Processing
value-adding stage in terms
of overall Social Risks: 64%

Relevance to Reputation: 7
Internal
Stakeholders

Regulation Risks: 4
Business Activity: 9

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 27

RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Q UA N T I TAT I V E A S S E S S M E N T R E S U LT S
The quantitative assessment of ecological
impacts was high for all four impact categories –
Greenhouse Gases, Pollutants, Water Consumption
and Land Use – compared to the other three valueadding Stages.
Greenhouse Gases are emitted for instance
through the consumption of energy in the agricultural
sector and in the rearing of animals for leather. Textiles
and electronic articles are in part manufactured in
multi-staged, and consequently energy-intensive,
production processes which have a climate impact.
Pollutants enter the air and water through the use
of chemicals in finishing and production processes, also
through the use of pesticides in cotton cultivation for
instance.
The cultivation of plant-based raw materials such as
cotton is also highly water-intensive. On average it takes
around 2,100 litres of water to produce one kilogramme
of cotton. The artificial irrigation of cotton fields involves
many factors. This includes extracting water from rivers,
which affects existing ecosystems. In arid regions, the
water requirement for cotton cultivation is in strong
competition with the population’s need for water for
drinking and other purposes.
The majority of land is used for agriculture and forestry,
such as for commercial forestry and cotton cultivation.
This has a major impact on diversity, which is much lower
in these cultivated areas than in areas left to nature.
Furthermore, mining, industry and transportation –
even if to a much lower degree – all contribute toward
land use. All these forms of land use have ecological
impacts.

31

Compared to the other value-adding stages, the share
of Social Risks, meaning violations of social standards through unacceptable working conditions, is
greatest in the Raw Materials & Processing value-adding
stage. These risks occur both in the extraction of raw
materials and their further processing. Furthermore,
they arise particularly in risk countries (see p. 40).
Instances are particularly high for example in dye works
for textile production.

S TA K E H O L D E R E VA L U AT I O N R E S U LT S
External and Internal Stakeholders considered the
ecological impacts in the Raw Materials & Processing
value-adding stage to be very relevant. In this value-­
adding stage, all stakeholders expect the Otto Group to
make long-term improvements in terms of Greenhouse
Gases and Pollutants, Water Consumption and Land Use.
In textile production in particular, all four Stakeholder
Perspectives consider Pollutants to be of great importance for the Otto Group – for External Stakeholders
as well as from a Reputation, Regulation and Business
Activity perspective.
One reason for the great importance attached to
Land Use by External Stakeholders is the public
debate on the increased global competition for land.
It refers to the conflict between the cultivation and
extraction of raw materials on the one hand, and the
conservation of natural habitats and diversity on the
other. By contrast, from an Internal Stakeholder perspective, Business Activities are still not considered to
be highly relevant over the medium term.
The Otto Group also considers Social Risks in
pre-production stages as being highly relevant to
its Business Activity and Reputation. This assessment
corresponds with External Stakeholders’ high expectations as well as the associated high level of relevance
for this topic area to the Group’s Reputation.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 27

32

RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE

T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S
SCOPE OF ACTION

G R O U P D I R E C T I V E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y
IN PROCUREMENT

Although this value-adding stage has the greatest share
of Social Risks, the Otto Group has not yet implemented
a sub-strategy to reduce them. The reasons are a lack
of contractual relationships and a resulting poor level of
transparency and limited influence over upstream suppliers.
Only a few aspects of Raw Material Extraction are manageable. Sustainability requirements can be implemented
and managed in this regard using credible certifications,
for instance through the use of the FSC® label.

The Otto Group’s entire assortment is subject to minimum standards which are brought together in the Group
Directive Sustainability in Procurement. It applies to all
Group companies and sets out the environmental and
social requirements under which merchandising and
non-merchandising goods are sourced and sold (see p. 39).
It bans such things as the use of real fur, feather and
down gained from live plucking or foie-gras production,
as well as the use of non FSC-certified tropical wood.

T E X T I L E , F U R N I T U R E A N D PA P E R
S T R AT E G I E S A N D A D D I T I O N A L
MANAGEMENT APPROACH ES

CODES OF CON DUCT

The Raw Materials & Processing value-adding stage has
the greatest potential to reduce the Otto Group’s ecological impacts. This is why three of the CR Strategy
2020’s five sub-strategies deal specifically with this.
They aim to reduce all four ecological impacts (Greenhouse Gases, Pollutants, Water Consumption and
Land Use).
Through its Textile Strategy, by 2020 the Otto Group
aims to only use sustainably cultivated cotton in its
own and licensed brands. To achieve this, it is using
certified organic cotton and cotton from the Cotton
made in Africa (CmiA) initiative. Under the Otto Group’s
Furniture Strategy, by 2020 only FSC-certified articles
are to be used in the Group’s assortment of wooden
furniture. Through its Paper Strategy, by 2018 the Otto
Group intends to increase the share of FSC-certified
gravure print paper for catalogues and advertising
materials to at least 50%.

Two additional target-group specific documents complement the Group Directive Sustainability in Procurement:
the Code of Conduct for Merchandise, and the Code of
Conduct for Non-Merchandise Goods and Services (see
p. 40) – the latter covers external cleaning services at
several locations. These set out social standards both for
suppliers and their subcontractors.

Application scope
of key figures
The key figures in this chapter cover
all reporting companies from the business
segment Multichannel Retail, provided
they pass the sub-strategies’ relevance
thresholds. All figures relate to calendar
years and are rounded off.

GRI aspects covered
Emissions, Energy, Materials, Water,
Biodiversity

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

33

RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Sustainable cotton 1

T E X T I L E S T R AT E G Y S TAT U S

in t

Total quantity of cotton

Scope of application of
the Textile Strategy
All reporting companies with an annual
sourcing volume of over 10 mn for
own and licensed brands in the textiles
product group are involved in the
Textile Strategy. In the reporting
period, this concerned bonprix, Frankonia,
Heine, OTTO, Schwab, SportScheck and
the Witt Group.
As OTTO has managed sourcing for the
Group company Baur since 2014, Baur
itself is no longer involved directly
in the Textile Strategy.
Nevertheless, Baur still has the indirect
ability to influence the success of
the Textile Strategy, for example by
marketing sustainable cotton textiles
to customers. The same applies to the
reporting company UNITO, whose textile
assortment is sourced primarily by OTTO.

In the Otto Group’s textile assortment cotton is by
far the dominant fibre compared to polyester, viscose
and wool. The Otto Group has set itself the goal of
only using sustainably produced cotton in its cotton
assortment of own and licensed brands by 2020. This
includes all textiles with a cotton share of at least 5%.
Own and licensed brands were focused on, as the
Group has a direct influence over the raw materials
used here. To achieve its goals, the Otto Group is using
cotton from the CmiA initiative in particular (see info
box). In 2014 its share of the total quantity of cotton
was 9.6%. Certified organic cotton also contributed
toward this goal with a share of 1.3%.
In 2014 the Otto Group purchased 3,900 tonnes of
sustainable cotton. This is equivalent to 11% of the
Group’s total quantity of cotton (2013: 7%). The main
reason for the increase in the share of sustainable
cotton was an acceleration in the switchover to CmiA
cotton at the Group companies bonprix, OTTO and Witt.

2012

2013

2014

33,833

39,453

35,599

708

607

478

1,208

2,164

3,405

6%

7%

11%

Quantity of organic cotton
Quantity of CmiA cotton
Share of sustainable cotton
Based on the sourcing volume of raw cotton.

1

Cotton made in Africa
Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) plays a key
role for the Otto Group in achieving its
goal of ‘100% sustainable cotton by
2020’. Cost-efficient sourcing makes the
mass-market use of CmiA possible. Among
other factors, the lower costs are thanks
to the underlying mass-balance approach,
which works in a similar way to the
eco-electricity model: there is no need
to report the individual products in
which CmiA cotton was used – what matters
is that the corresponding quantity of
sustainable cotton enters the value chain
and demand is created as a result.
CmiA allows African smallholder farmers
to improve their living standards through
their own efforts and promotes environmental protection. The initiative is
currently active in 10 African states
where, through qualification measures,
smallholder farmers are learning how to
cultivate cotton efficiently and in an
environmentally friendly way.
They benefit from contracts of employment
and reliable payment for what they produce. In March 2015 there were around
650,000 verified smallholder farmers.
The use of CmiA cotton reduces the ecological and social impacts in four out of
five impact categories: Greenhouse Gases,
Pollutants, Water Consumption and Social
Risks. A lifecycle assessment of CmiA
cotton revealed that greenhouse gas emissions are 40% lower for CmiA cotton
production than conventional cotton production. Furthermore, around 2,100 litres
of water are saved per kilogramme of
cotton, as CmiA cotton is cultivated
purely using rain water.
As with conventional cultivation, pesticides may also be used on cotton produced
under CmiA guidelines, as this is not
organic cotton. However, the initiative
does ban the use of certain pesticides,
training and qualifying farmers to use
them responsibly.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

34

RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE

F U R N I T U R E S T R AT E G Y S TAT U S

Scope of application of
the Furniture Strategy
The Furniture Strategy covers all
reporting companies with annual sales
of over 10 mn in the furniture product
group. In the reporting period, this
concerned baumarkt direkt, bonprix,
Heine, OTTO and OTTO Office.
As in the case of the Textile Strategy,
Baur is no longer directly involved in
the Furniture Strategy. However, the
Group company continues to sell wooden
furniture products sourced by OTTO or
other reporting companies.
From 2013 a simpler definition has been
used to calculate the key figure ‘Share
of FSC-certified articles in terms of
the overall furniture assortment’. This
definition only records solid wood
articles as well as part-solid and MDF
(medium-density fibreboard) articles.
Additional sub-assortments specific to
baumarkt direkt are no longer incorporated in this key figure.

In 2014 the share of FSC-certified timber used in
wooden articles stood at 33% – a considerable increase
over the previous year (26%). This was thanks in particular to the efforts of OTTO: the Group company agreed
FSC certifications with key wooden-furniture suppliers
and included additional FSC-certified articles in its
assortment. bonprix also significantly increased the
share of FSC-certified timber in its furniture assortment.
FSC-certified furniture

G4 – 22

Number

2011

2012

2013

2014

16,815

53,9111

45,485

56,350

of which, number of
FSC-certified articles
in the assortment

1,605

8,3431

11,872

18,688

Share of FSC-certified
articles in terms of
the overall furniture
assortment

10%

16%

26%

33%

Total number of
furniture articles

Values adjusted versus CR Report 2013 (previously 50,571 and 8,227).
This was because baumarkt direkt’s figures were only incorporated fully
after publishing.

1

Forest Stewardship Council®
Next to cotton, timber is the Otto Group’s most
frequently used raw material. It is used primarily in
catalogue paper and in wooden furniture.
To make the Otto Group’s furniture assortment more
sustainable, it uses FSC-certified timber (see info box).
It has set itself the target of increasing the share of
FSC-certified timber used in its wooden furniture to
100% by 2020.

The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)
actively works toward conserving forests
by promoting responsible forestry. The
prevention of uncontrolled deforestation
and violation of human rights, and
the conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity are promoted through stringent
forestry standards. This primarily
reduces impacts in the impact category
Land Use.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

35

RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE

PA P E R S T R AT E G Y S TAT U S

Paper use by the Otto Group 2014

3.9%

Scope of application of
the Paper Strategy

Packaging made of paper
and cardboard

The Group-wide sourcing of gravure print
paper is handled centrally by OTTO. As
such, it strongly influences the Paper
Strategy’s key figures. The other reporting companies also use gravure print
paper, with the exception of myToys,
Hermes and EOS.

In 2014 the Group consumed almost 275,000 tonnes
of paper (catalogue paper, advertising materials and
cardboard packaging). This means the Otto Group is
still the biggest consumer of paper in the Germanspeaking region.
Catalogues and advertising materials account for the
greatest share of the paper consumed by the Otto Group
(96%), with over 264,000 tonnes consumed annually.
Despite the now clear dominance of e-commerce in
terms of the share of retail sales, many customers still
use catalogues as a source of inspiration. Under its Paper
Strategy, the Otto Group has set itself the target of
increasing the share of FSC (FSC-C011850) certified
gravure print paper for catalogues and advertising
materials to at least 50% by 2018.
This focus on gravure print paper is because of its huge
share of over three quarters of all the paper used for
catalogues. Another reason is central procurement
through OTTO, which makes it possible to implement
the strategy quickly and efficiently. Of the 201,000
tonnes of gravure print paper used in 2014, around
18% was FSC-certified (2013: 8%). This considerable
increase was thanks mainly to long-term contracts
with key paper suppliers.

96.1%

Catalogues and advertising materials

(of which, gravure print: 73.4 %; offset and
other print processes: 22.7 %)

Catalogue and advertising-material paper consumption 1
in t

2011

20122

2013

2014

289,050

258,639

258,382

264,189

Total quantity of
gravure print paper

n.d.

209,763

195,437

201,839

of which, FSC gravure
print paper

n.d.

14,255

15,818

35,726

Share of FSC gravure
print paper

n.d.

7%

8%

18%

Total quantity
of paper

Data based on forecast figures which deviate only slightly from actual figures.
Slight deviation versus CR Report 2013.

1
2

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

36

RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE

E X PA N S I O N O F T H E PA P E R S T R AT E G Y
Since the Otto Group’s cooperation with the Forest
Stewardship Council (FSC) began, its label has already
appeared on over two billion printed materials – a figure
which makes the Group one of the world’s leading
companies using FSC paper, a position it intends to
strengthen further. With its Paper Strategy and Furniture
Strategy, two of the Group’s five sub-strategies focus on
FSC certification.
By the end of 2015 the Otto Group will review and
decide whether to incorporate offset print paper in its
Paper Strategy. Since it is sourced locally by the individual
Group companies’ purchasing departments and in
significantly smaller quantities than gravure print paper,
a changeover to FSC-certified offset print paper will
involve significantly higher costs.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE

2. Final Production
Process stages based on textiles

Sewing

Finishing & Packaging

Textile workers process
fabrics into finished products
such as t-shirts or bedding.
To make these, the fabric is
cut, sewn, and if desired is
decorated with accessories
and designs.

The brand label is attached
to the product, which is
then ironed and packed
ready for transportation.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

37

38

FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Final Production
The Final Production value-adding stage covers
the final stages of the production process up to
and including packaging of the goods ready for
transportation. Here, the focus of the Otto Group’s
sustainability activities is on improving working
conditions, particularly at factories in risk
countries. This is why it implements its Social
Programme to audit and qualify them.

See p. 12 et seq. for further
information on impACT.

CHALLENGES IDENTIFIED
BY impACT
Overview of Materiality Matrix assessments
for the Final Production value-adding stage:

Quantitative Assessment

Average Stakeholder Evaluation
(on a scale of 1 [very low] to 10 [very high])
External Stakeholders: 6

Ecological
Impacts

Share of Final Production
value-adding stage in terms of overall
ecological impacts: 6%

Relevance to Reputation: 3
Internal
Stakeholders

Regulation Risks: 2
Business Activity: 4

External Stakeholders: 9

Social
Risks

Share of Final Production
value-adding stage in terms
of overall Social Risks: 30%

Relevance to Reputation: 10
Internal
Stakeholders

Regulation Risks: 3
Business Activity: 10

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 27

39

FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Q UA N T I TAT I V E
A S S E S S M E N T R E S U LT S

T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S
SCOPE OF ACTION

Compared to other value-adding stages Final Production
has relatively low ecological impacts. The majority of them are accounted for by the impact categories
Greenhouse Gases and Pollutants. Here, CO2
emissions are emitted mainly by energy consumption
at the factories. Pollutants are emitted through the use
of solvents, dyes and lacquers in furniture production.

Owing to the contractual relationship between Otto
Group companies and their suppliers, there are greater
abilities to exert influence in the Final Production valueadding Stage than in the upstream stages of goods
production (see chapter ‘Raw Materials & Processing’,
p. 29 et seq.). Limited influence is, however, brought to
bear owing to complex sourcing structures as well as
often small order quantities per supplier because of the
huge range of articles offered by the Group’s trading
companies (see info box p. 40).

Almost a third of all Social Risks occur in the Final
Production value-adding stage. This stage includes,
for example, the packaging of textiles and the final
assembly of electrical equipment. Consequently, manual
labour plays a much bigger role, which entails greater
Social Risks than automated processes. Furthermore,
the final production of merchandising goods is largely
performed in risk countries (see p. 40). Here, for instance,
there is a relatively high probability that stipulated
labour standards and human rights are not upheld
owing to poor control systems.
G4 – 27

S TA K E H O L D E R E VA L U AT I O N R E S U LT S
From a stakeholder perspective, Social Risks are
the dominant sustainability topic in this value-adding
stage. External Stakeholders expect the Otto Group to
take steps to mitigate these risks. Consequently, this
topic also poses a high risk to the Group’s reputation
and is correspondingly relevant to the Group’s business
success.

Goods sourcing structure
When sourcing products, the Group first
draws a distinction between merchandising
goods and non-merchandising goods.
Non-merchandising goods include such items
as transportation, office equipment for
its own requirements, catalogue paper
and services such as power and cleaning.
The Otto Group purchases merchandising goods
worth around 4.9 bn€ annually. Of this,
around half is spent on third-party brands.
In the case of these goods, brand manufacturers are responsible for upholding social
and environmental standards in production.
Own and licensed brands account for the
remaining half of the sum of merchandising
goods purchased. Own and licensed brands
are sourced globally in different ways:
through sourcing organisations such as the
Group company Hermes-OTTO International
(H-OI), external agencies, importers or
directly via suppliers.

Overview of goods sourcing in the Otto Group

Code of Conduct
for Merchandise

Otto Group
sourcing

Merchandising
Goods

Non-Merchandising
Goods

own and
licensed brands

third-party brands

responsibility
lies with brand
manufacturers

Code of Conduct for
Non-Merchandise
Goods and Services

from risk
countries

from non-risk
countries
focus of sustainability
activities: e.g. Social
Programme

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

sourced primarily from
non-risk countries;
Hermes has its own Code
of Conduct for contractual partners offering
parcel-delivery services
(see p. 56)

40

FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Enormous article diversity
Most of the Otto Group’s business models
are based on offering a huge range
of articles. The Group sources over a
million different articles from over
70 sourcing countries – and works with
several thousand suppliers, which in
turn order from various factories.

Production in risk countries
Merchandising goods are predominantly
manufactured in risk countries owing to
the global division of labour. A country
is classified as a risk country if, for
instance, human-rights infringements and
socially unacceptable working conditions
are more likely because of inadequate
control systems. The Otto Group adopts
this risk-country classification from
the Business Social Compliance Initiative
(BSCI) – a global alliance of trading
companies, brand manufacturers and
importers. The Otto Group’s sustainability
activities within the Final Production
value-adding stage focus on the factories
in these risk countries.

SOCIAL PROGRAMME AND
ADDITIONAL MANAGEMENT
APPROACH ES
The Otto Group wants to offer its customers goods
which have been produced in compliance with social
and ecological standards. To achieve this, in 2013 the
Otto Group rolled out the binding Group Directive
Sustainability in Procurement. It developed its Code
of Conduct long before this in 1996 – and in 1999 it
implemented its Social Programme, which builds on
this Group Directive.

G R O U P D I R E C T I V E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y
IN PROCUREMENT
The Group Directive Sustainability in Procurement sets
out the minimum social and ecological requirements on
how all goods are sourced by the Group companies. It
includes social and ecological requirements on suppliers’
products and working conditions. These include a ban
on sand blasting when processing denim fabrics.

CODES OF CON DUCT
The Otto Group has implemented two Codes of Conduct
in accordance with its sourcing structure: one for merchandising goods and one for non-merchandising goods
and services (see figure p. 39). These set out the social
standards which apply to all Group employees, business
partners and suppliers. The Code of Conduct for Merchandise is based on the core working standards of the
International Labour Organization (ILO), the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention
on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against
Women. Further components include BSCI guidelines
and OECD Directives for Multinational Enterprises.
By entering into a business relationship, suppliers and
business partners commit not only to upholding these
in their companies but also to ensuring their subcontractors abide by them. The Codes of Conduct form the
basis for reviewing whether all trading and business
partners are complying with the standards. To view both
documents, visit: www.ottogroup.com/responsibility.

S O C I A L P R O G R A M M E S TAT U S
E N F O R C I N G S O C I A L S TA N D A R D S
The Otto Group introduced its Social Programme in
1999 to enforce social standards in risk countries. It
focuses on the production and sourcing of own and
licensed brands from risk countries. In 2013 it was
expanded to include importers and direct suppliers,
among other measures. The Social Programme’s goal is
to establish acceptable working conditions for factory
workers. Furthermore, it aims to establish transparency
in terms of where and how goods are produced for the
Otto Group. To achieve this, suppliers must disclose
their factory structure and provide accepted and valid
standards, audit results or assessments for each factory
which produces goods for the Otto Group (see p. 43).

 
For a list of BSCI risk countries, visit:
www.bsci-intl.org/bsci-list-risk-countries-0.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

41

FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Scope of application of the
Social Programme

Correspondingly, OTTO has since also
controlled the particular key figures
for merchandising goods sold by Baur.

All own and licensed brand suppliers with
factories in risk countries are integrated
in the Social Programme. All suppliers are
integrated, irrespective of whether goods
are sourced by sourcing organisations, or
whether direct suppliers or importers are
concerned.

Application scope of
key figures
The Social Programme applies to reporting
companies from the Multichannel Retail segment. It is managed using the Supply Chain
Database (see p. 42). This currently allows
the following Group companies to be represented: bonprix, Heine, OTTO, Schwab,
SportScheck, the Witt Group and Alba Moda.
Since 2013 OTTO has sourced goods for Baur.
The responsibility for implementing the
Social Programme lies with the Group company that sources the merchandising goods.

T H R E E - S TA G E M O D E L
The primary aim of the Social Programme is to improve
working conditions in risk countries where goods are
produced for the Otto Group. A three-stage model represents this aim. All suppliers are included in the Basic

Together with the joint-venture partner
hagebau, baumarkt direkt sources the majority
of its merchandising goods through a separate sourcing organisation. This is why
baumarkt direkt is not involved directly
in the Social Programme. Instead, it
operates its own Social Management System
as a BSCI member.
In January 2015 the Otto Group rolled out
its new Supply Chain Database. This is why
at present only the key figures for 2014
can be reported. These figures relate to
calendar years and are rounded off.

GRI aspects covered
Supplier Human Rights Assessment,
Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices

Programme. This means they establish transparency in
terms of their factories and provide valid social standards
for them. In the second stage, selected factories of key
suppliers with which the Otto Group already works closely
are given targeted support through qualification measures.

Overview of Social Programme core processes
Stage 3:
Excellence Programme

Stage 3 aims:
 
Comprehensive
improvement
 Strategic
partnership

Programme

for selected factories
of especially relevant suppliers
Stage 2:
Development Programme

Qualification

for selected factories
of key suppliers

 BSCI audit result
of “good”
 
SA8000 certification

Stage 1:
Basic Programme
for all own and licensed
brand suppliers with
factories in risk countries
(exception: importers
that are BSCI members)

Entry Assessment

new
factory

Progress
Assessment

accepted standards
fabric pool

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

at least
annually

depending on
validity period
of standards,
every 1 to 3
years

Stage 2 aims:
 
Promotion of good
working conditions
 
Closer collaboration

Stage 1 aims:
 
Improved working
conditions
 
Assessment of all
suppliers

42

FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE

In the third stage, the Excellence Programme, selected
factories belonging to suppliers which are especially
relevant from a strategic point of view are fully further
trained in terms of social, ecological and economic
aspects. Owing to the general economic situation (see
Otto Group Annual Report 2014/15, p. 55) implementation of this stage is initially dispensed with.

S TA G E 1 :
BASIC PROGRAMME
This stage aims to establish transparency in terms of all
suppliers and their factories with regard to compliance
with social standards. It also aims to identify violations of
the Code of Conduct. This is done by each factory either
providing an accepted standard or undergoing the Otto
Group’s own Entry Assessment prior to being awarded a
production order. The validity periods of assessments and
accepted standards are limited (most are valid for a year;
others, such as the SA8000, are limited to three years).
Once their validity expires, either a Progress Assessment
needs to be performed or a new valid standard needs to
be provided.

S U P P LY C H A I N D ATA B A S E
A S A CO N T RO L TO O L
All supplier and factory data which are relevant for
control purposes are logged in the Otto Group’s Supply
Chain Database. This aims to establish a high degree
of transparency over the Final Production value-adding
stage and thus forms the basis of the Social Programme.

11% of suppliers are not integrated. While the remaining
72% are logged in the system, they cannot be definitively
assigned a value, as data correction and clarification are
needed.
These figures show that the Otto Group is still trailing
far behind its own ambitious aim. The Reasons for
the delay in the roll out of this complex, Group-wide
programme is due mainly to the wide variety of decentralised IT system environments and sourcing structures.
In addition, it is proving more difficult than expected to
establish the necessary transparency, particularly with
regard to the factories of newly incorporated importers.
The Otto Group expects a significant increase in the
target achievement rate in 2015.
Integration status and supplier performance

Description

At the end of this reporting period the Group companies involved in the Social Programme were working
with 2,628 suppliers. Of these, 449 are considered as
being integrated in the Social Programme – equivalent to 17%.

17%

Status: integrated
accepted

Valid and accepted standards
or assessments provided
for all of a supplier’s active
factories

9%

advanced achieved

Valid SA8000 certificates or
a BSCI audit result of ‘good’
provided for all of a supplier’s
active factories

7%

BSCI member

Importer is a BSCI member

not accepted

1%
11%

Status: not achieved

A I M : 1 0 0 % I N T E G R AT I O N
The Basic Programme aims to integrate into the Social
Programme all suppliers with factories in risk countries
– an aim it intends to achieve by the end of 2015. A supplier is considered to be integrated if all its factories in
risk countries which produce goods for the Otto Group
(‘active factories’) can provide a valid and recognised
assessment, certificate or audit result (see info box
p. 43). Alternatively, importers will also be accepted if
they are BSCI members.

2014

A supplier does not have
valid and accepted standards
or assessments for all active
factories

11%

sanctioned

Sanctions are being brought
against at least one of a
supplier’s factories 1

0%

banned

A supplier has been banned 2

0%

no value

Integration status still unclear
as, for example, transparency
has not yet been established
concerning active factories

72%

Sanctions are applied if serious violations of the Code of Conduct
(e.g. in terms of working hours or wages) are discovered, or if a
supplier refuses to have audits or assessments performed.
2
A supplier is banned if, despite sanctions, it refuses to meet the
requirements/implement the Social Programme.
1

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE

A C C E P T E D S TA N D A R D S F O R
A S S E S S I N G FA C T O R I E S

S TA G E 2 :
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME

Assessments of all of a supplier’s active factories in a
risk country are used to determine the supplier’s status.
For this purpose, as part of the Social Programme
seven external standards are accepted in addition to
the Otto Group’s own Entry and Progress Assessments.

This stage is intended to qualify factories of long-term
suppliers to the Otto Group as far as possible so that
they achieve a BSCI audit result of ‘good’ or gain SA8000
certification. The Development Programme was launched
in 2013. It includes measures such as workshops and
webinars, and provides the factory representatives with
an awareness and ability to develop and implement
better long-term working conditions. In 2014, 210 factories were included in the Development Programme.

Accepted external standards
BSCI audit
(Business Social Compliance Initiative)

EICC audit (Electronic Industry
Citizenship Coalition)
ICS audit (Initiative Clause Social)

ICTI audit (International Council of
Toy Industry)

SA8000 certificate

S TA G E 3 :
E XC E L L E N C E P R O G R A M M E
In the third stage, the Excellence Programme, selected
factories belonging to suppliers that are especially
relevant from a strategic point of view are to be fully
developed further in terms of social, ecological and
economic aspects.

(Social Accountability)

SMETA/SEDEX audit
(Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit)

WRAP certificate (Worldwide Responsible
Accredited Production)

Otto Group’s own standards
Entry Assessment

C L I M AT E A N D E N V I R O N M E N TA L
P ROT E C T I O N
The Otto Group is active particularly in the CPI2 industry
initiative to reduce ecological impacts in the Final
Production value-adding stage.

C P I 2 I N I T I AT I V E

Progress Assessment

As at the end of 2014, 711 factories had provided
accepted standards. Of greatest relevance at 75% are
BSCI audits (41% with a result of ‘good’, 24% with
‘improvements needed’, and 10% with ‘non-compliant’).
The Otto Group is currently assessing 14% of factories
(10% Entry Assessment, 4% Progress Assessment).
For the remaining factories, other external standards
have been provided. Of those, SA8000 certification
(8%) was the most widely used.

Together with seven other German trading companies,
the Otto Group launched the CPI2 initiative to cut CO2
emissions along the global supply chain. Since it was
established, 20 companies have signed up to the initiative. To achieve the goal, CPI2 provides suppliers with an
online management tool which lets them evaluate and
control their energy consumption across all areas of
their business. In 2014, 362 active factories which produce goods for the Otto Group had already signed up
to the CPI2 initiative. Workshops and webinars were also
held in five countries in the reporting period, in which
105 factories took part.
A CPI2 stakeholder dialogue event was held in November
2014, the third time in a row such an event had been held.
There, the companies involved engaged in discussion and
networked with representatives from non-governmental
organisations, development agencies, associations, as well
as members of the scientific and political communities.
The focus was on expanding the CPI2 tool to include
chemical and water-use modules. These were implemented at the start of 2015 and are available for use.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

43

44

FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE

C O L L A B O R AT I O N S A N D A L L I A N C E S
To improve social and environmental standards particularly among its suppliers in risk countries, and in doing
so also to improve local working conditions, the Otto
Group is additionally involved in international coalitions.
These allow an effective approach to be taken to global
sourcing markets.

B S C I – M A R K E T A L L I A N C E TO
IMPROVE WOR KI NG CON DITIONS
The Otto Group is a founder member of the Business
Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), which was launched
in 2003. Its goal is to improve working conditions in
international value chains. To achieve this it conducts
audits and qualification measures in factories. The
BSCI currently has 1,500 members around the world
including trading companies, brand manufacturers
and importers. Since 2014 the Otto Group has been
a member of the BSCI’s Steering Committee.

BANGL ADESH ACCOR D
Bangladesh is an important sourcing country for the
Otto Group. Since 2013 the Otto Group has been a
supporter of the Accord on Fire and Building Safety
developed by international trade-union confederations,
the Clean Clothes Campaign (CCC), the Worker Rights
Consortium (WRC) and national trade unions from Bangladesh. The agreement includes binding and transparent
regulations on independent inspections, compulsory
maintenance measures and corresponding cost-sharing
by international corporate customers. In the reporting
period, compliance with the agreement was reviewed
at all factories in Bangladesh which produce clothing
for the Otto Group.

PA R T N E R S H I P F O R
S U S TA I N A B L E T E X T I L E S

The Otto Group supported this endeavour right from
the outset. This is because the complex requirements
and challenges are best tackled jointly. However, the
major textile producers and retailers, including the
Otto Group, did not join initially as many unanswered
questions surrounding implementation remained.
To ensure as many companies joined as possible, the
Otto Group played an active and leading role in further
developing the action plan. To achieve this, it was closely
involved in countless discussions and mediation talks
between politicians, non-governmental organisations
and trade unions on the one hand, and textile producers,
retailers and their associations on the other.
In May 2015 both sides agreed on a joint approach.
At the start of June, leading companies in the textile
industry, including the Otto Group and leading retail
and producer associations, announced they were joining the partnership. For the latest information, visit:
www.textilbuendnis.com.

E D U C AT I O N P R O J E C T I N I N D I A
In 2014 the Otto Group extended its collaboration for
a further three years with the child-aid organisation
terre des hommes in the Indian education project
Prevention and Alternatives to Child Labour. So far,
targeted preparation has enabled 2,500 children from
three slum districts of New Delhi and one in the state
of Bihar to attend a state school or take up an apprenticeship. Financial assistance is given to their families
such as through the awarding of microloans to help
them establish their own small business. The goal is
to establish lasting structures which will ensure the
project is self-supporting once financial assistance
has ended.

On the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development’s initiative, the process to develop
an all-encompassing partnership for action comprising
industry, business, politics and civil society began in
May 2014. Its goal is to systematically mitigate the negative environmental and social impacts of global textile
production.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

45

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

3. Trade
Examples of process stages

Transport

Warehousing

Sales

Distribution

Trucks, ships
or planes
transport
the finished
goods from the
production
countries to the
sales markets.

The goods are
first stored in a
high-bay warehouse
at a logistics
centre. Ordered
products are
labelled, packed
and addressed with
the customer’s
information.

Business
processes are
organised and
products are
marketed at the
Group companies’
locations.

A parcel-delivery
company brings the
ordered goods from
the warehouse to the
end-customer. This
customer is informed
beforehand about
the delivery date
and can track the
consignment online.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

46

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Trade
The Trade value-adding stage covers procurement and
distribution transport and activities at Otto Group
locations. The ecological impacts in this value-adding
stage are caused mainly in the impact categories
Greenhouse Gases and Pollutants. In particular, the
Otto Group intends to reduce CO2 emissions in this
area as part of its Climate Strategy. This chapter
also includes employee-related topics.

See p. 12 et seq. for further
information on impACT.

CHALLENGES IDENTIFIED
BY impACT
Overview of Materiality Matrix assessments
for the Trade value-adding stage:

Quantitative Assessment

Average Stakeholder Evaluation
(on a scale of 1 [very low] to 10 [very high])
External Stakeholders: 5

Ecological
Impacts

Share of Trade
value-adding stage in terms of overall
ecological impacts: 5%

Relevance to Reputation: 5
Internal
Stakeholders

Regulation Risks: 3
Business Activity: 4

External Stakeholders: 6

Social
Risks

Share of Trade
value-adding stage in terms
of overall Social Risks: 6%

Relevance to Reputation: 7
Internal
Stakeholders

Regulation Risks: 1
Business Activity: 7

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 27

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Q U A N T I TAT I V E
A S S E S S M E N T R E S U LT S

T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S
SCOPE OF ACTION

Ecological impacts, especially through the
emission of Greenhouse Gases, are caused by
procurement and distribution transport as well as
through heating and powering the Group’s locations.
On the whole, the Trade value-adding stage has the
lowest ecological impacts compared to the upstream
stages.

Besides activities at the Group’s own 400 locations, the
Trade value-adding stage also encompasses procurement
transport from the production countries to the warehouses at the trading companies, and distribution transport from the warehouses to consumers. Every year the
Otto Group sources around 100,000 tonnes of goods and
delivers more than 120 million consignments through
the Group company Hermes.

The Social Risks are also much lower than in the
upstream value-adding stages. That said, while the Otto
Group employs the majority of its staff in the European
Union, Social Risks also exist there. This is because the
risk categories (see p. 14) may be violated even at the
Group’s own locations, for instance if maximum working
hours are exceeded.
G4 – 27

S TA K E H O L D E R E VA L U AT I O N R E S U LT S
In terms of the ecological impacts of transport
and the Group’s own locations, External and Internal
Stakeholders consider the need for the Otto Group to
take action as relatively high, particularly in relation to
the topics of Greenhouse Gases and Pollutants.
External Stakeholders expect the Otto Group to lead
by example within its own factory gates. For instance,
External Stakeholders believe that only then could the
Group credibly drive forward initiatives to reduce CO2
and pollutants in the upstream and downstream valueadding stages. For Internal Stakeholders, these topics
are relevant particularly from a reputation point of
view, as public discussions are becoming increasingly
critical of the mail-order industry – and goods delivery
in particular. The Group also expects the enforcement
of additional energy-efficiency regulations and a further
tightening of pollutant thresholds.
Social Risks are also considered to be relatively
high in the Trade value-adding stage in terms of Reputation and Business Activity. Here too, External Stakeholders consider the need for the Otto Group to take
action in this topic area as relevant. The main reason
for this is less to do with the Otto Group’s own employees
and more to do with the working conditions at service
providers which are less easy to control. Employeespecific challenges above and beyond Social Risks are
listed in the chapter ‘Employees’ on page 53.

Compared to other value-adding stages, the greatest
ability to exert influence exists with these transport
services, which are either directly commissioned or
performed by the Group company itself, as well as at
the Otto Group’s own locations.

C L I M AT E S T R AT E G Y A N D A D D I T I O N A L
MANAGEMENT APPROACH ES
Taking into account the entire value chain, the ecological
impacts in the Trade value-adding stage are comparatively
low. Nevertheless, External Stakeholder expectations
as well as reputation and regulation perspectives show
that there are many reasons to lead by example in the
area of climate protection – starting with the direct area
of influence.
The Otto Group’s Climate Strategy aims to halve the
adjusted CO2 emissions for locations, transport and
mobility by 2020 versus the base year 2006. The implementation in Otto Group companies will be done as efficiently and cost-effectively as possible. Energy efficiency
takes priority over the development of the Group’s own
renewable energy generation, the purchasing of green
energy or the offsetting of CO2 emissions. Besides the
positive climate effects, the reduction in energy consumption and the use of renewables will also reduce air
pollutant emissions such as nitrogen oxide and fine dust.
While the Group specifies a clear reductions target
centrally, the Group companies implement the climate
protection measures at a local level. The Group supports
them in their operational implementation with measurement and control instruments.
Environmental management at the Group’s locations
is also controlled and implemented decentrally by the
individual reporting companies.
The HR Strategy and other management approaches
can be found in the chapter ‘Employees’ on page 53.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

47

48

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

C L I M AT E S T R AT E G Y S TAT U S

T O TA L CO2 E M I S S I O N S

Application scope of key figures
All figures relate to calendar years and
are rounded off. The key figures in the
Climate topic area cover the 14 reporting
companies as well as the Group companies
Alba Moda and 3Pagen, as they are also
involved in implementing the Climate
Strategy. The reporting of the Otto Group’s
CO2 emissions is based on the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol. CO2 emissions are monitored
exclusively.

The Climate Strategy aims to reduce the adjusted CO2
emissions for transport, locations and mobility. In 2014
adjusted CO2 emissions fell by 24% versus the base year
2006. Absolute (non-adjusted) figures dropped by 16%.

Distribution of adjusted CO2 emissions 2014

3.6%

Mobility

59.8%

Special aspects

Transport

CO2 emissions are always presented in an
adjusted form – that is, relative to their
performance units. They are adjusted using
the following performance units to allow
a comparison to be made with the base
year 2006:

36.6%
Locations

Procurement logistics: weight of
transported goods (tonnage)

Distribution: shipment volumes to the
customer and returns

Locations:
– O
 ffices: number of employees and
–
–
–
–

surface area
Logistics buildings: parcel turnaround
per year
Warehouses: gross capacity of buildings
Shops: opening hours and sales area
Other uses: surface area


Mobility: employee travel and passenger

 
Includes employee business trips and the operation of the
company car fleet.

Absolute and adjusted CO2 emissions
in t

(Base year)

2013

2014

absolute

296,200 277,683

248,101

adjusted

296,200 246,162

224,149

2006

Reduction in adjusted
CO2 emissions versus 2006

–

- 17%

- 24%

kilometres
Dynamic business development generates
a distorted view of energy-efficiency
improvements in absolute terms. By way
of illustration, however, the total CO2
emissions are also given here.
G4 – 23

For 2013 and 2014 the Otto Group made
methodological changes to the CO2 reporting
tool for the area of sourcing. As a result,
this data for 2013 and 2014 cannot be compared with the previous reporting period.
For this reason, the data for the base
year 2006 has been recalculated, leading
to a slight adjustment in the CO2 value
for 2006.

GRI aspects covered
Emissions, Energy, Effluents and Waste,
Transport

TR ANSPORT-R E L ATED CO 2 EMISSIONS
The Otto Group mainly sources and distributes its goods
via the Group company Hermes. In 2014, total transportrelated CO2 emissions (sourcing and distribution)
amounted to 134,088 tonnes – a reduction of 27%
versus the base year.
At the same time, in 2014 the CO2 emissions in procurement transport fell by 32% versus the base year, and
by 21% in the reporting period. Reducing the share of
air-freight made a considerable contribution to this
reduction.
By contrast, CO2 emissions in distribution transport
remained unchanged versus the previous year’s level.
However, an 18% reduction was achieved compared
to the base year 2006.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

49

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

CO2 emissions from procurement transports

CO2 emissions from distribution transports

in t

in t

117,558

107,413
80,456
66,572

117,558

100,232

(Base year) 2006

79,675
2013

66,572
2014

61,239

53,186

(Base year) 2006

2014

122

127

122

(Base year) 2006

2013

2014

Distribution transports (absolute)

Procurement transports (adjusted)

Distribution transports (adjusted)

Transport performance in sourcing 1

Transport performance in distribution 1

in mn tkm

in mn consignments

(Base year)

2013

2014

928

1,194

1,162

Share of air-freight

14.6%

11.2%

8.0%

Share of sea-freight

77.3%

83.1%

81.6%

Share of combined sea/air-freight

0.6%

0.4%

0.2%

Share of road-freight

7.5%

5.2%

10.2%

Total (air-freight, sea-freight,
road-freight)

Transport for the sourcing of own and licensed brands carried out or
commissioned by the Otto Group is considered exclusively. Transport e.g.
by importers is not included in the calculation.

1

54,413
2013

Procurement transports (absolute)

2006

61,664

Total (car, truck)

Precise control of stock levels is important in reducing
these CO2 emissions. Usually, ships are the preferred
means of transport. However, if customer demand for
articles is greater than expected, they often need to be
re-sourced at short notice by air-freight so that delivery
times for end-customers remain as short as possible.
Currently, the share of air-freight is 8%. To reduce this,
the expected sales quantities need to be forecast as
accurately as possible – something that is not only
worthwhile in achieving the Group’s climate targets,
but which also makes sense operationally.

Deliveries made through Hermes and other service providers are recorded
here, including large items.

1

L O C AT I O N - R E L AT E D C O 2 E M I S S I O N S
The Otto Group’s locations generate CO2 emissions
through the consumption of power and heat in offices,
warehouses, logistics buildings and shops. In 2014, the
total adjusted CO2 emissions at the Group’s locations
amounted to 81,999 tonnes. Through efficiency gains
and successive development of the Group’s own renewable energy generation, the Group has reduced CO2
emissions on average by 2.5% each year since the base
year 2006. In 2014 the reduction amounted to 19%
versus the base year. Total energy demand this year was
281,178 MWh.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

50

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

The Otto Group performed cross-location CO2 property
benchmarking with the goal of identifying further considerable areas of CO2-reduction potential. In the reporting
period a detailed analysis of 20 buildings with the greatest
potential to achieve CO2 savings was completed. For each
of the buildings analysed, climate impact-mitigation
measures were identified which will both save significant
amounts of CO2 and will remain economically viable over
their respective lifespan. The Group companies decide on
and implement such measures at a local level.
CO2 emissions at the locations1
in t

101,728

97,518

95,662

M O B I L I T Y- R E L AT E D C O 2 E M I S S I O N S
Only a low percentage of CO2 emissions (2014: 3.6%) are
attributable to the area of mobility. This covers both
business travel as well as trips using company vehicles.
In calendar year 2014 Otto Group employees travelled
85 million business travel- and passenger-kilometres. This
resulted in (adjusted) emissions of 8,062 tonnes of CO2.
The Group’s main starting point for its emissions-reduction approach is the preferred use of low-carbon forms
of transport. In the reporting period, Hermes also
acquired 944 tonnes of CO2 offsetting certificates for
business flights.
Mobility-related CO2 emissions
in t

10,342

101,728

85,020

(Base year) 2006
Total (absolute)

10,319

81,999
2013

2014

10,342

7,724

8,062

Total (adjusted)

Conversion factors
Energy mix Germany: 520 g CO2/kWh (2006); 522 g CO2/kWh (2013);
511 g CO2/kWh (2014).
Energy mix Austria: 215 g CO2/kWh (2013); 165 g CO2/kWh (2014).
Heating energy: Natural gas: 201 g CO2/kWh, heating oil: 266 g CO2/kWh.
District heating: depending on the local district-heating supplier, it varies
between 57 g CO2/kWh and 250 g CO2/kWh.

1

(Base year) 2006
Mobility (absolute)

Energy consumption at locations and facilities 1
in MWh

(Base year)

2013

2014

Total energy demand

275,250 283,919

281,178

 of which, electrical power

140,795 154,095

155,830

134,455 129,824

125,348

2006 1

of which, heating energy demand
  of which, district heating
demand

23,904

24,808

23,174

  of which, heat generated
from heating oil

8,481

3,840

1,688

  of which, heat generated
from natural gas

102,070

90,261

88,381

0

10,915

12,105

204

1,318

1,486

  of which, heat demand and
generation from renewables
Own power generation
from renewables

11,513

The base number of buildings is subject to annual fluctuations;
2006: 285, 2013: 384, 2014: 395. The increase is due mainly to the
opening of new shops and additional logistics locations.

1

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

2013

Mobility (adjusted)

2014

51

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N

WAT E R C O N S U M P T I O N
AT T H E L O C AT I O N S
Despite including further locations in the reporting
period, water consumption remained more or less
constant compared to previous years.

Application scope
of key figures
In contrast to the Climate Protection
topic area, this data only takes into
consideration locations which have been
used for at least 6 months and which
have a usage area of over 5,000 m², as well
as all the headquarters of the reporting
companies. A total of 60 locations are
thus covered. In the reporting period, a
further four locations in Haldensleben,
four locations in Löhne and the surrounding
area, two myToys locations and a new
SportScheck store in Munich, among others,
have been newly included.

Water consumption
in m3

210,906 216,981 221,495 208,265

2011

E N V I R O N M E N TA L M A N A G E M E N T
The Otto Group’s environmental management system
forms the basis for analysing environmental impacts
at the locations, assigning key figures to them and
in doing so making them controllable. This system is
closely connected to the occupational health and safety
system at the reporting companies. Currently, 14 of
the reporting companies’ locations have ISO 14001certified environmental management systems:

2013

2014

PA C K A G I N G
In the reporting period the quantity of packaging
materials used in goods deliveries rose by roughly 7%.
Packaging comprises 85% cardboard and paper, with
plastic or other materials accounting for the remaining
percentage.
Sales packaging consumption 1
in t

 aur: Altenkunstadt, Burgkunstadt,
B
Weismain and Sonnefeld
Hermes : Friedewald, two locations
in Haldensleben, Hamburg-Essener Straße,
Hückelhoven, Langenhagen and Löhne
UNITO: Bergheim, Graz and Salzburg
Additionally, since 2003 Hermes has been the only
company in the logistics industry to be TIP-certified
(Trust Improvement Program). The demands of the TIP
process go beyond those of the ISO norm and can only
be applied to highly developed management systems.

2012

10,913

2011

10,276

2012 2

11,516

2013

12,540

2014

Only the sales packaging for the companies for which the Otto Group is
responsible has been taken into account here. Any additional sales packaging
for which the suppliers of the articles are responsible is not covered here.
2
Figure adjusted versus the CR Report 2013
1

 
The certifications relate to the locations of
individual Hermes Group companies (see p. 9).

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 22

52

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

WA S T E M A N A G E M E N T
The Otto Group goes to great lengths to avoid generating
waste. Where this principle cannot be upheld, waste is
duly recycled. In 2014 there was virtually no change in
the amount of waste generated by the reporting companies, despite the inclusion of myToys locations for
the first time.
Waste by category
in t

2011

2012

2013

2014

36,976

33,312

36,602

35,018

Quantity of
hazardous waste 1

146

77

73

115

Share of
hazardous waste

Total waste

0.4%

0.2%

0.2%

0.3%

Quantity of
non-hazardous waste

36,831

33,235

36,529

34,903

Share of
non-hazardous waste

99.6%

99.8%

99.8%

99.7%

Hazardous waste is generated mainly by electrical waste at the Otto Group.

1  

P ROJ E C TS BY T H E M I C H A E L OT TO
F O U N D AT I O N F O R E N V I R O N M E N TA L
P ROT E C T I O N
With its diverse portfolio, the Michael Otto Foundation
for Environmental Protection has been actively involved
in environmental protection and nature conservation
since 1993. Its support focuses on protecting rivers and
the sustainable management of wetlands, especially
in Germany and Eastern Europe. Through forums and
education projects, the activities of the Foundation go
far beyond the mere provision of funding.
In 2014 the Michael Otto Foundation for Environmental
Protection published the study ‘Nature conservation in
the agricultural landscape at a crossroads: Failures, successes and new approaches’ as part of the Biodiversity
in Good Company initiative. This study addresses the
conservation of biodiversity in agriculture.
In 2014 the collaboration project AQUA AGENTS
received its third award as part of the UN Decade of
Sustainable Development. Through this interactive
educational offering, children learn about the importance of water to humans, nature and the economy.
2014 marked the first time the project had been run
in the USA, in Chicago.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

E M P LOYE E S
C H A L L E N G E S R E L AT E D
TO E M P LOY E E S
Social transformation
Demographic change is among the greatest societal
challenges for the Otto Group: in certain segments,
the labour market is changing to favour employees, so
that companies need to compete for the best talent.
In this environment, the companies in the Otto Group
have to position themselves as attractive employers for
the long term. In addition, young employees joining the
companies have different expectations towards work
and career: classic status symbols are losing importance,
whereas flat hierarchies, creative latitude, and a good
work-life balance are increasingly expected. This makes
HR work a strategic factor in future business success.

Digital transformation
Global interconnectedness is leading to a complex,
highly dynamic market and competitive environment.
This demands increasing flexibility and agility from
companies, as well an ability to learn and change. New
qualities in leadership and cooperation are needed
to convey visions, manage change processes, kick off
innovations lead virtual teams, ensure knowledge
transfer, and create space to make rapid decisions. On
the other hand, everybody is now required much more
than in the past to maintain their own employability –
through constant learning, by taking on new tasks
and responsibilities, or by adopting changing roles in
different projects.

H R S T R AT E G Y A N D O T H E R
MANAGEMENT APPROACH ES
The aim of the Group-wide Personnel Strategy is to gain
new employees and to develop existing ones optimally
by creating suitable framework conditions and opportunities. This is done through an effective interlinking of
strategic elements, such as strengthening the Otto Group
employer brand, Group-wide diversity, recruitment and
succession management, as well as pursuing an HR
Strategy that is orientated towards employees’ different
life phases, and an occupational health management
aimed at prevention.

53

To meet the specific challenges of the individual Group
companies’ business environments, the Otto Group
grants them a high degree of independence in setting
their focus points in their HR Strategy. The Group HR
Division supports them in this. The connecting element
and framework is the Group-wide mission ‘The Power
of Responsibility’ (see p. 4). Alongside sustainability, the
value of diversity has particular relevance here. The companies develop their individual HR targets and measures
on the basis of the Group-wide mission and values.

E M P LOYE E K EY F I G U R E S

Scope
The key figures in this chapter
comprise 13 reporting companies until
the year 2013. From 2014, myToys is
included for the first time. The
figures are given as headcount, which
also includes working students alongside permanent employees. Trainees,
interns, temporary and agency staff
are generally not included, but
deviations from this are duly noted.
Employee numbers converted to fulltime equivalents are shown on page 5.
For the first time in 2014, in addition
to the reporting companies, key figures
are also included for Manufactum as well
as all major international Otto Group
companies (3Suisses Group, Crate &
Barrel, Freemans Grattan Holdings
(fgh), Otto Group Russia, the material
foreign companies in the bonprix and
Hermes groups, and the Eddie Bauer
Japan joint venture.

Key Aspects
The key figures were recorded by
financial year for 2011/12 and 2012/13.
In 2013, this was transitioned to
calendar years. Therefore, the stated
figures for the transition year 2013
are given for ten months (March to
December) as a one-off. Most key figures
are based on values on cut-off dates.
Due to the switch from financial to
calendar years, the cut-off date changes
from 28/02 to 31/12.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 23

54

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

E M P L O Y E E S T R U C T U R E I N T H E R E P O R T I N G C O M PA N I E S
As at 31 December 2014, a total of 29,720 people worked at the reporting companies.
Employee numbers 1
Number

2011/12

2012/13

2013

2014

2014
(Otto Group
incl. international
companies)

28,252

27,889

28,213

29,720

45,772

 of which, female

61.6%

61.0%

60.5%

59.8%

59.8%

 of which, male

38.4%

39.0%

39.5%

40.2%

40.2%

14,481

14,320

10,875

15,251

26,155

Share of female employees
with full-time contracts

37.0%

37.1%

36.2%

35.8%

44.9%

Share of male employees
with full-time contracts

73.6%

75.4%

76.2%

74.3%

75.4%

Number of employees
with part-time contracts

Total number of employees

Number of employees
with full-time contracts

G4 – 22

13,850

13,286

13,524

14,469

19,617

Share of female employees
with part-time contracts

63.0%

62.9%

63.8%

64.2%

55.1%

Share of male employees
with part-time contracts

26.4%

24.6%

23.8%

25.7%

24.6%

Until the 2012/13 financial year, the employee numbers were recorded including working students, temporary staff, trainees, interns and agency staff.
Since the data capture was internationalised, the key figures have been recorded to include working students, but not trainees, interns, temporary or agency staff.
As all key figures are given in the table according to the new definition, the values for 2011/12 and 2012/13 deviate from the values given in the CR Report 2013.

1

S TA F F T U R N O V E R

R E ST R U CTU R I N G M EAS U R E S

Staff turnover in the reporting companies corresponds
to the overall average in Germany and Austria. The slight
increase in 2014 is due to restructuring measures.

Restructuring measures in connection with the Otto
Group’s overall alignment with the challenges of
e-commerce are implemented based on sound judgement and in collaboration with employee representatives in a socially acceptable way. Hermes is currently
in the middle of a more extensive restructuring process.
The entire branch network of the company is being
reviewed and newly set up.

Staff turnover
in %

12.6

12.5
9.1

2011/12

2012/13

2013

9.8

2014

The Fokus project, which had as its aim the leadership
of the three Group companies OTTO, Baur and Schwab
through a joint strategy for increased growth and sustained profitability, was completed in 2013 and the
reduction in personnel was implemented as necessary
in this context. Thanks to a forward-looking HR policy
and constructive cooperation in which all participants
made efforts towards a considerate but goal-orientated
resolution, the demanding staff reduction targets were
achieved in a socially acceptable way without requiring
redundancies for operational reasons.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

55

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

R E M U N E R AT I O N

TEMPORARY WOR KERS

In their remuneration practices, the reporting companies
act largely independently within the framework of the
applicable pay-scale agreements and take into account
regionally differing salary structures. Management staff
as well as non pay-scale employees in general receive
variable remuneration components which are linked to
company performance and individual target achievement. The fundamental structure of remuneration at
the highest management levels is prescribed in a binding form by Corporate Human Resources (see Annual
Report 2014/15 for the Otto Group, p. 166). Since the
2014/15 financial year, the annual variable remuneration
of all members of the Group Executive Board has been
linked to achieving the five targets of the CR Strategy
2020 (see p. 20 et seq.).

Temporary workers are essential for covering seasonal
peaks in the workload, for example the pre-Christmas
period in the Logistics area. Due to an increasingly
strained labour market at some Hermes sites, it is not
possible to employ permanent staff locally in sufficient
numbers.

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS
All 14 reporting companies have established Works
Councils. With the exception of top management and of
myToys, all employees of the reporting companies fall
under collective agreements as part of tariff contracts
and works agreements. Primarily due to the inclusion of
myToys for the first time, the proportion of employees
for whom collective agreements apply sank to 92.4%
in 2014 (previous year: 97.5%). In the spring of 2015,
myToys began making its first collective agreements.

The increase in temporary workers employed from
1,278 in the previous year to 2,180 in the year 2014
is primarily due to the first-time inclusion of myToys.
The company has its own logistics organisation which
employs temporary workers, as is typical in that sector.
Temporary workers
Number

1,649

2011/12

Coverage by collective agreements
in %

98.2

97.6

97.5

92.9

2011/12

2012/13

2013

2014

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

2,180
1,287

1,278

2012/13

2013

2014

56

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

M A N AG I N G S U B CO N T R AC TO R S
As a rule, parcel delivery at Hermes is carried out by
contract partners. To influence compliance with standards
in working conditions, Hermes is the first company in
the sector to have developed its own certification model,
in collaboration with SGS-TÜV Saar. Since 2012, all
contract partners have been subject to regular spot checks
on aspects relating to occupational safety, remuneration,
working times, quality and environment. Hermes also
supports its contract partners in removing any defects
identified during the course of audits.
In 2013, 79% of the 344 audited companies received
a certificate after the first audit. Of 350 companies
audited in 2014, more than 87% passed their first audit.
Hermes supports its contract partners in implementing
the certification standards and, where audits are not
passed, it offers the opportunity of undergoing a
further audit in the following year. After implementing
improvement measures, 97% (2013) and 99% (2014) of
the audited companies achieved positive audit results.
If standards are not adhered to despite these measures,
any cooperation is terminated. In the reporting period,
this affected 4 companies.
In addition, the Code of Conduct offers a basis for
all business relationships in Distribution and obliges
the contract partners to comply with applicable laws
governing working conditions and remuneration. In
cases of violations, people employed by the contract
partners can contact an Ombudsman anonymously at
any time. Five employees made use of this option in
the reporting period. An internal whistleblower system
additionally serves to effectively follow up on breaches
of the Code of Conduct. Since its introduction in 2011,
359 reports have been recorded and processed.

DIVERSITY AN D EQUAL
OPPORTU N ITI ES
DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT
The Otto Group has anchored Diversity as one of four
central values in its mission: as signatory to the Diversity
Charta, the Otto Group aims to offer all employees the
same opportunities – regardless of their gender, age,
place of origin, religion or world view, physical condition
or sexual orientation. Activities to promote Diversity
in the Otto Group are bundled under the umbrella of
Group-wide Diversity Management.
The Group HR Division manages Diversity Controlling,
which ensures more transparency and measurability.
It supports Diversity Management through a system
of key figures as well as through regular monitoring
and reporting. Violations of the principle of equality
are recorded on a Group level. No complaints were
submitted by employees during the reporting period.

D I V E R S I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S
In 2014, just under a fifth of all top managers employed
in the reporting companies were women.
Top managers 1 by gender
Number

2011/12 2012/13

2013

2014 2

409

402

413

376

 of which,
share of female
top managers

15.6%

16.9%

17.7%

19.7%

 of which,
share of male
top managers

84.4%

83.1%

82.3%

80.3%

Total number

Executive Directors, Vice Presidents, Divisional Vice Presidents.
Excluding UNITO and the Hermes companies HE, HLGD, HTL and HES.

1
2

If the next management level of Department Heads
is included besides top management, then the total
number of managers goes up to 1,087, of which 31.1%
are women.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Numerous initiatives have been created to support
female management trainees across the Group, which
will also increase the proportion of women in top management in the long run. ‘Boost Your Career’ is a new
Group-wide development programme for emerging
female talent. Other measures included a Diversity
Conference 2013, in which around 100 female and
selected male top managers took part, as well as a
Diversity Award, which is given out among the Group
companies.

F U T U R E - O R I E N TAT E D T R A I N I N G
As an active contribution towards winning over qualified
young professionals, the companies in the Otto Group
offer almost 30 different technical, trade and business
training courses. Apart from the professional qualification
of the trainees, an understanding of technology- and
e-commerce-related content is part of the training as
much as personal development. In 2014, 783 young
people, of whom 50% were women, completed their
vocational training in one of the reporting companies.

W O R K A N D FA M I LY

FU RTH ER TRAI N I NG

The compatibility of family and work increases the
attractiveness of the Otto Group as an employer. In
all reporting companies there are flexible working-time
directives, depending on the field of activity. Reporting
companies improve their family-friendliness with
options for working from home, job-sharing and
sabbatical options, as well as personal counselling.
Various reporting companies offer lectures and support
on caring for family members, and the compatibility of
this with work.

The reporting companies independently carry out decentralised measures for ongoing training and staff development, in accordance with their respective requirements.
At a Group level, these options are augmented with a
Group-wide training programme offered through the
Otto Group Academy. The focus is on strategically relevant
topics, in particular the increasing digitalisation of retail,
the internationalisation of the Group companies and
the cross-company development of potential management staff.

E M P LOYE E S WI T H D I SA B I L I T I E S

D E V E L O P I N G M A N A G E M E N T S TA F F

5.0% of the employees of the German reporting
companies are considered to be severely disabled.
Most Group companies utilise integration tools and
measures for including disabled people in everyday
work, for example through the individual adaptation
of workplaces to disabled employees, or cooperation
with expert external integration services.

Successful mastery of the far-reaching changes in the
world of work, as well as the Group’s orientation towards
e-commerce, also require a new understanding of leadership and cooperation. In this context, OTTO has re-defined
leadership so as to actively drive the changes and to
promote cooperative, flexible and solution-orientated
collaboration in the respective areas of responsibility.

VO C AT I O N A L A N D F U RT H E R T R A I N I N G
R E C R U I TM E N T
To meet both market conditions and the strategic
direction of the business, the focus of the recruitment
activities in the Otto Group is currently on management
trainees and high-potential employees in the areas of
E-Commerce, Business Intelligence, Software Development and IT.

The Group-wide, career-oriented Leadership Programmes
for middle and top management were augmented
with additional components during the reporting
period. These develop and expand the attitudes, skills
and qualifications needed for the change in values and
the digital transformation in a targeted way.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

57

58

TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE

O C C U PAT I O N A L H E A LT H

H E A LT H I N D E X

H E A LT H M A N A G E M E N T
The Otto Group Occupational Health and Safety Management System is based on the principle of prevention.
Its goal is to protect the health and performance of
employees through preventative measures. All reporting
companies have their own Occupational Health and
Safety Management Systems.
Some of the reporting companies use the advice and
services of aktiv.net, a competence centre established
by OTTO in 2000. This was certified in 2013 under the
DIN EN ISO 9001 quality management standard in the
activity fields of occupational medicine and outpatients,
welfare counselling, occupational safety and health
promotion.
The preventative measures in the Group companies
include a variety of sport and fitness options, nutritional
advice, relaxation techniques, addiction counselling and
health days. OTTO offers its employees free psychological
counselling as well.
The absenteeism rate is within the normal parameters
and varies depending on the strength of seasonal
illnesses such as colds and flus.

OTTO determines a Health Index every year on the
basis of an anonymous employee survey. This scientifically based tool captures the performance and health
of employees through a voluntary self-assessment.
Targeted measures are developed and implemented
in response to the results, which contribute towards
compensating for the stress on employees and thereby
increase the productivity of the company.
When the data was last collected in spring 2015, the
Health Index reached a value of 64, an increase by
one percentage point compared to the previous year,
which also comes in 5 points above the average value
for companies with comparable activity structures.
In 2014, a total of 114 individual measures were
carried out in 26 departments. These organisational
units showed clearly improved values compared to
the previous year.

A C C I D E N T S AT W O R K
Physically demanding work in logistics and transport
services carries significantly higher risk of accidents
than business activities. As is usual in the sector, occupational accidents and lost days in Group companies
with logistics and distribution sites are more than three
times higher than in other reporting companies.

Absenteeism rate 1
in %

Work-related accidents
2011/12 2012/13

Total
Accident-related
Based on planned working time.

1

2013

2014

6.4

6.9

5.2

5.9

0.2

0.1

0.1

0.2

Number

2011/12 2012/13
Number of occupational accidents1)
per 1,000 employees
(full-time positions)

35

Number of
work-related deaths

0

2013

2014

28

32

36

0

0

0

According to the definition by the German Trade Associations,
this includes commuting accidents.

1

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE

4. Customer
Process stages based on electrical appliances

Use

Waste Disposal and Recycling

Customers begin
operating the
supplied electrical
appliances, such
as fridges, washing
machines and
smartphones.

Consumers take their old
electrical appliances to collection
places or return white goods
when they buy new appliances.
Expert disposal marks the end
of the lifecycle of electrical
appliances.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

59

60

CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE

Customer
The Customer value-adding stage includes the whole
phase of product use up to disposal and recycling.
This causes almost a fifth of total ecological
impacts; however, the sustainable design and marketing
of the assortment can reduce these. Group companies
initiate individual measures to raise their customers’
awareness of sustainability during product selection
and use.

See p. 12 et seq. for further
information on impACT.

CHALLENGES IDENTIFIED
BY impACT
Overview of Materiality Matrix assessments
for the Customer value-adding stage:

Quantitative Assessment

Average Stakeholder Evaluation
(on a scale of 1 [very low] to 10 [very high])
External Stakeholders: 5

Ecological
Impacts

Share of Customer
value-adding stage in terms of overall
ecological impacts: 19%

Relevance to Reputation: 4
Internal
Stakeholders

Regulation Risks: 2
Business Activity: 4

Social
Risks

not relevant in the use phase

not relevant in the use phase

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

G4 – 27

CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE

R E S U LT S O F Q U A N T I TAT I V E
ASSESSMENT

MANAGEMENT APPROACH ES

Almost a fifth of ecological impacts occur in
this value-adding stage. Just as in the Final Production
and Trade stages, the greatest impacts are caused by
Greenhouse Gases and Pollutants. This is due
to energy consumption during washing, drying and
ironing textiles, for example, or to electricity consumption
for the operation of electrical appliances. In addition,
synthetic dyes and phosphates are released during
washing. Since water is not a scarce resource in most
distribution countries, the impact of Water Consumption is relatively low. Compared to the use phase
of textiles, their disposal causes only relatively low
ecological damage.
Social Risks do not occur in the use phase, since
no working hours are performed here.

R E S U LT S O F S TA K E H O L D E R
ASSESSMENT
G4 – 27

Since the reporting companies address different target
groups, they are each responsible for implementing
measures for raising awareness among their customers
for sustainable consumption, for example by using the
Eco Facts labels (see diagram, p. 62). This allows the
Otto Group to have an indirect influence on a reduction
in ecological impact in this value-adding stage too.
A strong customer orientation is the foundation of economic success in the Otto Group, and decentralised customer communication allows it to address target groups
specifically. However, the communication of sustainability
aspects is made more difficult by the sheer number of
existing product labels with their various requirement
profiles. Such a volume of information frequently overwhelms and unsettles customers. To counteract this, it
is especially important to the Otto Group to ensure a
clear and credible presentation of sustainability aspects.

GRI aspects covered

The ecological impacts in the value-adding stage
Customer are seen as less relevant than other stages by
both Internal and External Stakeholders. This is due to
the fact that companies are generally assigned a lower
responsibility for activities that do not refer to their own
business activities or their supply chain. Internal Stakeholders see reputation opportunities here, in particular
for marketing especially energy-efficient products.

T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S
SCOPE OF ACTION
The Otto Group can only influence the ecological impact
of product use indirectly, for example by offering an
extensive range of attractive and yet energy-saving electrical appliances. Strict directives governing raw material
cultivation, smaller sourcing and distribution markets,
as well as the necessary tracing of the flow of goods
all increase the sourcing costs of sustainable products,
and these additional costs often also lead to higher
sales prices. Unless such higher prices work out better
later, as they do for efficient electrical appliances which
generate savings in the use phase, many customers
are not prepared to spend more money on sustainable
products. This price sensitivity in turn influences assortment design in the Group companies.

Customer Health and Safety, Product and
Service Labeling

P R O D U C T T R A N S PA R E N C Y
AN D QUALITY
O R I E N TAT I O N T H R O U G H
QUALITY SEALS
The Otto Group labels products that have particular
sustainable quality seals with so-called Eco Facts. These
promote and simplify customers’ sustainable purchasing
decisions by reducing complex information about individual products to the essentials, and enabling Group
companies to communicate them in an easily visible way.
This helps consumers, who according to surveys often
feel overwhelmed with regard to ethical consumption.
6 categories give information about the significant sustainability characteristics of a product (see diagram, p. 62).
In the reporting period, new sustainability labels were
included in the categories and the scope of application
of the Eco Facts was adjusted accordingly.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

61

62

CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE

The Otto Group’s Eco Facts

Eco Bio

Eco Recycling

Eco Commitment

Eco Energy

Eco Resource

Eco Vital

Products
manufactured
entirely or
partly from
natural materials
with low
ecological
impact.

Products
manufactured
entirely or
partly from
recycled
materials.

Products that
support
social and
sustainable
initiatives.

Products
that are
particularly
energy-efficient
in use.

Products
manufactured
entirely or
partly in a
resource-saving
way.

Products that
promote the
health and
well-being of
customers.

The Otto Group allocates a product to an Eco Fact category either if it is awarded a demanding label that is accepted by
the Otto Group, or if it demonstrates a clearly provable advantage from the point of view of sustainability compared to a
conventional product.

Group companies that use Eco Facts in their online
shops and catalogues include baumarkt direkt, Baur,
OTTO, Schwab and UNITO.
Alongside Eco Facts, Group companies have also developed individual solutions for labelling sustainable
products. For example, the Group company myToys
uses the mygreenline label to make more sustainable
products recognisable for customers at a glance, if the
article was manufactured under controlled ecological
and/or social conditions. Established and recognised
quality-seal committees in the areas of ecology, recycling and social responsibility are consulted and form
a basis for assessment.
Under the umbrella of the Future Initiative, the single
company OTTO informs its customers further about
sustainable consumption and the company’s activities
in the areas of environment, climate protection, nature
conservation and social responsibility. Apart from
participating in the Group-wide CR Strategy, this also
includes OTTO-specific topics and services such as the
re:blog on sustainable fashion.

S Y S T E M AT I C P O L L U TA N T C H E C K S
The companies in the Otto Group are responsible for
the quality of the own and licensed brands that they
offer, and they review these regularly. Checking textiles
for pollutants is part of the quality-assurance process
in the Otto Group.
Using systematic spot checks, the Otto Group monitors
compliance with the legal requirements for its clothing
ranges. It relies on the competence of Hansecontrol, the
testing institute that belongs to the Group. The reporting
companies have requirements for pollutant checks in
their textile assortments that exceed legal requirements.
They use the Öko-Tex 100 standard for orientation, which
includes checks for health-impacting azo dyes, formaldehyde and heavy metals. There are particularly strict testing parameters for children’s clothing.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE

E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N

M A K E S PA C E – W I T H A H E A R T

E N E R G Y- E F F I C I E N T
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES
For white goods, such as electrical appliances for cooking
and washing, the proportion of energy-efficient appliances in the assortment of the reporting companies was
69% in 2014, clearly above the values from the previous
year. In particular the product group of dishwashers
contributed to this positive development.
Efficient large electrical appliances 1
in %

2,504

2,316

60.8%

2,876

The Group company OTTO raises awareness among its
customers for the sustainable handling of resources.
For example, as part of the ‘Make space – with a heart’
initiative, customers can put unwanted clothes, shoes
and home textiles to sensible use with the help of OTTO.
Having been sent postage-free via Hermes or DHL, the
donations are re-used through certified companies.
The proceeds are given to German Agro Action, NABU
(German Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union)
and the Cotton made in Africa initiative (see p. 33).

D ATA P R O T E C T I O N A N D
I N F O R M AT I O N S E C U R I T Y
TO O LS

68.9%

57.8%
2012

2013

2014

Number of large electrical appliances, total range
Share of efficient large electrical appliances in total range
Electrical appliances are considered to be efficient if they are provably more energyefficient than the average energy consumption values in their product group.

1

AV O I D I N G R E T U R N S
In the mail-order industry there are frequent returns,
especially of textiles. The Otto Group companies take
various measures to reduce expensive and climatedamaging returns to a minimum. OTTO, for example,
is working on a software solution that gives individual
sizing recommendations, as well as a pilot project for
significant improvements in demand analysis. Group
companies such as OTTO or myToys make customers
who order the same product in different sizes aware of
the negative environmental effects that are generated
by sending items back. baumarkt direkt will swap individual parts in products sets, and SportScheck has
removed articles from the assortment of the online
shop that are returned particularly frequently.

The Group-wide applicable Information Security Directive
regulates the protection of person-related and sensitive
company data from unauthorised access and theft and
defines how to handle information. In this, the Otto
Group follows the international ISO 27001 standard.
A compliance process established for the German Group
companies for the use of public cloud-computing services
is currently being transferred into a globally mandatory
process. In addition, a data-protection target model will
help to ensure a data-protection level in the Otto Group
that is appropriate at all times and will strengthen the
anchoring of data protection in the Group.

ANCHORING IN THE GROUP
The continuously increasing requirements on data protection and information security are also growing in
importance in the Otto Group. Therefore, the former
Data Protection and IT Security Area was divided into
two organisational units, and their staff was increased.
The managers of each are both standing members of
the Group Compliance Committee. They coordinate and
advise Data Protection Officers and Information Safety
Officers in the individual companies. The existing
Group-wide networks are being expanded to promote
the internal knowledge transfer in the Otto Group.
The Otto Group’s Internal Audit Department monitors
individual Group companies’ adherence to the stipulations of the Group Directives and implementation of the
centrally mandated measures. External audits and certifications (e.g. TÜV, Trusted Shops, ISO 27001) complement
the internal audits.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

63

64

ASSURANCE STATEMENT

Assurance Statement
Independent assurance report

TO OT TO (G M B H & CO KG ), H A M B U R G
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance
engagement selected sustainability information of the
Sustainability Report 2015 of the Otto (GmbH & Co.KG),
Hamburg (hereinafter: “Otto Group”), for the business
year 2014/2015, period 1 January to 31 December 2014
(hereinafter: “Sustainability Report 2015”). The sustainability information, which was selected by Otto Group
and reviewed by us, is marked with the symbol (   )
in the Sustainability Report 2015.

MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
The Company’s Board of Managing Directors is responsible for the accurate preparation of the Sustainability
Report 2015 in accordance with the criteria stated in
the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
This responsibility includes the selection and application
of appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainability
Report 2015 and the use of assumptions and estimates
for individual sustainability disclosures which are
reasonable in the given circumstances. Furthermore,
the responsibility includes designing, implementing
and maintaining systems and processes relevant for
the preparation of the Sustainability Report 2015.

OUR INDEPENDENCE AND
QUALITY CONTROL
We have complied with the independence and other
ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional
Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards
Board for Accountants (IESBA-Codex) which is founded
on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity,
professional competence and due care, confidentiality
and professional behavior.

Our firm applies the International Standard on Quality
Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive
system of quality controls including documented policies
and procedures regarding compliance with ethical
requirements, professional standards and applicable
legal and regulatory requirements.

PRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based
on our work performed as to whether anything has
come to our attention that causes us to believe that
the quantitative information marked with the symbol
(   ) in the Company’s Sustainability Report 2015 is
in material aspects not in accordance with the criteria
“Completeness”, “Comparability”, “Accuracy”, “Clarity”,
“Timeliness” and “Reliability” of the GRI’s Sustainability
Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4.
It was not part of our engagement to review product
or services related information, which goes beyond the
given data.
We also have been engaged to make recommendations
for the further development of the sustainability
management and the sustainability reporting based
on the results of our assurance engagement.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000.
This Standard requires that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the assurance
engagement, under consideration of materiality, in order
to provide our conclusion with limited assurance.
In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable
assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is
obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement.

 
Our engagement applies to the German version of the
Sustainability Report 2015. This text is a translation
of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German
language – the German text is authoritative.

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

65

ASSURANCE STATEMENT

The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s
judgment.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst
others the following procedures concerning the materiality analysis, management approaches and key data –
for the aspects that are marked with the symbol (   ):
• Inspection of the documents describing the Sustainability Strategy and Sustainability Management as well
as obtaining an understanding of the organizational
structure of the company;
• Inquiries of personnel responsible for the preparation
of the report regarding the process to prepare
the reporting of sustainability information and the
underlying internal control system;
• Recording of the systems and processes for collection
of sustainability data, inspection of their documentation and validation on a sample basis;
• Analytical procedures on relevant data;
• Gaining further evidence for selected data of the
report through inspection of internal documents,
contracts and invoices by external service providers.

CONCLUSION
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing
has come to our attention that causes us to believe that
the quantitative information marked with the symbol
(   ) in the Company’s Sustainability Report for the
business year 2014/2015 is in material aspects not in
accordance with the criteria “Completeness”, “Comparability”, “Accuracy”, “Clarity”, “Timeliness” and “Reliability”
of the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4.

E M P H A S I S O F M AT T E R –
R E C O M M E N D AT I O N S
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the
following recommendations for the further development of the Otto Group’s Sustainability management and
Sustainability reporting:
• Systematic extension of the Sustainability management
and the Sustainability reporting on material German
and international affiliated companies;
• Further optimization of the current data collection and
consolidation process on the level of the affiliated
companies and the Otto Group;
• Formalization and documentation of internal controls
for ensuring data quality on the level of the affiliated
companies and the Otto Group;
• Further integration of Sustainability indicators and
controls into existing control systems and processes.

Munich, 29 June 2015
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Hendrik Fink		
German Public Auditor

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

ppa. Anne Pattberg

66

GRI-G4 CONTENT INDEX

GRI-G4 Content Index

This report adheres to the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its current G4 version; it has been
produced in compliance with the ‘core’ option. If not all requirements of an indicator have been completely fulfilled,
then the omitted information is not material for the Otto Group.

G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S
Strategy and Analysis

Page

External audit

G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker

2

–

UNGC

G4-3 Name of the organization

Otto Group

–

G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services

4, 6-9

–

G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters

Hamburg, Germany

–

G4-6 Countries with significant operations

GB 12, 46

   GB 46, GB 198-199

G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form

4

–

G4-8 Markets served

5, 6-9

–

G4-9 Scale of the organization

5, 6-9, 39, 47; GB 67-68

   GB 67-68, GB 198-199

G4-10 Employees by employment type, gender and region

54-56

–

6

G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective
bargaining agreements

55

–

3

G4-12 Description of the supply chain

10-11, 39

–

G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period

54; GB 131

   GB 131, GB 198-199

G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle

12, 25

–

G4-15 External initiatives that the organization endorses

U2, 27, 43

–

G4-16 Significant memberships in industry and business associations

27, 44

–

G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statement

U2, 6-9; GB 129, 195

   GB 129, 195, GB 198-199

G4-18 Process for defining the report content

U2, 12, 14-18

–

G4-19 Material Aspects identified

U2

–

G4-20 Aspect Boundaries within the organization

U2

–

G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization

U2

–

G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports

U2, 34, 51, 54

–

G4-23 Significant changes in the Scope and Aspect boundaries

U2, 7, 48, 53

–

G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged

26

–

G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders

26

–

G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency

12, 16-17, 26-27

–

G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder
engagement and response

18, 30-31, 38-39, 46-47, 60-61

–

G4-28 Reporting period

U2

–

G4-29 Date of most recent previous report

September 2013

–

G4-30 Reporting cycle

U2

–

G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report

69

–

G4-32 “In accordance” option with GRI and Content Index chosen

66-67

–

G4-33 External verification of the report

U2, 64-65

–

23-24; GB 6-7, GB 9

–

4, 25, 32, 40

–

Organizational Profile

Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries

Stakeholder Engagement

Report Profile

Governance
G4-34 Governance structure, incl. committees of the highest
governance body
Ethics and Integrity
G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

10

67

GRI-G4 CONTENT INDEX

S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S
Ecology

Page

External audit

Aspect: Materials – Management approach

30-36

–

UNGC
7, 8

G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume

33-36

   33-34, 36, 64-65

7, 8

Aspect: Energy – Management approach

30-31, 38-39, 43, 46-47, 49, 60-61

–

G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization

50

–

7, 8, 9
7,8

G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services

61-63

–

8, 9

Aspect: Water – Management approach

30-33

–

G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source

33

–

Aspect: Biodiversity – Management approach

30-32, 34

–

G4-EN12 Impacts on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity
value

31, 34

–

8

Aspect: Emissions – Management approach

30-33, 38-39, 43, 46-48, 60-61

–

7, 8, 9

G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)

48-49

   48-49, 64-65

G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)

48-50

   48-50, 64-65

7, 8

G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)

48, 50

   48, 50, 64-65

7, 8

7, 8

7, 8

G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions

48-50

–

8, 9

G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions

33

–

7, 8

Aspect: Transport – Management approach

46-48

–

8

G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products

48-50

   48-50, 64-65

8

Aspect: Supplier assessment for labor practices –
Management approach

38-43

–

G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened
using labor practices criteria

41-43

   42, 64-65

G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labor practices in the
supply chain

41-43

   42, 64-65

Aspect: Supplier assessment for human rights – Management
approach

38-43

–

G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened
using human rights criteria

41-43

   42, 64-65

2

G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in the
supply chain

41-43

   42, 64-65

2

G4-EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed

5; GB 97

   GB 97, GB 198-199

G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligation

GB 151-154

   GB 151-154, GB 198-199

G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method

52

–

G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products
and services

33-34, 61-63

   33-34, 64-65

G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with
environmental regulations

25

–

8

G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover

54

–

6

G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days,
and work-related fatalities

58

–

G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown
of employees by aspects of diversity

56-57; GB 6-7, GB 9

–

6

G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken

25, 56

–

6

G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise
freedom of association may be violated or at risk, and measures taken

41-43

–

3

G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers having significant risk for
incidents of child labor, and measures taken

41-43

–

5

G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers having significant risk for
incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken

41-43

–

4

G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust,
and monopoly practices

25

–

G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for
which health and safety impacts are assessed

62

–

G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary
codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services

25

–

G4-PR3 Principles/ procedures for product and service information
and labelling

61-62

–

G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary
codes concerning product and service information and labelling

25

–

G4-PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary
codes concerning marketing communications

25

–

Labor Practices and Decent Work
1, 6

Human Rights

O T H E R G 4 I N D I C AT O R S R E P O R T E D
G4 Indicator

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

8
7, 8, 9

68

GLOSSARY

Glossary
Business Social Compliance
Initiative (BSCI)

The goal of this market alliance is to improve working conditions in international value chains through
audits and qualifications in factories (see p. 40 et seq.).

Carbon Performance
Improvement Initiative (CPI2)

An initiative by several companies, this has developed a management tool for managing CO2, chemicals and
water in the supply chain. The Otto Group is a founding member (see p. 43).

Code of Conduct

Establishes social standards for suppliers and their subcontractors. It is a basis for business relationships with
the Otto Group (see pp. 32, 40).

Cotton made in Africa
(CmiA)

An initiative promoting the cultivation of sustainable cotton in Africa (see p. 33).

CR Board

The central committee for preparing strategic CR decisions, led by the Chairman of the Executive Board
(see p. 23).
SSCM Board

Entry Assessment

The Otto Group’s own standard for reviewing factories in risk countries (see p. 41 et seq.).

Forest Stewardship Council®
(FSC®)

An international, charitable and independent organisation for promoting responsible forestry (see p. 34).

Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI)

An international organisation that has developed guidelines for producing sustainability reports (see p. 68 et seq.).

Gravure print

A print technique in which the elements to be printed are first engraved onto the image carrier as depressions.
Gravure printing is generally used for high-volume printing, e.g. catalogues. Other typical printing processes
are offset and digital print (see p. 35).

impACT

A sustainability management process through which the ecological and social impacts of the Otto Group’s
business activities are calculated and managed (see p. 12 et seq.).

Impact category

The ecological and social impacts of the Otto Group’s business activity are calculated in the five impact
categories Greenhouse Gases, Pollutants, Water Consumption, Land Use and Social Risks (see p. 14).

Materiality Analysis

) the ecological impacts (in EUR) or the social risks (in Risk working hours) are
For all topic areas (
determined. In addition, internal and external stakeholders assess their materiality (see p. 14 et seq.).

Materiality Matrix

) as a bi-axial diagram. The x-axis shows stakeholder
Presents the results of the materiality analysis (
assessments (on a scale of 1-10) of the individual topic areas (
), the y-axis shows their ecological impact
(in EUR) or the Social Risks (in Risk working hours) (see diagram, p. 18).

Merchandising goods

All products that are sold to end-customers, e.g. textiles and furniture. Non-merchandising goods include e.g.
catalogue paper, office materials and cleaning services at company facilities (see p. 39).

Multichannel Retail

The third business segment in the Otto Group, alongside Financial Services and Services. It includes the
business of the distribution channels e-commerce, catalogues and over-the-counter retail (see p. 6 et seq.).

Own and licensed brands

The Otto Group is in possession of the brand rights. The manufacture of these merchandising goods is commissioned by the Otto Group. The Group has a particular responsibility here and has a comparatively large scope of
influence (see p. 39).
Third-party brands

Progress Assessment

The Otto Group’s own standard for reviewing factories in risk countries, carried out annually after factories
) (see p. 41).
pass an Entry Assessment (

Progress Assessment

Reporting companies

Group companies in the Otto Group which are integrated in the sustainability reporting (see p. 6 et seq.).

Risk country

A country in which there is a higher risk of non-compliance with work standards. The Otto Group uses the risk
classification defined by the Business Social Compliance Initiative (see p. 40).
BSCI

Risk working hours

A unit for measuring Social Risks along the value chain. The risk that working hours have been performed
under violation of minimum standards depends on country and sector (see p. 15).

Social Programme

This applies to all suppliers of own and licensed brands with factories in risk countries. It is intended to create
acceptable working conditions for workers in the factories, as well as transparency in the supply chain (see p. 40).

SSCM Board

This is composed of managers from Group companies with responsibility for implementation. It decides on topics
in the value chain and prepares decisions for the CR Board (see p. 23).
CR Board

Sourcing organisation

Organise goods procurement in sourcing countries for companies and traders. The Otto Group works with
the Hermes-OTTO International (H-OI) subsidiary, as well as external sourcing organisations (see p. 39 et seq.).

Third-party brands

In this case, the brand rights – and therefore the responsibility for compliance with social and environmental
Own and licensed brands
standards in production – lie with third parties (see p. 39).

Topic area

This describes an impact category on a particular value-adding stage, e.g. Greenhouse Gases in the Trade stage
(see p. 18).

Value-adding stage

This describes one of the four sections of the Otto Group’s value chain: Raw Materials & Processing,
Final Production, Trade and Customer (see p. 10).

Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015

Imprint
PUBLISH ED BY

DISCLAIMER

Otto (GmbH & Co KG)
Dr. Johannes Merck
Vice President Corporate Responsibility
Werner-Otto-Straße 1-7, 22179 Hamburg, Germany
www.ottogroup.com

The Report on the Sustainability of our Value Creation
2015 contains forward-looking statements which are
based on the opinions and estimations of the management. Although management assumes that the expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements
are realistic, it cannot guarantee that its expectations
will actually prove to be correct. Assumptions may entail
risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to
differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking
statements. Otto (GmbH & Co KG) accepts no liability
and offers no warranty against the possibility of the
Report on the Sustainability of our Value Creation 2015
containing editorial errors or otherwise being incomplete.
Otto (GmbH & Co KG) has no plans to update forwardlooking statements or to provide any corrections or
supplements to the Report on the Sustainability of our
Value Creation 2015, nor does it undertake any obligation
to do so. However, Otto (GmbH & Co KG) does reserve
the right to update the Report on the Sustainability of
our Value Creation 2015 at any time without notice.
In the event of contradictions between the German and
English versions of this report, the German version shall
be final and definitive.

DOWN LOAD
S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 5
www.ottogroup.com/sustainabilityreport

C O N TA C T
Andreas Streubig
Division Manager
Environmental and Social Policy
andreas.streubig@ottogroup.com

PROJ ECT MANAGEMENT
Daniel Hußmann
Senior Manager CR Strategy & Controlling
daniel.hussmann@ottogroup.com

CONCEPTION AN D TEXT
akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh,
Munich, Germany

E N G L I S H T R A N S L AT I O N
World2World Hamburg, Jim Blake

ART DI RECTION
HGB Hamburger Geschäftsberichte GmbH & Co. KG,
Hamburg, Germany

BILDNACHWEISE
Page 2: Marion Losse
Page 29: thinkstock
Page 37: thinkstock
Page 45: Otto Group
Page 59: thinkstock

R EPORT ON TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY OF OU R VALU E CR EATION 2015

Werner-Otto-Straße 1-7
22179 Hamburg
Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 40 64 61-0
Fax: +49 (0) 40 64 61-85 71
Website: www.ottogroup.com

