PUMA RElay 2014
Annual Report 2014

puma Timeline

Jan

FEB

our highlights in 2014

Mar 	apr 	may 	june 	july 	aug

sep 	oct 	nov

dec

evoPOWER Launch

“PUMA Lab” Roll-Out

World Cup Kit Launch

Lexi Thompson’s First Major

PUMA Village Closure

FIFA World Cup™ in Brazil

Arsenal FC Kit Launch

“Forever Faster” Campaign

Retail Business Relocation

Becker OG Release

F1-Championship for Hamilton

New Global Ambassador Rihanna

PUMA introduces its most
powerful football boot
to date, the evoPOWER.
Inspired by barefoot
kicking, it is designed
to enhance a player’s
natural kicking ability,
power and accuracy.

Together with Foot Locker
USA, PUMA starts rolling
out its “PUMA Lab” retail
concept in over 125 doors
and successfully expands
its market presence
throughout the US.

PUMA reveals the new
national kits for its eight
national football teams
heading to the World Cup
in Brazil. The kits feature
PUMA’s new football apparel
innovation PWR ACTV.

COBRA PUMA golfer Lexi
Thompson becomes the
second-youngest major
winner in LPGA Tour
history at 19 with her
victory at the Kraft
Nabisco Championship.

PUMA continues to optimize
its organizational setup
– with the closure of the
PUMA Village Development
Center in Vietnam and
the relocation of its
Lifestyle Business Unit to
Herzogenaurach.

The FIFA World Cup™ in
Brazil proves to be a great
stage for PUMA’s innovative
kits and eye-catching
“Tricks” boots. PUMA
achieves its best ever sellthrough of football boots,
with Tricks widely sold out.

PUMA becomes the official kit
partner of top English Premier
League club Arsenal FC. The
partnership kicks off with the
launch of Arsenal’s kits for
2014/15 through a twenty
meter high water projection
on London’s River Thames.

PUMA’s global ”Forever
Faster” campaign,
the biggest marketing
campaign in the company’s
history, marks the start
of PUMA’s repositioning
as a true Sports Brand
to consumers and retail
partners.

With the finalization of the
relocation of its Global and
European Retail Organization from Oensingen, Switzerland, to the headquarters
in Herzogenaurach, PUMA
completes its last major consolidation project in 2014.

PUMA reissues the Becker
OG, the classic mid-top
shoe that 17-year-old
Boris Becker wore during
his famous Wimbledon
win in 1985.

Lewis Hamilton of PUMA
partnered MERCEDES AMG
PETRONAS F1 team wins
his second drivers’ World
Championship ahead of
teammate Nico Rosberg.

PUMA and Rihanna
announce a new multiyear partnership, starting
January 2015. Rihanna
will serve as one of the
brand’s Creative Directors
directly influencing PUMA’s
Women’s collections.

CONTENT

1 | To our Shareholders
Foreword
2 | Company Overview
Company
Strategic Priorities
Operations Strategy
Brand
Brand Strategy
Product
Design Language
Performance
Lifestyle
Distribution
Distribution Strategy
Sustainability
Our Sustainability Strategy
Our Sustainability Targets
Social Sustainability
Environmental Sustainability

3
4
7
7
8
10
12
13
15
16
18
27
32
33
35
36
42
44
53

Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration
Anti-Corruption Efforts
The Way Ahead
Our Employees
Independent Assurance Statement

65
66
67
68
76

3 | Group Management Report
Overview 2014
PUMA Group Essential Information
Commercial Activities and
Organizational Structure

78
79
81

Dividends
Regional Development
Net Assets and Financial Position
Cash Flow
Compensation Report
Risk and Opportunity Management
Information Concerning Takeovers
Supplemental Report and Outlook
Corporate Governance Report

81

4 | Consolidated Financial

Targets and Strategy
Product Development and Design
Sourcing
Employees
Management System
Economic Report
General Economic Conditions
Sales
Results of Operations

82
84
85
87
89
90
90
91
95

98
99
101
103
105
107
112
114
116

Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

128

Auditor´s Certificate

168

5 | Report by the Administrative
Board

169

6 | GRI Index

173

7 | The PUMA Share

183

Statements
Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position

121 8 | Further Information

186

Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income

123

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow
Statement of Changes in Equity
Changes in Fixed Assets

125
126
127

122

124

TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS
Foreword
PUMA’s CEO Bjørn Gulden about the milestones in 2014,
the importance of the new partnership with Rihanna and the
company’s priorities for 2015 and beyond:
Interview 4

1 | to our shareholders

Foreword
Interview with CEO Bjørn Gulden

“We have initiated
the turnaround,
but are not there yet”
Bjørn Gulden (49),
Chief Executive Officer, with
PUMA since 2013.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
is an attitude: We want to
be fast in making decisions,
fast in reacting to new
trends and fast in bringing
innovations to the market.”

4 | PUMA RELAY

In PUMA’s Annual Report 2013 and on
many other occasions you spoke of the
challenges PUMA is facing, such as the
lack of brand heat or commercial products.
What did we achieve in 2014 to tackle that?
Looking back at 2014, we made progress
on all of our key strategic priorities internally
and externally. Internally, many important
decisions have been turned from words
into action and those will help us become
a faster and better company in the future.
We have made strides in developing competitive products that mirror PUMA’s new
“Forever Faster” positioning. We have improved our marketing, which now focusses
on fewer stories and a clear use of our assets. We have initiated important changes to
optimize our organizational setup. We have,
for example, closed our development center
PUMA Village in Vietnam and relocated our
Lifestyle Business Unit from London and
our Retail business from Oensingen to our
headquarters in Herzogenaurach. And last
but not least, we have started revamping
our operations and IT foundation under the
guidance of our newly appointed Chief Operating Officer, Lars Sørensen.

TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS | 1

What were external milestones?
The year 2014 saw many great examples
of our “Forever Faster” positioning that
were visible to our consumers and retailers.
We also worked on further extending our
brand ambassador list, when we added
Arsenal FC to our portfolio and extended
our contracts with Mercedes and BMW. And
of course, we signed Rihanna – what I am
really proud of.

“The positive feedback we
received from our retailers in
terms of our new direction was
an important milestone for
PUMA.”
Our strong brand presence at the World Cup
in Brazil with eight partnered teams and our
pink and blue “Tricks” football boots as well
as the Driver’s and Constructor’s Championship titles in Formula 1 for PUMA-supplied
Mercedes – to name only a few highlights
– also clearly proved that PUMA is back as
a sports brand. And then personally, I think
that the positive feedback we received from
our retailers in terms of our new direction

OUR
BRAND MISSION
PUMA WILL BE THE
FASTEST SPORTS BRAND
IN THE WORLD

was also an important milestone for PUMA.
I am happy to say that all of this work translated into a product pipeline with exciting innovations like evoPOWER in Football and
our revolutionary IGNITE concept in Running. In addition to that, we successfully
started initiatives to improve the quality of
our distribution like our “PUMA Lab” retail
concept in the US market.
In August 2014, PUMA launched its
“Forever Faster” campaign to the
consumer. What are the messages we
want to convey?
First of all, “Forever Faster” and our mission to be the Fastest Sports Brand in the
world is more than just a campaign. It’s a

direction of who we want to be and where
we are going. Throughout its history of over
65 years, PUMA always had a strong connection to speed which is reflected in the
industry’s fastest logos, record-breaking
athletes in different sports categories and
pioneering product innovations. For example, PUMA was the first sports company to
fuse sports and fashion, creating a new era
with immensely successful footwear icons
like Speed Cat, Future Cat and Mostro.

“It is important that we look at
‘Forever Faster’ as the DNA of
our company culture.”
For me, “Forever Faster” can be best described as an attitude: We want to be fast

in making decisions, fast in reacting to new
trends and fast in bringing innovations to the
market. We all know that PUMA is not there
yet, but it is important that we look at “Forever
Faster” as the DNA of our company culture.
In autumn 2014, we were ready to launch
the first phase of our “Forever Faster” campaign, which basically had two objectives: to
demonstrate to our consumers that PUMA
is back in sports and has athletes with the
distinctive PUMA attitude, and secondly, to
prove to our retail partners that we deliver
on our promises by investing in marketing. In
the next phase, we will tie the campaign to
products like the PUMA IGNITE and build a
consistent storyline leading up to the Rio de
Janeiro Olympic Games in 2016.
Did “Forever Faster” already have an
effect on our business and financial
Performances in 2014?
I think it is fair to say that we have initiated the
turnaround, but we are not there yet. I have always said that the repositioning of PUMA and
the turnaround of our business will take time
and we need to continue to build confidence
in the marketplace. But there were definitely
PUMA RELAY | 5

1 | TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS

some signs in 2014 that our initiatives were
yielding fruit. Our full-year results were in line
with expectations and we stopped the decline
in PUMA’s sales. It was also very pleasant to
see that our Footwear segment returned to
growth in the third and fourth quarter of 2014
after seven quarters of decline. This is a very
important success indicator in our industry.
But we are not aiming for an optimal result
in the short term. We took a conscious decision to continue our investment in marketing
to re-establish PUMA in the market place and
– with regards to the second half of 2015 – to
invest in the renewal of our IT. 2015 will be the
year to further enhance and reinforce the repositioning of PUMA and, although it will still
take some time, I am convinced we will make
“the cat” shine again.
What are PUMA’s priorities for 2015
and beyond?
PUMA’s priorities will not change in 2015.
We will continue to work towards our mission of becoming the Fastest Sports Brand
in the world. And while we concentrate on our
Performance categories, we also think that
“Sport is Lifestyle”: Yes, our main focus is on
sports, but by making “cool stuff that works”,
6 | PUMA RELAY

OUR OBJECTIVE
IS TO BE THE
FASTEST SPORTS BRAND
u
u
u
u
u
u

…with fast PRODUCTS
…with the fastest ATHLETES
…fast in reacting to NEW TRENDS
…fast INNOVATORS
…fast in DECISION making
…fast in SOLVING PROBLEMS FOR OUR PARTNERS

we also want our products to reach the street.
In 2015, our female consumer will be in the
spotlight, as we truly believe that the “future
is female”.

“I think that, if we do it right,
Rihanna can be a game changer
for PUMA.”
With the addition of Rihanna as our new
global brand ambassador and as one of

PUMA’s creative directors, I am certain that
we have found the key to the women’s market.
With her global profile, her charisma and
her creativity, she will help us to open doors
both in our Performance and our Lifestyle
categories. I think there is a huge potential
for strong collections targeted exclusively at
women both in the Training and Fitness arena
as well as in other sports categories that
has been neglected by the industry. We are
working on many exciting concepts to satisfy

this demand and I think that, if we do it right,
Rihanna can be a game changer for PUMA.
“PUMA Relay” is the theme of this
Annual Report for 2014. What is the
meaning behind this metaphor?
We chose “PUMA Relay”, because it
describes how we work at PUMA. The
symbol of the relay mirrors nicely that we
are faster in achieving our goals together as
a team instead of running on our own. If you
think of a relay race, the critical moment is
always the handover of the baton. At PUMA,
we certainly have a lot of great runners and
performers, but we need to continue working
on our handovers, define the distances
and avoid running next to each other. This
report’s cover picture with our employees
forming “Forever Faster” at our headquarters
in Herzogenaurach and the relay runners on
the following pages symbolize that every
team member at PUMA helps us to be
“Forever Faster”. I want to thank everyone
at PUMA as well as our shareholders for the
continued support and belief in the PUMA
brand. Enjoy reading the interviews with
other PUMA relay runners and the rest of
this report!

Company Overview

COMPANY
Strategic Priorities
How “Forever Faster” is the guiding principle
for the company’s strategy:
Interview 8

Operations Strategy
COO Lars Sørensen about the improvement of
PUMA’s operations and IT foundation:
Interview 10

2 | Company overview

Strategic
Priorities
In 2013, CEO Bjørn Gulden introduced PUMA’s
new mission statement: To be the Fastest Sports
Brand in the world. The company’s mission not only
reflects PUMA’s new brand positioning of being
“Forever Faster“, it is also the guiding principle for
the company’s strategy, its actions and decisions.
Arne Freundt (35),
Global Director Strategy until
31.01.2015, now Global Director
Retail and eCommerce, with
PUMA since 2011.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’ means
bringing PUMA back to where it
belongs: amongst the top
global sports brands!”
8 | PUMA RELAY

Arne Freundt, who has led PUMA’s Global
Strategy Department for the last 3.5 years
and has taken on the role as Global Director Retail and eCommerce as of February 1,
2015, reflects some of the milestones and
PUMA’s strategic measures in 2014 and
takes a look ahead.
How does “Forever Faster” translate into
the company’s strategy?
“Forever Faster“ not only represents our
brand positioning. It is the mindset for everything we do and want to achieve as a company with our five strategic priorities: Recreating brand heat, developing commercial
products with innovative and fast designs
and offering these products in the channels
that are relevant for our consumers are key
elements of our strategy – with a lean and
efficient organisation and modern IT infrastructure forming the basis for these targets.
Can you describe a specific strategic
project in 2014 and how it made us become
faster as a company?
The most illustrative examples are probably
the relocation and consolidation projects
which we finalized in 2014. Firstly, the closure of our Vietnam based PUMA Village

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

Development Center in May: We moved
our developers into the sample rooms of
our suppliers’ factories, which speeds up
our development process and leverages
the expertise of our suppliers. Secondly,
the relocation of our Lifestyle Business Unit
from London to our headquarters in Herzogenaurach: Since June 2014, our designers
and product managers for our Lifestyle collections are located in our headquarters and
fully embedded in our product creation processes in Herzogenaurach. And as the last
out of the three major consolidation projects
in 2014, we finalized the relocation of our
Global and European Retail functions from
Oensingen in Switzerland to Herzogenaurach as of September, which enables us to
take quicker decisions in our retail business.

“We will always have to take
the changing market realities
into account and constantly
reinvent ourselves.”
Is PUMA still in a transformation process?
How far are we along the journey?
We are happy to have successfully concluded the key elements of the transformation program we announced in the course
of 2012 – for example, the setup of a new

PUMA’S 5 KEY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
FOR 2014 AND BEYOND
u
u
u
u
u

Reposition PUMA as the Fastest Sports Brand
in the world and create brand heat
Improve the product engine
Optimize the distribution quality
Increase the speed of PUMA’s organization
Renew the IT infrastructure

regional business model in Europe to reduce
the complexity on a country level as well as
the establishment of a Business Unit structure to sharpen our focus in our Performance
and Lifestyle categories. In 2014, we defined
our new strategic priorities in line with our
“Forever Faster“ mission and we progressed
well with all our targets in the last year. However, transformation is by nature an ongoing
process and we will always have to take the
changing market realities into account and
constantly reinvent ourselves.

What is the role of the PUMA owned brands
Cobra Golf and Tretorn as well as the
affiliate companies Dobotex and Brandon in
our process to become faster overall?
Cobra Golf is an integral part of our Golf
business and follows our “Forever Faster“
strategy in terms of product, marketing and
distribution. For Tretorn, we are currently
assessing the best possible options, as the
brand needs a distinctive strategy in order to
regain traction in the market. For Dobotex,

our underwear and socks expert, we are
planning to strengthen the portfolio of licensed brands as well as leveraging their
expertise in new business fields. Our goal
for Brandon is to refocus the company on its
excellence in the corporate and promotional
merchandise and retail support business.

“It is important to stay on
course with the targets we laid
out in 2014.”
Looking ahead, what are PUMA’s strategic
priorities for 2015 and beyond?
It is important to stay on course with the targets we laid out in 2014. In 2015, we will continue to work towards our mission of becoming the Fastest Sports Brand in the world,
while further improving our business along
the strategic priorities we defined. A special
emphasis will be placed on improving our IT
foundation and operations to ensure a faster, leaner, and more efficient setup. To stick
with the relay metaphor, I am handing over
the baton to our COO Lars Sørensen to explain our focus regarding the upgrade of our
systems and processes.

PUMA RELAY | 9

2 | Company overview

Operations
Strategy
In 2014, PUMA’s strategic priorities were complemented
with a further objective: the improvement of the
company’s operations and its IT foundation to match
the industry’s best practice benchmark and ensure
a faster, leaner, and more efficient setup in the
coming years.

Lars Sørensen (52),
Chief Operating Officer, with
PUMA since 2013.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means fewer steps in our
processes and fewer levels in
the organization. I believe by
simplifying, we can become
even faster and more
efficient in execution.”
10 | PUMA RELAY

The process and system due diligence
of PUMA’s new Chief Operating Officer
revealed significant improvement potential
in PUMA’s IT and process landscape. Read
here how Lars Sørensen describes the
way he and his teams plan to lay the foundation for a lean and efficient company in
the future.
You were appointed Chief Operating
Officer (COO) of PUMA as of August 1,
2014. What were your priorities when
you started?
My initial focus was
to identify how we can
become more united
and streamlined as an organization and at
the same time to foster flat hierarchies and
direct communication, which I think are crucial success factors, if you want to become
faster overall. I had led the areas of Business Processes and Intelligence as well as
Information Technology since November

Company overview | 2

2013. This gave me a head start for my new
role as COO, because I had a chance to
look deeply into all areas of our business.

“Our ‘Forever Faster’ strategy
aims to centralize and speed
up the way we work and provide
services to our business
partners.”
And what were the results of
your assessment?
At PUMA, we come from a – what I would
call – multi-local culture, meaning everything we did as a company, whether it was
how we sourced, produced or marketed our
products, was done pretty differently from region to region. Our “Forever Faster“ strategy
aims to centralize and speed up the way we
work and provide services to our business
partners, to optimize our IT infrastructure
and last but certainly not least to become
faster in delivering competitive products.

Guiding Principles in PUMA’s
Operations Strategy
u
u
u

Get Back to Normal
Simplify for SPEED
Become EFFICIENT in execution

Can you describe a specific project in your area
and how it helps PUMA to perform better?

regions according to their orders and needs.
And how do our suppliers benefit from this?

Our so-called International Trading Company is an important example, which is being rolled out in 2015. This trading hub sits
between PUMA and our suppliers worldwide and allows our subsidiaries around the
globe to centrally place their orders for the
manufacturing of PUMA products instead of
dealing with all sorts of different suppliers individually. It also manages all invoices and
makes sure our products are delivered to our

Our new trading model certainly not only
helps us to become faster, but is an immense advantage for our vendors and business partners as well because it guarantees
a reliable and punctual payment for financing their production and ultimately allows for
larger order volumes and less ship-tos. This
will significantly improve and deepen our relationship with our suppliers.

“With a clear operational set-up,
we will be able to concentrate
best on what we’re here
to do: creating and selling
great products.”
What are your teams’ priorities
for 2015 and beyond?
We have defined a detailed roadmap for the
coming years. The year 2014 marked the
initial phase, which addressed our most immediate challenges in order to speed up our
organization. In 2015, we will focus on three
areas: continue with the implementation of
our end-to-end trading setup that we started with our International Trading Company,
build capabilities and processes to improve
the design, development and planning processes and optimize our basic IT infrastructure. With a clear operational set-up, we will
be able to concentrate best on what we’re
here to do: creating and selling great products.
PUMA RELAY | 11

Company Overview

BRAND
Brand Strategy
Brand Marketing Director Adam Petrick about
PUMA’s “Forever Faster” campaign start, the right type
of brand ambassadors and the key marketing
initiatives going forward:
Interview 13

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

BRAND
STRATEGY
PUMA made strides throughout 2014 to regain
a clear positioning as the Fastest Sports Brand in
the world. August 2014 saw the successful launch
of our worldwide “Forever Faster” brand campaign.
Our central message: PUMA is back in sports!

Adam Petrick (39), Global
Director Brand Marketing, with
PUMA since 1999.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
is the endless pursuit of
improvement, the desire
to get better with every
season, and the refusal to
ever stop moving forward.”

Adam Petrick, Global Director Brand Marketing, recaps the key brand initiatives in
2014, explains how Rihanna will be a game
changer for PUMA, and takes a look ahead
at PUMA’s marketing strategy in 2015.
Let’s take a look back at 2014. What were
the key events and initiatives to stir up
brand heat?
After the launch of our revolutionary
evoPOWER football boot in January, we
continued our momentum throughout the
World Cup with a tremendous social media
campaign related to both our national team
kits as well as our “Tricks” boots. In addition, we celebrated a spectacular launch of
PUMA’s first team kits for Arsenal Football
Club in London. Successes in other categories included Rickie Fowler’s stunning record of finishing in the top ten of every Golf
PUMA RELAY | 13

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

major this year, as well as Lewis Hamilton’s
world championship title in Formula 1. But
really, the greatest moment from a brand
perspective was the launch of our “Forever
Faster“ campaign worldwide, bringing all of
our most famous athletes together into a single campaign with the aim of reintroducing
PUMA as a global sports brand.

CAMPAIGN OBJECTIVES
u
u
u

PUMA IS BACK IN SPORTS
PUMA HAS GREAT ASSETS
PUMA HAS ATTITUDE

“We adjusted our consumer
target to be both younger and
more sports-oriented.”
How has the campaign been received so
far and whom do we address with it?
The market surveys certainly show a very
positive consumer reception. Within the first
three months we reached consumers in 35
countries, generating 1 billion TV impressions in our target group as well as 31 million online views. Over the course of 2014,
we redefined our target consumer both from
a demographic and psychographic standpoint. PUMA is a brand centered in sports
– and therefore we adjusted our consumer
target to be both younger and more sportsoriented. I am very confident that by more
clearly defining our target group, we will do
an even better job of conveying our brand
14 | PUMA RELAY

Lifestyle. Bringing Rihanna into the PUMA
family is a commitment to our increased focus on the female consumer segment, as
we truly believe that the “future is female”.

values and reaching our key audience in
2015 and beyond.
What exactly are PUMA’s brand values
and the type of ambassadors we choose to
work with to represent these values?
PUMA is a brand for game changers – people who challenge conventions and take
risks to achieve their goals. As a brand, we
want to be brave, confident, determined and
joyful – and these are exactly the attributes
represented through our athletes and ambassadors. Take Usain Bolt, for instance.
He’s reset the bar for speed from a performance standpoint, but also has an extraordinarily joyful personality, too, which he shows
on and off the track.

What is in the pipeline for the coming
seasons and what is the focus for PUMA in
2015 in terms of its brand communication?

“We truly believe that the
‘future is female’.”
…and now Rihanna.
Why did PUMA sign her?
When we looked for a global face of the
PUMA Woman, we quickly came to the conclusion, that there was no one who more
clearly embodied the game changing and
limit pushing attitude of PUMA. Not only
does she enjoy breaking with conventions,
she is beautiful, elegant, and extremely ambitious, she has a fantastic body and she is
eager to maintain her energy and fitness level to perform in front of her millions of adoring fans. All of these attributes make her the
perfect match for PUMA and a credible face
for our Women’s range in Training as well as

We have a lot of exciting stories coming this
year, but our goal is to focus on fewer initiatives, and to communicate our messages
more clearly. Examples of this are the ongoing evolution of our evoPOWER concept in
football as well as the full-year focus on our
new cushioning technology IGNITE in running and our Pulse range in training, which
will help us to build and define long-term
franchises in the marketplace. In addition
to a strong product offering in Performance
categories like Teamsport and Running,
we think that a solid proposition in Training is crucial to being recognized as a true
sports brand. Therefore, we will be focused
on training storytelling in the second half of
the year, with a major media push featuring
our top ambassadors. We will definitely see
more of our athletes in authentic sporting
moments and products that our consumers
can rely on to help them perform better, feel
great, and look damn good in as well.

Company Overview

PRODUCT
Design Language
How Creative Director Torsten
Hochstetter translates “Forever Faster“ into a
distinctive design language:
Interview 16

Performance
From evoPOWER and Arsenal to Usain Bolt, Rihanna
and Lewis Hamilton, PUMA is “Forever Faster“:
Teamsport 18
Running and Training 21
Golf 23
Motorsport 25

Lifestyle
Sport is Lifestyle: Our Lifestyle and Fundamentals
collections are rooted in sports:
Lifestyle 27
Fundamentals 30

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

DESIGN
LANGUAGE

Torsten Hochstetter (47),
Global Creative Director,
with PUMA since 2013.

“‘Forever Faster’ means
to keep it simple,
make it powerful and
create something
relevant.”

It is our ambition that PUMA’s products reflect
our mission to be the Fastest Sports Brand in the world.
One of our strategic priorities in 2014 therefore was to
improve PUMA’s product engine with a clear focus
on innovation combined with commerciality
and beauty in design.

16 | PUMA RELAY

For our Performance categories, we
aim to develop lighter, more agile products with better fit and improvements in
adaptation to the body in motion. In Lifestyle,
PUMA’s great heritage in sports serves us
as an inspiration in order to deliver compelling products.

Creative Director, translated our brand mantra “Forever Faster“ into a new distinctive
design language for PUMA, which is rooted
in sports.

A key project in 2014 with the aim to improve
our product engine was to adapt our design
language in accordance with our new brand
platform. Torsten Hochstetter, our Global

In 2014, we have taken a major step forward towards improving our product engine
by defining a new visual language which is
based on our company and brand mission

What were the priorities for you
and your team in 2014?

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

“Forever Faster“ and serves as a guard rail
for PUMA’s global design team. In terms of
our products, it’s all about innovation as well
as clear, simple, and commercial designs
rooted in sports.
Why did you develop a new
visual language for PUMA and how
does it connect to the company and its
brand mission “Forever Faster“?
Our ambition is that PUMA’s products are
the ultimate embodiment of our brand mission. So we decided it was necessary to
translate our brand values “Brave”, “Confident”, “Determined” and “Joyful” into a visual
language to ensure that PUMA’s designs
consistently reflect our new direction. Based
on that, we established branding guidelines
determining for example the execution of our
different logos and the usage of materials.
And thirdly, we introduced a global seasonal
creative direction with the involvement of all
internal design teams and regional creation
centers with the ultimate goal to simplify and
harmonize our product offering globally.

“Our design process can best
be described in three words:
focus, simplify and execute.”

Let’s be more specific: How will you
make sure to succeed in designing more
commercial products with a simple but
nonetheless appealing design?
We defined five principles, which will help
us to decide, if we are designing the right
product for PUMA. They cannot necessarily
all be combined in every single product, but
should always be kept in mind when we create something new. Most importantly: Keep
it simple. Less often really is more, and that
refers to materials as well as the use of

DESIGN
PRINCIPLES

colours, for example. Another guideline is
to always create something relevant by asking ourselves: Where is the clear benefit for
athletes and consumers? In a nutshell, we
decided on a design process that can best
be described in three words: focus, simplify
and execute.
Can you name examples throughout 2014
which guide the way for future products?
Take our football products as an example of
how innovation is key in our product development. The World Cup was a
fantastic stage for our apparel
innovation PWR ACTV, a firstto-market use of both athletic
taping and compression, as
well as our pink and blue interpreta-

VISUAL LANGUAGE
u
u
u
u
u

KEEP IT SIMPLE
MAKE IT POWERFUL
CREATE SOMETHING RELEVANT
BE COURAGEOUS
MAKE IT FAST

tion of PUMA’s revolutionary evoPOWER
football boot, which is inspired by barefoot
kicking and optimizes a player’s power and
accuracy when striking the ball.

“Our efforts have clearly
already translated into better
products for 2015.”
What can be expected in 2015?
Will PUMA manage to deliver to the
expectations of the market?
The feedback from our retail partners and
consumers shows that our efforts have
clearly already translated into better products for 2015. A very striking example of
this is our new running shoe IGNITE, which
is designed for energy return, comfort and
durability. IGNITE foam is a perfect synergy
of cushioning and responsiveness with
the added benefit of not breaking down
over time. We have been working on this
advancement in footwear technology for a
number of years with the help of the Fastest
Man in the World, Usain Bolt, and we are
very confident this is going to have a big
impact on the industry.

PUMA RELAY | 17

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

PERFORMANCE
With its mission to be the Fastest Sports Brand in
the world, PUMA places special emphasis on its
Performance business in Teamsport, Running and
Training, Golf and Motorsport. The following sections
provide an overview of the most important
activities in each of our Performance
categories in 2014.

Cesc Fàbregas (27),
Spanish midfield hero, with
PUMA since 2011.

“For me,
‘Forever Faster’
means to wake up
in the morning and think:
Today, I will be better
than yesterday!”

18 | PUMA RELAY

∂

Watch the evoPOWER boot launch in Barcelona at an
interactive and live football event with our PUMA star players
Cesc Fàbregas, Marco Reus and Mario Balotelli here!

TEAMSPORT
Continuing to excel with new and
exciting product innovations
In 2014, PUMA brought two major innovations to the football market: In footwear, we
launched our most revolutionary football
boot to date, the evoPOWER. Inspired by
the freedom of movement of barefoot kicking, it is designed to enhance a player’s natural kicking ability, and optimize a player’s
power and accuracy when striking the ball.
In apparel, PUMA launched its PWR ACTV
technology, a first-to-market use of both
athletic taping and compression within the
garment, enhancing the natural power of the
athlete’s body.

Company overview | 2

Leaving an impressive mark at
the FIFA World Cup™

Arsenal Football Club: the biggest
deal in our company’s history

At the 2014 FIFA World Cup™ in Brazil,
PUMA’s eight partnered teams generated
a strong on-pitch visibility, participating
in almost half of all games in the tournament. The World Cup proved to be a great
stage for PUMA’s innovative football products: While PUMA’s national team kits featured our apparel innovation PWR ACTV,
the prominent pink and blue interpretation
of PUMA’s revolutionary evoPOWER and
evoSPEED football boots “Tricks” created
lots of positive headlines as well and could
be seen in three quarters of all games. With
high engagement rates on our social media
channels, PUMA achieved its best ever sellthrough for football boots, with “Tricks” widely sold out.

Following January’s announcement, PUMA
became the official kit partner of English
Premier League club Arsenal Football Club
from July 1st, and kicked off its new partnership with the launch of the much-anticipated
new Arsenal Home, Away and Cup kits for
the 2014/15 season. The kits were revealed
through a spectacular 20-metre high water
projection on London’s River Thames
viewed from the north bank, transforming
the EDF Energy London Eye into the iconic
Clock End. Arsenal represents a major commercial and marketing opportunity to reinforce PUMA’s credibility as a global sports
brand as well as a perfect platform to showcase our performance products through the
club’s significant global fanbase, profile and
reputation.

∂

Watch Arsenal manager
Arsène Wenger tell the individual
Future, Forever, Victorious
inspirations behind PUMA’s
kit designs at the spectacular
launch event in London!

∂

The right boot is pink, the left boot is blue.
PUMA’s “Tricks” boots were THE eye-catcher
during the FIFA World Cup™ in Brazil!
PUMA RELAY | 19

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Strengthening our “true love”
with Borussia Dortmund

Cementing our status as the
world’s fastest football brand

In September, PUMA participated in the
capital increase of its strategic partner
Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA
(BVB) by acquiring 4,600,000 shares of the
club, which represents 5.00% of the voting
rights. As Borussia Dortmund’s technical
supplier since July 2012, we are looking forward to continuing our successful partnership with BVB as a close partner and shareholder. The enthusiasm of this long-standing
club and its unique fans not only allows us
to leave our mark in the field of football, but
provides our retail partners with innovative
football products and marketing concepts.

Looking at the seasons ahead, PUMA will
continue to optimize its portfolio of globally relevant assets on the club and international federation level such as Arsenal,
Borussia Dortmund as well as the Italian
Football Association (FIGC), along with a
player asset list with strong international
credibility – from the likes of Mario Balotelli,
Cesc Fàbregas, Sergio Agüero, Marta, Yaya
Touré, and Olivier Giroud to Marco Reus,
Radamel Falcao and Santi Cazorla.

20 | PUMA RELAY

Radamel Falcao (29),
Colombian striker, with PUMA
since 2011.
“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means to always strive for
more, to believe in yourself
every day, to never give up and
to always stand up when you
fall. Sí, se puede!”

Company overview | 2

Running and Training

The Carson offers comfortable style
through every mile you run and
every step you take around town.

Usain Bolt is “Forever Faster“
In the year of his 28th birthday, the World’s
Fastest Man celebrated the five-year anniversary of his two world records set at the
2009 IAAF World Championships in Berlin. For more than three decades, no 100m
world record has stood for such a period,
and no one other than Bolt has moved the
world record forward by more than a tenth
of a second since the measurement of
time in second hundredths was introduced.
Despite an injury-plagued season, Bolt won
Gold at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in
the 4x100m relay and added another first
place finish to his collection in the 100m at
the Warsaw Diamond League race in August.

Dominating the stage
in Running
2014 was an exciting year for several other
PUMA Jamaican athletes as well. Newly
partnered Javon Francis won 400m, at the
ISSA Boys and Girls Championships in
Jamaica, clocking a phenomenal time of
45 seconds to beat Usain Bolt’s previous
Champs record. Hansle Parchment won first
place at the Paris Diamond League event
in the 110m hurdles. Furthermore, PUMA-

outfitted Olympic hurdler Andrew Riley won
Gold at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow for the 110m hurdles in
13.32 sec.

Usain Bolt (28),
World’s Fastest Man,
with PUMA since 2003.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
is everything! It describes
me perfectly, I am ‘Forever
Faster’. When PUMA came
up with this I thought
‘Yes – this is me!’”

Driving faster and
more commercial designs
In terms of our Running product range, we
focused on expanding our consumer base
by developing innovative, more commercial products in line with PUMA’s “Forever Faster“ brand strategy of simplifying and harmonizing our designs
and executions to improve our commerciality. A great example is the
Carson Runner. Launched initially in PUMA
North America for Autumn/Winter 2014, this
style is brought global in Spring/Summer
2015. It will continue to grow as a key commercial driver through Autumn/Winter 2015
and beyond.
PUMA RELAY | 21

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

∂

Worn by The World’s Fastest Man
Usain Bolt, IGNITE is PUMA’s most
responsive running shoe, optimizing
comfort and durability.
Watch for yourself!

Pulse. In Spring/Summer 2015, Pulse XT
kicks off a new product family of versatile,
training products to transform our customers’ wardrobe and workout and will continue
to grow throughout 2015 and into 2016.

Rihanna:
“The future
is female”

PUMA launches its most
energized running shoe
Spring/Summer 2015 will also see the
launch of the industry’s most innovative running technology to date: IGNITE. Developed
together with BASF over multiple years,
IGNITE is revolutionary to the business. It
has the highest energy return we have ever
created, step-in comfort and long-lasting
durability with ForEverFoam. In subsequent
seasons, additional styles will be introduced
and the IGNITE line will be expanded further
within our Running and Training category.
22 | PUMA RELAY

At the end of 2014, we added global
cultural icon Rihanna to our roster. Through
this new multi-year partnership, Rihanna will
serve as a global brand ambassador. She
will play a key role in our brand campaign
“Forever Faster“, featuring along PUMA’s
world-class athletes such as Usain Bolt and
Sergio Agüero. From Spring/Summer 2016
on, she will serve as one of the Creative
Directors for PUMA, specially focusing on
women. Rihanna will directly influence our
Women’s collections with her fresh, forward
thinking and non-traditional approach to
sports, fitness and lifestyle. This marks the
start of a renewed focus on women for the
PUMA brand.

Designing faster and
more flexible products for
our consumers’ workout
2014 also saw the product introduction for a new key training family,

∂

Click here to
watch the power
of Pulse XT!

Karin Baust (46),
General Manager
Running and Training,
with PUMA since 2011.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means bringing innovation
and excitement to
consumers in a unique
PUMA way!”

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

PUMA Golf’s footwear and apparel
continues to provide style, comfort and
performance to golfers.

GOLF
Bringing our “game enjoyment”
message to life
COBRA PUMA GOLF offers our golf consumer a comprehensive range of golf equipment by COBRA and golf footwear, apparel
and accessories by PUMA. COBRA Golf
has a history of creating high-quality equipment that utilizes game-changing technologies to help golfers improve their game,
while PUMA Golf delivers comfort, performance and style through its footwear,
apparel and accessories. Together COBRA
PUMA GOLF offers the full 360 package
that helps golfers to “Look Better. Feel
Better. Play Better.”

∂

Find out more
about the BiO CELL +
Driver and its innovative
technologies from COBRA’s
R&D Team. Watch here!

Lexi Thompson (20),
Longest Hitter on the LPGA
Tour, with PUMA since 2010.
“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means knowing I have the
best technology and
design on my feet
and in my clothes,
which allows me to
perform my best on
the course… and
in the gym.”

Innovative technology which
helps to improve the game
In 2014, COBRA Golf launched the BiO
CELL Family, a line of clubs that are easily
tuned to fit any golfers’ game. The BiO CELL
and BiO CELL + Driver, Fairways, Irons and
Hybrids take adjustability, customization
and pure distance to the next level. New
COBRA Golf, game-changing technologies,
including E9 Face, MyFly8TM, and SmartPadTM Technology, help golfers improve
their distance, manage trajectory and
enjoy the game!

PUMA RELAY | 23

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

∂

Go behind the scenes with Rickie Fowler and PUMA Golf’s
footwear experts to experience the testing for our all new
BIOFUSION Tour. Watch here!

Impressive performances
by the world’s top golf talents
Rickie Fowler’s performance during the
2014 PGA Tour season was remarkable.
His expressive PUMA Golf style on course
was enhanced by great performance with
his COBRA Golf BiO CELL clubs, as he
closed the season with ten Top-10 finishes,
including Top-5 finishes at all four majors.
Major winner and LPGA star Lexi Thompson
began the season with a bang, capturing
her first major championship at the Kraft
Nabisco Championship.

After capturing her first major at
only 19, Lexi celebrates by jumping
into Poppies Pond with her caddie.

Coming up…
COBRA PUMA GOLF will continue to bring
key breakthrough technologies to the market in 2015, including FlipZone Technology,
providing two different flight paths in one
head, in COBRA’s Fly-Z Family of products.
PUMA Golf will continue to stand out on the
green with new, improved fit, new technology and a wider range of options for golfers
of all ages and styles.

∂ Click here to see the FlipZone Technology at work!
24 | PUMA RELAY

The BioFusion
Spikeless Mesh
Golf shoe is flexible,
comfortable and ultradurable – helping golfers stay cool
and protected through any weather.

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

MOTORSPORT
PUMA dominates in the fastest
sports of the world
PUMA Motorsport looks back on a superb
season as well. In Formula One, Lewis
Hamilton of PUMA-partnered MERCEDES
AMG PETRONAS Formula One Team
impressively won the 2014 F1 Drivers’ World
Championship ahead of his team-mate
Nico Rosberg, who secured second place
in the Drivers’ standings. Before these
victories, MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS
had already sealed the 2014 Constructors’
Championship with three races to go before
the end of the season.

Lewis Hamilton wore a white/black
style of the F1 PRO-SLW when
clinching his place as double World
Champion. Weighing only 99 grams,
it is the lightest Formula One shoe
that currently exists and one of
PUMA’s latest innovations
to save its outfitted F1
drivers crucial
time.

Lewis Hamilton (30),
Formula 1 Champion in 2014,
MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS
partners with PUMA since 2012.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means the dream of always
getting better and pushing the
boundaries. And besides that
it is about individuality, being
unique in what you do.”

Building on successful
collaborations
PUMA not only extended its successful partnership with MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS,
it also secured a contract extension with
BMW Motorsport as the Official Supplier of
Team and Racewear for all BMW Motorsport
racing operations. PUMA’s longest-standing
partner in Motorsport impressively underlined its ambitions with Marco Wittmann winning the 2014 DTM Driver’s Championship in
his second DTM year and as the youngest
German DTM Champion of all time.

∂

How many questions can Lewis Hamilton
answer whilst driving one lap at full speed
around a race track? British comedian
James Corden attempted to find out.
Watch the fastest interview ever here!

©Anke Luckmann@www.kaitietz.de

PUMA RELAY | 25

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

A decade of being faster
For ten years, PUMA has worked with Scuderia Ferrari to develop innovative, ergonomic designs inspired by performance. In
2015, we celebrate this unique partnership
of iconic products inspired by the race track,
designed with functionality and fast-forward
technology.

26 | PUMA RELAY

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

LIFESTYLE
Our Business Units Lifestyle and
Fundamentals focus on the latest trends in
sports-inspired lifestyle and complement
our offering of performance products. The
following sections provide an overview of
the most important activities in 2014.

Yassine Saidi (36), Senior
Head of Lifestyle Footwear
and Select, with PUMA
since 2011.

“‘Forever Faster’
to me is a state
of mind that
drives us to push
our limits.”

Creating lifestyle products rooted
in our sports DNA
In 2014, we continued to exemplify how
we influence and shape culture and lifestyle through the lens of sports under our
“Forever Faster“ brand platform. Our great
heritage and our roots in sports serve us
as an inspiration in order to deliver compelling lifestyle products. Additionally, we draw
creative inspirations from our SELECT collaborations with unique assorted design
houses and street fashion designers such
as Colette, ALIFE, Bape and KITH.

PUMA RELAY | 27

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

∂

To mark the launch of the collaboration of the PUMA
King by Alexander McQueen, we commissioned a short
film to illustrate the production process. Shot in Italy, it
captures everything from the molding of the last to
the intricate shaping of each handcrafted stud.
Watch the video here!

Our Trinomic story continues

Inspired by the biggest
sporting event in the world
While sports fans from around the globe witnessed the 2014 FIFA World Cup™ in Brazil,
our Spring/Summer 2014 collection took a
memorable journey to the streets of Brazil.
PUMA footwear icons such as the PUMA
Classic Brasil were both reissued and
modernised with state-of-the-art suede and
cleaner toe with durable cupsoles for drills.
Together with the Brasil 70 Windbreaker and
Grip Bag, this pack paid homage to the legendary 1970 Brazilian national team.
From the SELECT collection we launched
two limited edition boots in collaboration with
Alexander McQueen, creating a premium
execution of one of the most iconic football
boots ever: the PUMA King. The boot made a
strong brand statement, as it was not available to purchase, but seeded to influential individuals across the sports and fashion world.
28 | PUMA RELAY

Following the successful re-launch of the
XT1 and XT2 styles, PUMA brought back
the Trinomic XS850 in 2014. Originally
released in 1992, the XS850 was a running
shoe designed to give stability on soft and
uneven surfaces. Like its cousins from the
Trinomic range, its technology was made
up of clear rubber hexagon cells that form a
honeycomb pattern, collapsing and expanding to give the runner cushioning and flexibility. These cells and its other original 90s
features, like the neon colours and
abstract prints, are a key part of
the reissued PUMA
Trinomic XS850
corresponding to the
market
demand of
vintage running
in 2014.

∂

PUMA’s reissued
Trinomic XS850 made the
rounds on international sneaker blogs.
Click here to watch the video!

World Cup fever:
PUMA’s Brasil Grip Bag!

Helmut Fischer (65), Senior
Advisor, joined PUMA in 1978.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means learning from
the past to create
something new
and relevant in
the future.”

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

A Classic Lifestyle Shoe Reawakens PUMA’s Tennis Heritage

∂

Click the link to watch the PUMA x
KITH Ronnie Fieg Coat Of Arms Disc
launch in Paris on January 15, 2014!

don’s finest artisan food trucks. An industrial
space in the heart of East London was utilized for the global launch of the AW14 collection, while media, influencers and friends
of the brand all joined for the celebration and
preview of the collection. With the space
covered in campaign imagery the focus was
never far from the collection.

Reviving iconic styles to
stir up brand heat

Our Autumn/Winter 2014 collection saw a
star reborn, when we reissued the Becker
OG, the classic mid-top shoe that 17-yearold Boris Becker wore during his famous
and groundbreaking Wimbledon win in
1985. A timeless silhouette originally made
for the tennis court, the Becker OG merges
the best of PUMA’s performance heritage
and design language.

∂

Watch Boris Becker and his son Noah
meet on an urban tennis court in South
London to introduce the Becker OG!

∂ Click the link to watch the PUMA x McQ launch in East London on July 16, 2014!

Through its newly-established “CREAM”
program, PUMA reissued the very best in
terms of product and collaborations, from
original styles to premium executions of
classic silhouettes. All products were featured in global launch events repositioning
PUMA as a go-to brand for sneaker heads.

PUMA x MQ: Rebellious attitude
fuses with PUMA’s performance
innovation
Furthermore, PUMA celebrated its premium
fashion collaboration with McQ by Alexander McQueen with an evening of music,
cocktails, craft beer and a selection of LonPUMA RELAY | 29

2 | Company overview

Fundamentals
PUMA Fundamentals are the base of our
product portfolio, combining on-trend colours
with a great price-quality ratio. It provides our
consumers with their day-to-day favorite footwear
and apparel pieces to master every challenge
– whether at work or in the street, whether in
school or on the playground.

Reinhard Dischner (46),
General Manager Fundamentals, with PUMA since 2002.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means staying ahead in
everything we do, the way
we think, act and make
decisions. It’s a
mindset.”

30 | PUMA RELAY

The essence of our
consumers’ wardrobe
Rooted in sports, our Fundamentals focus
on easy-tech materials, which provide our
consumers with just the right level of performance to enjoy life. On the style side we
place emphasis on trendy sports silhouettes
in the hottest colors of the season, from
Bikini to super light-weight down jackets.
Our Fundamentals collections cover every
seasonality, all year around.

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

Creating fashionable styles
for kids
For our young consumers, PUMA Fundamentals takes the latest key styles and top
sellers from across our Business Unit product portfolio and converts them into kids
and baby sizes. In 2014, we entered into a
new exciting partnership with Warner Brothers fulfilling childhood dreams by offering
co-branded apparel, accessories and footwear collections for the Tom and Jerry and
Superman franchise including Superman,
Supergirl and Superbaby as of Spring/Summer 2015. With Warner Bros. Consumer
Products and their iconic heroes, we have
found a great partner, who will support us
to achieve our ambitious goals for our Kids‘
products in our Fundamentals category.

∂

Watch here: PUMA and Warner Brothers debuts
its new Spring Summer 2015 collection, featuring
iconic characters Tom and Jerry and Superman!

PUMA RELAY | 31

Company Overview

DISTRIBUTION
Distribution Strategy 33

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

DISTRIBUTION
STRATEGY

Roz Noden (31),
Sales Operations Team Head
UKIB, with PUMA since 2013.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means preserving our past
whilst building a strong
brand future through
faster people, resources
and products.”

Brand mix
The PUMA Group owns the brands PUMA,
Cobra Golf, and Tretorn, as well as the affiliate companies Dobotex and Brandon. As the
PUMA brand accounts for the vast majority
of the group’s net sales and constitutes the
core of the PUMA Group, the new strategy
Forever Faster focuses on driving the sales
with the PUMA brand predominantly.
PUMA RELAY | 33

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Regional mix
PUMA is structured into five regions: Europe,
EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East and
Africa), North America, Latin America, and
APAC (Asia/Pacific). Each region is led by a
regional General Manager, who has full profit
and loss responsibility for all countries within
the respective region. In terms of the regional
sales priorities, PUMA will continue to leverage its strengths in key growth markets in
EEMEA, APAC and Latin America such as
in India, China and Mexico to ensure stable
sales growth for the company. The focus in
Europe is to further evolve the setup in order
to ensure customer service and proximity as
well as to realize synergies. Strategic priority for North America is to build on the positive development in 2014 and to continue the
repositioning of PUMA as a performance
brand as well as to increase the presence in
quality wholesale distribution channels.

ball, Running and Training, Golf, Motorsport
and Lifestyle. With a heritage of designing
shoes for more than 65 years, Footwear is
and remains the foundation of PUMA’s business and its key strategic priority, having
generated 43% of net sales 2014. With our
repositioning as “The Fastest Sports Brand
in the World”, we will leverage our clear positioning in sports to sell performance and
sports-inspired lifestyle products.

Improvement of our
distribution quality

Channel mix

Our PUMA Store in London’s Carnaby Street attracted customers with a striking “Tricks” display during World Cup summer

PUMA distributes its products via three different distribution channels: Wholesale, PUMA’s
owned and operated retail stores and eCommerce stores. Wholesale accounted for 79%
of net sales in 2014 and remains the biggest
sales channel for the PUMA Group. With view
to the channels, PUMA has the highest growth
rate expectations for eCommerce, while also
Retail is expected to grow slightly faster than
Wholesale. PUMA’s focus in the wholesale

business is to continue to build joint product
and marketing programs together with key
accounts and to build on the positive development of 2014. These measures shall increase the business share of our most important
accounts of PUMA’s total wholesale net sales
and thereby increase the net sales quality.
In Retail, PUMA will continue to open new
stores in strategic growth areas and focus on
improving the sales productivity in its existing

34 | PUMA RELAY

new owned & operated stores. The growth of
eCommerce will be supported by the completion of the roll-out of the unified website www.
puma.com as well as further enhancement for
the consumer experience.

Product sales mix
PUMA sells and markets footwear, apparel
and accessories in categories such as Foot-

In line with our strategic priorities, 2014
saw successful joint product and marketing
programs with our key retailers to showcase
our brand in the right retail environment
and drive sell-through with our partners.
In February 2014, together with our partner
Foot Locker USA, we introduced the jointly
developed retail concept “PUMA Lab“ and
successfully rolled it out in the US market.
The success of the PUMA Lab has not only
improved our business with Foot Locker
USA but also generated a positive spillover effect onto other key retailers in the
US marketplace – both with performance
and lifestyle accounts. In 2015, we will continue to foster collaborations and launch
further product and marketing programs
with our most important key accounts in
every region.

Company Overview

Sustainability
Our Sustainability Strategy 36
Our Sustainability Targets 42
Social Sustainability 44
Environmental Sustainability 53
Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration 65
Anti-Corruption Efforts 66
The Way Ahead 67

2 | Company overview

Our
Sustainability
Strategy
PUMAVision Headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Germany

“Sustainability is a key value of PUMA,
and guides our company to work faster towards a
more just and sustainable future.”
Bjørn Gulden, CEO

2014 marked another significant improvement in the alignment and support of sustainability priorities shared by PUMA and our
majority shareholder Kering. Ever since we
started to review and enhance the working,
social and environmental conditions in our
suppliers’ factories with a Code of Conduct
and the establishment of a factory auditing
system in 1999, the concept of sustainability and sustainable business practices have
become a strategic priority and an important
part of our DNA.

affects the well-being of our distant neighbors that are directly or indirectly involved in
the production of PUMA products.

Find out more about PUMA’s sustainability history and achievements here.

Our understanding of a just future is also
based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and u Human Rights
(also known as the Ruggie Framework)
and its three pillars: State Duty to Protect,
Corporate Responsibility to Respect and
Access to Remedy. In particular, we are
focussing on implementing internationally
accepted core labor standards at our suppliers globally.

u

We believe that our position as the Fastest
Sports Brand in the world gives us the opportunity and the responsibility to ensure that
our products are manufactured in decent
workplace conditions where human rights
are respected. Our corporate responsibility
does not end at national borders but also
36 | PUMA RELAY

We are committed to working towards a
more just and sustainable future. For us
at PUMA, we define sustainability based
on the u Brundtland Report from 1987:
„Sustainable development meets the needs
of the present without compromising the
ability of future generations to meet their
own needs.“

Company overview | 2

New Mission Statement

Dimensions of Sustainability

u

FOREVER means sustainable in serving
the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to satisfy the needs of tomorrow.

u

FASTER is how we respond to the economic, environmental and social opportunities and challenges we face.

“Forever Faster” does not only serve as
PUMA’s brand platform, it also defines the

NEW

"puma will be the
fastest sports brand
in the world"

COMPANY
MISSION
NEW

COMPANY
Value

TO

"to be the most
desirable and
sustainable
sportslifestyle
company"

COMPANY
MISSION

TO

OM
FR

OLD

the “Precautionary Principle”. This means
protecting consumers, workers and society
from harm by manufacturing safe products
in factories that are upholding international
health and safety standards. It also means
not using substances or processes, which
are not yet proven to be safe to use, and
taking into consideration the environmental
impact from raw material production all the
way to the recycling of our products.

u Economic Sustainability
Economic sustainability is the use of various
strategies for employing existing resources
in such a way that a responsible and ben- u Social Sustainability
eficial balance can be achieved in the long Social sustainability focuses on humane
and fair working conditions, both for
term. Within a business context, economic
our own employees and the hundreds
sustainability involves using the assortof thousands of workers employed at
ed assets of the company efficiently to
our manufacturing partners in the
continue functioning profitably over
global supply chain, while observtime safeguarding economic growth
ing national and international
and employment. For more inforrules and regulations. It means
mation on PUMA’s economic
playing by the rules, being
performance, please refer to
a good corporate citizen as
the relevant chapters within
ECONOMIC
well as creating a posithe Group Management
tive contribution to the
Report.
societies in which we
operate. In broader
u Environmental
terms, the UN GuidSustainability
ing
Principles
Our understandstate that part of
ing of environour corporate
mental
susresponsibility
tainability is
to respect
based
on

SO

CIAL

"sustainability is a key
value of puma and guides
the company to work faster
towards a more just and
sustainable future"

In line with our “Forever Faster” transformation, PUMA distinguishes between three
dimensions of sustainability: economic,
social and environmental. We believe that
keeping these dimensions in balance is crucial to achieving sustainable business development.

ME
NTAL

way we consider the importance of sustainability in our business:

EN
VIR
ON

With our “Forever Faster” repositioning,
PUMA redefined its mission to pursue the
goal of being “The Fastest Sports Brand in
the world”. While the term “sustainable” is
no longer part of our mission statement, it
remains a clear company value, as we continue to integrate sustainability into all of our
core business functions.

PUMA RELAY | 37

2 | Company overview

Generation and usage of solar power at PUMAVision Headquarters in Herzogenaurach

human rights is to aim not only to avoid
causing or contributing to adverse human
rights impacts, but also to address human
rights issues that are directly linked to our
operations, products or services through our
business relationships, even if we have not
contributed to those. For us, social sustainability further means operating transparently, exercising due diligence and working
with our industry peers and stakeholders to
address negative impacts.

Organization 1
With more than 15 years of sustainabilityrelated work, sustainability has become an
important part of PUMA’s business. Our sustainability department, which is responsible
for the execution of PUMA’s sustainability

strategy, is directly reporting to Lars Sørensen, PUMA’s Chief Operating Officer.
In line with the above described dimensions
of sustainability and due to the complexity
of the different tasks related to sustainability,
PUMA has divided the responsibilities into
two major pillars: Social and Environmental
affairs, formerly Humanity and Ecology. Both
departments are headed by PUMA’s Global
Director Sustainability, Reiner Hengstmann (see interview on the next page).
u Social Sustainability
PUMA works with approximately 400 external manufacturing partners located primarily
in Asia, but also in EMEA and Latin America. Compliance with our Code of Conduct
is monitored on a regular basis by a team

of currently nine members, who partner with
the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and the
Better Work Program of the International
Labor Organization (ILO) for external support. They are located in the regions Europe,
Middle East and Africa (EMEA), South Asia
(SA), China, the Americas and South East
Asia (SEA).

ciency as well as waste management. Eight
dedicated team members are located globally in the same regions as the social team
members.

u Environmental Sustainability
Our environmental initiatives focus on all
environmental areas of PUMA’s sustainability approach such as the proper implementation of the Restricted Substances List
(RSL) and Manufacturing RSL among all our
suppliers, the collection and interpretation
of Environmental Key Performance Indicators (E-KPIs) as well as on capacity building
programs to improve energy and water effi1

38 | PUMA RELAY

G4-24

Company overview | 2

Dr. Reiner Hengstmann (52),
Global Director Sustainability,
with PUMA since 1999.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means achieving the
expected, but going the
extra mile whenever
possible.”
Reiner Hengstmann

started his career at PUMA
in 1999 and has headed
PUMA’s sustainability
department since then. In
the following interview,
he explains what the
situation was like in
a typical Bangladeshi
supplier factory back in
2000, the improvements that have
been achieved since then and PUMA’s
sustainability strategy going forward.

What did a typical supplier factory look
like when you first joined PUMA and Asia
had just begun to gain more importance
as a sourcing region?
When I started my job 15 years ago, I had
no idea how a supplier factory looked like.
But I remember my first trip to Bangladesh
in 2000, where I visited a factory that was
supposed to produce for PUMA back
then. The whole building of four floors
was filled with smoke and it was pretty
obvious that children were working
there. I only noticed one toilet for
all employees – with an open door,
which provided for no privacy at all.
In front of the facility was a huge
amount of smelly garbage including
fabric waste and food leftovers.
What changed after that?
This was a very shocking experience for
me. It was an eye-opener, because at this
moment I realized that doing business also
includes acting in a responsible way. This
was the time when our SAFE team, the department for social and environmental affairs, was established. We revised our Code

of Conduct (CoC), set stricter social and environmental standards and concentrated on
auditing our suppliers.

“We were among the first
sports brands to sign the
Bangladesh Accord.”
One could argue the situation hasn’t
changed much as we hear again and again
about workers’ protests, deadly fires and
building collapses in apparel factories.
None of the factories in question were contract partners of PUMA as they did not meet
our building safety regulations. However, we
require comprehensive structural assessments of all our main Asian suppliers and
were among the first sports brands to sign
the Bangladesh Accord. These incidents
clearly show that we still have a long way
to go and that establishing social and environmental standards along the supply chain
remains a global challenge which calls for
global answers. We have to find collective
ways to ensure that the workers in these
factories are being treated with respect,
have safe and decent workplaces and
receive fair wages.
PUMA RELAY | 39

2 | Company overview

What does PUMA do to support fair wages?
Our partnership with the Fair Wage Network
is one example to explore mechanisms to
implement fairer wage structures within our
supplier factories. PUMA is supporting the
workers in its sourcing countries in their
rights to earn a decent wage and to peacefully negotiate wage issues. We will continue
to work closely with all involved parties such
as other brands, unions, national and international non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) as well as the government bodies to
find a solution for these conflicts.

“A sudden withdrawal from our
sourcing countries wouldn’t be a
fair solution, because it wouldn’t
change the current situation in
those factories.”
Why can’t PUMA just shift its production
from high-risk countries such as Cambodia
or Bangladesh to other countries?
Is it really an option to move from country
to country like a caravan following the most
commercially viable offer? That wouldn’t be
sustainable in the least. A sudden withdraw40 | PUMA RELAY

al from our sourcing countries wouldn’t be
a fair solution, because it wouldn’t change
the current situation in those factories. Having a major stake due to high order volumes,
however, PUMA and other global brands
can exert influence and enforce international standards by working together. And
there are very fruitful examples of this, such
as our partnership with the Fair Labor Association and the Better Work Program of the
International Labor Organization.
Talking of the need to work together, why
hasn’t PUMA joined the special alliance for
sustainable clothing by German Federal
Minister for Economic Cooperation and
Development, Dr. Gerd Müller?
We actively participated in the working
group preparing this alliance. However, after
receiving the final document, we raised our
concerns about some critical points such
as demanding “living wages” for the supply chain without a clear definition of what a
living wage is. Or the request for “best
available technologies” when there are
sourcing countries without a proper sewage
system, for example. We invited the ministry
to our annual stakeholder meeting “Talks at

Quality control at cutting operations in a supplier factory in Vietnam

Banz” in 2014 to discuss our concerns and
a feasible approach that takes international
activities and organizations into account.
What is PUMA’s sustainability strategy
going forward?
With our “Forever Faster” repositioning program, we are focusing on integrating sustainability into all of our core business functions.
In 2014, for example, we publicly announced
our next steps towards the elimination of all
hazardous chemical use across our global
supply chain. We became a “bluesign® system partner”, which implies adhering to a
methodology to screen our fabrics through
extensive audits of our fabric production facilities. And furthermore, we joined the Fair
Factories Clearinghouse organization and

committed to share our factory audit data
across the FFC membership and its factories. These are important steps on our long
journey which is not free of obstacles and
setbacks – but, as we have said all along:
Sustainability is a marathon, not a sprint.

Company overview | 2

Governance 2
Constant Review of Our Sustainability
Performance
Feedback is essential for continuing success. Our sustainability department seeks
frequent feedback from both external and
internal stakeholders which involves a regular exchange with PUMA’s Board and top
management members through monthly
executive sustainability reports as well as
in-person meetings. The Board of Management in turn reports to PUMA’s majority
shareholder via the Administrative Board
Sustainability Committee.

Administrative Board Sustainability
Committee
The highest governance body at PUMA in
terms of sustainability is the Sustainability
Committee at SE level. It is responsible for

PUMA CEO Bjørn Gulden and COO Lars Sørensen addressing stakeholders during the 2014 Talks at Banz

the supervision and setting-up of PUMA’s
sustainability strategy and met once in 2014.
Current membership:
u
u
u

Jean-François Palus (Chairman)
François-Henri Pinault
Martin Köppel

Sustainability Advisory Board
In 2014, we decided to end the work of our
sustainability advisory board, which had
served PUMA for the last four years and
over that time provided strong support in
the formulation of PUMA’s sustainability
strategy. With the new strategy from 2015
onwards, PUMA will use the expertise of our
annual stakeholder event “Talks at Banz”
and the Administrative Board Sustainability

Committee at SE level as a link to connect
PUMA’s sustainability activities with external
stakeholder feedback and advice in order to
discuss and, if necessary, adjust our course
on sustainability.

Reporting According to GRI G4 3
Since our sustainability report “Perspective”
in 2003, PUMA has reported about its sustainability program according to the guidance of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),
which developed detailed and widely recognized guidelines on sustainability reporting.
While we obtained an “in accordance” status
with the GRI guidelines for our 2005 sustainability report “Momentum”, all of our reports
from 2006 until 2013 have been prepared
according to the GRI Guidelines, at Appli-

cation Level A+. We have decided to further
evolve our reporting and adhere to the latest
G4 standard, the fourth generation of GRI
guidelines. Reporting in accordance with
the so-called Core application level allows
us to improve and focus our reporting with
regards to the Materiality Disclosures: topics which are material to PUMA’s business
and our key stakeholders and constitute our
sustainability targets. PUMA’s “Materiality
Matters” and ultimately our sustainability targets are systematically developed in accordance with the feedback from all of PUMA’s
stakeholders as described in the following
section.

2

G4-24 | 3 G4-18, G4-23

PUMA RELAY | 41

2 | Company overview

Our
Sustainability
Targets
Developing Targets with
Our Stakeholders 4
Maintaining good relations with internal and
external stakeholders is crucial to PUMA’s
success on our sustainability progress and
for defining and adjusting our sustainability
targets. PUMA’s stakeholders include customers and consumers, direct and indirect
employees, suppliers, regulators, non-governmental organizations, international agencies, foundations, academics, our Sustainability Committee, and many others.
PUMA has developed a stakeholder matrix
in order to prioritize stakeholders’ interests
and relevant business aspects. The input
from our stakeholders ultimately feeds into
PUMA’s strategic goals, policies and practices. At head office level, PUMA engages with
external stakeholders at our annual stakeholder meeting “Talks at Banz”, which is our
most important platform for our sustainability department, our Board of Management
and top management to directly interact

F.1

Materiality Analysis

Control chemical use and
discharge
Improve water use and
management

Improve workers’ health
and safety

Address supply chain transparency and performance
and exchange thoughts with a diverse group
of experts covering a wide range of issues
outside of day-to-day business operations.
Please find further details about PUMA’s
“Talks at Banz” in 2014 in the section “Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration”.5

Materiality Analysis 6
In 2013, PUMA engaged Business for Social
Responsibility (BSR) to conduct a materiality
analysis in order to provide a robust understanding of PUMA’s sustainability actions
and rank the importance of environmental,
economic and social issues of PUMA’s key
stakeholders in relation to their relevance for
our business success. The results of this materiality analysis were published in u PUMA’s
Annual Report 2013 for the first time.
During PUMA’s global sourcing summit in
November 2014, we reiterated the materiality

Work towards paying a
living wage

Improve product design
and development

Improve energy efficiency
and CO2 emissions

Not allow child and forced
labor in the supply chain

Strengthen brand
positioning

PUMA needs to
Improve product quality

Environment

Fight against corruption

Corporate

exercise to examine more deeply its relevance with all of PUMA’s major suppliers.
Our global sourcing summit (more about
the summit in the section “Stakeholder and
Industry Collaboration”) showed that our
materiality analysis still contains the guiding
elements for further developing our sustainability targets and will therefore continue to
serve as our compass for the next years.
4

42 | PUMA RELAY

Focus on responsible sourcing
of raw materials

Supply Chain

Product

Combining the major and highest priorities
identified through both our in-depth materiality analysis from 2013 as well as the results
from our sourcing summit in November
2014, the aspects with the highest influence
on business success according to our stakeholders can be divided into environmental,
corporate, supply chain and product related
goals.

G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 | 5 G4-24, G4-26 | 6 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-25, G4-27

Company overview | 2

Sustainability Targets
Based on the detailed materiality analysis
described above and in line with our overall “Forever Faster” repositioning, we are
in the process of shifting our sustainability
targets to improve transparency, clarity and
coordination and focus on the most impactful issues our business is facing. In addition, PUMA partnered through its majority
shareholder Kering with Verisk Maplecroft to
implement an improved assessment method
that widened our ability to identify and manage supply chain risks. This risk framework
uses 17 different global risk indices and
maps which are clustered into four main
categories of social, political, economic and
environmental risks and bolsters our own
environmental and social audit data. Based
on the results of the above-mentioned
approach we defined and set our sustainability targets as follows:
u Social Performance of the Supply Chain
PUMA commits to calibrate its Code of Conduct and standards against ILO (International Labor Organization) conventions and
the highest international standards and local
regulations in both the social and environmental areas. At the least, our direct and
indirect supply chain partners will have to
pass a minimum rating standard prior to our
authorization to produce for PUMA, which
is non-negotiable. We expect key suppliers

to attain good ratings in accordance with
our standards, and that all manufacturing
partners commit to long-term improvement
of their social and environmental performance. As a long-standing member of the
Fair Labor Association, PUMA maintains its
commitment to resolve zero and critical tolerance issues raised through our third party
complaint mechanism.
Environmental Profit and Loss Account
(E-P&L)
PUMA continues to measure its externalized
environmental impact by creating an E-P&L
at least every two years under the lead of the
Kering Group, PUMA’s majority shareholder.

u

u Resource Efficiency
We aim to further reduce our carbon emissions as well as our waste and water usage
resulting from the production of products
and services, while taking into account the
growth of our business. All remaining CO2
emissions from Scope 1 and Scope 2 activities (as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) will be offset annually.
u Usage of Leather
Leather being used for PUMA products
is sourced through the Leather Working
Group certified tanneries. The objective of
the multi-stakeholder initiative is to develop

and to maintain a protocol which assesses
the environmental compliance and promotes the sustainable environmental business
within the tanning industry.
u Usage of Paper
Paper and packaging uses the maximum
recycled content which is economically and
technically feasible. For paper and packaging that cannot be made of recycled fibers,
we aim to source from certified sustainably
managed forests such as FSC ®, to avoid
any negative effects on the conversion of
sensitive ecosystems.
u Ban of Polyvinylchloride (PVC)
The material PVC, which has been banned
from all PUMA group branded products
since 2004, will continue to be excluded
from our production.

campaign and the elimination of all hazardous chemical use across its global supply
chain. Full enforcement and compliance with
the PUMA Restricted Substances List as well
as the combined Manufacturing Restricted
Substances List of the Zero Discharge of
Hazardous Chemicals Group (ZDHC) are
important first steps on the way to ensure
zero discharge of hazardous chemicals
during the manufacturing of our products
by 2020.
For more information, u please click here.

Protective equipment in manufacturing

Phase Out of Poly-Fluorinated Hydrocarbons (PFCs)
In line with our renewed Detox commitment
from November 2014, PUMA will ban the
usage of long-chain PFCs (C8 and C7) from
2015 onwards and aims to totally phase out
the use of PFCs by end of 2017. For more
information, u please click here.

u

u Responsible Use of Chemicals
PUMA remains fully committed to the Detox
PUMA RELAY | 43

2 | Company overview

Social
Sustainability

Factory audits remain the main enforcement
tool of compliance to PUMA’s Code of Con44 | PUMA RELAY

A new audit system aligning PUMA’s supplier rating tool with the ILO Better Work
assessment and the FLA Sustainable Compliance Initiative tool was fully rolled out in
mid-2014. The system is deployed through
the u Fair Factories Clearinghouse and all
facilities have been trained on the new system since it was announced in 2013.
PUMA continues to use the A, B+, B-, C
and D grading criteria to rate factory performance against our Code of Conduct.
For more information regarding PUMA’s
auditing process, u please click here.

Adherence to PUMA’s Code
of Conduct
Introduced back in 1993, PUMA’s Code of
Conduct (CoC) sets a clear minimum standard for supply chain partners and is displayed in all of PUMA’s directly contracted
partner factories. It also forms an essential
part of our purchasing contracts. For more
information, u please click here.
Compliance with our Code of Conduct is
monitored on a regular basis by our PUMA
team, who partner with the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and the Better Work Program
of the International Labor Organization (ILO)
as well as the International Finance Consortium (IFC) for external support. PUMA’s
compliance program has been accredited by
the FLA since 2007.

New Factory Audit System

duct and provide us with an instant picture of
the level of compliance at each of our suppliers’ factories. PUMA has made a commitment to initially audit 100% of its sourcing
organization World Cat Ltd. and licensee
supplier factories at Tier 1 level, preferably
before entering into a business relationship.
According to the audit result, re-audits will
be performed in certain intervals. The program also covers manufacturers that supply to licensees and subsidiaries as well as
selected material suppliers such as tanneries and fabric mills. In 2014, our environmental audit program was enhanced to address
our commitment towards zero discharge of
hazardous chemicals in the supply chain by
2020. Find more information, u please click
here.

The new rating system requires an initial
assessment and a follow-up after a certain

interval, the length of which depends on the
respective grade attained: A low grade calls
for a quicker re-audit. In any case, re-auditing is necessary after two years at the latest. Depending on the severity of any issues
found in the first audit, however, re-audits
may be scheduled already after two to six
months to ensure rectification of non-compliance issues found. The system rewards the
implementation of best practices and takes
into account that continuous improvement is
a journey which itself should be measured
and rewarded appropriately. However, if factories are repeatedly rated C or D, and do
not implement immediate improvements, the
business relationship is terminated or not
even commenced.

Review of supporting documents during a PUMA.Safe Audit

Company overview | 2

New Rating and Scoring System - Structure

F.2

Verification grade
(40%)

Initial audit grade
(40%)

NEW

Verification grade takes into
account status quo of solved
non-compliance issues from
previous audit as well as potential new findings.

Initial audit leads to corrective
action plan to be reviewed during
verification audit.

Re

tm e
crui

n t, H irin g &

PD

Wo

rk

en

t
E

ce

fW
or
k

alth

io n

& S afe ty

ens a t

van

Policy & Procedure
Training
Implementation
Communication &
Worker Integration
u Review Process
u Responsible Person

Sy

st

e

so
ur
o
H

He

bo

hm

u
u
u
u

nv
iro
nm
m
ent
al P
rotection

t

mp

G rie

i n ati o n & R etr
enc
Term

Red flag incidents are
targeted for immediate
resolution!

uc
Co

Management Functions

Year-end grade

NEW

u Worker and 3rd party
complaints classified
under zero tolerance
and critical issues

ac
nd

La

pl

Co

rR

el

s

e

a

n
ti o

Red flag incidence
(20%)

u Worker complaints
that remain unresolved after three 		
months
u Media incidents that
remain unresolved

A (100% to 95%)
B+ (below 95% to 90%)
B- (below 90% to 85%)
C (below 85% to 75%)
D (below 75%)
Possible to achieve grade
upgrade, maintain or
downgrade
Will be used in overall
Supplier Evaluation

The supplier’s earned grade had previously been synonymous with their risk profile.
However, developments in recent years
have highlighted that we needed to separate
the audit grade from the risk assessment.
Thus, the annual scores received now take
into account the initial audit grade and the
verification grade (reached at a follow-up or
re-audit) as well as the “red flag” incidence.
Red flag incidents include certain media
incidents as well as worker or third party
complaints concerning critical or zero tolerance issues as well as unresolved matters
after three months. Those incidents are targeted for immediate resolution.
We have integrated the most relevant points
from the Sustainable Compliance methodology (SCI) and Better Work into our assessment tool. Due to the number of additional
assessment parameters in the new tool, the
performance target was adjusted from 90%
to 70%, so that 70% of our products must be
delivered by supplier factories that achieved
a good or very good result (B+/A) within our
auditing program for labor and basic environmental standards. Currently 77.85% of
our international collections come from facilities rated A/B+.
Because of the mid-year roll-out, only
23.7% of the active supply base have been
assessed under the new system as of yearend 2014. It is expected that all facilities will
have been assessed under the new system
by the end of 2015. In total, PUMA carried
out 429 audits in 2014 and assessed 366
PUMA RELAY | 45

2 | Company overview

facilities, 35 of which were made inactive
and taken from the supplier base because
of failure to meet our standards. 309 of the
remaining assessed facilities are Tier 1
facilities, 22 are Tier 2 and 3 facilities.

Based on the initial rating achieved by
each facility, the following results were
attained for our active facilities as indicated
in table T.1.

Manufacturing Activities by Tier

F.3

PUMA exempted 19 factories from own
audits and converted 18 Better Work audit
reports into the PUMA system, with a total
of one factory pending for 2014. The converted grades were included in the count of
the final grades (table T.2).

T.1

TIER 4

TIER 3

TIER 2

TIER 1

Raw material

Processing

Outsourcing

Manufacturing

Grade Count Based on Initial Audit

2014 Active Audited Factories
(Initial Rating)

Dye Houses,
Tanneries,
Packaging

Embroidery,
Cutting,
Printing

Footwear,
Apparel,
Accessories

Tier 4 represents both

Tier 3 represents
the processing of raw
materials, for example
a leather tannery or
a rubber processing
facility.

Tier 2 represents any
outsourced processes,
for example embroiderers, cutters and printers.

Tier 1 represents
the manufacturing from
cutting to packaging
of the finished product
and is the last stage
in the manufacturing
process.

natural and synthetic
materials in their raw
state, for example
cotton plants, raw hides
and rubber trees.

Certified raw
materials such as
organic cotton or
certified cardboard

46 | PUMA RELAY

bluesign® or LWG
certified material
suppliers, dedicated
environmental
audits

Supervision trough
Tier 1 suppliers;
partially covered by
own PUMA.Safe
Audits

PUMA.Safe
Audits, ILO Better
Work program,
capacity building
projects

Tier 1
Non-World Cat
World Cat

Tier 2-3

A

26

17

2

B+

67

78

12

B-

43

49

6

C

10

19

2

D

0

0

0

146

163

22

Total

Cotton Fields,
Cattle Farms,
Rubber Plantations

resolution rate grew 10.6% year on year, and
reached 88.4% in 2014. Only Vietnam has a
100% resolution rate (due to the implementation of a new law on social dialogue), followed
by China (93.6%) and EMEA (90.0%). Zero
tolerance and critical issue resolution rates

Resolution of Complaints
PUMA has several grievance channels in
keeping with our obligations to the FLA. The
feedback received from workers form the
bulk of the red flag incidents in the new yearend grading system. Wages, contracts and
terms of employment as well as Health &
Safety management ranked highest among
workers’ complaints received in the supply chain. In total, 69 complaints from 43
facilities were received in 2014. Complaints
were in the areas of wages, benefits, working hours, forced labor, other basic health
& safety issues, dormitories and welfare
amenities and were all resolved. The global

were 100% and 93.3% respectively in 2014.
The majority of complaints were received
outside of the audit period, indicative of
the value of the relationships, which PUMA
maintains with workers, factory management
and local civil society organizations.
In 2013, PUMA launched a new emergency
reporting protocol aiming to improve our
responses to major accidents and other disruptions in the supply chain. Incidents that
are fully within the scope of influence and
management of a facility are included in red
flag incidence scoring.

Company overview | 2

In total, 37 facilities had red flag incidents
during 2014 and a total of 331 facilities qualified for the new year-end rating adjustment
as indicated in table T.2.
Fourteen facilities were downgraded to a
lower level and five facilities (notably under
the Better Work Program) improved to the
next higher grade.
This adjusted picture of performance highlights that an audit can only be a snapshot
in time, whereas sustainable compliance
is a continuous improvement process that
must be maintained by suppliers in partnership with their employees. As a form of
benchmarking, PUMA also participated in
the pilot of the facilities social/labor component of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition
(SAC) Higg Index, with over 45 key suppliers filling in the self-assessment tool.

Non-Compliance Resolution
PUMA has established a comprehensive
Key Performance Indicators (KPI) tracking
program along its corporate entities and the
supply chain in order to better manage performance against public and internal targets.
PUMA employs a variety of tools to measure
performance such as Enablon, the Fair Factories Clearinghouse, and internal systems
databases.

T.2

Grade Count Based on Latest Audit

2014 Active Audited Factories
(Year-end Rating)

Tier 1
Non-World Cat
World Cat

Tier 2-3

A

25

16

2

B+

65

76

11

B-

47

50

7

C

9

21

2

D

0

0

0

146

163

22

Total

PUMA tracks the audit non-compliance
resolution performance of active facilities
over a five-year period to assess continuous improvement. As PUMA’s audit instrument was modified in 2014, only specifically
comparable issues were included in counting non-compliance areas. Non-compliance
resolution is a new measure being tracked
on an annual basis starting in 2014.
Based on a list of 331 source facilities, that
have remained active, on average 8.4 noncompliances were found in World Cat facilities and 8.1 in non-World Cat facilities.
In World Cat Tier 1 A/B+/B- facilities, the
average number of findings for the Americas
is 5.0 per factory, 8.9 for EMEA and 8.4 for
Asia.

World Cat facilities Tier 1 A/B+/B- managed
to resolve 32% of their issues, and nonWorld Cat facilities of the same category
reached a 37% resolution rate.

Human Rights and Risk
Management
Human rights are an essential part in our
Codes of Conduct and Ethics, and Manuals
of Standards. In recent years, PUMA has
faced issues in the supply chain that have
prompted a review of our Codes and overall
business practices to better align our company policy with risks and rights impacts that
are not fully captured in our Code of Conduct. There are 35 Universal Human Rights,
13 of which are explicitly cited in the Code of
Conduct. PUMA is currently in the process
of incorporating the UN Guiding Principles

on Business and Human Rights into its overall sustainability approach, defining what it
means to include other salient human rights
throughout its whole operational value chain
and beyond just addressing labor issues in
the supply chain. In 2013, training on the
UN Guiding Principles was initially provided
to key suppliers globally through our supplier roundtables and refresher training is
conducted as requested.

New Risk Management Tool
In 2014, PUMA developed a new internal
risk management tool for suppliers in collaboration with the Kering Group and Verisk
Maplecroft, a global risk analytics, research
and strategic forecasting company. The risk
score is taken from internal and Maplecroft
data sources to cover risk exposures not
covered in an audit. This score is incorporated in PUMA’s supplier evaluation scorecard
and is used to determine overall investments
in the supply chain. Re-audit schedules are
planned to be modified based on total risk
scores of facilities (not just their audit ratings).

Workers’ Protests in Cambodia
There were notable incidents in 2014, when
unforeseen human rights issues outside of
the regular social audit scope had a significant impact on operations. In December
2013, country-wide protests in Cambodia
spilled over into January 2014, as city-wide
PUMA RELAY | 47

2 | Company overview

PUMA as a platform for dialogue on critical issues as well as a means to train suppliers on new systems and policies. These
roundtables mostly cover World Cat facilities – however, licensee and subsidiary production partners are included where possible. Representatives from 288 direct and
indirect supplier facilities attended the supplier roundtables in Turkey, India, Indonesia,
Vietnam, Cambodia, China, Argentina and
Bangladesh, totaling 7,896 man hours of
training on general sustainability topics.

PUMA production in Asian supplier factories

industrial unrest due to unsatisfactory wage
negotiations in Phnom Penh resulted in the
death of an employee in one supplier facility
and a number of other fatalities during the
actual protests along with several arrests of
worker leaders across different trade union
groups. Industry was brought to a standstill
and over the next months, PUMA worked to
mitigate production delays and extensively
engaged with all stakeholders to ease the
situation. Together with other interested
brands, civil society actors and the diplomatic community the common aim was to
express grave concern over weaknesses
in due process, to call for fair treatment for
persons that had been detained and to lend
support for the implementation of tripartite
industry wage-setting based on dialogue
and facts. Due to the coordinated effort of
48 | PUMA RELAY

several buyers and other stakeholders, the
Government of Cambodia agreed to the
release of arrested worker representatives.
The family of the killed employee was duly
compensated by the supplier affected. The
tumultuous wage-setting process in Cambodia continued throughout most of the year,
despite the support of the ILO and other
UN bodies.

National Unrest in Vietnam
In May 2014, international political tensions between China and Vietnam had
triggered massive unrest in the areas
around Ho Chi Minh City and factories
were set on fire. One PUMA supplier
facility was completely burned down.
Employing our new emergency and risk
response protocol, affected international

staff including those in all affected supplier facilities were evacuated.

PUMA’s Reaction to These Incidents
In each instance, PUMA’s response was
immediate in terms of employee safety (no
injuries or fatalities reported), fair compensation, and production recovery. PUMA
monitored the process of retrenchment and
reconstruction to ensure that all appropriate
regulations and FLA protocols on retrenchment were observed.

Training and Capacity Building
PUMA undertakes an annual supplier outreach and education program with suppliers in key sourcing markets through supplier
roundtables. The roundtables are used by

Our capacity building projects cover issues
such as women’s and workers’ rights awareness building, worker retention through
better human resource management and
employee engagement, better compensation structure development, supervisory
skills, collective bargaining, and fair, efficient
production management.
PUMA’s strategic compliance program on
environmental and social standards is supported by tailor-made capacity building
projects. Capacity building is intended to
strengthen the knowledge, abilities, skills
and behavior of our supplier factory management. Building up our own internal
capacity to address sustainability across
corporate functions was also a key activity
in 2014. In total 1,160 man hours of training
were provided internally to key PUMA staff
by internal SAFE and external resources
on various topics on sustainability includ-

Company overview | 2

ing our new sustainability data platforms,
policies and protocols. This is important to
ensure consistent application of sustainability policies and procedures across the whole
organization.

F.4

LEGAL
COMPLIANCE

MANAGEMENT
SYSTEMS

COMMUNICATION AND
SOCIAL DIALOGUE

u Wage discrimination and disparity,
wherein the companies improved the
structural wage differences between
directly and indirectly employed workers.
u

Better Wages Program

u Payment of wages
u Minimum wage

The Better Wages Program aims to test
different approaches that might enable the
implementation of fair wage structures in
strategic factories. The program includes
pilot projects that directly engage with factory management, worker representative
organizations, and our internal stakeholders
to improve compensation systems, as they
are tied to collective dialogue and efficiency incentives structures. The Better Wages
program is based on the 12 Dimensions of
Fair Wages developed by the Fair Wage
Network.
The Fair Wage Remediation project which
started in late 2012 was concluded in 2014 in
three factories in Indonesia. This pilot was the
follow-up of the Fair Wage Roadmap project
in partnership with the Fair Wage Network,
that had been previously implemented in 25
factory sites in five different countries. Indonesia was chosen as a test site because the
factories are also signatories to the Freedom
of Association Protocol. The project aimed
to install wage mechanisms in the factories
and ensure proper wage adjustment for
workers in relation to workers’ performance

12 Dimensions of Fair Wages

u Prevailing wage
u Payment of working
time
u Pay systems
u Wage discrimination /
Wage disparity
u Real wages
u Wage share
u Wage costs
u Wages, training,

u Worker participation
and negotiation

technology
u Living wage

and skills, in part through proper collective
bargaining in wages issues.
The result of the remediation shows that
there were improvements in several dimensions of fair wages (please also refer to the
box describing the 12 dimensions). The most
significant improvements in the factories can
be found within the areas of:
u

Payment of wages

u

Minimum wage, where workers were
at least paid based on the minimum
wage applicable to the area Minimum wage exemptions were legally
allowed. However, the factories did not
make use of these exemptions.

u Pay systems, where factories provided a
better wage structure which was considered more fair by the workers.

Communication and social dialogue,
where workers became more involved
in determining their bonus and other
benefits in relation to their work.

Improvement in the other dimensions is
expected to be continued by the factories
through their Fair Wage Roadmap, which
will be followed up closely by PUMA.

Human Resources Management
System Project
PUMA in cooperation with Better Work
Vietnam and Better Factories Cambodia
ran a project in both Vietnam and Cambodia on the Human Resources Management
System (HRMS). HRMS training aimed to
improve the factory’s human resources system to be more effective and efficient, with
a specific focus on enhancing compliance.
Through this project, factories were trained
to improve HR functions such as recruitment and selection, compensation and benefits procedures, and management of the
working environment. At the completion of
the training, factories were able to improve
their hiring systems, payrolls, and response
to workers’ grievances, to reduce labor dispute and draw up their own employment
PUMA RELAY | 49

2 | Company overview

issues through the factory-level committee
and no violation cases have been put forward at the National Committee level.

Fair Factories Clearinghouse
To improve our social audit data collection
and analysis, we became a full member of
the Fair Factory Clearinghouse (FFC) in
2014. The Fair Factory Clearinghouse is a
collaborative industry initiative to improve
working conditions and compliance through
data sharing software.

Quality control of components

policies in alignment with the PUMA Code
of Conduct as well as local regulation. Seven factories in Cambodia and six factories
in Vietnam joined the project, which was
completed in the first quarter of 2014. The
original intention had been for the factories
to join Better Work advisory services in both
countries. However, this did not push through
in Cambodia. Plans are underway to improve
upon this point, given PUMA’s commitment
as a Better Work partner. u Find more information here.

Freedom of Association Protocol

PUMA has signed the u Freedom of Association (FoA) Protocol in 2011 in Indonesia
as a commitment to freedom of association and collective bargaining and has since
been actively involved in monitoring the FoA
50 | PUMA RELAY

Protocol implementation practice across all
relevant PUMA suppliers in Indonesia.
So far in 2014, four out of five direct suppliers of PUMA and four indirect suppliers
have signed their agreement to apply the
FoA Protocol in the factories. Three out of
four direct suppliers and 100% of indirect
suppliers have established Collective Bargaining Agreements with the union.
One of the most important objectives of the
Protocol is for the factory to establish the
FoA Protocol factory-level committee whose
job it is to settle potential FoA violation cases or disputes at the factory level. This practice also helps to improve communication
between factory management and unions.
So far, no PUMA factories have had to raise

Through the platform, we have offered our
supplier partners direct access to our rating
system, allowing them to respond faster to
the results of their audits. The new system
allows access to both our and new dedicated
environmental audits. So far, it contains both
World Cat and non-World Cat factory data
and will soon be open to share audit data with
other member brands in shared facilities,
ultimately in order to cut down audit fatigue.
The system contains several tools such as a
factory self-assessment tool, online corrective action plans, tracking charts, an audit
report and analysis. PUMA will continue to
work with other member brands to explore
common industry approaches to audit data
management.

Worker Retention
Staff retention has been identified as a key
issue by our Chinese suppliers. Thus, to
decrease staff turnover, we launched the
PUMA Worker Retention Project in cooperation with the independent certification institute TÜV Rheinland Group in 2014.
Through training, coaching sessions and
best practices sharing covering the areas
recruitment and selection, training and
remuneration, as well as performance management, factories get the opportunity to
analyze relevant dynamics, set KPIs and
assess their own employee turnover.
Involving all the key departments and the
top management of eight of our key factories
in China, this project benefited more than
11,500 workers. The factories were guided
to identify the opportunities for improvement within their existing worker recruitment
processes. Factories analyzed the costs
of worker recruitment, conducted SWOT
analyses and developed a plan of action to
improve their respective performance.

Bangladesh Safety Accord
This year, together with some other 188
companies, PUMA continued to work actively on the implementation of the Bangladesh
Safety Accord.

Company overview | 2

Checking of time records during SAFE Audit

A PUMA auditor interviewing a worker in a supplier factory in Vietnam

Through the Accord, we at PUMA committed ourselves to independent structural, electrical and fire safety inspections in
our declared Bangladeshi factories and a
reporting system of public disclosure of all
factories, inspection reports and corrective
action plans. In total, seven facilities have
submitted to the Accord.

tions is ongoing and pending further
guidance from the Accord. For more
information on the Bangladesh Accord,
u please visit the Safety Accord website.

Based on these inspections, facilities are
challenged by the lack of availability of
appropriate fire protection equipment in
Bangladesh (e.g. fire-rated doors) and
the need for further detailed engineering assessments (DEAs). Remediation on
electrical safety issues is nearing 100% in
almost all facilities. Correction of structural
and fire safety issues found in the inspec-

Building Safety Project in
Asia-Pacific Region
PUMA had no business relationship with
the operator of the Rana Plaza factory in
Bangladesh, which made worldwide headlines in 2013, following a fatal building collapse. Nonetheless, after the accident,
PUMA took the initiative and implemented
its own building safety project. PUMA’s project does not aim to replicate the Bangladesh Safety Accord, but rather serve as an
entry-level inspection for all relevant facilities in the Asian region. Given the markedly

different building safety codes effective
across the target countries, PUMA engaged
an external project expert to provide technical and project management support. The
team observed the inspections conducted
by building safety experts in our sourcing
countries.
In 2014, 53 suppliers within the Asia Pacific
supply chain have been approached to join
the program. Until year-end 2014, 26 factories have been inspected in Vietnam and
China and all facilities have passed inspections and accepted improvement recommendations. PUMA intends to continue and
finish the project in 2015.

PUMA RELAY | 51

2 | Company overview

tion on issues like the availability of grievance mechanisms, workplace harassment
and discrimination, or issues related to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Workers’ direct voices must be included
to help companies identify problems and
work towards their remediation.

Claudia Coenjaerts has been
President and CEO of the Fair Labor
Association since January 2014.
Under her leadership the FLA and its
members achieved great progress on
key issues such as fair wages and
enhanced Code of Conduct requirements for its members particularly
in regards to ethical sourcing.

In 2014, PUMA introduced a more rigorous
supply chain risk assessment. But what and
how can PUMA do more by itself and with
the rest of the industry to address issues that
cannot be corrected by an audit?

PUMA has implemented a series of
changes in its rating and monitoring system
throughout 2014. Is this a step forward
for PUMA?
Yes, PUMA’s on-site validations are very
important for building confidence in the information collected through supplier selfassessments. The inclusion of worker-complaint results is an even more important step
forward. The direct involvement of workers
in reporting factory conditions can uncover
many issues at the workplace that can go
unnoticed even during an on-site audit.
Workers are a valuable source of informa-

52 | PUMA RELAY

Working with fewer short-term suppliers and
more strategic suppliers in a long-term relationship is critical for building sustainable solutions to supply chain issues. Compliance
comes at a cost and this cost is to be shared
between suppliers and buyers. That is only
possible, if there is a longer-term commitment. The FLA’s “Principle 8” explains the
relationship between responsible sourcing
and social compliance, and its benchmarks
can help companies plan strategically, so
that headquarter-level decisions can be
made with due consideration of their effects
on workers. And while collaboration between brands can present challenges, such
collaboration remains the best way to influence supplier practices in factories where a
single brand’s leverage is low.

The FLA is pushing its members to have
greater accountability on issues like living
wages. How does the FLA see PUMA and
its peers implement fair wages in respective
supply chains?
The FLA has recently developed a longterm work plan for addressing compensation
issues in supply chains. Low and sometimes
unlivable wages in production countries represent the biggest social responsibility challenge of our time. Furthermore, low pay is
at the root of many other non-compliance
issues, such as excessive hours of work or
health and safety issues. It is a testament to
FLA affiliates’ leadership on this issue, that
they voted for an enhanced code element on
compensation in 2011. Now, we are turning
our attention to implementing that code element. We are launching an implementation
plan that will make this work an important
priority for the FLA and affiliates like PUMA.
The letter signed by PUMA and eight other
FLA brands in November 2014 urging the
Cambodian government to raise the minimum wage and to respect “an inclusive and
consistently applied national collective bargaining process” is a good example of how
brands can collaborate at the national policy
level to support higher wages for workers.

Company overview | 2

Environmental
Sustainability
Our environmental initiatives focus on all
environmental areas of PUMA’s sustainability approach: the proper implementation of
the Restricted Substances List (RSL) and
Manufacturing RSL among all our suppliers,
the collection and interpretation of Environmental Key Performance Indicators (E-KPIs)
as well as on capacity building programs to
improve energy and water efficiency as well
as waste management.
Other important aspects of our environmental program include the reduction of our ecological impacts through PUMA’s unprecedented Environmental Profit & Loss Account
(E-P&L) as well as our commitment towards
our goal of zero discharge of hazardous
chemicals by 2020 – in line with our own
PUMA Roadmap and together with the Zero
Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC)
working group.

Environmental Management
at PUMA
We have measured the environmental impact from our own operations as well as

those from key suppliers since 2005 to create awareness of our resource consumption
and to pursue ambitious targets to reduce
our impact on the environment. On the Corporate level, PUMA has several levers to
influence its environmental performance.
Through industry collaborations such as the
Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) and the
ZDHC working group, PUMA is working with
its industry peers on the development and
implementation of industry solutions for a
more sustainably managed supply chain.
For example, PUMA rolled out the Higg Index of the SAC by posting its Environmental
Brand Module on the Higg Index platform
and participated in the ZDHC working groups
on the development of the Manufacturing
Restricted Substances List (MRSL) and the
generic Environmental Audit Protocol.

Reducing Raw Material Impact
On the responsible use of raw materials, PUMA continues to measure the use
of more sustainable raw materials via the
PUMA Sustainability Index (S-Index).

Major materials classified as S-Index approved include:
u

Leather Working Group certified leather

u

bluesign®

approved technical fabrics

u

Organic and recycled cotton

u

Recycled and FSC ® -certified cardboard

The current status of S-Index approved key
materials is displayed in Tables T.3 and T.4
on the next page.

S-INDEX
The PUMA Sustainability Index – or S-Index – is our
standard serving as an internal benchmark for the
development and manufacturing of more sustainable
products. It determines how much sustainable material a
product needs to include for PUMA to classify it as a more
sustainable product. It also determines that the product
is manufactured in factories that our PUMA auditors rate
A or B+ on the basis of a good implementation rate of our
social and working standards.

PUMA RELAY | 53

2 | Company overview

strategy to ensure both environmentally and
financially more sustainable cotton options
for our volume products.

PUMA S-INDEX

F.5

17

24

22

RECYCLED AF
ANIC
R
ORG ON POLYESTER C ICAN
OTTO
C OT T
N

17

24

22

RECYCLED AF
ANIC
R
ORG ON POLYESTER C ICAN
OTTO
C OT T
N

17

24

22

RECYCLED AF
ANIC
R
ORG ON POLYESTER C ICAN
OTTO
C OT T
N

u >  50% more
sustainable
material

A/B+
rated

u >  50% more
sustainable
material

B-/C
rated

u <  50%
sustainable
material

A/B+
rated

Due to significantly higher raw material prices and limited possibilities to market their
environmental benefits, the usage of some
environmentally preferred materials such as

T.3

More
Sustainable
Product

Normal
Product

Normal
Product

Cotton (conventional)

Furthermore, PUMA has been an official
bluesign® partner in 2014. Swiss company
bluesign® has developed a methodology to
screen fabrics into a positive or blue list (no
hazardous chemicals contained), a grey list
(contains potentially hazardous substances
but no alternatives are available on the market) and a black list (contains hazardous
chemicals and should not be used). PUMA
has been using bluesign® approved fabrics
to a large extent over the recent years.

Leather Working Group

recycled polyester or organic cotton was significantly reduced over the year 2014 compared to previous years. Over the course
of the year 2015, we will work on our cotton

APPAREL - Fabric Consumption Breakdown

Material

Cooperation with bluesign®

PUMA continues to source leather almost
exclusively from Leather Working Group certified tanneries. The bigger part of PUMA’s
footwear range is already being produced
without the use of leather. PUMA hardly
uses leather in its Performance footwear

T.4

Percentage of Global Sourced Fibers
2014

2013

offering as other materials and synthetics
have proven to deliver better performance
attributes (e.g. are lighter and more flexible).
Since 2011, PUMA has advised its footwear
suppliers to purchase leather from nominated leather manufacturers who are certified members of the Leather Working Group
(LWG), an industry-led association of tanneries and leather manufacturers dedicated
to allowing the tracing of the origin of leather
as well as the certification of its members. In
2014, 99% of cow leather sourced from our
Asian leather suppliers is now rated Gold
or Silver by the LWG, up from 96% in 2013.
However, the percentage of Gold rated
leather has fallen slightly from 66% in 2013
to 58% in 2014 due to changes in the supply chain. PUMA continues to make good
progress and will increase its engagement
with suppliers in other non-Asian sourcing
regions and continue to engage its suppliers
regarding the traceability rating of sourced
leather.

FOOTWEAR - LWG Classification of Leather Sourced

LWG Medal Rating*

% of Asian Sourced Cow Leather
2014

2013

95%

64%

Gold Medal

58%

66%

Cotton (organic)

5%

36%

Silver Medal

41%

30%

Polyester – virgin

80%

54%

Bronze Medal

1%

4%

Polyester – bluesign ®

16%

24%

Non-rated / Pass

0%

0%

4%

22%

* Coverage of LWG certification for PUMAs Asian cow leather suppliers

Polyester – recycled

54 | PUMA RELAY

Company overview | 2

New Footwear Packaging
The year 2014 also marked a turning point
in our footwear packaging concept. Our customers as well as our retail partners repeatedly reported issues regarding difficulties in
the handling of the Clever Little Bag in the
retail environment, which led to the development of a new, more conventional footwear
packaging. To uphold high environmental standards, the new PUMA shoebox will
be made from over 95% recycled and fully
FSC ® certified material.

Chemicals Management
The health and safety of PUMA’s consumers
is our highest priority. In order to ensure that
all PUMA products comply with all legal requirements globally and even surpass them
where possible, PUMA already introduced a
Restricted Substances List (RSL) 15 years
ago and was one of the founding members
of AFIRM, an industry working group focusing on RSL standards in the Apparel and
Footwear industry.
The implementation of the PUMA RSL,
which is constantly updated to meet or exceed the most stringent international standards, is monitored via testing at material
level in nominated independent laboratories.
All PUMA suppliers are contractually bound
to follow the PUMA RSL, when manufacturing PUMA products. They can only apply for
a so-called “Letter of Authorization” to ship

New PUMA footwear packaging

PUMA products, when they have successfully passed these independent tests.

PUMA RSL Testing Results

F.6

3,500

3%

3,000
2,500

60

4%
70
3,111

2,282

Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) are
another chemical group at product level that
PUMA is closely monitoring, especially in
footwear production. Continuous search for
water-based adhesives as well as in-process
optimization of VOC usage are spearheaded
by the Footwear production team. While in

66.7
56.2

50

85

2,000

1,000

70
89

Graph F.6 gives an overview of the PUMA
RSL tests delivered over the last three years.

VOC Consumption per pair of Shoes

F.7

4%

1,500

In 2014, due to our “Forever Faster” repositioning, we reduced the number of materials
in use significantly. Therefore, a lower number of approximately 1,800 RSL test reports
were received with a 96% pass rate. Materials that failed PUMA RSL tests were not allowed to be used in bulk production. Failure
incidents were used in root cause investigation to continuously improve PUMA’s RSL
risk management.

46.8

43.0

42.2

40

39.8

41.2

40.2

37.0

33.1

30
1,806

500

20

30.7
28.7

Target

10

0
2012

2013

Test Reports with Failure
Total Tests Reports

2014
% Failure

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2012

2011

2013

2014

Actual VOC Consumption
Target (25g / pr)
PUMA RELAY | 55

2 | Company overview

some Performance categories footwear
styles still require solvent-based cement
systems, the target remains at 25 grams per
pair of shoes. The chart below shows PUMA’s progress with regard to its VOC reduction program in footwear.
chemical use and, ultimately, its elimination.
By banning the use of hazardous chemicals,
the workers as well as the local fashion production municipalities in Asia, South America, and other production regions will benefit
from a cleaner environment.

Commitment to Zero Discharge of
Hazardous Chemicals
As part of our commitment to the Precautionary Principle and the Greenpeace Detox
Campaign (Zero Discharge of Hazardous
Chemicals), the year 2014 also marks the
end of the usage of long-chain poly-fluorinated chemicals (PFCs), which have the potential to cause hormone disrupting effects
and are also very persistent in the environment. From January 2015 onwards, PUMA
will only use short-chain PFCs and by 2017
plans to phase out the entire use of PFCs.

56 | PUMA RELAY

From a Greenpeace perspective, what are
the critical success factors for a credible
implementation of the Detox program?

Manfred Santen is a campaigner
at Greenpeace Germany, where he
has worked since 2009. He closely
watches the textile industry and was
one of the initiators of the Greenpeace
Detox Campaign launched in 2011,
which aims to set a new standard of
environmental performance for the
global apparel industry.

Mr. Santen, the Greenpeace Detox
Campaign has made many companies
sign commitments to phase out
hazardous chemicals from their production
processes. How do you assess the
progress of the apparel industry so far?
The public Detox Campaign was launched in
July 2011. PUMA was the first company that
committed to zero discharge of hazardous
chemicals by no later than January 1, 2020.
Already, 23 international fashion retailers
and six fashion suppliers – a total of 29 companies – have publicly committed to Detox.
These 29 international fashion-related companies, representing approximately 15% of
the annual global fashion-related production, have begun to deliver important progress in the transparency of their hazardous

From the beginning of the Detox Campaign,
Greenpeace focused on the “Right to Know”
and the precautionary principle, as well as
on prioritization of the most environmentally
hazardous chemicals. The “Right to Know”
and the precautionary principle are of utmost importance for the people who work
at and live near textile factories. They have
the right to know, what is contaminating the
water systems which provide their drinking
water and irrigates the fields, where they
grow food crops. The precautionary principle requires all companies to identify more
responsible chemicals – via proactive chemical studies and testing – before introducing
them into the environment. More effective
hazardous chemical legislation is required
across the developing world, as well as in
Europe and across the developed world.

©Jeff Lau/Greenpeace

©Andri Tambunan/Greenpeace

Company overview | 2

Bales of textile in China

Wastewater discharge in Asian river

Responsible companies cannot wait for this
necessary legislation, but must act now. All
fashion- and sports-related companies are
accountable for how much the environment
is polluted by the production of the apparel
and footwear they sell. It is critical that all
Detox-committed companies deliver credible, rapid and ambitious action to implement
the elimination of hazardous chemicals from
their supply chain.

of all eleven priority hazardous chemicals
groups – including one of the most difficult
to substitute chemical groups, the per- and
poly-fluorinated chemicals (PFCs). PUMA
will replace all PFCs with more environmentally-friendly substitutes by no later than
31 December 2017. This is a very important
step to meet the commitment declared on
January 1, 2020, to eliminate all hazardous
chemical use – and encourages all other
companies that have yet to commit to Detox
to deliver the same.

How do you evaluate PUMA’s efforts
regarding their chemical management
across the apparel supply chain?
Since PUMA was the first company that
published a Detox commitment in 2011, they
have revised their Detox commitment and
actions to deliver the credible steps today
on progressing disclosure and substitution

What are the next steps for the
Greenpeace Detox Campaign?
There is still a lot of work to do, as the rivers
in China and other Asian and South American countries are still not getting cleaner as
fast as it is necessary. As a global campaign,

we are also investigating multiple additional
industries that also need to develop comprehensive hazardous chemicals elimination
plans across their sectors as quickly as possible. Water quality has to be improved globally. That means that over the next months
and years, Greenpeace will continue to motivate companies to deliver credible public
Detox commitments, and we need consumers and production communities around the
world to help us make sure all companies
walk the talk. A part of our work in 2015 will
include another global assessment of the
companies’ progress in delivering their respective Detox commitments (and including
some examples of companies that have yet
to commit to Detox) via the Detox Catwalk.

Environmental Performance at
PUMA’s Own Entities
Referring to our own offices, stores and
warehouses, we try to lead by example and
therefore regularly track key performance
indicators, such as energy, water and waste.
Please refer to table 5 for the latest development of our environmental KPIs.
PUMA RELAY | 57

2 | Company overview

E-KPIS 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8

T.5
2014

Deviation in % to

Total

Energy consumption (kWh)

80,353,980

Electricity consumption from renewable tariff (kWh)

2013

2012

2011

2010

-2

-8

7

6

Total /
employee

Deviation in % to
2013

2012

2011

2010

7,303

-5

-12

2

-9

Total/
m²

Deviation in % to
2013

2012

2011

2010

158.1

-6

-11

-1

1

Total/
TO
kEuro

Deviation in % to
2013

2012

2011

2010

27.0

-1

1

9

-4

10,996,573

25

10

46

–

Water (m³)

108,445

-13

-10

-4

-7

9.9

-15

-14

-13

-20

0.2

-17

-13

-11

-11

0.04

-12

-1

-4

-15

Waste (kg)

4,310,000

-9

-15

-31

-33

392

-12

-19

-37

-43

8.5

-13

-18

-35

-36

1.5

-8

-6

-30

-39

Recycled waste (kg)

2,738,845

-3

8

25

21

Paper (kg)

300,300

13

-4

-24

-21

27

9

-8

-30

-32

0.6

18

-2

-26

26

0.1

13

5

-23

-28

Certified and recycled paper (kg)

196,281

26

6

-20

9

Percentage renewable energy

13.7

27

20

36

–

Percentage recycled waste

63.6

7

27

81

81

Percentage certified and recycled paper

65.4

12

11

5

38

CO2 Data 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8
2014
1. Direct CO2 emissions fossile fuels (t),

(kg)

(kg)

3,247 (2,713)

9

3

32

19

0.3

5

-1

25

3

5.3

4

-1

22

14

0.9

9

13

33

9

4,059 (3,793)

-10

-14

-17

-19

0.3

-12

-18

-21

-30

7.5

-14

-17

-23

-23

1.3

-9

-6

-16

-27

7,306 (6,506)

-3

-8

-2

-7

0.6

-6

-12

-7

-20

12.8

-7

-11

-9

-11

2.2

-2

1

0

-15

34,969 (26,940)

-3

-9

13

-3

2.5

-6

-12

8

-16

53.0

-8

-12

5

-7

9.1

-3

1

15

-12

1. CO2 emissions from business travel
train transportation(t)

45

-6

-18

-54

-42

0.0

-9

-21

-56

-50

0.1

-10

-20

-57

-45

0.02

-5

-9

-53

-48

1. CO2 emissions from business travel
air transportation (t)

8,643

2

-2

-21

1

0.8

-2

-7

-25

-13

17.0

-3

-6

-27

-3

2.9

2

7

-20

-8

2. CO2 emissions from B2B transport of goods (t)*

51,784

18

22

6

17

4.7

14

17

1

1

101.9

13

18

-2

12

17.4

19

35

7

7

Total reported Scope 3

60,472

15

18

1

15

5.5

12

13

-4

-1

119.0

10

14

-6

10

20.4

16

30

2

4

102,747 (93,918)

8

7

4

7

8.6

5

2

-1

-8

184.8

3

4

-4

3

31.6

9

18

5

-2

(Old CO2 emission factor)

2. Direct CO2 emissions car fleet (t),
(Old CO2 emission factor)

Total Scope 1, (Old CO2 emission factor)
Indirect CO2 emissions electricty & steam (t),
(Old CO2 emission factor)

Total Scope 2, (Old CO2 emission factor)

Total, (Old CO2 emission factor)

58 | PUMA RELAY

34,969

(26,940)

Company overview | 2

1. Figures include PUMA owned or operated offices,
warehouses and stores. Outsourced warehouses and
franchised stores are excluded.
2. Includes paper consumption for office usage in offices,
warehouses and stores, excludes card board and paper
bags consumption.
3. Data includes extrapolations or estimations where no
real data could be provided.
4. Excludes on-site generated and consumed energy as
well as energy produced on site and sold to the grid.
5. Includes own production sites in Argentina. All other
production is outsourced to independent supplier
factories, some warehouse operations are outsourced
to independent logistic providers, franchised stores
are excluded.
6. Store data is derived from exemplary stores in each
country and extrapolated to cover all stores;
methodological changes over the last 3 years
do influence results.
7. PUMA uses own methodology for CO2 accounting,
with reference to the GHG protocol, but only reports
CO2 emissions, not CO2 equivalent emissions.
8. PUMA uses own methodology for CO2
accounting, with reference to the GHG protocol, but only
reports data from business travel as well as transportation
of goods under Scope 3 emissions.

Energy
In 2014, PUMA’s total energy consumption increased by 5.8% compared to our 2010 baseline due to increased
business activities. On a per-employee
(FTE, full-time equivalent) level it decreased
by 9% and on a per-turnover level decreased
by 4% within the last four years. The energy
share from renewable sources increased to
14%.

Our goal is to improve our energy efficiency,
which will in turn help to achieve our sustainability targets and save money.
In 2014, our majority shareholder Kering has
piloted a store energy monitoring program in
partnership with Schneider Electric, in which
PUMA participated. The purpose is to enhance
the monitoring and improve the store energy
performance of Kering brands in the long run.
After an energy efficiency audit, the US
head office in Westford began to change
many of the office lights from incandescent
bulbs to LED bulbs. This change will reduce
the total energy load for a year of operation
by about 10%. When added to the savings
already being achieved through the existing
photovoltaic solar panel system, the combined savings can even achieve 20%.
The PUMA Store at Destiny, USA, was
formally recognized by the United States
Green Building Council (USGBC) as LEED
Platinum, the highest level of certification.
This is the first LEED (Leadership in Energy
& Environmental Design) certification for
PUMA.

Water
Water is a critical resource for our
business and the municipalities,
where our facilities are located. From our
E-P&L we know that raw material produc-

Solar panels on the roof top of PUMAVision Headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Germany

tion and processing are the drivers of PUMA’s water impact.
While it is less significant, the majority of
water consumed at PUMA entities is used
for sanitary purposes and gardening. Over
the past three years, we have seen a slight
year-on-year reduction with an average
consumption of 10 m3 per employee in
2014. This reduction can be attributed to
the awareness of the necessity of saving
resources, which is rising within PUMA entities worldwide.

Waste and Recycling
The main input material, that
generated waste for our offices,
stores and warehouses is paper and card-

board. Compared to our 2010 baseline,
the overall waste production per employee
decreased by 43% in 2014. The recycling
rate of our waste globally remains at a high
level of 64%.

Paper
In 2014, PUMA continued to set
the paper target: to source paper
only from certified sources and with at
least 50% recycled content by 2016. Currently, already 65% of PUMA’s office paper
and the vast majority of cardboard used in
packaging is either recycled paper or paper from certified sources. Besides this
positive trend, the consumption of paper
for office purposes was reduced by 21%
compared to our 2010 baseline.
PUMA RELAY | 59

2 | Company overview

CO2 Emissions

Absolute direct CO2 emissions from
fossil fuels (Scope 1) slightly decreased by 7% compared to the 2010 baseline. Relative to our employees the decrease
is more significant at 20%.

T.6

CO2 Comparison*

Roadfreight

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Dev. 2014
vs. 2013

Dev. %
(2014 vs.
2013)

Dev. 2014
vs. 2010

Dev. %
(2014 vs.
2010)

6,194

7,330

8,065

8,291

8,637

346

4.2

2,443

39.4

For indirect emissions from electricity and
steam consumption (Scope 2), we see an
absolute decrease of 3% and minus 16%
on the relative figures per employee (FTE)
compared to 2010.

Railfreight

546

597

448

450

547

97

21.6

1

0.2

Seafreight

21,585

24,312

22,276

21,908

25,766

3,858

17.6

4,181

19.2

0

0

0

0

0

Airfreight

15,857

16,569

11,546

13,182

16,834

3,652

27.7

977

6.2

Total (tons)

44,182

48,808

42,335

43,832

51,784

7,953

18.1

7,602

17.2

For the first time, in 2014 we are additionally
reporting CO2 emissions including Scope 3
for energy generation. As these figures are
not comparable to our historic figures, we
used the old emission factors for the comparison against our 2010 target and baseline. Please refer to table 5 for both figures.
Reported Scope 3 emissions for business
travel of PUMA employees and transportation of goods emissions increased by 7%,
mainly due to an increase in goods transport
emissions. Relative to turnover, there is a
slight decrease of 2%.

* Excluding courier service

As the vast majority of PUMA products are
manufactured in Asia and sold in various
markets around the globe including the USA
and Europe, the transportation of goods
remains a key source of CO2 emissions
caused by PUMA’s business activities.

60 | PUMA RELAY

Riverfreight

Looking at the trend, there was an increase
of 18.1% of CO2 from 43,832 tons to 51,784
tons in 2014 vs 2013 on a global scale across
all transport categories.

T.7

Since the overall emission factors across all
modes of transportation were raised by an
average of 17.3%, we are looking at almost
stable emissions for 2014. This was possi-

tCO2 per ton

2013

2014

Dev. 2014
vs. 2013

Dev. %
(2014 vs.
2013)

Roadfreight

0.062

0.067

0.005

7.8

Railfreight

0.021

0.026

0.005

23.7

Seafreight

0.288

0.332

0.043

15.0

Riverfreight
Airfreight

6.189

6.163

-0.025

-0.4

Total (tons)

0.188

0.224

0.036

19.2

ble due to warehouse consolidation and efficient planning, and in spite of the soccer
world championship in Brazil, which caused
a raise in airfreight tonnage of 21%.
Courier services are not reported as they
are evaluated and reported separately by
PUMAs French majority shareholder Kering. Current indication is that courier service
B2B emissions account for less than 3% of
our overall B2B emissions globally.
In spite of challenging business developments over the past years, it remains our
goal to reach a significant reduction of CO2
emissions by 2015, based on the 2010
figures.

Company overview | 2

Environmental Management at
PUMA Suppliers
wide trainings, 70 factories completed their
environmental module and 45 factories their
social/labor (beta) module. Looking forward,
PUMA plans to continue to engage with the
Higg Index by extending the roll-out to component and material suppliers, in addition to
working with the SAC’s verification working
group.

In line with our environmental policy, we
regularly collect environmental key performance indicators (E-KPIs) from both our
own entities (offices, stores, warehouses)
and key contract manufacturers worldwide.
In doing so, we have not only created awareness of our resource consumption, but have
also set ambitious targets to reduce our impact on the environment. In addition to our
continuous collection of E-KPIs, several
main initiatives were rolled out over the year
2014, which include:
u Our SAVE project for resource efficiency
u The roll-out of the SAC Higg Index Facilities Module to our key suppliers
u Extension of our annual environmental
data collection to key material suppliers
u The start of dedicated environmental auditing
u The roll-out of the ZDHC Manufacturing
Restricted Substances List
u Increased transparency via disclosure of
waste water data on the platform of the
Chinese NGO Institute of Public & Environmental Affairs (IPE).

The PUMA SAVE Project
The SAVE (“Sustainable Actions and Vision
for a better Environment“) project is a Public
Private Partnership (PPP) between PUMA
and DEG (Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft) in collaboration with

Extension of Our Annual Environmental Data Collection
SAVE project team

the brand H&M (Hennes & Mauritz AB) and
the Asia Society for Social Improvement and
Sustainable Transformation (ASSIST).
During 2014, with support from an external
technical team consisting of over 20 consultants, SAVE conducted 47 resource efficiency assessments covering all PUMA’s
major suppliers in Bangladesh, Cambodia,
China and Indonesia. The benefits from implementing the suggested improvements are
expected to have a significant impact on the
operational costs of running a factory in addition to reducing environmental impact and
improving the conditions for local communities, covering all three aspects of sustaina-

bility. In December 2014, the project entered
the implementation phase. For information on the further implementation of SAVE
u please visit the project website.

Roll-Out of the SAC Higg Index Facilities Module
During 2014, PUMA rolled out the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s (SAC) Higg Index 2.0
facility modules across its footwear, apparel
and accessory supply chain. The SAC is
working to achieve an apparel and footwear
industry that produces no unnecessary environmental harm and has a positive impact on
the people and communities associated with
its activities. After participating in industry-

In 2014, PUMA continued to collect environmental key performance indicators (E-KPIs)
including energy, waste, water and CO2
emissions for our Footwear, Apparel and
Accessories product divisions. In order to
do so, we again engaged with our key production partners (Tier 1) and asked them to
complete the online questionnaires linked
to our environmental management software
Enablon.
In total, 47 suppliers across the three divisions participated in the environmental data
reporting process. These reporters account
for 72% of our total shipment in 2014 as
shown in the table below.

PUMA RELAY | 61

2 | Company overview

T.8

Number of Reporting Suppliers
Apparel

Accessories

Footwear

Total

2014 Enablon reporters

24

9

14

47

New Enablon reporters

5

1

3

9

70 %

61 %

78 %

72 %

Coverage of production volume in %

Below is the summary of our E-KPIs of our Tier 1 suppliers.

T.9

While the E-KPI data from our key suppliers
has become more stable, it is also apparent
that progress measured against the reduction target remains limited. We hope that
our large-scale capacity building project,
Sustainable Actions and Vision for a better
Environment (SAVE), will help close this gap
in 2015.

Summary of Supplier E-KPIs1 - 2014
WEIGHTED

E-KPI

% Change
(2013-2014)

Unit

Value 2011

Value 2012

Value 2013

Value 2014

kWh

0.5

0.4

0.5

0.4

-16 %

CO2/piece (Scope 1, 2 and 3)

kg

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.4

N/A

CO2/piece (Scope 1, 2 & Biz Travel)

% Change
(2011-2014)

Range 2014
Min

Max

-21 %

0.2

0.6

N/A

0.2

0.7

Accessories
Energy/piece

kg

0.3

0.3

0.4

0.3

-10 %

5%

0.1

0.6

Water/piece

l

27

6.9

8.6

6.7

-22 %

-75 %

3.4

15.5

Waste/piece

g

27

23

37

28

-24 %

4%

13

57

kWh

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.8

0%

34 %

0.1

2.9

CO2/piece (Scope 1, 2 and 3)

kg

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.4

N/A

N/A

0.1

3.4

CO2/piece (Scope 1, 2 & Biz Travel)

kg

0.3

0.3

0.3

0.3

11 %

11 %

0.1

3.1

Water/piece

l

15

8.2

7.8

7.6

-2 %

-49 %

0.6

74.2

Waste/piece

g

42

72

81

61

-24 %

46 %

2

118

Apparel
Energy/piece

Footwear
Energy/pair

kWh

1.5

1.5

1.5

1.5

3%

3%

0.7

2.7

CO2/pair (Scope 1, 2 and 3)

kg

N/A

N/A

N/A

1.4

N/A

N/A

0.5

2.5

CO2/pair (Scope 1, 2 & Biz Travel)

kg

0.9

0.9

0.9

0.9

3%

3%

0.4

2.0

Water/pair

l

32

24.2

26.8

23.5

-12 %

-27 %

2.9

66.1

Waste/pair

g

176

147

122

119

-2 %

-32 %

55

174

1. Figures derived from 47 key suppliers covering 72 % of PUMA production worldwide

62 | PUMA RELAY

Company overview | 2

In an effort to expand our data collection
deeper into the supply chain, we furthermore asked 33 key Tier 2 and Tier 3 PUMA
suppliers representative of the major production processes and products to join the
environmental reporting for the second time.
These suppliers process natural leather,
synthetic leather, outsoles, midsoles, fabrics, trims, etc. Some of the data (ranges)
are illustrated below. The results (average
E-KPI and supplier’s own E-KPIs) have been
communicated to the suppliers so they can
look into their production processes and find
out improvement opportunities in waste minimization, water conservation and energy efficiency.

Improved Environmental Auditing
PUMA has audited all of its Tier 1 suppliers
for basic environmental standards as part of
its regular compliance audits since 2002. In
2014, PUMA started to conduct additional
and more comprehensive dedicated environmental audits for key Tier 2 suppliers with

T.10

significant environmental impacts. By the
end of 2014, PUMA had completed ten factory audits in five countries in Asia, Europe,
and America, including knitting mills, dye
houses, artificial leather mills, and golf accessory producers. The candidate factories
were selected according to the following
principles: 1) PUMA’s key material suppliers
with wet process, 2) factories with no valid
audit from bluesign®, Oekotex and LWG, 3)
factories that have not been audited by other brands using the ZDHC Audit Protocol.
The ZDHC Auditing Protocol 1.0 is a comprehensive audit system with a focus on
chemical management. The six auditing domains include the environmental management system, permits, emissions, hazardous substances, resource use, and basic
health & safety. Auditing results differ from
factory to factory. However, the common
concerns were:

1) Incomplete environmental
management systems;
2) Weak implementation of
environmental policy;
3) Insufficient staff training;
4) Some factories without necessary
discharge permit;
5) Weak awareness of ZDHC roadmap
and Manufacturing RSL;
6) Factory reliance on suppliers’
guarantee letter to ensure RSL compliance
instead of full RSL testing;
7) Some of the factories never tested
their air and water emissions;
8) Material safety data sheets were written
and posted in foreign languages which
warehouse employees cannot read;

Effluent Treatment Plant at LWG-Gold-certified
PUMA Leather Supplier Prime Asia

9) Low awareness on soil and
groundwater protection efforts.
A majority of facilities had not previously
been covered by any kind of audit, which is
an opportunity for PUMA to engage with a
wider supply chain. Audit reports and correction action plans were shared with the ten
suppliers for remediation.

E-KPI Ranges Material Suppliers

Supplier Type
Tannery
Knitting/Weaving
Dyeing
Knitting/Weaving+Dyeing

Waste
g/kg product

Water
l/kg product

Energy
KWh/kg product

CO2
kgCO2 /kg product

Number of
suppliers surveyed

205 - 1,224

62 - 72

2.5

2.2 - 3.9

3

15 - 97

1.3 - 3

0.4 - 0.6

2

11 - 107

24 - 207

1 - 23.8

0.9 - 13.9

5

55 - 1,463

91 - 1,189

3.2 - 57.6

3.1 - 49.6

10

PUMA RELAY | 63

2 | Company overview

IPE Data Disclosure
As part of PUMA’s renewed Greenpeace
Detox commitment, we agreed to encourage our major suppliers with wet processing facilities on a global level to publish test
reports of their waste water. To do so, we
partnered with the Chinese NGO Institute
of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE),
which has developed a global online database for this purpose.

accredited laboratories qualified to carry out
the testing.

During 2014, we identified the largest material suppliers (including vertical suppliers)
and brought them in contact with PUMA

The results of the existing test reports are
displayed and interpreted in the charts F.8
and F.9.

F.8

The target was to cover suppliers responsible for 80% of the production volume. As
of early 2015, seven reports were already
posted on the u IPE website, with another
twelve reports being shared with PUMA for
review and later publication.

Detection of Priority Chemicals in Our Suppliers‘ Waste Water

76

3

1 1

Our suppliers have tested 1,644 individual
samples in total, and only in 82 cases any
critical substances were detected. Out of all
eleven priority chemical groups, metals are
the most popular group, followed by phthalates, chlorobenzenes, perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs), and azo dyes. In two cases,
phthalate and chlorobenzene were detected, which had been introduced into our suppliers’ processes through incoming water,
while azo dyes and PFCs were found in very
low concentrations in one of our tanneries.

The table shows the maximum measured
heavy metal concentrations of our suppliers’ waste water samples compared with the
recommended limited values for waste water
from the u German Environmental Agency
(UBA).
Our suppliers always complied with those
limits and none of the limits were exceeded.
PUMA will nonetheless continue to work
with its suppliers to identify the sources
of the detected substances and identify
potential alternatives.

Concentration of Heavy Metals

F.9
ppm

2

2

1

1.5
Total

1

1

Metals
Phthalates
Azo Dyes
PFCs

0.5
0.02

0.1

0.00006

0.0015

um

Cr

d
Ca

mi

Vl

0.15

Cr

tot

al

recommended limit value from German Federal
Environmental Agency (UBA)
64 | PUMA RELAY

0.5

0.5

0.15

0.32

0.02

0.42

el
ck

Z in

0

Chlorobenzenes
1,644

0.5

Co

ba

lt

Co

pp

er

Ni

Detected concentration

c

Company overview | 2

Stakeholder
and Industry
Collaboration

7

FLA CEO Claudia Coenjaerts addressing the audience at our 2014 Talks at Banz

At PUMA, we regard sustainability as team
sports: Only through collaboration, we will
be able to reach our goals and face our
collective challenges. Stakeholder engagement is critical in these processes. PUMA is
an active and accredited member of the Fair
Labor Association and continues to work towards improving the labor conditions along
the supply chain through the FLA Sustainable Compliance Initiative (SCI).
In addition, PUMA is an active member of:
u ILO/IFC Better Work (Buyer Partner);
u Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building
Safety;
u Sustainable Apparel Coalition;
u AFIRM Group;
u ZDHC Group;
u European Sporting Goods Federation
(FESI);
u World Federation of the Sporting Goods
Industry (WFSGI);

u German Foreign Trade Association;
u Fair Factories Clearinghouse;
u German Roundtable of Codes of Conduct, and
u the Freedom of Association Protocol
Indonesia.
In 2014, PUMA also signed an agreement
with a local chapter of Save the Children to
strengthen our child labor remediation protocol in identified high-risk areas and met
regularly with Greenpeace on the Detox
campaign.
Furthermore, PUMA works to establish more responsible use of raw materials through partnerships with the Leather
Working Group, bluesign® technolgies and
the Forest Stewardship Council ® (FSC ®).
PUMA renewed its accreditation to sell fair
trade products from the fair trade certifying
organization FLO-Cert and chairs the Environmental Committee of FESI. 8

Talks at Banz 2014  9
Since the first Talks at Banz in 2003, PUMAs
stakeholder dialogue format has evolved
from a small discussion roundtable debate to
an innovative and forward-thinking event, in
which representatives from NGOs, industry,
suppliers, creative fields, universities, private organizations and PUMA address key
sustainability issues. The intense dialogue
with our stakeholders has always provided
us with valuable and constructive feedback
on our sustainability strategy.
In November 2014, more than 70 national
and international stakeholders and sustainability experts as well as members of the
Board of Management of PUMA attended
PUMA’s 11th Talks at Banz stakeholder
meeting to exchange views regarding the
topic “Value Creation through Sustainability”.
A list of all stakeholders attending the 11th
Talks at Banz can be found u here.

The key results of the stakeholder meeting
are listed below:
u Total phase out of poly-fluorinated hydro
carbons until 31.12.2017;
u Further strengthening of the PUMA sustainable compliance program with reference to legal and global industry standards;
u Manifestation of sustainability as a clear
company value, while meeting the needs
of the market;
u Focus on commercial products with a
clear emphasis on design and functionality first with sustainability embedded; to
better integrate sustainability into the
brand messaging of PUMA.

7

G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 | 8 G4-24, G4-26 | 9 G4-27

PUMA RELAY | 65

2 | Company overview

Annual Supplier Meeting 2014  10
PUMA continues to organize annual roundtables with suppliers around the world.
These roundtables are a platform for suppliers to raise and discuss issues, that are
relevant for creating sustainable workplace
conditions as well as the protection of the
environment.
PUMA uses these roundtables to update
suppliers on recent developments in compliance policies and capacity building efforts.
They have also become platforms for supplier representatives to directly engage with
PUMA’s external stakeholders and service
providers, enhancing their awareness of
corporate responsibility issues on a wider
scale from organizations like the FLA, Better
Work and local government representatives.
In 2014, PUMA presented at the Annual
Supplier Summit in Hong Kong and engaged
with all major suppliers in a workshop focusing on prioritizing key aspects of sustainability (materiality analysis). One result of these
workshops was that the highest priority aspects of the majority of our key suppliers are
similar to those of our strategic stakeholders.

Anti-Corruption
Efforts
11

The fight against corruption was highlighted
as a major issue within our last materiality
analysis, and also a regular topic during our
last stakeholder dialogue meeting Talks at
Banz.
Each compliance (incl. anti-corruption) initiative at PUMA is presented to and agreed
on by the main governance bodies (Managing Directors of PUMA SE, Audit Committee,
Administrative Board).
Apart from the supply chain worker complaint channel that PUMA operates, PUMA
also continues to keep a global, third party
controlled whistle blowing hotline, as reported in previous years.
In September 2014, the revised “PUMA
Code of Ethics” – including PUMA’s policy
regarding “Gifts & Hospitality” – was communicated to all PUMA employees and suppliers worldwide via e-mail from PUMA’s CEO
Bjørn Gulden and is available for download
in PUMA’s group-wide Intranet. This revised
“PUMA Code of Ethics” is also u available
on PUMA’s Corporate website here.

Additionally, in September 2014 a respective
ethics e-learning program was implemented
in cooperation with PUMA’s major shareholder Kering. This program was promoted
by PUMA’s Corporate Communications Department to all PUMA employees.
All PUMA employees worldwide were
obliged to take part in the ethics e-learning
program; as per December 2014, 43% of
PUMA employees had completed it.
In addition to the e-learning program, several face-to-face compliance trainings were
held in 2014, focusing – risk-based – on
specific target groups (e.g. Finance Senior
Managers, Sales Staff, Commercial Leadership Team):

u Compliance training (focus on anti-trust,
anti-corruption) for the Sales Team of
PUMA DACH region.
Furthermore, a presentation was given to
representatives of all significant suppliers
(approx. 103 participants) of PUMA’s Group
Sourcing during the annual Sourcing Summit in Hong Kong. The presentation included a clear statement from PUMA regarding
anti-corruption. In addition, all participants
were obliged to sign an anti-corruption undertaking form.
Going forward, PUMA will continue to focus
on the implementation of anti-corruption
policies and aims to increase the amount
of employees covered by the online training
program. 12

u Compliance training (focus on anti-trust,
anti-corruption, internal control) for the
Commercial Leadership Team;
u Compliance training (focus on anti-trust,
anti-corruption, internal control, anti-fraud)
for Finance Senior Managers of the
PUMA Group;
10

66 | PUMA RELAY

G4-26, G4-27 | 11 G4-24 | 12 G4-24

Company overview | 2

The Way Ahead

Focus and Adjust
The next phase of PUMA’s sustainability
journey is to embed sustainability across
the business in support of PUMA’s “Forever
Faster” repositioning. In the course of 2014,
PUMA has refined its global sustainability
strategy to determine four key impact areas, where we will drive activity to improve
PUMA’s impact. This new strategy includes
insights from our materiality analysis, consumer research as well as the input from
critical stakeholders during PUMA’s 2014
stakeholder dialogue Talks at Banz – according to which we will adjust our strategic
sustainability focus in the following way:
Our sustainability activities at corporate
level, which had a relatively high focus in
recent years, but not always created an im-

mediate pay-back on the investment, will be
adjusted to medium focus going forward.
Supply chain sustainability initiatives will
remain a key focus area as they were in
the past. Due to the fact that the majority
of the PUMA production is outsourced to
independent suppliers in Asia, solid supply
chain practices remain the bedrock of sustainability efforts within PUMA and its entire
supply chain.
The relatively high focus on more sustainable products will be adjusted to medium
going forward with a clear focus on the
commerciality (design, function, price) of
products first. Based on our experience it
became clear that for the main PUMA tar-

get consumers sustainability is rather being
regarded as an embedded additional value
and not the main purchasing criteria.
The communication of sustainability initiatives to our consumers, which had a relatively low focus in the past, will, however,
be increased to medium focus in an effort to
raise our customers’ enthusiasm regarding
sustainability matters, as we experienced
that it is essential to involve consumers from
the very beginning into our strategies. Thus,
we expect to better capitalize on our sustainability investments going forward.

PUMA RELAY | 67

Company Overview

OUR EMPLOYEES
People@PUMA 69
Independent Assurance Report 76

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

PEOPLE@PUMA
Motivated and committed employees are a crucial
factor for a company’s long-term success, as they
stimulate innovation and growth. For PUMA as a
global player, the huge variety of our employees’
experiences, skills and qualifications is a substantial
competitive advantage and increases our
attractiveness both as a brand and an employer.

Dietmar Knöß (47), Global
Director Human Resources,
with PUMA since 2010.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means always being ahead
of our competitors in
everything we do!”

Attaining the most suitable candidates
worldwide and systematically developing
our employees’ competencies and skills is
the goal of our recruiting and development
strategy in order to live up to our mission of
being the Fastest Sports Brand in the world.
To cover our demand for qualified employees, we do not only convince new employees
that PUMA is an attractive employer, but
keep them in the company long-term through
specific and dedicated staff development
and training programs.

Training and Development
PUMA believes that continuous success
and future growth is only possible with competent and dedicated colleagues, who are
confident of what they do and believe in their
own strengths. To ensure that our employees
can leverage their talents and develop their
skills and competencies, PUMA offers different trainings on various topics for staff on
all levels. By developing employees through
these trainings, ranging from group workshops to tailor-made sessions for specific
PUMA RELAY | 69

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Our employees reflect PUMA’s attitude of being Forever Faster.

PUMA fosters young talent through various apprenticeships and dual studies in Germany.

needs, our employees reach their personal
development goals as well as contribute to
make PUMA “Forever Faster”.

In their different courses, the new apprentices will concentrate on their apprenticeship
as industrial clerk, trained retail salesman,
qualified IT specialist or warehouse logistics clerk. The dual students chose textile
management, textile business economics,
accounting & controlling, international business and logistics as their focus of studies.

In 2014, the number of employees trained
and the number of training hours have both
increased to a total of 7,766 trained employees and 129,133 training hours.

Growing Talent
To perpetually ensure that our employees are qualified for their respective roles,
PUMA trusts in growing and developing
talents from a very early stage. Therefore,
PUMA offers a variety of options especially
to young people, who just graduated from
school, to start into their career. This year,
PUMA further expanded its offer for various
70 | PUMA RELAY

apprenticeships or dual studies in Germany
to cater for different needs and vacancies.
In September 2014, eleven new apprentices
and six dual students started at PUMA, raising the total number of apprentices and dual
students to 49.
All different apprenticeships and dual study
programs have in common that they offer a
great balance of theoretical learning at the
vocational school or college combined with
practical work experience at PUMA. In their
respective vocational school or college, the
apprentices and students receive the necessary skill-set for their future jobs and are able
to use this knowledge in their work at PUMA
right away. This combination facilitates the
internalization of what has been learned and
the transfer into daily work life.

PUMA believes that being trained in vocational school or college as well as in various departments of the company helps our
young talents to gain a solid overview of our
business processes, enabling them to contribute to PUMA’s future. The combination of
school education and training on the job provides a successful preparation for the challenges of the international work environment
at PUMA.

Leadership Training
A rather new training offered at PUMA is
called “From Employee to Manager”, which
was rolled out in our headquarters in Herzogenaurach in 2014 and was very well received. In the past year, 30 employees participated in this training focused on Team
Head level managers, who have recently
been promoted or are about to be promoted
in the near future and have not had any experience in managing employees yet. Dealing
with their new role, positioning themselves
within the team and managing their team are
just a few of the topics covered. By means of
follow-up trainings after the initial workshop,
it is ensured that managers can transfer the
skills and techniques acquired in the course
of the trainings into their everyday work.

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

Furthermore, our International Leadership
Program (ILP) continued successfully in
2014. During our ILP trainings, managers
of different hierarchy levels are prepared
for their management tasks in various welldefined training modules. A toolbox is provided, which enables participants to act adequately in different situations. Additionally,
managers receive support in reflecting and
developing their own leadership style and
are given the opportunity to build a global
network. Thereby, we ensure a consistent
management culture within our company. In
the past year, 189 managers have participated in our ILP, with 117 participants in the
EMEA region, 48 in Asia and 24 in the USA.

Performance Management and
Succession Planning
To guarantee a diverse and productive
workforce, we rely on a mix of young and
experienced employees. Since evaluating
and strengthening the competencies of our
employees are crucial success factors for
a fast and efficient business performance,
we systematically manage the performance
potential of our employees on a regular basis.
Annual appraisal talks are led with all our
employees to discuss company and personal
goals. According to the evaluation of one’s
personal results, individual action plans for
each employee are developed and documented in our internal performance management system, People@PUMA.

To further drive our pursuit of efficiency, cies, talents can be identified, individually
People@PUMA has been updated this year. developed and transferred worldwide. This
In addition to a modernized evaluation sec- allows us to fill positions and find potential
tion, the latest version offers an integrated successors equipped with the necestalent management and succession planning sary skills. In other words, People@
approach. The combination of these formerly PUMA serves as an integrated persingle processes in one program facilitates formance management tool as
the creation of holistic employee profiles. Fur- well as a succession planning
thermore, People@PUMA is still linked to our and talent management system
annually updated internal training catalogue. that allows us to replace part of
This enables us to identify and develop talent- our vacant positions on a national
ed employees according to their needs and and international level with candicompetencies. The new version has already dates from within PUMA. Both
been rolled out in several countries. By the talented employees and managend of 2014, this modern tool is
ready to use for 3,356 employees in several countries with
Katrin Niekrawitz (27),
more regions to follow in 2015.
Furthermore, People@PUMA
offers a talent pool to facilitate
the internal mobility of employees worldwide. Data of talented
employees, who are willing to
move to the next step on an
international basis, are implemented. PUMA’s HR managers
in the different regions can easily
identify a matching PUMA employee from all over the world
for their respective vacancy and
get in contact with them.

Manager HR Development,
with PUMA since 2011.

“For me,
‘Forever Faster’
means doing the best I
can to change the game
– every single day!”

On the basis of the evaluated data of our
employees’ performances and competenPUMA RELAY | 71

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

ers are bound to the company and existing
know-how is secured within the organization.

Worker’s Council/Employee
Representatives
In 2014, the Worker’s Council of PUMA SE
(the European part of employee representation) represented employees in ten coun-

tries. Out of its 14 members, five are women.
The chairperson is German, the other member of the Executive Committee is French.
The German worker’s council of PUMA SE
consists of 15 members. The chairperson is
male, the vice chairperson female. Both of
them are German. Another employee representative, a US American, was elected to
represent handicapped employees.

Wellbeing@PUMA

F.1

Proud to represent PUMA: our team at Nuremberg’s corporate B2Run in 2014.

Wellbeing@PUMA

SELF MANAGEMENT
EMPLOYEE DISCOUNT
PUMA LEARNING PLAZA
PUMA INTERNATIONAL LEADERSHIP PROGRAM
SPORTS EVENTS
PUMA SOCCER COURT

COOPERATION
WITH CHILD
CARE FACILITIES

PARENT-CHILD
OFFICES
FAMILY
SERVICE

REIMBURSEMENT
OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION COSTS

FLEXIBLE WORKING
HOURS AND LOCATIONS

PRIVATE PENSION
OPTIONS
CAPITAL FORMING
PAYMENTS

WELCOME AT
PUMA SHOPPING
VOUCHER
WORKSITE BANK

CANTEEN
SUBSIDY

BUDDY
PROGRAM

MEDICAL INSURANCE
FOR BUSINESS TRIPS
COMPANY SPORTS
PROGRAM

SOCIAL ROOMS
SOLIDARITY LEAVE
SOCIAL EVENTS
Mental Wellbeing
Structural Wellbeing
Social Wellbeing
Physical Wellbeing

72 | PUMA RELAY

FREE GYM

MASSAGE/PHYSIO
AT WORK
COMPANY
PHYSICIAN

Not only because of our heritage in sports,
the physical health and emotional/mental
wellbeing of our employees is a priority for
PUMA. We pursue a holistic approach with
regards to the wellbeing of our employees,
which consists of a large variety of sports
courses, activities and events to engage in
within our workforce. In 2014, our internal
sports department offered 49 courses and
22 events with a total of 1,047 registrations
at our headquarters in Herzogenaurach.
Our Wellbeing@PUMA concept at our headquarters in Herzogenaurach/Germany is
divided into four categories: mental wellbeing, structural wellbeing, social wellbeing and
physical wellbeing. Since 2011, we have collaborated with the so-called family service,

which includes child care options as well as
life coaching advice. Employees, who face
difficult situations in their work or private life,
can turn to them for guidance and solutionoriented counseling.
After the successful implementation in our
headquarters, some of the courses and
actions are adopted worldwide, depending on
local circumstances and cultural background.

Flexible Working Models
We operate in very dynamic markets, where
social and economic frameworks are constantly evolving. New forms of work-sharing,
altered family models and demographic
developments demand effective and differentiated procedures and working models.
With a rather young permanent workforce at

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

an average age of 33, PUMA has to ensure
that our working models reflect the special
requirements of our employees. In order to
support our employees’ dynamic and modern lifestyles, we provide flexible working
time models as well as attractive options to
balance work and private life. To cater for
our employees’ needs, we offer parent-child
offices, work together with local child care
facilities, offer support through the family
service, as well as flexible working time and
location arrangements. Since September
2014, employees in Herzogenaurach have
the option to work a certain amount of their
working time supported by communication
tools and technologies outside of the office
of PUMA SE in their mobile office.

T.1

Percentage of Women in Management

Region

2012

2013

2014

APAC

35%

34%

38%

LATAM

30%

30%

29%

North America

39%

38%

40%

37%*

34%*

36%

34%

Europe
EEMEA
Total

Working Conditions/Working
Environment

workforce influences and enriches all areas
of our business like innovation management
and product development, our business partners, customers and suppliers. Considering
multiple perspectives regarding research,
development and problem solving, leads to
successful and sustainable results. Consequently, PUMA committed to the PUMA Code
of Ethics in 2005 and to the charter of diversity. This charter was implemented to ensure
an impartial working environment at PUMA,
where all employees have equal opportunities, regardless of gender, race, nationality,
ethnic origin, religion or ideology, physical
ability, age, sexual orientation or identity.

Dare to Be Diverse

At PUMA, we focus on an appealing and
pleasant working environment to positively
influence employee engagement as well as

We believe that diversity is a cross-sectional
topic and its appreciation serves the success of our company. The diversity of our

When hiring candidates and promoting
employees we follow the principle to solely
base our decisions on qualifications and
skill-sets. At the end of 2014, we employed
people from 46 nations in our headquar-

At the end of 2014, more than 30% of employees were employed on a part-time basis. As
far as the requirements of the job allow, our
employees agree on flexible working times,
that meet their needs and are coordinated in
close alignment with their managers. Today,
almost all of our subsidiaries worldwide offer
flexible working time models.

39%
35%

* Until 2013 the regions Europe and EEMEA were reported combined.

foster loyalty and commitment to the company. One of our long-term goals is to keep
the turnover rate initiated by employees
below 20% and the percentage of employees with a permanent contract at over 80%.
In 2014, depending on the region and retaildriven business, a turnover rate between
6% and 54% was recorded. The total turnover rate amounted to 26% and was therefore slightly lower to the one in the previous
year. The percentage of employees in permanent employment across the company
was around 82% and the global ratio of
employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement was almost 25%.

All these options contribute to our employees’ flexibility and improve their daily life.

29%

ters in Herzogenaurach. To embrace and
understand the wide range of international backgrounds and experiences of colleagues, customers and consumers around
the world, PUMA promotes intercultural
differences by training sessions, networking events and awareness campaigns. In
2014, cultural awareness trainings for each
new employee were implemented in our
onboarding process in our global headquarters. This training aims at supporting
employees to increase their effectiveness
in working internationally by understanding,
appreciating and doing things differently.
The gender distribution of PUMA employees is very balanced, with roughly 47% of
female employees and 53% of male employees respectively. However, men in leadership positions are still strongly represented,
whereas women are not yet represented as
PUMA RELAY | 73

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Our diversity is an important success factor of our company.

much. To promote gender diversity in management, we monitor the representation of
women in our development programs. By
offering these actions as well as recruiting mainly internal candidates for management positions, we are willing to accept this
rather time-consuming process for the benefit of long-term sustainable growth of our
female manager quota at PUMA.
Expressing feedback in an objective and
respectful manner is an essential part of
our company culture and is consequently
addressed in leadership and communication
trainings. Should employees feel discriminated in any way, they have the possibility to
contact the respective line manager, the HR
department or the employee representative,
who will instantly investigate and resolve the
74 | PUMA RELAY

The children from the “Children Promotion Society” in Nepal.

situation confidentially. Our latest employee
survey shows, that employees feel treated
fairly with regards to their sex, ethnic, physical capability or disability.

Charity Cat
As in previous years, in 2014 PUMA supported Charity Cat e.V., a charitable organization founded by PUMA employees and
based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, with
product and financial donations.
The portfolio of the charity – which now
also counts several non-PUMA members –
includes one-off and local projects, such as
women’s refuges and integration programs
for young asylum seekers, as well as ongoing international causes. FONMAEH e.V.,

an organization that shelters and provides
for orphaned children in Haiti, is one such
example – since 2011, Charity Cat has been
helping to cover the cost of building and running an orphanage.
Funds, raised in part thanks to PUMA
employees, were also spent to rebuild
homes for poor families affected by the tropical storm Hayan in the Philippines. Charity
Cat worked with the Organisations von Herz
zu Herz and Springboard in the country,
the latter of which has been benefitting
from a financial allocation for more than
five years.
A new addition to Charity Cat’s portfolio
in 2014 is the Children Promotion Society
(CPS) in Nepal, which gives shelter and

cares for the general wellbeing of around 20
children.
Furthermore, the organization supported
projects closer to home, including women’s
shelters in Nuremberg, Erlangen and Fuerth,
which received an annual clothes donation.
Charity Cat also works with “Tafel Neustadt”,
a food shop for needy persons and “Sozialtreff Erlangen”, where food and other items
are distributed. In addition, it gives funding
to street drop-in clinics in the area and support an integration project for disadvantaged
youths, Project ELAN, in Fuerth.
Further projects are listed at the u charity’s
website in German and English.

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

Occupational Health and Safety

The main goal of our occupational health
and safety programs is to foster and continuously improve a healthy and safe work environment by dealing with all different aspects
of these two topics in the workplace. Information is a powerful tool to support the
reduction of hazards and elimination of risks
in the workplace.
Safety related trainings, such as periodical
fire evacuation exercises as well as first aid
and free medical check-ups are organized
at country levels. Over the past year, safety
related training hours accumulated to a total
of 8,694 hours. In 2014, 3,260 employees
were trained in first aid and 5,492 employees in fire evacuation.
In our global headquarters in Herzogenaurach, we operate a Health and Safety
Committee, which includes members of the
Worker’s Council, HR and in-house service
departments, our company physician and a
health & safety engineer.

pational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA), this corresponds to an injury rate
of 0.87.

Compensation and Benefits
Retaining and rewarding the best talents in
the market is our primary motivation. Therefore, we provide a global set of compensation
and benefit programs that attract and retain
talented employees. At many subsidiaries,
we have collective bargaining agreements,
that allow for a salary exceeding industry
average and extended annual leave. PUMA
also offers a variety of benefit plans, such as
defined contribution and deferred compensation retirement plans. Regular Compensation and Benefit Reviews ensure PUMA’s

competitiveness on the market and the
alignment with our corporate goals.
Since we believe that strong performances
need to be rewarded, we seek to create
compensation programs in line with individual and/or business performances.
Short-term and long-term incentives
or bonus plans are offered to a certain
level of employees. Short-term incentive
plan payouts are linked to both business
performance and sustainability targets. Long-term awards
include stock options.

Heike Burkhardt (34),
Business Partner HR, with
PUMA since 2005.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means quickly adapting to
changing environments
and enjoying the work
on new challenges.”

A further indicator for employee engagement and the health of our workforce is the
absenteeism rate due to sickness, which
was again below 2% in 2014 and therefore
below the industry average. Only 93 occupational accidents worldwide, that caused
a work stoppage, were recorded, which is
a further reduction to the already very low
number last year. According to the OccuPUMA RELAY | 75

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

INDEPENDENT
ASSURANCE
REPORT
To PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach

Our Engagement
We have been engaged to perform a limited
review of sustainability information as stated
in the Annual Report 2014 of PUMA SE,
Herzogenaurach for the year ended December 31, 2014, including compliance with the
criteria and standards the information is
based on. The limited review does not cover
an assessment of PUMA’s Product Environmental Profit and Loss Account.

Management’s Responsibility
The Management Board of PUMA SE is
responsible for the preparation of the Annual
Report 2014 in accordance with the criteria
as stated in the Sustainability Reporting G4
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).

76 | PUMA RELAY

These criteria are:
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u

Stakeholder inclusiveness,
Sustainability context,
Materiality,
Completeness,
Balance,
Comparability
Accuracy,
Timeliness,
Clarity and
Reliability.

This responsibility also includes the development, implementation and operation of systems and processes as well as the definition
of key issues of the report and the reporting
method.

Our Responsibility
Our responsibility is to give an attestation,
based on the results of our work, as to whether any matters have come to our knowledge
that could give rise to the assumption that
the sustainability information as stated in
the Annual Report 2014 do not comply, in
all material respects, with the above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines G4 of the GRI.
The objective of a limited review is to obtain
a limited assurance. Hence, the scope of a
limited review is less comprehensive than
the scope of an audit, which – in contrast
to a limited review – aims to obtain a reasonable assurance. Consequently, a limited
review may thus not reasonably assure all

material facts as could an audit. Therefore,
we may not issue a positive statement (auditors’ opinion) on the selected data.
Based on the results of our audit, we have
been also engaged to give recommendations for the further development of the sustainability management and the respective
reporting.

Methodology
Our limited review was conducted in accordance with the “International Standard on
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000”.
Within the scope of our engagement, the following activities were performed amongst
others:

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 2

u

Interviews with employees of the Group
head office in the areas „PUMA.Safe“,
HR and the logistics departments, who
are in charge of reporting sustainability
issues.

Our Conclusion
Based on our limited review, no facts have
come to our knowledge that could give
rise to the assumption that the sustainability information as stated in the Annual
Report 2014 of PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach do not comply with the criteria
of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines
G4 of the GRI.

u

Inspection of the documentation of the
systems, processes and internal controls for consolidation and internal
reporting of performance indicators.

u

Interviews with personnel responsible
for internal reporting of energy, use
and logistics key indicators, located
in Germany and China (remotely).

Without qualifying our attestation, we give
the following recommendations for the further development of the sustainability management and reporting:

Analytical testing on selected sustainability data on a sample basis.

u

u

u

Focus on automated reporting structures,

u

Improve reporting and validation structures, and

u

Ensure report consistency and comparability of sustainability figures.

Note and Recommendation

Improve controls
of Enablon,

and

functionality

Munich/Germany, February 23, 2015

Deloitte & Touche GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
(Christof Stadter)

(Ina Stubenrauch)

Auditor		

Graduated engineer
PUMA RELAY | 77

Group
management
report
Overview 2014 79
PUMA Group Essential Information 81

Commercial Activities and Organizational Structure 81
Targets and Strategy 82
Product Development and Design 84
Sourcing 85
Employees 87
Management System 89

Economic Report 90

General Economic Conditions 90
Sales 91
Results of Operations 95
Dividends 98
Regional Development 99
Net Assets and Financial Position 101
Cash Flow 103

Compensation Report 105
Risk and Opportunity Management 107
Information Concerning Takeovers 112
Supplemental Report and Outlook 114
Corporate Governance Report 116

Michael Lämmermann (52),
Chief Financial Officer, with
PUMA since 1993.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means reinventing PUMA
and bringing new trendsetting and commercial
products to the market
faster than any competitor.”

management report | 3

Overview 2014

In the past year we initiated a turnaround
in PUMA’s business with our key strategic measures. Under our new corporate
identity and brand mission “Forever Faster” we moved forward with the repositioning of PUMA as the fastest sports brand
in the world, optimized product development, improved our distribution quality and
increased the speed within our organization.
With the unambiguous positioning of PUMA
as a sports brand, we have one clear goal in
mind: in the future our focus will be fully on
fast products and athletes, dynamic design
and quick decisions.
In January 2014, we announced a longterm partnership with Arsenal Football
Club, London, a top club in the English
Premier League. The supplier agreement,
which entered into force on July 1, 2014, is
the largest sponsorship deal ever signed
by either PUMA or Arsenal and includes
equipping all Arsenal teams with match and
training kit. Arsenal thus joins the Italian

Football Federation (FIGC) and Borussia
Dortmund as a top team in PUMA’s portfolio
that plays at the highest international level.
Together with our top international players such as Sergio Agüero, Cesc Fàbregas, Marco Reus, Mario Balotelli, Radamel
Falcao, Olivier Giroud and Yaya Touré we
continue to build up our position in football.
At the national level, PUMA extended its
partnership with Borussia Dortmund and
acquired 5% of the voting rights in the capital increase.
At the World Cup in Brazil, at least one of
the eight participating PUMA teams was on
the field in nearly half the games played,
creating a strong brand presence. The tournament proved to be an excellent platform
for PUMA’s innovative product concepts in
football: PUMA’s national jerseys with the
revolutionary PWR ACTV technology were
extremely well received by both fans and
players. The distinctive pink and blue color
scheme “Tricks” for the evoPOWER and

evoSPEED shoes of the individual PUMA
players, which was seen in three-quarters
of all World Cup matches, also generated a
great deal of excitement. With the support
of PUMA’s successful social media activities during the tournament, the Tricks shoes
were sold out in a short time.
Our “Forever Faster” campaign – the largest brand campaign in PUMA’s history
– was launched in August and met with a
very positive response from consumers and
retailers. The campaign demonstrates that
PUMA is back in sports and that our brand
has great assets and a distinctive attitude:
Brave, confident, determined, and joyful. In
2015, world-class athletes like Usain Bolt
and Sergio Agüero will be joined by a new
face: style icon Rihanna will not only play an
important role in our campaign as a global
brand ambassador for PUMA Women’s Fitness and Training; she is also assuming the
role of creative director for this segment.
Rihanna’s unique feeling for style and inno-

vation will be vital in product development
here.
To further optimize our product engine, in
2014 we improved our product designs,
developed more innovative technologies
and increased the commerciality of our
product range. The first results have already
been implemented for the Spring/Summer
2015 season, and the sustained positive
reaction to this collection further strengthens our conviction that we are heading in
the right direction. In addition, last year we
improved the distribution quality of our sales:
Together with our key accounts, we developed successful marketing and product initiatives, such as the retail concept “PUMA
Lab”, which we introduced in February 2014
with our partner Foot Locker. In 2015, we
will continue to foster our collaborations with
our most important key accounts in every
region.
Our mission statement “Forever Faster” is
also the basis for our business activities.
PUMA RELAY | 79

3 | management report

Under this statement, last year we also continued to optimize our organizational structure and setup by making it faster. The most
important consolidation projects included
the closure of our PUMA Village Development Center in Vietnam, the relocation of
our Lifestyle Business Unit from London to
Herzogenaurach in May and the relocation
of the functions responsible for our global
and European retail business activities from
Switzerland to Herzogenaurach in September. These changes help make our workflows and processes even faster, more efficient and more flexible.
We want to use modern IT to create the basis
for a fast and lean company. In August, Lars
Radoor Sørensen, who had been responsible for the areas of Business Processes and
Intelligence as well as Information Technology since November 2013, was appointed
the new Chief Operating Officer (COO) of
PUMA SE. Under his leadership, we have
begun the upgrade of our current IT infra80 | PUMA RELAY

structure to match the industry’s best practice benchmark.
With the measures successfully initiated in
2014, we are firmly convinced that we are
on the right path. However, one thing bears
repeating: We know that the repositioning
of PUMA and the turnaround of the business will take time as we need to continue
to build confidence in the marketplace that
we are on the right track. We are convinced
that our efforts have already translated into
better products, stronger marketing and
more efficient operations. This can already
be seen in the recovery of PUMA’s sales
figures, especially in the second half of
2014.
Although the economy in many parts of
Europe did not fully recover in the last financial year – in part due to the uncertainties
caused by crises such as Ucraine and the
Middle East – PUMA managed to achieve
currency-adjusted growth in this region. In
the Americas, PUMA benefited significant-

ly from the increase in demand for sports
equipment due to the economic recovery of
the USA. Finally, PUMA was able to report
currency-adjusted growth in the Asia/Pacific
region.
As in previous years, global competition
in the sporting goods industry increased
again in the last financial year: New participants and brands are increasingly active
in the market and are fighting for market
share. In spite of this challenging market
environment, worldwide brand sales by
PUMA during the financial year 2014 rose,
currency-adjusted, by 3.3% to approximately € 3.2 billion. Group sales rose, currency-adjusted, by 3.3% and remained at the
previous year’s level in Euro, the reporting
currency.
As expected by the management, the gross
margin in 2014 was negatively impacted by
continued currency volatility. Nevertheless, it
improved slightly from 46.5% to 46.6% over
the previous year. Due to increasing market-

ing costs, the operating result (EBIT) before
special items fell compared to the previous
year from €191.4 million to €128.0 million.
PUMA’s management made the brand mission statement “Forever Faster” even more
central to the company’s positioning in 2014.
Coupled with the continued focus on strict
cost discipline, this positioning helped to lay
the foundation that will ensure PUMA’s longterm profitable growth.
As predicted at the beginning of the financial year, PUMA is able to show a significant
improvement in Group earnings as a result.
Group earnings increased from € 5.3 million
in 2013 to € 64.1 million and overall were
not subject to the negative impact of special
items. The result per share was € 4.29 compared to € 0.36 in the previous year.
At the end of the year, PUMA shares listed
at € 172.55, below the level of the previous
year (€ 235.00), which corresponds to a
market capitalization of approximately € 2.6
billion.

management report | 3

PUMA Group
Essential
Information

Commercial Activities and
Organizational Structure
We trade under the name PUMA SE. The
registered offices of the PUMA Group are
located in Herzogenaurach, Germany. Our
internal reporting activities are based according to regions (EMEA, America and
Asia/Pacific) and products (footwear, apparel and accessories). A detailed description of the various segments can be found
in paragraph 25 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our revenues are derived from the sale of
products from the PUMA, Cobra Golf and
Tretorn brands via the wholesale and retail
trade, as well as from sales directly to consumers in our own retail stores and online

stores. PUMA primarily markets and distributes products via its global network of subsidiaries. There are distribution agreements
in place with independent distributors in
some countries.
As of December 31, 2014, 115 subsidiaries were controlled directly or indirectly
by PUMA SE. Our subsidiaries carry out
various tasks at the local level, such as
sales, marketing, product development,
procurement and management. A full list
of all subsidiaries and the associated company can be found in paragraph 2 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
PUMA RELAY | 81

3 | management report

Targets and Strategy
To be the Fastest Sports Brand in
the world
PUMA is one of the world’s leading Sports
Brands, designing, developing, selling and
marketing footwear, apparel and accessories. For over 65 years, PUMA has established a history of making fast product designs for the fastest athletes on the planet.
PUMA offers performance and sport-inspired lifestyle products in categories such
as Football, Running and Training, Golf, and
Motorsports. PUMA engages in exciting collaborations with renowned design brands
such as Alexander McQueen and Mihara
Yasuhiro as well as urban designers like
BWGH (Brooklyn We Go Hard) and Sophia
Chang to bring innovative and fast designs
to the sports world. The PUMA Group owns
the brands PUMA, Cobra Golf, Tretorn, Dobotex and Brandon. PUMA distributes its
products in more than 120 countries, employs more than 10,000 people worldwide
and is headquartered in Herzogenaurach,
Germany.
In 2013, Bjørn Gulden (CEO) introduced
PUMA’s new mission statement: To be the
Fastest Sports Brand in the world. The com82 | PUMA RELAY

Strategic
priorities
pany’s mission not only reflects PUMA’s new
brand positioning of being Forever Faster, it
also serves as the guiding principle for the
company expressed through all of its actions
and decisions. Our objective is to be fast in
reacting to new trends, fast in bringing new
innovations to the market, fast in decisionmaking and fast in solving problems for our
partners.

Our strategy encompasses five strategic
priorities: the repositioning of PUMA as the
World’s Fastest Sports Brand, the improvement of our product engine, the optimization of our distribution quality, increasing
the speed within our organization and infrastructure, and renewing our IT infrastructure. In 2014, we continued to make further
progress on all our key strategic priorities
to ensure that the year marks the start of a
turnaround.
In terms of our brand repositioning, August 2014 saw the successful launch of
our worldwide Forever Faster brand campaign – the biggest marketing campaign in
PUMA’s history. This marked the start of our
repositioning as a true sports brand to our
consumers and retail partners. The objective of the campaign is to demonstrate that
PUMA is back in sports and that our brand
has great assets and a distinctive attitude:
Brave, confident, determined, and joyful.
We achieved this goal by focusing our campaign on customers in 35 countries. In the
first three months after the start, our adver-

tising generated 1 billion TV impressions in
our target group as well as 31 million online
views. The market surveys showed a very
positive consumer reception. The launch of
this campaign marked the start of a longterm marketing strategy, which will be continued in 2015 and will run through the Rio
de Janeiro Olympic Games in 2016 and
beyond. In 2015, the focus will be on our
new, long-term partnership with Rihanna,
currently the world’s greatest style icon. No
other female superstar embodies our brand
as well as she does. Rihanna is the global
brand ambassador for the PUMA category
Women‘s Training and at the same time is
assuming the role of creative director for this
area. In this role, Rihanna will incorporate
her special flair for style and innovation in
our products.
To improve our product engine, we initiated key projects to enhance our product
designs, develop more innovative technologies and increase the commerciality of our
product range. The first results have already
been implemented for 2015 collections, and

management report | 3

the feedback from our retail partners make
us very confident that we are heading in the
right direction.
In order to improve the quality of our revenues and distribution, we have developed
joint product and marketing programs with
our key retailers to showcase our brand in
the right retail environment and drive sellthrough with our partners. In February 2014,
together with our partner Foot Locker USA,
we introduced the jointly developed retail
concept “PUMA Lab” and successfully rolled
it out in the US market. The success of the
PUMA Lab has not only improved our business with Foot Locker USA but also generated a positive spill-over effect onto other
key retailers in the US marketplace – both
with performance and lifestyle accounts.
In 2015, we will continue to foster collaborations and will launch further product and
marketing programs with our most important
key accounts in every region.
In 2014, we also continued to optimize our
organizational structure and setup by

making them faster. With the finalization of
the relocation of our Global and European
Retail Organization from Oensingen, Switzerland, to our headquarters in Herzogenaurach as of September 30th, we completed
the last out of our three major consolidation
projects in 2014. This relocation followed
the closure of our PUMA Village Development Center in Vietnam as of May 2nd and
the relocation of our Lifestyle Business Unit
from London to our headquarters in Herzogenaurach as of May 31st. In 2015 we will
be focusing on standardizing and optimizing processes between PUMA and its partners. The key projects in this area are the
implementation of a sourcing organization to
manage global order and invoice flows and
the conceptual design of a European trading company to optimize regional flows of
goods.

optimize our IT infrastructure, start the implementation of a standard ERP system to
support our sourcing and trading functions,
and set-up platforms purported to improve
the design, development and planning processes. We are very confident that our investment in these areas will lay the foundation for a lean and efficient company in the
future.

Sustainability remains an important value
Sustainability is and remains a key value
of the PUMA brand, and faster is how we
are working with our partners towards a
more just and sustainable future, accelerating positive change in the industry and the
world. Our mission to be the fastest sports
brand in the world also includes assuming
the responsibility of ensuring that our products are manufactured under appropriate
working conditions and produced by suppliers who respect human rights.

Another strategic priority is the renewal and
expansion of our IT infrastructure to create a basis for more extensive optimization
measures. In 2015, we will focus on three
areas:
PUMA RELAY | 83

3 | management report

Product Development and Design
Product philosophy and strategy

PUMA’s product offering embraces the
spirit of the cat by being agile, nimble,
adaptable, and adventurous and adheres
to the attributes once chosen by company
founder Rudolf Dassler as guidance for
the way we think, the way we work and the
way we develop and market our products.
PUMA is one of the world’s leading sports
brands, developing, selling and marketing
footwear, apparel and accessories in our
performance and sport-inspired lifestyle
categories.
Product responsibility is organized within
our global business units and regional design centers, with PUMA’s design language
defined for all our collections by our creative
director Torsten Hochstetter. The Business
Units Teamsport, Running, Training and
Golf represent our performance business,
while Lifestyle and Motorsports, Fundamentals as well as Accessories & Licensing constitute the lifestyle business. In each case,
84 | PUMA RELAY

the Head of the Business Unit assumes the
entire product and marketing responsibility
for his or her area. This makes us even more
customer and consumer focused and more
specialized in our product expertise.
In the run-up to the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, we introduced a true product innovation
in football: PUMA’s evoPOWER shoe. Inspired by the freedom of movement of the
barefoot game, the evoPOWER concept
combines the latest PUMA technologies
with the strongest kicking power. The evoPOWER shoe is worn by our stars Cesc Fàbregas, Marco Reus, Mario Balotelli, Yaya
Touré, Dante and many other players.
The World Cup tournament in the summer with
eight participating PUMA teams proved to be
an excellent platform for PUMA‘s innovative
product concepts in football: Both PUMA‘s
national jerseys with the PWR ACTV technology and the distinctive pink and blue
color scheme “Tricks” for the evoPOWER

and evoSPEED shoes of the individual
PUMA players were very well received by
fans and players alike. Backed by our successful social media activities during the
tournament, PUMA sold out of nearly all the
Tricks shoes during the tournament, making
this the best-selling football shoe in the company‘s history.
Since July 1, 2014, PUMA has been supplier
of the top Premier League club Arsenal FC.
The first Arsenal jerseys were unveiled in a
spectacular twenty-meter high water projection over the Thames, which could be seen
from the north bank of the river, with a view
to the world-famous London Eye. In the first
few weeks after the introduction, the replica
jerseys and our entire Arsenal collection
saw impressive sales.
The launch of “Forever Faster” campaign
in August marked another important step in
our journey to become the “Fastest Sports
Brand in the World”. As part of this cam-

paign, our creative director Torsten Hochstetter translated our brand image “Forever Faster” into a new, distinctive design
language for PUMA, based on our history
and roots in sports. To improve our product engine, we will continue to concentrate
on simplifying and unifying our product designs, developing more innovative technologies and increasing the commerciality of our
product range.
The first results have already been implemented for the coming Spring/Summer
2015 season and can be seen in our innovative running concept IGNITE, among other
lines. Equipped with a special foam technology, IGNITE maximizes energy recovery
when running and also sets new standards
in terms of comfort and durability. The continued positive feedback received from our
sales partners for our Autumn/Winter 2015
collection, reinforces our belief that we are
on the right path with the realignment of our
product divisions.

management report | 3

Sourcing
Sourcing refers to the central management
of the purchasing of products for PUMA and
the Group’s own brands, Cobra, Tretorn and
Brandon. The necessary sourcing tasks are
carried out centrally by the Group company
World Cat Ltd. in Hong Kong. World Cat
Ltd. acts as a purchasing agent here and
provides support for the respective brands
in order to furnish the respective sales organizations with products and the necessary materials for the manufacture of these
products at a standardized level of quality
and at a competitive price.
World Cat Ltd. manages the various
branches located around the world from
Hong Kong. In addition to the registered
offices, the various locations in China, Vietnam, Bangladesh, India, Turkey, South
Africa, Brazil and El Salvador manage
the collaboration with suppliers and also
monitor the production processes on site.
Processes are continuously improved in line
with the six core principles of partnership,
transparency, flexibility and speed, simplicity and effectiveness, thus satisfying the

aim of offering service at a high level for all
PUMA brands and creating a sustainable
production and supply chain. In order to further strengthen the link between customer
demands, product design and production,
product knowledge is moved closer to production, thus ensuring any developments in
the market can be adapted to more quickly.
This is particularly evident in the decision to
close down the PUMA Village in Vietnam
as a regional center for the development of
sample footwear production items in 2014
after a period of four years, thus moving the
product experts closer to the factories in order to reduce development times.
In the past year, we began to roll out a new
sourcing organization to reduce complexity
and improve transparency. The focus of the
reorganization is a global trading company,
which will provide services for external suppliers and its own sales companies in the future. In this context, this company will in the
future control the purchase of products from
suppliers and the sale to the PUMA companies worldwide.

F.1

Sourcing Markets 2014

89 %

4%
1%
6%
Asia

Americas

Africa

Europe

PUMA RELAY | 85

3 | management report

The Sourcing Markets
World Cat optimizes the supply chain with
independent suppliers within its global production network, from the purchase of materials to production, right through to the delivery of products.

The aim is to offer an optimum service to the
various PUMA brands in order to meet and
continue to improve global requirements for
quality and safety along with environmental aspects in production. At the same time,

continuous improvements are being made in
its role as purchasing agent with respect to
costs, flexibility and delivery reliability.
During the financial year 2014, World Cat
worked together with 203 suppliers in 31

World Cat’s Sourcing Regions

AMERICAS

86 | PUMA RELAY

EMEA

APAC

countries. The strategic cooperation with
long-term partners was one of the key competitive advantages in 2014, ensuring stable
procurement in turbulent market conditions.
The geographic focus of the production
sites located in China as the primary sourcing country has shifted slightly to South East
Asia.
Asia remains the strongest sourcing region
overall with 89% of the total volume, followed by Europe with 6%, America with 4%
and Africa with 1%.
As a result, the five most important sourcing countries (82% of the total volume) are
all located on the Asian continent. China
remained in first place in 2014 with a total
of 30%, despite a reduction in volume of 3
percentage points compared to the previous year. Vietnam then followed with a total of 26%, a figure that was reduced by 30
percentage points compared to the previous year. Cambodia was in third place with
a total of 9%. Indonesia, which focuses on
footwear production, also produces 8% of
the total volume, and Bangladesh, which focuses on clothing, contributes 8%.
Rising labor costs, political unrest, and extreme weather events affected the sourcing
markets in 2014. This increases the need to
consider the risks of these factors in the production allocation. This is the crucial component of a future sourcing strategy in order to
ensure the secure and competitive sourcing
of products.

management report | 3

Employees
Number of employees
In 2014 the annual average number of employees worldwide was 10,830 compared to
10,750 in the previous year. The increase
was mainly related to the higher number of
the company’s own retail stores.
Overall personnel expenses in 2014 rose
by 2.3% from € 415.7 million to € 425.3 million and the average personnel expense per
employee was € 39.3 thousand compared to
€ 38.7 thousand in the previous year.
As of December 31, 2014, the number of
employees was at 11,267, compared to
10,982 at the end of the previous year.
In the Marketing/Retail segment, the number of employees increased by 6.3% to
5,412 employees. In Sales, the number of
employees fell by 3.7% to 2,239. The num-

ber of employees in product management/
merchandising increased slightly to 358,
while the number of employees in research
and development decreased slightly to 514.
In the administrative and general units, the
number of employees rose by 1.8% to 2,744.

Development Emloyees

F.2
12,000

10,000

8,000

6,000

4,000

2,000

0
2010

2011
Employees (annual average)

2012

2013

2014

Employees (year-end)
PUMA RELAY | 87

3 | management report

Marketing/Retail

F.3

Sales

F.3

+6.3%

5,090

5,412
2013

Product Management/
Merchandising

F.3

-3.7%

2,324

2014

2,239
2013

2014

Research and
Development

F.3

+1.7%

352

358
2013

2014

-1.2%

520

514
2013

88 | PUMA RELAY

+1.8%

2,696

2014

Talent Recruitment and
Development
Qualified and motivated employees are the
key to PUMA’s success. For this reason,
we focus both on attracting talented future
employees and on the development and retention of existing employees. In order to be
able to ensure our ability to regularly recruit
qualified employees for our company, PUMA
offers various career opportunities at all levels, giving young people in particular the opportunity to start their careers at PUMA as
part of vocational training or a dual study program. Last year, the number of training positions was increased again in order to give
PUMA a variety of ways to ensure long-term
commitment to the company and the early
promotion of talented young people.

Administration and
General Units

F.3

2,744
2013

2014

Compensation
Moreover, PUMA attaches great importance
to the development and training of current employees and managers in order to increase
expertise, develop skills and retain qualified
employees. Based on the global performance
management process, which includes an annual performance evaluation and the setting of
objectives as well as the management of existing talent and succession planning, talented
employees are identified and consistently promoted in coordination with their personal career goals and the company’s objectives.
In addition to the wide range of training programs in the PUMA training catalog, the international executive program plays a key

role here. This program was continued in
2014 to prepare managers at different levels to take on leadership roles, or to reflect
on and develop their own leadership style
in several thematically defined training modules. Managers are given the tools to take
appropriate action in different leadership situations and the opportunity to build a global
network with each other. This helps us ensure a unified leadership culture within the
company.

PUMA offers its employees a targeted and
competitive compensation system, which
consists of several components. In addition to a fixed base salary, the PUMA bonus
system, profit-sharing programs and various
social benefits and intangible benefits form
part of a performance-based compensation
system. We also offer long-term incentive
programs for senior management levels that
recognize the sustainable development and
performance of the business.

management report | 3

Management System
We use a variety of indicators to manage
our performance in relation to our top corporate goals. We have defined growth and
profitability as key targets within financerelated areas. Our focus therefore is on improving revenue and operating income before special items. At the same time, we aim
to minimize working capital and improve free
cash flow before acquisitions. Our Group’s
Planning and Management System has
been designed to provide a variety of instruments in order to assess current business
developments and derive future strategy
and investment decisions. This involves the
continuous monitoring of key financial indicators within the PUMA Group along with
a monthly comparison with budget targets.
Any deviations from the targets are analyzed
in detail and appropriate countermeasures
are taken in the event such deviations have
a negative impact.
Changes in sales revenues are also influenced by currency exchange effects. This
is why we also state any changes in sales
in Euro, the reporting currency, adjusted for
currency exchange effects in order to provide information that is relevant to the decision-making process when assessing the

revenue position. Currency-adjusted sales
volumes are used for comparison purposes and are based on the values that would
arise if the foreign currencies included in the
consolidated financial statements were not
translated at the average rates for the previous reporting year but were instead translated at the corresponding average rates
for the current year. As a result, currencyadjusted figures are not to be regarded as a
substitute or as superior financial indicators
but should instead always be regarded as
additional information.
We believe that stating operating income
before special items allows for a better
assessment of the operating performance
of the PUMA Group over certain periods
of comparison. This means that one-off
non-recurring expenses, such as those in
connection with restructuring measures or
impairment of goodwill, are not taken into
account. We believe that this indicator is
only of limited value, given that restructuring
measures on their own can result in significant cash outflows, for example. However,
we believe that this indicator provides useful
additional information to investors and Company Management in order to be better able

to assess current and future developments
in terms of our income.
We use the indicator free cash flow in order
to determine the change in cash and cash
equivalents after deducting all expenses
incurred to maintain or expand the organic
business of the PUMA Group. Free cash
flow is calculated from the cash flow from
operating activities and investment activities. We also use the indicator free cash
flow before acquisitions, which goes beyond free cash flow and includes an adjustment for payments that are associated with
acquisitions.
We use the indicator working capital in order to assess the financial position. The term
“working capital”, which is often referred to
in German as “Betriebskapital”, is the difference between current assets – including in
particular inventories and trade receivables
– and current liabilities. Amounts that are received in connection with financing activities
and special items are not included here.
Non-financial performance indicators are of
only minor importance at PUMA as control
variables.
PUMA RELAY | 89

3 | management report

Economic Report

General Economic Conditions
The winter forecast published on December
17, 2014 by the Kiel World Economic Institute (IfW) indicates that the global economy
strengthened during 2014. After a weak first
half-year, the economy gathered momentum at the end of the year, although less
than expected at mid-year. With an increase
of 3.4%, global gross domestic product is
expected to have been slightly stronger
than in the previous year (2013: +3.2%).
Developments in the advanced economies varied. While the economy in the USA
turned in another positive performance in
the past year, the Eurozone - and especially
the southern crisis countries – remains in
90 | PUMA RELAY

a weak economic phase with relatively low
growth rates. In Japan, the gross domestic
product fell sharply and to a level just barely
in positive territory. In most of the developing countries, economic activity increased,
although it failed to match the strong growth
of previous years, particularly in China; Brazil’s economy was also weaker than in the
previous year.
With the Winter Olympics in Sochi and
the World Cup in Brazil, two major sporting events were held in 2014, each of which
had a positive impact on the global sporting goods industry. Accordingly, the market

capitalization of the industry rose further.
With an increase of 19.3%, the sporting
goods industry was once again significantly
stronger than the overall market, although
not as strong as the previous year.
Last year, PUMA focused strongly on increasing the familiarity of the brand even
further. Usain Bolt, the fastest man in the
world, thus embodies the mission statement
“Forever Faster”. The racing stables of the
fastest Formula 1 driver in the world are
also equipped by PUMA: The MercedesBenz team with Lewis Hamilton as Formula
1 world champion and Nico Rosberg at No.

2 as well as the two other PUMA partners
in Formula 1, Williams and Scuderia Ferrari. In 2014, PUMA celebrated its ten-year
partnership with BMW in Motorsports and
will continue to be the official supplier for
team clothing and racewear. For the sporting highlight of the year, the 2014 World
Cup, PUMA equipped eight national teams
with jerseys and introduced the innovative
evoPOWER and evoSPEED football shoes.
Since then, the brand has expanded its premium position in the football world through
its new partnership with Arsenal and a strategic equity investment of 5% in Borussia
Dortmund.

management report | 3

Sales

Brand Sales

F.4

Illustration of Sales Development in
2014 Compared to 2013 Outlook
In the 2013 Annual Report we forecast for
2014 – based on stable exchange rates –
that we did not expect a significant increase
in sales but an improvement in the quality
of sales revenue. The expectation of sales
at the previous year’s level was highlighted
in the interim report for the first quarter of
2014. We then raised our forecast after completing the first nine months of the year and
assumed since that point a slight increase in
currency-adjusted sales revenue in the low
single-digit percentage range. This forecast
was fully achieved in 2014. The sales development in 2014 will be described here in
more detail.

Brand Sales
Worldwide PUMA brand sales - consisting of consolidated and licensed sales - increased by 3.3% currency adjusted in the financial year 2014. In the reporting currency,
the Euro, at € 3,171.2 million they remained
on a similar level to the previous year (2013:
€ 3,178.8 million).

€ million
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2010

2011
Licensees

2012

2013

2014

PUMA Group

PUMA RELAY | 91

3 | management report

Brand Sales by Product Segment

F.5

Brand Sales by Region

F.6

€ million

€ million

3,500

3,500

3,000

3,000

2,500

2,500

2,000

2,000

1,500

1,500

1,000

1,000

500

500

0

0
2010

2011
Accessories

2012
Apparel

2013

2014

Footwear

Footwear sales decreased currency-adjusted by 1.7% to € 1,323.5 million. In contrast, apparel sales increased currency-adjusted by 6.8% to € 1,208.8 million. Accessories sales
recorded a significant currency-adjusted increase of 7.9% to € 638.9 million.
Footwear accounted for 41.7% (44.1%) of brand sales, apparel for 38.1% (36.8%) and accessories for 20.1% (19.0%).

92 | PUMA RELAY

2010

2011
Asia/Pacific

2012
Americas

2013

2014

EMEA

Brand sales are allocated to regions as follows: EMEA 39.4% (40.2%), Americas 36.8%
(35.6%) and Asia / Pacific 23.8% (24.2%).

management report | 3

F.7

Consolidated Sales

Consolidated Sales by Product Segments

F.8
€ millions

2014

3,500
3,000

2013

2,500
2,000

2012
1,500
1,000
2011
500
0

2010
2,000

2010
2,200

2,400

2,600

2,800

3,000

3,200

3,400
€ millions

Consolidated net sales
In financial year 2014, PUMA was able to increase consolidated net sales by a currency-adjusted 3.3%. In Euro terms, sales remained approximately at the level of the previous year,
as currency effects from various countries had a negative impact on sales. With the sales
we achieved, we met our forecast of a slight currency-adjusted increase in sales revenues
in the low single digit percentage range for the full year 2014.
Despite a significant strengthening in the area of Teamsport, especially with the PUMA
evoSPEED shoe and a significant increase in the fourth quarter, footwear sales decreased
for the full year currency-adjusted by 2.4% and in Euro terms by 6.5% to € 1,282.7 million.
This was mainly due to declining sales in the developed markets of the Motorsports category. As a percentage of consolidated sales, the footwear segment accounted for 43.2%,
compared to 46.0% in the previous year.

2011
Accessories

2012
Apparel

2013

2014

Footwear

A significant increase in sales was achieved in the apparel segment last year. This was
partly due to the strong sales of jerseys and memorabilia related to the football World Cup
as well as the generally strong demand for Teamsport products, particularly Arsenal, Dortmund and Italy jerseys. As a result, currency-adjusted sales increased by 7.6% and by 3.7%
in Euro terms to € 1,103.1 million. This share accounts for 35.6% of consolidated sales compared to 37.1% in the previous year.
Sales in the accessories segment developed very favorably during the reporting year.
They rose by a currency-adjusted 9.3% and by 6.7% in Euro terms to € 586.3 million. This
was due to continued strong demand for PUMA socks and bodywear (Dobotex), which more
than offset the declining sales of Golf equipment (Cobra Accessories) due to the weakness
in the golfing environment. This share accounted for 19.7% of consolidated sales compared
to 18.4% in the previous year.
PUMA RELAY | 93

3 | management report

Retail Sales

F.9

License Sales / Royalty and Commission Income in %

F.10

€ million

%

€ million

%

700

21

400

16

600

18

500

15

300

12

400

12
200

8

300

9

200

6

100

4

100

3

0

0

0

0

2010

2011
Retail sales

2012

2013

2014

in % of consolidated sales

2010

2011
License sales

2012

2013

2014

Royalty and commission income in %

Retail businesses

Licensing business

PUMA’s own retail businesses include PUMA stores, factory outlets and online sales, which
guarantee local availability and a controlled sell-off of PUMA products, as well as the presentation of the brand within appropriate settings. In the past financial year, PUMA was able
to further optimize its portfolio of its own retail shops. For example, some retail shops were
opened at selected locations, especially in the emerging markets, in order to take advantage of opportunities in the local markets. Sales from the Group’s retail activities developed
positively currency-adjusted in the past financial year, while they were stable in the reporting
currency at € 618 million (2013: € 623.3 million). This amounted to 20.8% of consolidated net
sales (2013: 20.9%).

For various product segments, such as fragrances, eyewear, and watches, PUMA issues
licenses authorizing independent partners to design, develop and sell these products. Revenue from license agreements also includes some sales licenses for various markets.
License revenues in 2014 increased by 3.0% currency-adjusted. In the reporting currency,
the Euro, this corresponds to an increase of 2.9% to € 199.2 million.
Overall, license sales included € 19.4 million of royalty and commission income, compared
to € 20.8 million in the previous year. This corresponds to 9.7% (previous year: 10.7%) of
license sales.

94 | PUMA RELAY

management report | 3

T.1

Income Statement
2014
€ million

%

2013
€ million

%

+/–%

2,972.0

100.0%

2,985.3

100.0%

-0.4%

Cost of sales

-1,586.7

-53.4%

-1,597.8

-53.5%

-0.7%

Gross profit

1,385.4

46.6%

1,387.5

46.5%

-0.2%

19.4

0.7%

20.8

0.7%

-6.7%

-1,276.8

-43.0%

-1,216.9

-40.8%

4.9%

128.0

4.3%

191.4

6.4%

-33.1%

0.0

0.0%

-129.0

-4.3%

-100%

128.0

4.3%

62.5

2.1%

104.9%

Sales

Royalty and commission income
Other operating income and expenses
Operating income before special items
Special items
Operating income (EBIT)

-6.2

-0.2%

-8.7

-0.3%

-28.8%

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

Financial result / Income from associated companies

121.8

4.1%

53.7

1.8%

126.6%

Taxes on income

-37.0

-1.2%

-32.5

-1.1%

13.7%

Tax rate
Net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests
Net earnings

-30.4%

-60.5%

-20.8

-0.7%

-15.9

-0.5%

30.5%

64.1

2.2%

5.3

0.2%

1,103.0%

Weighted average shares outstanding (million)

14,940

14,940

0.0%

Weighted average shares outstanding, diluted (million)

14,940

14,941

0.0%

Earnings per share in €

4.29

0.36

1,103.0%

Earnings per share, diluted in €

4.29

0.36

1,103.1%

Results of Operations
To provide a more transparent view of business development, the chart above and the explanations below – unlike the consolidated income statement – show the special items from
structural measures relating to the transformation and cost reduction program, selected

non-recurring expenses and impairment losses during the financial year on a separate line,
because the operating income before special items provides a more accurate picture of the
Company’s profitability.
PUMA RELAY | 95

3 | management report

Gross Profit/Gross Profit Margin

F.11

F.12

€ million

%

%

1.600

55

45

1.200

50

Operating Expenses as a % of Consolidated Sales

40
800

45

400

40

0

35

35

2010

2011
Gross profit

2012

2013

2014

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Gross profit margin in %

Discussion of the 2014 Earnings Trend Compared to the 2013 Outlook
In the Outlook contained in the 2013 Annual Report, we projected a slight increase in the
gross profit margin. This forecast assumed moderate increases in input prices, stable currencies, improvements in sourcing and favorable changes in the product mix. Moreover,
due to heavy investments in advertising and sports marketing and the resulting increase in
operating expenses – despite the continued systematic focus on controlling costs - we also
expected operating income (EBIT) before special items of around 5.0% of net sales. In addition, because of the special effects in 2013, consolidated net income improved significantly,
with a net profit margin of around 3.0%. In light of the currency fluctuations, which negatively
impact earnings, in May 2014 PUMA noted the possibility that this could reduce the operating margin and/or the net profit margin for the entire year by around 50 basis points. Based
on the earnings generated by PUMA during the first nine months of the year, in November
the Company announced that it would be able to post a slight increase in currency-adjusted
sales revenues in the low single-digit percentage range, as well as a stable gross profit margin. At the time, PUMA confirmed its projected EBIT and consolidated net earnings margins
96 | PUMA RELAY

30

(approx. 5% and 3% of net sales respectively) and reiterated that the continued volatile currency movements could have a negative impact of around 50 basis points on the two ratios.

Gross Profit Margin
At 46.6%, gross profit margin improved slightly from the prior-year figure of 46.5. The positive trends in apparel and accessories more than offset the decline in the footwear segment,
whereas the gross profit margin decreased to 42.6% from 43.7% in the previous year. By
contrast, it increased from 48.3% to 49.5% in the apparel segment and from 49.8% to 50.0%
in accessories. Gross profit declined 0.2% and in absolute terms from €1,387.5 million to
€ 1,385.4 million. Among the primary factors contributing to the decline were currency fluctuations that were more severe than initially forecast.

Other Operating Income and Expenses
Because of increased marketing costs associated with the launch of the Forever Faster
brand campaign and the Arsenal partnership, other operating income and expenses saw a

management report | 3

moderate increase of 4.9% in financial year 2014 from € 1,216.9 million to € 1,276.8 million.
Costs were cut across the Company – except for marketing expenses, which were deliberately raised with a clear objective in mind: repositioning PUMA as the World’s Fastest
Sports Brand. As a percentage of sales, the expense ratio stood at 43.0%, compared to
40.8% in the previous year.
In terms of sales expenditure, expenditure for marketing/retail purposes increased by 10.2%,
from € 544.1 million to € 599.7 million. This increase was primarily attributable to the successful Forever Faster campaign. In Marketing/Retail, the expense ratio increased accordingly, from 18.2% to 20.2% of sales. Other sales expenditures decreased 0.9% to € 398.0
million and the expense ratio decreased slightly from 13.5% to 13.4% of sales. Expenditures for product management and merchandising increased by 5.6% to € 34.8 million, thus
slightly increasing the expense ratio from 1.1% to 1.2% of sales. Expenditures for research
and development decreased by 3.1% to € 46.3 million and the corresponding expense ratio
remained stable at 1.6% of sales.
In 2014, other operating income totaled € 17.3 million (previous year: € 17.7 million). Administrative and general expenses rose slightly from € 208.1 to € 215.4 million. The expense ratio
as a percentage of sales, however, increased from 7.0% to 7.2%.
The respective expenses include total depreciation/amortization of € 50.5 million (previous
year: € 53.8 million). This represents a 6.2% decrease in depreciation/amortization compared to the previous year.

Operational Result – Ebit before Special Items

F.13
€ million

%

400

20

300

15

200

10

100

5

0

0
2010

2011
Operating Profit

2012

2013

2014

as a % of sales

Operating Income (EBIT) before Special Items
As expected, operating income before special items fell from € 191.4 million in the previous year to € 128.0 million. As a percentage of sales, this represents an operating margin
of 4.3%, compared to 6.4% in 2013. The projected operating margin of 5% (less the expected 50-basis-point decline due to continued currency fluctuations) was therefore
achieved.

Operating Income (EBIT)
Because the special items offset each other in 2014, operating income was higher (€ 128.0
in 2014, compared to € 62.5 million in 2013). As a percentage of sales, this is equivalent to
an improvement in the operating margin from 2.1% to 4.3%.

Special Items

Financial Result

Overall, no special items had a negative impact on operating income (EBIT) in 2014. Nevertheless, in financial year 2014 PUMA allocated various issues to special items because
the resulting income and expenses were unrelated to PUMA’s ongoing operating activities.
This primarily involves reversals of restructuring provisions that are offset by adjustments to
goodwill. While € 129.0 million of special items were reported the previous year, these items
cancelled each other out completely during the past financial year; as a result, there were
no charges against operating income (EBIT) for special items overall in 2014.

The financial result improved from € -8.7 million in 2013 to € -6.2 million, including a welcome decrease in expenses related to currency-conversion differences of €1.5 million (previous year: € 8.4 million). Due to low interest rates, this was offset by the decrease in interest
income to € 4.8 million (previous year: € 6.2 million). The financial result also includes total
interest expense of € 9.8 million (previous year: € 6.7 million) and income from the associated company, Wilderness Holdings Ltd, which was unchanged from the previous year
(€1.3 million).
PUMA RELAY | 97

3 | management report

Earnings before Tax (EBT)
Earnings before taxes increased from € 53.7 million to € 121.8 million; in percentage terms,
EBT rose from 1.8% to 4.1% of sales. This significant increase is attributable to the low basis
for comparison due to the previous year’s special items. The tax expense totaled € 37.0 million (2013: € 32.5 million). Accordingly, the tax rate moved toward a standardized level for
PUMA and stood at 30.4%. It was considerably higher the previous year – at 60.5% - due to
the tax effects of the non-deductible impairment losses.

F.14

Earnings/Dividend per Share

in €

in €

20.00

2.50

16.00

2.00

12.00

1.50

8.00

1.00

4.00

0.50

0.00

0.00

Net Earnings Attributable to Non-controlling Interests
Net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests increased from € 15.9 million to € 20.8
million and referred to PUMA Wheat and PUMA Janed, which distribute accessories in the
American market.

Net Earnings
As forecast at the beginning of the past financial year, PUMA was able to post a significant
improvement in consolidated net income. Net earnings jumped from € 5.3 million to € 64.1
million, impressively demonstrating the initial successes from the turnaround initiated in
2014. Also as forecast, the net profit margin increased to 2.2% from 0.2% the previous year.
Earnings per share as well as diluted earnings per share rose to € 4.29, compared to € 0.36
the previous year.

2010

2011
Earnings per share

2012

2013

2014

Dividend per share

Dividends
The Managing Directors will recommend to the Administrative Board at the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2015 that a dividend of € 0.50 per share be distributed from PUMA
SE’s retained earnings for financial year 2014 (previous year: € 0.50). As a percentage of
consolidated sales, the payout ratio amounts to 11.7%, compared to 140.3% in the previ-

98 | PUMA RELAY

ous year. The high payout ratio in 2013 was due to the special items. The dividends will
be distributed the day after the Annual General Meeting at which the resolution on the
distribution is adopted

management report | 3

EMEA Sales

F.15

Americas Sales

F.16

€ million

€ million

1,400

1,200

1,200

1,000

1,000

800

800
600
600
400

400

200

200

0

0
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Regional Development
Despite continuing economic difficulties in some of the countries, currency-adjusted sales
in the EMEA region rose by 1.3% to € 1,205.8 million. Positive momentum was contributed,
in particular, by improved business trends in Great Britain, Eastern Europe and the Middle
East. In the reporting currency, the Euro, sales declined by 1.0%. The EMEA region accounted for 40.6% of consolidated sales, compared to 40.8% in 2013.
Currency-adjusted sales in the footwear segment decreased by 6.3%, while currencyadjusted apparel sales increased by 6.9%. Currency-adjusted accessories sales rose by
7.1%.
The gross profit margin increased to 49.6%, compared to 46.0% in 2013.

In the Americas, currency-adjusted sales rose by 6.7% to € 1,069.9 million, with sales
growth coming from both North and Latin America. In the Euro reporting currency, sales
rose 1.3%, due in particular to volatile currency movements in Argentina resulting from the
economic situation there. The Americas region accounted for 36.0% of consolidated sales,
compared to 35.4% in 2013.
Currency-adjusted footwear sales rose slightly, by 0.1%. At the same time, the apparel
and accessories segments reported significant increases in sales, with apparel increasing by 14.3% and accessories by 14.0%. The latter is primarily attributable to the good
performance by the companies PUMA Wheat (Accessories) and PUMA Janed (socks and
bodywear).
The gross profit margin for the Americas stood at 42.9 %, compared to 45.2% in the previous year.
PUMA RELAY | 99

3 | management report

Asia/Pacific Sales

F.17
€ million
1,000

800

600

400

200

0
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Currency-adjusted sales in the Asia / Pacific region rose by 1.9% to € 696.3 million. A positive trend could be seen throughout virtually the entire region, with the exception of Japan,
where the economic situation stood in the way of positive sales performance. In the reporting currency, the Euro, sales were down 2.1% compared to the previous year. This represented 23.4% of consolidated sales, compared with 23.8% in 2013.
Currency-adjusted footwear sales were unchanged from the previous year, while apparel
rose by 2.7 % and accessories by 5.3%.
The gross profit margin decreased from 49.1% to 47.1%.
100 | PUMA RELAY

management report | 3

Net Assets and Financial Position
T.2

Balance Sheet
Dec. 31 2014

Dec. 31 2013

€ million

%

€ million

%

+/–%

Cash and cash equivalents

401.5

15.7%

390.1

16.9%

2.9%

Inventories

571.5

22.4%

521.3

22.6%

9.6%

Trade receivables

449.2

17.6%

423.4

18.3%

6.1%

Other current assets (Working Capital)

202.4

7.9%

167.8

7.3%

20.6%

58.0

2.3%

11.6

0.5%

400.9%

1,682.5

66.0%

1,514.2

65.6%

11.1%

Deferred taxes

178.8

7.0%

164.2

7.1%

8.9%

Other non-current assets

688.7

27.0%

630.1

27.3%

9.3%

Non-current assets

867.5

34.0%

794.3

34.4%

9.2%

2,549.9

100.0%

2.308.5

100.0%

10.5%

19.8

0.8%

25.1

1.1%

-21 .1%

Trade liabilities

515.2

20.2%

373.1

16.2%

38.1%

Other current liabilities (Working Capital)

252.1

9.9%

211.1

9.1%

19.4%

35.5

1.4%

81.6

3.5%

-56.4%

822.6

32.3%

690.8

29.9%

19.1%

Deferred taxes

54.6

2.1%

50.3

2.2%

8.5%

Pension provisions

26.0

1.0%

28.1

1.2%

-7.3%

Other current assets
Current assets

Total assets
Current financial liabilities

Other current liabilities
Current liabilities

Other non-current liabilities

28.4

1.1%

42.1

1.8%

-32.5%

109.0

4.3%

120.4

5.2%

-9.5%

Shareholders' equity

1,618.3

63.5%

1,497.3

64.9%

8.1%

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

2,549.9

100.0%

2,308.5

100.0%

10.5%

Non-current liabilities

Working Capital
- in % of consolidated sales

455.7

528.4

15.3%

17.7%

-13.8%

PUMA RELAY | 101

3 | management report

Total Assets/Equity Ratio

F.18

Working Capital

F.19

€ million

%

€ million

%

3,000

70

700

21

2,500

65

600

18

2,000

60

500

15

400

12

300

9

200

6

100

3

0

0

55

1,500
1,000

50

500

45

0

40
2010

2011
Total assets

2012

2013

2014

2010

Equity ratio in %

2011
Working capital

2012

2013

2014

as a % of consolidated sales

Equity Ratio
PUMA continues to have an extremely solid capital base. As of 31 December 2014, total
assets increased by 10.5% from € 2,308.5 million to € 2,549.9 million. As a result of this
increase, the equity ratio decreased slightly from 64.9% in 2013 to 63.5% in 2014. However,
in absolute terms, shareholders’ equity increased by a substantial 8.1%, from € 1,497.3 to
€ 1,618.3 million.

Working Capital
During the past financial year, PUMA continued to work to optimize its working capital. During the reporting year, working capital showed a 13.8% improvement, from € 528.4 million to
€ 455.7 million. As a percentage of sales, working capital decreased from 17.7% to 15.3%.
However, inventories increased from € 521.3 million to € 571.5 million. Trade receivables
also rose 6.1% to € 449.2 million because of higher sales in the fourth quarter. The main
102 | PUMA RELAY

reason for the decrease in working capital was the increase, as of the balance-sheet date,
of 38.1% in trade payables, from € 373.1 million to € 515.2 million. This was related to the
increase in inventories and the timing of payments.

Other Assets
Other current assets, which include the market value of financial derivatives, increased by
a significant € 11.6 million compared to the previous year’s to € 58.0 million. Other noncurrent assets, consisting mainly of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment,
rose 9.3% to € 668.7 million due to the long-term strategic investment in Borussia Dortmund
and investments in property, plant and equipment. Compared to 2013, other current liabilities dropped by 56.4% to € 35.5 million, primarily due to the utilization of the restructuring
provisions.

management report | 3

Cash Flow

Gross Cash Flow

F.20
T.3

Cash Flow Statement

€ million
500

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

+/–%

121.8

53.7

126.6%

50.4

176.9

-71.5%

172.2

230.6

-25.4%

Change in current assets, net

16.8

-45.0

-137.2%

Taxes and interest payments

-62.6

-76.3

-18.0%

Net cash from operating activities

126.4

109.3

15.6%

-23.8

-20.6

15.6%

-72.6

-55.7

30.3%

9.4

-3.8

-346.3%

-87.0

-80.1

8.6%

Free cash flow

39.3

29.2

34.7%

Free cash flow (before acquisitions)

63.1

49.8

26.8%

2.1%

1.7%

-36.2

-24.8

45.7%

8.2

-21.6

-138.0%

11.4

-17.2

-166.3%

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the
financial year

390.1

407.3

-4.2%

Cash and cash equivalents at year-end

401.5

390.1

2.9%

Earnings before tax (EBT)
Financial result and expenses and income not in
the income statement
Gross cash flow

Payment for acquisition of shareholdings
Payment for investing in fixed assets
Other investing activities
Net cash used in investing activities

- in % of consolidated sales
Net cash used in financing activities

Effect on exchange rates on cash
Change in cash and cash equivalents

400

300

200

100

0
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

During financial year 2014, cash flow from operating activities increased significantly, from
€109.3 million to € 126.4 million. On the one hand, this was attributable to the improvement
in net working capital*, which resulted in cash flow of € 16.8 million in 2014, compared to
a cash outflow of € 45.0 million the previous year. On the other hand, the cash outflow for
taxes and interest payments decreased to € 62.6 million, compared to € 76.3 million the
previous year.
Cash used in investment activities increased slightly, from € 80.1 million to € 87.0 million.
This increase resulted from the purchase of shares in Borussia Dortmund and from higher
investments in fixed assets, in particular selective openings of new retail stores in growth
markets. As a result, ongoing investments in fixed assets increased from € 55.7 million in
2013 to € 72.6 million in 2014. This not only involves opening new retail stores but also renovating selected retail stores and investing in factory and office equipment and in IT.
* Net working capital includes normal working capital line items plus current assets and liabilities which are not normally part of the working capital calculation.
PUMA RELAY | 103

3 | management report

Free Cash Flow (before Acquisitions)

F.21
€ million
150

120

90

60

30

0
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Without considering payments for acquisitions of equity stakes, the net result of cash in- and
outflows from ongoing operating and investment activities is the “free cash flow”, which increased significantly from € 49.8 million to € 63.1 million. Here, the improved working capital
position played a significant role. As a percentage of sales, free cash flow before acquisitions was 2.1%, compared to 1.7% in 2013.
Cash used in financing activities mainly includes € 7.5 million in dividend payments to shareholders of PUMA SE (previous year: € 7.5 million) and dividend payments to non-controlling
interests, as well as the repayment of current financial liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents increased from € 390.1 million at the beginning of the year to
€ 401.5 million at the end of the year. The PUMA Group also had credit facilities totaling
€ 343.2 million as of December 31, 2014 (previous year: € 347.0 million). Unutilized credit
lines totaled € 324.4 million on the reporting date, compared to € 324.9 million the previous
year.

104 | PUMA RELAY

management report | 3

Compensation Report

Managing Directors
The compensation of the Managing Directors, which is determined by the Administrative Board, consists of non-performancebased and performance-based components.
The non-performance-based components
consist of a fixed salary and non-cash compensation, whereas the performance-based
components consist of bonuses and components with a long-term incentive effect. Along
with job assignments and performance of
each individual Managing Director, the criteria for calculating the total remuneration are
the economic situation, long-term strategic
planning and related targets, the long-term
durability of targeted results and the Company‘s long-term prospects.
A fixed salary is paid out monthly as nonperformance-based basic compensation.

In addition, the Managing Directors receive
non-cash compensation, such as company
cars and the payment of old age pension and
social security premiums. In principle, these
benefits are granted to all Managing Directors in an equal manner and are included in
the non-performance-based compensation.
The bonus component of performancerelated compensation is mainly based on
the PUMA Group’s operating income (EBIT)
and free cash flow and is staggered according to the degree to which targets are met. In
addition, qualitative individual goals are set.
The parties also agree on an upper limit.
In financial year 2013, a new compensation
program adopted at the first Administrative
Board meeting in 2014 was introduced in order to provide long-term incentives to Man-

aging Directors. Corresponding to the vesting period, pro-rata provisions totaling € 0.4
million were set up for the 2014 program,
based on commitments made to the Managing Directors in their employment contracts. Under the new performance-based
program, 70% of the compensation will be
based on the medium-term performance of
PUMA SE’s share and 30% will be based
on the medium-term performance of Kering
SA’s share in relation to benchmark companies. Further information on the program
can be found in Section 19 of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The fixed compensation for the five Managing Directors amounted to € 2.5 million in the
financial year (previous year: € 1.9 million)
and variable bonuses came to € 2.4 mil-

lion (previous year: € 0.9 million). Non-cash
compensation totaled € 0.2 million (previous
year: € 0.1 million).
The compensation program with long-term
incentive components results in the allocation of expenses to the vesting period, the
expenses arising from options issued in
previous years totaled € 0.3 million (previous year: € 3.1 million). As a result of two
Managing Directors leaving the Company,
provisions of € 0.2 were reversed.
During the reporting year, a total amount
of € 4.1 million was spent on compensation
and related payments promised to Managing Directors leaving the company.
The Managing Directors receive pension
benefits, for which the Company took out a
pension liability insurance policy. The proPUMA RELAY | 105

3 | management report

Administrative Board
portion of the pension capital that is already
financed through contributions to the pension liability insurance is deemed to be vested. During the financial year, € 0.5 million
was allocated for Managing Directors (previous year: € 0.3 million). The present value
of the pension benefits granted to Managing
Directors in the amount of € 1.3 million as
of December 31, 2014 (previous year: € 0.3
million) was offset against the pledged asset value of the pension liability insurance
policy, which was of an equal amount.
Pension obligations to former members of
the Board of Management and Managing
Directors amounted to € 12.5 million (previous year: € 12.5 million) and are accordingly
recognized as liabilities under pension provisions, unless they are offset against asset
106 | PUMA RELAY

values of an equal amount. Pensions paid
totaled € 0.2 million (previous year: € 0.2
million).
A long-term incentive program, Game
Changer 2017, was introduced for senior
management and strategically important
employees that will allow this group of employees to participate in PUMA SE’s earnings over the medium term. This program
will replace the previous stock-option plan
and will focus on earnings criteria, operating income (EBIT), working capital and the
gross profit margin over a three-year period. An amount of € 0.9 million has been set
aside for this program. Please see Section
19 of the notes to the consolidated financial
statements for more information on this program.

In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Administrative Board has at least
three members; it currently consists of eight
members. The compensation of the Administrative Board is comprised of a fixed and
a performance-based component. The total
fixed compensation amounted to € 0.3 million (previous year: € 0.3 million).
In accordance with the Articles of Association, each member of the Administrative
Board receives fixed annual compensation
in the amount of € 25,000. Fixed remuneration is increased by an additional fixed annual amount of € 25,000 for the Chairman
of the Administrative Board, € 12,500 for the
Vice Chairman of the Administrative Board,
€ 10,000 for the Chairman of a committee
(with the exception of the Nominating Com-

mittee) and € 5,000 for each member of a
committee (with the exception of the Nominating Committee).
In addition, each Administrative Board
member receives performance-based compensation equal to € 20.00 for each € 0.01
by which the earnings per share figure exceeds a minimum amount of € 16.00 per
share. The performance-based compensation amounts to a maximum of € 10,000 per
year. The Chairman of the Administrative
Board receives twice this amount (maximum
€ 20,000) and the Vice Chairman receives
one and a half times this amount (maximum
€ 15,000) in compensation. Since earnings
per share are below the minimum amount
in the financial year, no performance-based
compensation will be paid.

management report | 3

Risk and Opportunity
Management

Due to the global nature of its business
activities, PUMA is constantly exposed to
risks that must be monitored and limited.
But where there are risks there are also opportunities, and it is important to identify,
evaluate and continually monitor these by
implementing effective risk and opportunity
management policies.
The risk-management guidelines and organization at PUMA provide for methodical and systematic procedures. The direct
responsibility for identifying and monitoring
risks is assigned to functional employees

or employees responsible for implementing
processes. They provide information about
major changes in the risk portfolio in the
form of periodic and ad-hoc reports.
To do so, risk managers use a Group-wide
uniform risk management. This makes it
possible to quickly and flexibly identify risks
and forward them to the Risk & Compliance Committee (hereinafter referred to as
“RCC”). The RCC consists of a fixed group
of managing executives from various corporate divisions. The position of RCC Chairman is filled by a Managing Director. The

RCC Chairman reports the results from the
RCC meetings to the other Managing Directors as well as to the Administrative Board.
The RCC also regularly carries out a documented risk assessment as a critical review
of the existing risk portfolio and to identify
any possible changes.
PUMA’s Group-wide internal audits and
its comprehensive reporting and controlling system are also essential components
of its risk management approach. PUMA’s
reporting and controlling system is based
on monthly financial reporting as well

as the review and plausibility reports
on reported information issued by Controlling.
Managers analyze opportunities and risks
in annual planning discussions around the
world, setting targets and defining courses
of action based on the results. The comprehensive reporting system continuously monitors and generates reports on compliance
with the set targets. This enables PUMA to
promptly identify any deviations or negative
developments and to initiate any necessary
countermeasures in a timely manner.
PUMA RELAY | 107

3 | management report

Risk and Opportunity Categories
Macroeconomic Developments
As an international company, PUMA is
directly exposed to global macroeconomic
developments. Developments in the broader economy can have a direct impact on
consumer behavior. For example, political crises, changes to the legal framework
and social influences may have a direct
positive or negative effect on consumer behavior.
PUMA counters these risks through geographic diversification and a balanced
product portfolio that leaves its own creative mark intended to set the Company
108 | PUMA RELAY

apart from the competition in a positive
manner.

Brand Image
Brand image is extremely important for
PUMA: it can have a positive impact on consumer behavior but also a negative one to
the detriment of the brand.
PUMA established a new mission statement
in 2013 (“To be the Fastest Sports Brand in
the world”) in order to ensure PUMA’s sporting roots are emphasized even further in the
future and to sharpen its perception as a
sports brand. The new brand promise “For-

ever Faster” and the associated long-term
brand campaign aim to revitalize the PUMA
brand and to ensure it is kept in the forefront
of consumers’ minds.

Counterfeit Products
Counterfeit products can cause considerable damage to consumer confidence in the
brand and lead to a negative brand image
for PUMA. For this reason, PUMA has made
fighting brand piracy a top priority. PUMA’s intellectual property team does more than just
protect a strong global intellectual property
portfolio of trademarks, designs and patents.

PUMA also works closely with customs and
other law-enforcement authorities around
the world and provides input regarding the
implementation of effective laws to protect
intellectual property.

Reporting in the Media
A negative media report about PUMA, such
as a product recall, infringement of data
protection laws or disciplinary proceedings,
can also do significant damage to the brand
and ultimately result in the loss of sales and
profit, regardless of whether these events
actually happened or were just assumed by

management report | 3

the media. PUMA protects itself against this
risk through careful public relations work,
which is managed from the Group’s headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Germany.

Human Resources
Creative potential and the commitment and
performance of employees are important
pillars for the success of any business and
the source of significant opportunities as
well. PUMA encourages independent thinking and acting, which is key in a trust-based
corporate culture with a flat hierarchy.
PUMA‘s human resources strategy seeks
to ensure the long-term sustainability of
this successful philosophy. To achieve this
goal, a control process is in place to detect
and assess human-resource risks. Accordingly, special attention has been paid to
managing talent, identifying key positions
and high-potential individuals, and optimizing talent placement and succession
planning. PUMA has instituted additional
national and global rules and guidelines to
ensure compliance with legal provisions.
PUMA will continue to make targeted investments in the human-resource needs of particular functions or regions in order to meet the
future requirement of its corporate strategy.

Sourcing
Most products are produced in the emerging
markets of Asia. Production in these coun-

tries is associated with various risks. For
instance, certain risks may result from factors such as fluctuations in exchange rates,
changes in taxes and customs duties, trade
restrictions, natural disasters and political instability. Risks may also result from an overdependence on individual manufacturers.
The portfolio is regularly reviewed and adjusted to avoid creating a dependence on
individual suppliers and sourcing markets.
In order to ensure that the necessary future
production capacity will be available, framework agreements are generally concluded
for extended periods.
The main task of the PUMA.Safe team is to
support the optimal integration of environmental protection and social responsibility
into PUMA‘s core business areas and to reconcile these two pillars of sustainable development with financial performance.

Legal Risks
As an international company, the PUMA
Group is exposed to various legal risks.
These include contractual risks or risks
that a third party could assert claims and
litigation for infringement of its trademark
rights, patent rights or other rights. The continuous monitoring of our contractual obligations and the integration of internal and
external legal experts in contractual matters should ensure that any legal risks are
avoided.

Product and Market Environment
Recognizing and taking advantage of relevant consumer trends early on is key to
countering the risk posed by market-specific
product influences, in particular the risk of
substitutability in the competitive sport and
lifestyle market. Only those companies that
identify these trends at an early stage will be
able to gain an edge over their competitors.
PUMA‘s targeted investments in product
design and development ensures that the
characteristic PUMA design of the entire
product range is consistent with the overall
brand strategy, thereby creating a unique
level of brand recognition.
PUMA also makes use of various distribution
channels in order to minimize dependence
on any single channel. The expansion of the
Company‘s own retail outlets is intended to
ensure that PUMA products are presented
in an exclusive brand environment preferred
by PUMA.

Retail
Distribution through its own retail stores is
linked to various risks for PUMA, including
investments in expansion and equipping
stores, higher fixed cost compared to distribution through wholesalers as well as lease
agreements with long-term lease obligations,
all of which can have a negative impact on
profitability if business declines. On the other
hand, extending the value chain can deliv-

er higher gross margins and provide better
control over distribution. In addition, PUMAowned retail stores can deliver PUMA brand
experience directly to the end customer.
To avoid risks and take advantage of opportunities, PUMA performs in-depth location and
profitability analyses before making the investment decision. The Company’s strong
controlling and key performance indicator system enables it to detect negative trends early
on and take the countermeasures required
to manage individual stores accordingly.

Organizational Challenges
PUMA’s decentralized organization supports the Company’s global orientation and
must therefore be supported by an integrated IT, logistics and personnel infrastructure.
For this reason, the company’s business
processes must be continually optimized
and adapted.
To accomplish this objective, PUMA continued to optimize its organizational structure
and internal processes in 2014. One key
project in this effort is the implementation of
an optimized sourcing organization.

Currency Risks
As an international company, PUMA is subject to currency risks resulting from the disparity between the respective amounts of
currency used on the purchasing and sales
sides and from exchange-rate fluctuations.
PUMA RELAY | 109

3 | management report

PUMA‘s biggest procurement market is
Asia, where most payments are settled in
USD, while sales are mostly invoiced in other currencies. PUMA manages currency risk
in accordance with internal guidelines. Currency forward contracts are used to hedge
existing and future financial liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
To hedge signed or pending contracts
against currency risk, PUMA only concludes
forward currency contracts on customary
market terms with reputable international
financial institutions and Kering Finance
SNC. As of the end of 2014, the net requirements for the 2015 planning period were adequately hedged against currency effects.
Foreign exchange risks may also arise from
intra-group loans granted for financing purposes. Currency swaps and currency forward transactions are used to hedge currency risks when converting intra-group loans
denominated in foreign currencies into the
functional currencies of the Group companies.
In order to disclose market risks, IFRS 7
requires sensitivity analyses that show the
effects of hypothetical changes in relevant
risk variables on earnings and equity. The
periodic effects are determined by relating
the hypothetical changes caused by the risk
variables to the balance of the financial instruments held as of the balance sheet date.
The underlying assumption is that the bal110 | PUMA RELAY

ance as of the balance sheet date is representative for the entire year.
Currency risks as defined by IFRS 7 arise on
account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and is monetary in nature.
Differences resulting from the conversion
of the individual financial statements to the
Group currency are not taken into account.
All non-functional currencies in which PUMA
employs financial instruments are generally
considered to be relevant risk variables.
Currency sensitivity analyses are based on
the following assumptions:
Material primary monetary financial instruments (cash and cash equivalents, receivables, interest-bearing debt, liabilities from
finance leases, non-interest-bearing liabilities) are either denominated directly in the
functional currency or transformed into the
functional currency through the use of forward exchange transactions.
Forward exchange transactions used to
hedge against payment fluctuations caused by
exchange rates are part of an effective cashflow hedging relationship pursuant to IAS
39. Changes in the exchange rate of the currencies underlying these transactions have
an effect on the hedge reserve in equity and
the fair value of these hedging transactions.
If as of December 31, 2014, the USD had
appreciated (devalued) against all other currencies by 10%, the hedge reserve in equity

and the fair value of the hedging transactions
would have been € 59.0 million higher (lower)
(December 31, 2013: € 57.2 million higher
(lower)).

Interest-Rate Risks
At PUMA, changes in interest rates do not
have a significant impact on interest rate
sensitivity and therefore do not require the
use of interest rate hedging instruments.

Counterparty Risks
Because of its business activities, PUMA is
exposed to default risk that is managed by
continuously monitoring outstanding receivables and recognizing impairment losses,
where appropriate.
The default risk is limited by credit insurance
and the maximum default risk is reflected by
the carrying amounts of the financial assets
recognized on the balance sheet.

Liquidity Risk
A liquidity reserve in the form of cash or
cash equivalents as well as confirmed credit
lines is maintained in order to ensure the
Company‘s solvency at all times, its financial flexibility and the presence of a strategic
liquidity buffer. Confirmed credit lines are
made available until further notice or with a
maturity period of less than one year.
PUMA continually analyzes short-term capital requirements through rolling cash flow

planning at the level of the individual companies in coordination with the central Treasury. Thanks to the solid liquidity of the PUMA
Group and a central financing approach, any
capital requirements are covered by internal
financing, where and whenever possible.
The central Treasury conducts mediumterm liquidity planning as part of its budget
process.

Risk of Corporate Misconduct
Acts of misconduct such as theft, fraud,
breach of trust, embezzlement and corruption, as well as deliberate misrepresentations in financial reporting, may lead to significant monetary and reputational damage.
PUMA makes use of various tools to manage these risks. They include the corporate
governance system, the internal control
system, Group controlling and the internal
audit department. The employees of PUMA
also have access to an integrity hotline for
reporting unethical behavior.

Summary
PUMA‘s risk management system allows
the Company to fulfill the legal requirements
pertaining to corporate control and transparency. The Management believes that, in
an overall evaluation of the Company’s risk
situation, risk is limited and manageable and
poses no threat to the continued viability of
the PUMA Group.

management report | 3

Main Features of the Internal Control and Risk Management
System as it relates to the Group’s Accounting Process

PUMA SE‘s Managing Directors are responsible for the preparation and accuracy of
the Consolidated Financial Statements and
the Group Management Report. The Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with the International
Financial Reporting Standards that apply
in the EU, the requirements of the German
Commercial Code (HGB) and the German
SE Implementation Act (SEAG). Certain disclosures and amounts are based on current
estimates by the Managing Directors.
The Company‘s Managing Directors are responsible for maintaining and regularly monitoring a suitable internal control and risk management system covering the consolidated
financial statements and the disclosures in
the Group management report. This control

and risk management system is designed to
ensure the compliance and reliability of the
internal and external accounting records,
the presentation and accuracy of the consolidated financial statements and the Group
management report and the disclosures
contained therein. This is based on a series
of process-integrated monitoring steps and
encompasses the measures necessary to
accomplish these, internal instructions, organizational and authorization guidelines,
the PUMA Code of Ethics, a clear separation of functions within the Group and the
dual-control principle. The adequacy and
operating effectiveness of these measures
are regularly reviewed in internal audits.
For monthly financial reporting and consolidation, PUMA has a Group-wide reporting

and controlling system that allows it to regularly and promptly detect deviations from
projected figures and accounting irregularities and, where necessary, to take countermeasures.
The risk management system can regularly, as well as on an ad-hoc basis, identify events that could affect the Company’s
economic performance and its accounting
process so that it can analyze and evaluate
the resulting risks and take the necessary
actions to counter them.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the Group management
report, it is sometimes necessary to make
assumptions and estimates that are based
on the information available on the balancesheet date and which will affect the amounts

of the assets and liabilities, income and expenses, contingent liabilities and other data
that must be reported, as well as how these
are classified.
The Administrative Board‘s Audit Committee meets regularly with the independent,
statutory auditors, the Managing Directors
and the internal audit department to discuss
the results of the statutory audits of the financial statements and the internal audits
with respect to the internal control and risk
management system as it relates to the accounting process. During the meeting held
to discuss the annual financial statements,
the statutory auditor reports to the Administrative Board on the results of the audit
of the annual financial statements and the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
PUMA RELAY | 111

3 | management report

Information Concerning
Takeovers

Section 315 [4][1] of the German
Commercial Code (HGB)
On the balance-sheet date, subscribed capital totaled € 38.6 million and was divided
into 15,082,464 no-par-value shares. As of
the balance-sheet date, the Company held
142,551 treasury shares.

Section 315 [4][3] HGB
As of December 31, 2014 there was one
shareholding in PUMA SE that exceeded
10% of the voting rights. It was held by
Messrs. François-Henri Joseph Pinault and
François Jean-Henri Pinault via several companies controlled by them (ranked by size of
stake held by Messrs. Pinault: Financière
Pinault S.C.A., Artémis S.A., Kering S.A.
and SAPARDIS SE). On August 3, 2011, the
112 | PUMA RELAY

share of voting rights allotted to Messrs. Pinault and to the aforementioned companies
exceeded the 75% threshold and on that
date stood at 75.12%. 1.15% of the share
of voting rights concerned treasury shares
of PUMA SE. The list of shareholdings of
Kering S.A. on page 277 in the 2013 annual
report shows that Kering S.A. has an 85.81%
share of the voting rights in PUMA SE.

Section 315 [4][6] HGB
Regarding the appointment and dismissal
of Managing Directors, reference is made
to the applicable statutory requirements of
Section 40 of the German SE Implementation Act (SEAG). Moreover, Section 13[1] of
PUMA SE’s Articles of Association stipulates that the Administrative Board shall appoint one or several Managing Director(s).

It may appoint one of these Managing Directors as Chief Executive Officer and one
or two as Deputy Chief Executive Officers.
Pursuant to Section 13[4] of PUMA SE’s
Articles of Association, Managing Directors may be dismissed only for good cause,
within the meaning of Section 84 [3] of the
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) or if
the employment agreement is terminated,
in which case a resolution must be adopted
by the Administrative Board with a simple
majority of the votes cast. Pursuant to Art.
9(1)c(ii) of the SE Regulation (SE-VO), the
requirements for changing the Articles of
Association are governed by Sections 133
and 179 of the German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG). The Administrative Board is authorized to make changes to the Articles of
Association that affect only the text (Article
9 (3) of PUMA SE’s Articles of Association).

Section 315 [4][7] HGB
Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual
General Meeting dated April 24, 2012, the
Administrative Board is authorized to increase the share capital by April 23, 2017
as follows:
1. By issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of up
to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer shares
on one or more occasions with a pro-rata
amount of the share capital of € 2.56 per
share in exchange for cash contributions.
The new shares can also be acquired by
one or several banks as determined by
the Administrative Board, subject to the
obligation to offer these to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription
right). The shareholders are basically
entitled to a subscription right. The Ad-

management report | 3

ministrative Board is, however, authorized to exclude the subscription rights of
shareholders to avoid fractional shares.
The Administrative Board is authorized to
determine the additional rights of shares
and the conditions of the share issue (Authorized Capital I).
2. By issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of up
to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer shares
on one or more occasions with a pro-rata
amount of the share capital of € 2.56 per
share in exchange for cash contributions.
The new shares can also be acquired by
one or several banks as determined by
the Administrative Board, subject to the
obligation to offer these to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription
right). The Administrative Board is authorized to exclude the subscription rights of

shareholders in part or in whole, once or
several times
to avoid fractional shares;
u 
u 
in the event of capital increases against
contributions in kind to carry out mergers or for the acquisition of companies,
shareholdings in companies or parts of
companies;
u 
for capital increases against cash contributions, provided the amount of the
share capital attributable to the new
shares does not exceed ten percent of
the share capital and the issue amount
for the new shares is not significantly
below the market price of already listed, section 186 (3)(4) AktG. The ten
percent limit of the share capital is
valid for the date of the resolution of
the Annual General Meeting on this
authorization and on the exercise date

of the authorization. The sale of treasury shares, which are sold during the
term of Authorized Capital II under exclusion of subscription rights of shareholders in application of section 186
(3)(4) AktG, and the issuance of shares
to service options or convertible bonds
issued during the term of Authorized
Capital II under exclusion of subscription rights of shareholders in application of section 186 (3)(4) AktG, shall be
counted toward the ten percent limit of
the share capital.
The Administrative Board is authorized to
determine the additional rights of shares
and the conditions of the share issue (Authorized Capital II).
Pursuant to the resolution passed by the
Annual General Meeting of April 22, 2008,

the share capital can be increased by up to
€ 1.5 million through the issuance of up to
600,000 new shares. The contingent capital
increase shall be used exclusively for granting subscription rights (stock options) to former members of the Supervisory Board and
the Managing Directors of the Company as
well as other executives of the company and
subordinate associated companies.
As of December 31, 2014, conditional capital
was still available in a total amount of € 1.5
million (previous year: € 1.5 million).
The resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting on April 20, 2010 authorized
the company to purchase its own shares up
to a value of ten percent of the share capital
until April 19, 2015.
For more details, please refer to the relevant
disclosures in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements (Section 18).
PUMA RELAY | 113

3 | management report

Supplemental Report
and Outlook

Supplemental Report
There were no events after the balance
sheet date that had any material impact on
the assets, liabilities, financial position or
profit or loss of the Group.
On January 14, 2015, our former licensee
for children’s clothing in the USA, Parigi
Group Ltd., filed a lawsuit against PUMA
at the United States District Court of the
Southern District of New York (USA), after
PUMA did not renew the license agreement
that expired at the end of 2014. Parigi is in
particular asserting a claim for breach of
contract and appropriation of trade secrets
and is demanding that PUMA be denied the
exercise of contractual rights of control (including access to license settlement documents). Contrary to the newspaper reports
no specific amount of damages is called for
114 | PUMA RELAY

Outlook
in the complaint. We have analyzed Parigi’s
claims and consider them to be unfounded.
Accordingly, we assume that this will not
have an effect on the net assets, financial
position and results of operations of the
Group.

Global Economic Situation
In the winter forecast it released on December 17, 2014, the Kiel Institute for the
World Economy (IfW) announced that it
expects greater momentum for the global
economy over the next two years. For example, in 2015 the growth in global output
is likely to be 0.3 percentage points higher
than last year, which would mean an increase of 3.7%. The higher growth rates will
probably come from the advanced economies, where the private sector will benefit
from expansive monetary policies, low oil
prices and continued deleveraging. U.S.
GDP is expected to increase 3.2%, while
the Eurozone will see 1.2% growth. According to the IfW, the lower prices already evident in the Eurozone do not mean there is a

risk of persistent deflation. To the contrary,
developing countries will be strengthened
by growing demand in the advanced economies, while expansion rates there should
remain low due to existing structural problems.
As far as the exchange-rate trends are concerned, the various approaches to monetary
policy by different central banks have resulted in significant volatility in some areas in
recent months. The Euro, the Ruble and the
Yen have devalued considerably, while the
U.S. Dollar and the British Pound have appreciated noticeably. Depending on the economic situation in individual countries, the
respective central banks can be expected to
take different approaches, sometimes heading in opposite directions.

management report | 3

Outlook
After the successful launch of PUMA’s
Forever Faster campaign in autumn 2014,
PUMA will continue its marketing investments in order to reposition PUMA as the
Fastest Sports Brand of the World. The
objective of PUMA’s brand repositioning is
to increase brand heat and further replace
lower tier distribution with higher tier distribution in order to improve sales quality and
sell-through.
Together with improvements in the product
offering, PUMA expects an increase of its
currency-adjusted net sales in the medium
single-digit range for the full year 2015, with
sales in the first half expected to be flat and
growth occurring in the second half. The
gross profit margin is anticipated to improve

slightly based on lower discounts and a favorable product mix.
For 2015, PUMA is planning further strong
investments in the “Forever Faster” marketing campaign as well as in the upgrade of
our current IT. We are very confident that
our investment in IT will lay the foundation
for a lean and efficient company in the future. As a consequence, PUMA’s OPEX will
increase while management will continue
to put a strong emphasis on strict control of
other operating costs.
The recent adverse developments of foreign
exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the US-Dollar versus nearly all other currencies, could lead to a significant
negative impact on the reported gross
profit margin and the overall reported

EBIT and net earnings of the PUMA
group.
Because of these negative currency developments, PUMA has already taken and will
continue to take countermeasures which
should support a slight increase in reported
EBIT and net earnings.
Last year, PUMA has successfully taken the
first steps to re-establish the brand in the
market place. 2015 will be the year to further
enhance and reinforce this brand positioning
and to take a further step in getting PUMA
back to a path of profitable and sustainable
growth.

Investments
Investments totaling around € 75 million
are planned for 2015. The majority of these

funds have been allocated to infrastructure
investments which are necessary to help
drive sustainable growth as well as the expansion of our core markets and selective
investments in retail stores.
In addition, there are current purchase-price
liabilities from corporate acquisitions that
could presumably result in a cash outflow of
€ 0.5 million in 2015.

Foundation for Long-Term Growth
The Managing Directors and the Administrative Board have established long-term strategic
priorities. Action plans are being implemented
in a targeted, value-oriented manner. PUMA’s
management believes that the new “Forever
Faster” corporate strategy will lay the foundations for positive long-term development.
PUMA RELAY | 115

3 | management report

Corporate Governance
Report including the
Statement on
Corporate Governance
Effective implementation of the principles of
corporate governance is an important aspect of PUMA’s corporate policy. Transparent and responsible corporate governance
is a key prerequisite for achieving corporate
targets and for increasing the Company’s
value in a sustainable manner. The Administrative Board and the Managing Directors
work closely with each other in the interests of the entire Company to ensure that
the Company is managed and monitored in
an efficient way that will ensure sustainable
added value through good corporate governance.

116 | PUMA RELAY

Communication of the Statement of
the Administrative Board of PUMA SE
pursuant to Section 161 AktG on the
German Corporate Governance Code
November 2014 Statement of
Compliance:
Pursuant to Art. 9 (1) c (ii) of the SE Regulation (SE-VO) and Section 22 (6) of the German SE Implementation Act (SEAG), in conjunction with Section 161 AktG, PUMA SE’s
Administrative Board declares that PUMA
SE has been and is in compliance with recommendations issued by the “Government
Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code” in the code version dated
May 13, 2013, valid since June 10, 2013,

(the “Code”) and in the code version dated
June 24, 2014, valid since September 30,
2014, (the “Code”) since the last Statement
of Compliance of November 2013 in consideration of the particulars of PUMA SE’s
single-tier system described under item 1
with the exceptions mentioned under item 2,
and where it is not in compliance, explains
why not.

with respect to the legal framework for
the single-tier system:

1.	Particulars of the Single-Tier Corporate Governance System
According to Articles. 43 – 45 SE-VO,
in conjunction with Sections 20 et seqq.
SEAG, under the single-tier system,
management of the SE is the responsibility of a single company organ, the
Administrative Board (see Para. 7 of
the Code’s Preamble). The Administrative Board manages the Company, determines the Company’s basic business
strategies and monitors the implementation of said strategies by the Managing
Directors. The Managing Directors manage the Company’s business, represent
the Company in and out of court and are
bound by instructions from the Administrative Board.

n derogation of Nos. 2.3.1(1) and
u I
3.7(3) of the Code, the Administrative
Board is responsible for convening the
Annual General Meeting (Sections 48
and 22(2) SEAG).

Basically, PUMA SE takes those parts of
the Code that apply to the Supervisory
Board and applies them to its Administrative Board and takes those parts of the
Code that apply to the Board of Management and applies them to its Managing
Directors. The following exceptions apply

u I
n derogation of No. 2.2.1 p.1 of the
Code, the Administrative Board must
submit the annual financial statements
and the consolidated financial statements to the Annual General Meeting
(Section 48 (2) p. 2 SEAG).

he duties of the Board of Manageu T
ment listed in Sections 4.1.1 (Corporate
Governance) and 4.1.2 in conjunction
with 3.2 half-sentence 1 (Development
of the Company’s Strategic Orientation) of the Code are the responsibility
of the Administrative Board (Section
22(1) SEAG).
u T
he powers of the Board of Management governed by Sections 2.3.2(2)
(Proxy Bound by Instructions), 3.7(1)
(Statement on a Takeover Bid) and
3.7(2) (Conduct during a Takeover
Bid), as well as 3.10 (Corporate Governance Report), 4.1.3 (Compliance)
and 4.1.4 (Risk Management and Controlling) of the Code are the responsibility of PUMA SE’s Administrative
Board (Section 22(6) SEAG).

management report | 3

u I
n derogation of Nos. 5.1.2(2)(1 and 2)
of the Code, Managing Directors, unlike members of the Board of Management, are not subject to a fixed, maximum term of appointment (Section
40(1)(1) SEAG).
u I
n derogation of Nos. 5.4.2(2) and
5.4.4 of the Code, members of the
Administrative Board may be appointed as Managing Directors, provided
that the majority of the Administrative
Board continues to consist of nonManaging Board Members (Section
40(1)(2) SEAG).
2.	Exceptions to the Code’s
Recommendations
u 
In derogation of No. 3.8(3) of the
Code, members of the Administrative
Board are provided with D&O insurance with no deductible. The Administrative Board feels that it can dispense
with a deductible for members of the
Administrative Board, because the
D&O insurance is group insurance for
people in Germany and abroad, and a
deductible is fairly unusual abroad.
n derogation of No. 4.2.3(2)(6) of the
u I
Code, the compensation of the Managing Directors does not show the
maximum amount limits in total or their
variable compensation components.
The employment contracts of the Managing Directors were concluded in accordance with the current version of

the Code and are deemed to be proper and correct by PUMA SE.
u I
n derogation of No. 4.2.3(5) of the
Code, no limits on severance payments for premature termination as a
Managing Director due to a change of
control have been agreed to, because
an agreement drawn up in advance
would not be able to take into account
the specific situation that gave rise to
a premature termination or the other
circumstances of the individual case
of termination.
u I
n derogation of No. 5.1.2(2)(3) of the
Code, no age limit has been established for the Managing Directors. An
age limit for the Managing Directors is
not considered appropriate as the ability to run the company successfully
generally does not expire when a certain age is reached.

4.2.5 (3) of the Code, the information
stated in this Section regarding the
compensation of the Managing Directors is not included in the Compensation Report.
n derogation of No. 5.4.6(2)(2) of the
u I
Code, members of the Administrative
Board receive performance-based
compensation that is not linked to
the sustainable success of the Company. The compensation was authorized by the Annual General Meeting

on April 14, 2011; it is stipulated in the
Articles of Association and is deemed
to be proper and correct by PUMA SE.
u D
eviating from Sec. 5.4.6(3) of the
Code, the compensation of the Administrative Board members is not shown
individually. In the opinion of PUMA
SE, this additional information is not
relevant to the capital market, as the
respective remuneration regulations
are public domain in the Articles of Association.

Herzogenaurach, November 2014
PUMA SE
On behalf of the Administrative Board

Jean-François Palus
n accordance with the authorizau I
tion by the Annual General Meeting
on May 7, 2013, pursuant to Section
286(5) HGB, the Company shall not
publish the amounts of compensation
for individual Managing Directors until the authorization expires (Sections
4.2.4 and 4.2.5 of the Code). The Managing Directors shall adhere to the
authorization when they prepare the
annual financial statements. Based on
the authorization of the Annual General Meeting, and in derogation of No.

The Statement of Compliance is available at any time on the Company’s website at
http://about.puma.com/de/investor-relations/corporate-governance/declaration-of-compliance/.
PUMA RELAY | 117

3 | management report

Relevant Disclosures of Corporate
Governance Practices that are applied
beyond the Regulatory Requirements
In order to ensure that the Company‘s value
will increase in a sustainable way, guidelines have been developed on environmental management and compliance with
workplace and social standards, which are
summarized in PUMAVision (see http://
about.puma.com under “SUSTAINABILITY”. The PUMA Code of Ethics and PUMA
Code of Conduct (see http://about.puma.
com under „SUSTAINABILITY“) prescribe
ethical standards and environmental standards with which both employees in the entire
PUMA Group and suppliers are required to
comply.
Compliance with laws and internal regulations and values are of key importance for
PUMA’s corporate governance. For this
reason, a new PUMA Code of Ethics (http://
about.puma.com/de/nachhaltigkeit/standards/coe) was developed in 2014 and rolled
out company-wide. The communication of
the PUMA Code of Ethics was made by the
CEO of PUMA SE. To further reduce the risk
of misconduct, the Code of Ethics is accompanied by guidelines governing selected risk
areas in detail.
All PUMA employees were expected to
complete an Ethics e-learning training.
In addition, beginning in 2014, risk-based
classroom training sessions in the areas of
corruption and antitrust were conducted.
The establishment and monitoring of the
Group’s compliance structure is carried out
118 | PUMA RELAY

by the PUMA SE Risk & Compliance Committee. This consists of a specified group
of executives, including PUMA’s CEO and
CFO. The regular meetings of the Committee include the analysis of compliance
risks and the establishment and approval
of appropriate measures (guidelines, training courses, etc.). The Audit Committee of
the Administrative Board of PUMA SE is informed regularly as to the status of the compliance structure implementation.
The employees of PUMA have access to
a Group-wide integrity hotline for reporting
unethical, unlawful and criminal activity.

Description of the Working Practices
of the Administrative Board and the
Managing Directors and the Composition and Working Practices of their
Committees
PUMA SE has a single-tier management
and control structure. According to Articles
43 – 45 SE-VO, in conjunction with Sections
20 et seqq. SEAG, under the single-tier system, management of the SE is the responsibility of a single body, the Administrative
Board. The Managing Directors manage the
Company’s daily business. Another corporate body is the Annual General Meeting.
The Administrative Board of PUMA SE
manages the Company, determines the
Company’s basic business strategies and
monitors the implementation of said strategies by the Managing Directors. It appoints
and dismisses the Managing Directors, decides on the compensation system and es-

tablishes the compensation. In accordance
with the Articles of Association, the Administrative Board consists of at least three members. At least one independent member of
the Administrative Board must have expertise in the areas of finance, accounting or
auditing. The members of the Administrative
Board are appointed by the Annual General
Meeting, a third of them pursuant to the German Codetermination Act based on binding
nominations by employee representatives.
The members of the Administrative Board
are appointed for a period up to the close
of the Annual General Meeting that adopts
the resolution approving the actions of the
Board for the fourth financial year after the
term of office began (the financial year in
which the term of office begins is not counted) and no later than six years after the respective Administrative Board member was
appointed. Administrative Board members
may be reappointed.
Through October 31, 2014, there were nine
members of the Administrative Board and
eight members thereafter. Details of the
members of the Administrative Board can
be found in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements (Chapter).
Meetings of the Administrative Board must
be held at least every three months. Meetings must also be held if required for the
Company’s well-being or if a member of the
Administrative Board demands that a meeting be convened. The Administrative Board
held four regular meetings in 2014.
The Administrative Board has established
five committees to perform its duties and

receives regular reports on their work. The
principles of cooperation of the Administrative Board of PUMA SE and the duties of the
committees are set out in the Rules of Procedure for the Administrative Board, which
can be viewed at http://about.PUMA.com
under “Corporate Governance”.
The Executive Committee consists of three
members, including the Chairman of the
Administrative Board. He is responsible for
organizing meetings of the Administrative
Board and for making decisions when instructed by the Administrative Board to do
so on its behalf.
The Personnel Committee consists of three
members. The Personnel Committee is
responsible for entering into and making
changes to Managing Directors’ employment
contracts and for establishing policies for Human Resources and personnel development.
The entire Administrative Board decides on
issues involving the Managing Directors’
compensation based on recommendations
from the Personnel Committee.
The Audit Committee consists of three members. The Chairman of the Audit Committee
must be an independent shareholder representative and must have expertise in the
fields of accounting and auditing in accordance with Section 100(5) AktG. In particular,
the Audit Committee is responsible for accounting issues and monitoring the accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal
control system, the risk management system,
internal audits, compliance and the statutory
audit of the financial statements, with particular regard to the required independence

management report | 3

of the statutory auditors, issuing the audit
mandate to the statutory auditors, defining
the audit areas of focus, any additional services to be performed by the auditors and
the fee agreement. The recommendation of
the Administrative Board on the selection of
the statutory auditors must be based on a
corresponding recommendation by the Audit
Committee. Once the Annual General Meeting has appointed the statutory auditors, and
the Administrative Board has issued the audit assignment, the Audit Committee shall
work with the statutory auditors to specify
the scope of the audit and the audit areas
of focus. The statutory auditors shall attend
the meeting convened by the Audit Committee to review the annual financial statements
and the consolidated financial statements
and shall report on the key findings of their
audit. They shall also inform the Committee about other services they have provided
in addition to auditing services and shall
confirm their independence. Each month,
the Audit Committee shall receive financial
data on the PUMA Group, which will allow
the tracking of developments in net assets,
financial position, results of operations and
the order books on a continual basis. The
Audit Committee shall also deal with issues
relating to the balance sheet and income
statement and shall discuss these with Management. In addition, when the internal audit
projects are completed, the Audit Committee
shall receive the audit reports, which must
also include any actions taken.
The Sustainability Committee consists of
three members and is responsible for pro-

moting business sustainability as well as
awareness of the need to act fairly, honestly,
positively and creatively in every decision
made and every action taken.
The Nominating Committee has three members, who may only be representatives of the
shareholders on the Administrative Board.
The Nominating Committee proposes suitable shareholder candidates to the Administrative Board for its voting recommendations
to the Annual General Meeting.
The current composition of the committees
can be found in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (last Chapter).
The Managing Directors manage the
Company’s business with the goal of creating sustainable value with shared responsibility. They implement the guidelines and
targets issued by the Administrative Board.
The Board currently consists of three members and has a chairman. The Managing
Directors inform the Administrative Board
regularly, comprehensively, and in a timely
manner regarding all company-related issues with respect to planning, business development, the risk situation, risk management and compliance. They provide details
on and reasons for deviations of business
performance from established plans and objectives.
The Managing Directors are required to
disclose conflicts of interest to the Administrative Board immediately and inform the
other Managing Directors about any such
conflicts. They are permitted to carry out
additional activities, especially Supervisory Board or similar mandates outside the

PUMA Group only with the prior approval of
the Administrative Board. In the past year,
Managing Directors of PUMA SE had no
conflicts of interest.
The principles of cooperation of the Managing Directors of PUMA SE are laid down in
the Rules of Procedure for the Managing Directors, which can be viewed at http://about.
PUMA.com under „Corporate Governance“.

Taking Diversity and our International
Culture into Account
The Administrative Board of PUMA SE must
consider the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code, according to which the Company‘s international operations and diversity, among other things,
must be taken into account when determining the composition of the Administrative
Board and Managing Directors. In particular, they must ensure that a reasonable percentage of women will be placed in such
positions. The members of the Administrative Board have strong international backgrounds. Some of them have many years
of international ties all over the world and
have amassed extensive international experience through various assignments abroad.
The Administrative Board has established
the goal of ensuring that future members of
the Board will also have international backgrounds by requiring that proposed candidates to the Administrative Board must
also have a strong international background
and the relevant networks, international
experience and orientation. It also aims to

increase the proportion of women on the
Administrative Board. According to Section 1(4) of the Rules of Procedure for the
Administrative Board, Administrative Board
members may, in principle, not be over 70
years of age. The Administrative Board prevents potential conflicts of interests of its
members by regularly monitoring and critically scrutinizing its members‘ other activities.
In the future, the inclusion of women among
the Managing Directors shall be guaranteed in the event of a new appointment, in
particular by giving special consideration to
women from among several equally qualified applicants. If a position must be filled by
outside candidates, special care should be
taken to consider properly qualified female
candidates. The same applies when filling
management positions. When filling positions, the Managing Directors shall act to ensure diversity and shall endeavor to ensure
that women comprise a reasonable percentage of the candidates considered. Today,
there are several women in various management positions. In order to include even
more women in management positions in
the future, PUMA SE is using part-time and
half-day models, as well as flexible working
hours and the provision of more childcare
places to promote a better balance between
work and family life.
Members of PUMA SE‘s Administrative
Board, its Managing Directors and senior
staff have the opportunity to attend appropriate training and continuing education programs.
PUMA RELAY | 119

3 | management report

Directors‘ Dealings
In the reporting year, the Managing Directors and the members of the Administrative
Board have acquired no PUMA shares. No
sales were reported to us.

Declaration by the Legal
Representatives
Regarding the Affirmation pursuant to Section 315 (1)(6) of the German Commercial
Code (HGB) (Responsibility Statement/Bilanzeid), please refer to the Notes.

Herzogenaurach, February 10, 2015

The Managing Directors

GULDEN

120 | PUMA RELAY

LÄMMERMANN

SØrensen

Consolidated
financial
statements
Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position 122
Consolidated Income Statement 123
Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income 124
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 125
Statement of Changes in Equity 126
Changes in Fixed Assets 127
Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements 128
Auditor‘s Certificate 168

Klaus Kutschera (37),
IFRS Specialist, with PUMA
since 2010.

“For me, ‘Forever
Faster’ means being
determined and motivated
in my daily work and
always seeking for
improvements.”

4 | Consolidated financial statements

T.1

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

Notes

31.12.2014
€ million

31.12.2013
€ million

ASSETS

Notes

31.12.2014
€ million

31.12.2013
€ million

liabilities and shareholders‘ equity

Cash and cash equivalents

3

401.5

390.1

Current financial liabilities

13

19.8

25.1

Inventories

4

571.5

521.3

Trade payables

13

515.2

373.1

Trade receivables

5

449.2

423.4

Income taxes

22

58.8

45.6

22

75.0

70.8

Other current provisions

16

69.5

105.4

Other current financial assets

6

93.6

38.4

Liabilities from acquisitions

17

0.5

0.5

Other current assets

7

91.8

70.1

Other current financial liabilities

13

51.0

56.2

1,682.5

1,514.2

Other current liabilities

13

107.8

85.0

822.6

690.8

8

54.6

50.3

Income tax receivables

Current assets

Current liabilities
Deferred taxes

8

178.8

164.2

Deferred taxes

Property, plant and equipment

9

224.0

212.8

Pension provisions

15

26.0

28.1

Intangible assets

10

391.4

374.1

Other non-current provisions

16

23.1

33.3

Investments in associates

11

15.2

13.9

Non-current financial liabilities

13

0.0

3.9

Other non-current financial assets

12

34.6

15.2

Liabilities from acquisitions

17

2.5

2.1

Other non-current assets

12

23.4

14.1

Other non-current financial liabilities

13

0.3

0.2

867.5

794.3

Other non-current liabilities

13

2.5

2.5

109.0

120.4

Non-current assets

Non-current liabilities
Subscribed capital

18

38.6

38.6

Group reserves

18

176.0

119.0

Retained earnings

18

1.412.0

1.355.4

Treasury stock

18

-31.4

-31.4

1,595.2

1,481.6

Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent

Total assets

122 | PUMA RELAY

2,549.9

2,308.5

Non-controlling interest

18

23.1

15.7

Shareholders' equity

18

1,618.3

1,497.3

2,549.9

2,308.5

Total liabilities and shareholders‘ equity

consolidated financial statements | 4

T.2

Consolidated Income Statement

Notes

2014
2013
€ million € million

Sales

25

2,972.0

2,985.3

Cost of sales

25

-1,586.7

-1,597.8

Gross profit

25

1,385.4

1,387.5

19.4

20.8

-1,276.8

-1,345.8

128.0

62.5

Royalty and commission income
Other operating income and expenses

20

Operating income (EBIT)

Result from associated companies

21

1.3

1.3

Financial income

21

4.8

6.2

Financial expenses

21

-12.3

-16.2

-6.2

-8.7

121.8

53.7

-37.0

-32.5

84.8

21.2

-20.8

-15.9

64.1

5.3

Financial result

Earnings before taxes (EBT)
Taxes on income

22

Consolidated net earnings for the year
attributable to: Non-controlling interest

18

attributable to: Equity holders of the parent (net earnings)

Earnings per share (€)

23

4.29

0.36

Earnings per share (€) - diluted

23

4.29

0.36

Weighted average shares outstanding

23

14.940

14.940

Weighted average shares outstanding, diluted

23

14.940

14.941

PUMA RELAY | 123

4 | Consolidated financial statements

T.3

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
After tax
2014
€ million

Tax impact
2014
€ million

Before tax
2014
€ million

After tax
2013
€ million

84.8

21.2

Tax impact
2013
€ million

Before tax
2013
€ million

Net earnings before attribution

84.8

Currency changes

29.5

0.7

28.7

-113.3

-2.6

-110.6

Cashflow hedge
Release to the income statement
Market value for cashflow hedges

3.2
34.6

-0.1
-13.5

3.3
48.1

6.4
-3.2

-0.1
0.1

6.5
-3.3

Net result of available-for-sale financial assets

-2.6

1.0

-3.5

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.1

0.0

0.1

0.1

0.0

0.1

Items expected to be reclassified to the income statement in the future

64.8

-11.9

76.7

-109.9

-2.7

-107.3

Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability

-3.1

0.9

-4.0

0.8

-0.3

1.1

Items not expected to be reclassified to the income statement in the future

-3.1

0.9

-4.0

0.8

-0.3

1.1

Other result

61.7

-11.0

72.7

-109.1

-2.9

-106.1

146.6
23.3
123.2

-11.0

157.5
23.3
134.2

-87.9
15.2
-103.1

-2.9

-84.9
15.2
-100.2

Share in the other comprehensive income of at equity accounted investments

Comprehensive income
attributable to: Non-controlling interest
attributable to::Equity holder of the parent

124 | PUMA RELAY

-11.0

21.2

-2.9

consolidated financial statements | 4

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

T.4

Notes

2014
€ million

2013
€ Million

Operating activities

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Payment for acquisitions

17

-2.4

-20.6

Payments to acquire long term shareholdings

12

-21.4

0,0

9, 10

-72.6

-55.7

12.6

2.0

Investing activities

Earnings before tax (EBT)

121.8

53.7

50.5

53.8

Purchase of property and equipment

-1.2

-1.7

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment

Adjustments for:
Depreciation

Notes

9, 10

Non-realized currency gains/losses, net
Result from associated companies

13

-1.3

-1.3

Payment for other non-current assets

12

-8.0

-12.0

Financial income

21

-4.8

-6.2

Interest received

21

4.8

6.2

Financial expenses

21

10.8

7.8

Cash outflow from investing activities

-87.0

-80.1

0.6

0.5

Financing activities

-7.1

-1.9

Changes from the sale of fixed assets
Changes to pension accruals

15

Other non cash effected expenses/income
Gross Cashflow
Changes in receivables and other current assets
Changes in inventories
Changes in trade payables and other current liabilities

26

0.2

0.0

13

-10.2

-12.8

Raising of non-current financial liabilities

13

0.0

3.9

Dividend payments to equity holders of the parent

18

-7.5

-7.5

-45.3

32.9

Dividend payments to non-controlling interests

18

-16.2

-8.5

4

-35.9

-9.0

Payments to acquire non-controlling interests

18

-2.6

0.0

13

98.0

-68.9

Cash outflow from financing activities

26

-36.2

-24.8

188.9

185.6

Exchange rate-related changes in cashflow

8.2

-21.6

-9.4

-6.6

11.4

-17.2

-53.2

-69.7

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year

390.1

407.3

126.4

109.3

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year

401.5

390.1

21

Income taxes paid
Net cash from operating activities

125.8
230.6

13

Raising/ (-) Repayment of current financial liabilities

5, 6, 7

Cash inflow from operating activities
Interest paid

3.0
172.2

Changes in non-current liabilities

26

Change in cash and cash equivalents

3, 26

PUMA RELAY | 125

4 | Consolidated financial statements

T.5

Statement of Changes in Equity € million
Reserves

December 31, 2012

Subscribed
capital

Capital
reserve

Revenue
reserves

Difference
from
currency
conversion

38.6

189.8

65.1

-24.9

Cash flow
hedges

At equity
accounted
investments

Retained
earnings

Treasury
stock

Equity before
non-controlling
interests

Noncontrolling
interests

Total equity

-6.4

0.2

1,357.6

-31.6

1,588.5

8.9

1,597.4

5.3

15.9

21.2

-108.4

-0.7

-109.1

5.3

-103.1

15.2

-87.9

-7.5

-7.5

-8.5

-16.0

Net Earnings

5.3

Net income directly recognized in equity

0.8

-112.6

3.2

0.1

Total comprehensive income

0.8

-112.6

3.2

0.1

Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company /
non-controlling interests
Valuation from option programs

3.7

Conversion of options
December 31, 2013

3.7

3.7

0.1

0.0

0.0

-31.4

1,481.6

15.7

1,497.3

64.1

20.8

84.8

59.2

2.6

61.7

64.1

123.2

23.3

146.6

-7.5

-7.5

-16.2

-23.6

-0.1
38.6

193.3

66.0

-137.5

-3.2

0.3

Net Earnings

1,355.4
64.1

Net income directly recognized in equity

-5.6

26.9

37.7

0.1

Total comprehensive income

-5.6

26.9

37.7

0.1

Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company /
non-controlling interests
Valuation from option programs

0.3

Acquisition of non-controlling interests

0.3
-2.5

-2.5

Changes in the group of consolidated companies
December 31, 2014

126 | PUMA RELAY

38.6

193.7

57.9

-110.6

34.6

0.5

1,412.0

-31.4

1,595.2

0.3
-0.1

-2.6

0.4

0.4

23.1

1,618.3

consolidated financial statements | 4

T.6

Changes in Fixed Assets 2013
Purchase costs
Balance
Jan1, 2013
€ million

Currency
changes and
other changes

Additions/
retransfers

Accumulated depreciation

Disposals

Balance
Dec 31, 2013
€ million

Balance
Jan1, 2013
€ million

Currency
changes and
other changes

Additions/
retransfers1)

Carrying amounts

Disposals

Balance
Dec 31, 2013
€ million

Balance
Dec 31, 2013
€ million

Balance
Dec 31, 2012
€ million

126.2

Property, Plant and Equipment
Land, land rights and buildings
including buildings on third party land

172.1

-2.7

0.9

-2.2

168.1

-45.9

0.8

-10.2

1.8

-53.5

114.6

11.1

-1.9

1.0

-1.3

8.9

-5.4

0.9

-1.4

1.3

-4.6

4.3

5.7

310.2

-21.2

32.0

-41.5

279.5

-218.1

15.4

-33.8

39.7

-196.8

82.7

92.1

2.8

-2.5

11.0

-0.1

11.2

11.2

2.8

496.2

-28.3

44.9

-45.1

467.7

-269.4

17.1

-45.4

-254.9

212.8

226.8

Goodwill

309.6

-16.8

0.4

-0.6

292.6

-20.2

0.5

-29.9

-49.6

243.0

289.4

Intangible fixed assets with an indefinite useful life

125.4

-4.7

120.7

0.0

-17.6

-17.6

103.1

125.4

Technical equipment and machines
Other equipment, factory and office equipment
Payments on account and assets under construction

42.8

Intangible Assets

Other intangible fixed assets

122.2

0.1

10.8

-22.3

110.8

-73.6

-1.7

-29.6

22.1

-82.8

28.0

48.6

557.2

-21.4

11.2

-22.9

524.1

-93.8

-1.2

-77.1

22.1

-150.0

374.1

463.4

1) including impairment for fixed assets (€ 3.9 million) and intangible assets (€ 64.9 million), see chapters 9 and 10

T.6

Changes in Fixed Assets 2014
Purchase costs
Balance
Jan1, 2014
€ million

Currency
changes and
other changes

Additions/
retransfers

Accumulated depreciation

Disposals

Balance
Dec 31, 2014
€ million

Balance
Jan1, 2014
€ million

Currency
changes and
other changes

-1.8

Additions/
retransfers1)

Carrying amounts

Disposals

Balance
Dec 31, 2014
€ million

Balance
Dec 31, 2014
€ million

Balance
Dec 31, 2013
€ million

114.6

Property. Plant and Equipment
Land. land rights and buildings
including buildings on third party land

168.1

6.1

1.9

-15.8

160.3

-53.5

8.9

4.7

4.3

-2.0

15.9

-4.6

279.5

10.1

42.3

-28.4

303.5

-196.8

11.2

-9.4

9.8

-0.3

11.3

467.7

11.5

58.3

-46.5

491.0

-254.9

Goodwill

292.6

3.5

2.2

298.3

-49.6

Intangible fixed assets with an indefinite useful life

120.7

14.1

134.8

-17.6

110.8

-11.5

14.3

-3.1

110.5

-82.8

12.9

-11.0

2.9

-78.0

32.5

28.0

524.1

6.1

16.5

-3.1

543.6

-150.0

12.9

-18.0

2.9

-152.2

391.4

374.1

Technical equipment and machines
Other equipment. factory and office equipment
Payments on account and assets under construction

-5.4

-7.2

-5.9

6.8

-54.4

105.9

-1.5

1.9

-4.2

11.7

4.3

-32.4

26.2

-208.4

95.1

82.7

11.3

11.2

-267.0

224.0

212.8

-56.6

241.7

243.0

-17.6

117.2

103.1

-39.8

34.9

Intangible Assets

Other intangible fixed assets

-7.0

1) including impairment for fixed assets (€ 0.3 million) and intangible assets (€ 7.0 million), see chapters 9 and 10

PUMA RELAY | 127

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial Statements
1. General
Under the “PUMA” brand name, PUMA SE and its subsidiaries are engaged in the development and sale of a broad range of sports and sports lifestyle products, including footwear,
apparel and accessories. The company is a European stock corporation (Societas Europaea/SE) and its registered office is at PUMA WAY 1, 91074 Herzogenaurach, Germany.
The competent registry court is in Fürth (Bavaria).
The consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the “Group” or “PUMA”) were prepared in accordance with the International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as they are to be applied in the EU, and the supplementary accounting principles to be applied in accordance with Section 315a (1) of the German
Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, HGB). All IASB standards and interpretations, as
they are to be applied in the EU, which are mandatory for financial years as of January 1,
2014 have been applied.
The following new and amended standards and interpretations have been used for the first
time in the current financial year:

128 | PUMA RELAY

T.7

Standard

Title

First time adoption in the current financial year
Amendment IAS 27

Separate financial statements

Amendment IAS 28

Investments in associates

Amendment IAS 32

Financial instruments: presentation - offsetting

IAS 36

Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets

IAS 39

Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting

IFRS 10

Consolidated financial statements

IFRS 10, IFRS 12, IAS 27

Investment entities

IFRS 11

Joint agreements

IFRS 12

Disclosure of interests in other entities

consolidated financial statements | 4

The provisions of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of
Interests in Other Entities are of particular importance to the Group:
IFRS 10 governs the preparation and presentation of consolidated financial statements,
replacing the corresponding provisions of IAS 27 and SIC-12. The standard mandates a uniform control model applicable to all forms of companies which forms the basis for defining
the full scope of consolidation. Control only exists if the Group is exposed to variable returns
from the relationship with a company and its power over the relevant activities gives it the
opportunity to influence these returns. The first-time adoption of IFRS 10 is retrospective in
accordance with the transitional provisions.
IFRS 12 governs the rules for disclosures relating to investments in subsidiaries and associates, and to joint agreements and structured entities.
With the exception of IFRS 12, the standards and interpretations used for the first time as of
January 1, 2014 did not have any effect on the consolidated financial statements. The initial
application of IFRS 12, however, required more extensive disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements.
The following standards and interpretations have been released, but will only take effect in
later reporting periods and have not been applied earlier by the Group:

T.8
Standard

Title

First-time
adoption*

Planned
adoption

Endorsed
IFRIC 21

Levies

01. 01.15

01. 01.15

Amendment IAS 19

Defined benefit plans: employee contributions

01. 01.15

01. 01.15

AIP 2010 - 2012

Improvements to IFRS

01. 01.15

01. 01.15

AIP 2011 - 2013

Improvements to IFRS

01. 01.15

01. 01.15

Endorsement pending
IFRS 9

Financial instruments

01. 01.18

01. 01.18

IFRS 14

Regulatory deferral accounts

01. 01.16

01. 01.16

IFRS 15

Revenue from contracts with customers

01. 01.17

01. 01.17

Amendment
IFRS 10, IFRS 12
and IAS 28

Investment entities: consolidation exception

01. 01.16

01. 01.16

Amendment IFRS 10 Sale or contribution of assets
and IAS 28

01. 01.16

01. 01.16

Amendment IFRS 11

Acquisition of interests in joint operations

01. 01.16

01. 01.16

Amendment IAS 1

Disclosure initiative

01. 01.16

01. 01.16

Amendment IAS 16
and IAS 38

Depreciation & Amortisation

01. 01.16

01. 01.16

Amendment IAS 16
and IAS 41

Bearer Plants

01. 01.16

01. 01.16

Amendment IAS 27

Equity method in separate financial statements

01. 01.16

01. 01.16

AIP 2012 - 2014

Improvements to IFRS

01. 01.16

01. 01.16

* Adjusted by EU endorsement, if applicable

PUMA RELAY | 129

4 | Consolidated financial statements

No assessment can yet be undertaken with respect to the first-time application of IFRS 9,
as detailed analyses are still being presently conducted. The company does not anticipate
that the remaining standards mentioned above will have a significant impact on accounting.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements was based on historical acquisition
and manufacturing costs, with the exception of the profit or loss assessment of financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
The items contained in the financial statements of the individual Group companies are valued based on the currency that corresponds to the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in Euros (EUR or €). Amounts shown in millions of Euros with one decimal place may
lead to rounding differences, since the calculation of individual items is based on figures
presented in thousands.
The cost of sales method is used for the income statement.

2. Significant Consolidation, Accounting and Valuation Principles
Consolidation Principles The consolidated financial statements were prepared as of
December 31, 2014, the reporting date of the annual financial statements of the PUMA SE
parent company, on the basis of uniform accounting and valuation principles according to
IFRS, as applied in the EU.
Subsidiaries are those companies in which the Group has existing rights that give it the ability to direct their main activities. The main activities are the activities that have a material
impact on the profitability of the company. Control thus only exists if the Group is exposed
to variable returns from the relationship with a company and its power over the relevant
activities gives it the opportunity to influence these returns. As a rule, the possibility of
control is based on a direct or indirect majority of the voting rights by PUMA. Subsidiaries
are consolidated from the date on which the possibility of control exists. They are no longer
consolidated when this possibility no longer exists.
The capital consolidation of the subsidiaries acquired after January 1, 2005 is based on the acquisition method. Upon initial consolidation, the assets, debts and contingent liabilities that can
be identified as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value as of the acquisition
date, regardless of the non-controlling interests (previously referred to as minority interests).
At the time of the acquisition, there is a separately exercisable right to vote on whether the
interests of the non-controlling shareholders are valued at fair value or at proportional net
asset value.

130 | PUMA RELAY

The surplus of the acquisition costs arising from the purchase that exceeds the Group’s
share in the net assets stated at fair value is recognized as goodwill. If the acquisition costs
are lower than the amount of the net assets stated at fair value, the difference is recognized
directly in the income statement.
Pursuant to the contractual arrangement with the joint venture partners, PUMA is the beneficial owner of some controlling interests. The companies are fully included in the consolidated financial statements and, therefore, non-controlling interests are not disclosed. The
present value of the capital shares attributable to the non-controlling shareholders and the
present value of the residual purchase prices expected due to corporate performance are
included in the capital consolidation as acquisition costs for the holdings. If there are any
subsequent deviations, for acquisitions before January 1, 2010 these lead to a subsequent
adjustment of the acquisition costs not affecting income. For business combinations from
January 1, 2010, the costs that can be directly allocated to the acquisition as well as subsequent deviations in the present value of expected residual purchase prices are recognized
in the income statement pursuant to the application of the amended IFRS 3.
With respect to the remaining controlling interests, losses attributable to non-controlling interests are allocated to the latter even if this results in a negative balance in non-controlling
interests.
Receivables within the Group are offset against internal liabilities. As a general rule, any
set-off differences arising from exchange rate fluctuations are recognized in the income
statement to the extent that they accrued during the reporting period. If receivables and liabilities are long-term and capital-replacing in nature, the currency difference is recognized
directly in equity and in Other Income.
In the course of the expense and income consolidation, inter-company sales and intragroup income are offset against the expenses attributable to them. Interim profits not yet
realized within the Group and intra-group investment incomes are eliminated by crediting
them in the income statement.
Group of Consolidated Companies In addition to PUMA SE, all subsidiaries in which
PUMA SE, directly or indirectly, has existing rights that give it the ability to direct their main
activities are fully consolidated in the consolidated financial statements. Currently the possibility of control for all Group companies is based on a direct or indirect majority of the voting rights. Associated companies are accounted for in the Group using the equity method.

consolidated financial statements | 4

The changes in the number of Group companies (including the parent company PUMA SE)
were as follows:

The Group companies are allocated to regions as follows13:
as of Dec 31st 2014

T.10

No. Companies/Legal Entities

T.9
As of 12/31/2013
Formation of companies 2014
Disposal of companies 2014
As of 12/31/2014

Country

Capital

Germany

Herzogenaurach

Shareholder

Share in
capital

Parent Company
113
6
2
117

The following changes occurred within the group of consolidated companies in financial
year 2014:
The group of consolidated companies was further extended by the formation of the companies PUMA International Trading GmbH, PUMA Europe GmbH, PUMA Kids Apparel North
America LLC, PUMA International Trading Services Limited, PT PUMA Cat Indonesia and
PUMA Sports South East Asia Pte. Ltd.
Disposals in the group of consolidated companies concern the companies PUMA Bulgaria
EOOD and 2Expressions Merchandise Svenska AB. The disposal of PUMA Bulgaria EOOD
resulted in a loss of € 0.4 million, which is included in the consolidated income statement
under Other Operating Income and Expenses.
These changes in the group of consolidated companies did not have a significant effect on
the net assets, financial position and results of operations.

PUMA Vertrieb GmbH, PUMA Mostro GmbH, PUMA Sprint GmbH, PUMA International Trading GmbH and
PUMA Europe GmbH have made use of the exemption under Section 264 (3) of the HGB.

1. PUMA SE
EMEA
2. Austria PUMA Dassler Ges. m.b.H.

Austria

Salzburg

direct

100%

3. Dobotex Austria GmbH

Austria

Salzburg

indirect

100%

4. Wilderness Holdings Ltd.

Botswana

Maun

direct

20,1%

5. PUMA Sport Hrvatska d.o.o.

Croatia

Zagreb

indirect

100%

6. PUMA Czech Republic s.r.o.

Czech Republic

Prag

indirect

100%

7. PUMA Denmark A/S

Denmark

Skanderborg

indirect

100%

8. PUMA Estonia OU

Estonia

Talin

indirect

100%

9. PUMA Finland Oy

Finland

Espoo

indirect

100%

10. Tretorn Finland Oy

Finland

Espoo

indirect

100%

11. Brandon Oy

Finland

Helsinki

indirect

100%

12. PUMA FRANCE SAS

France

Illkirch

indirect

100%

13. PUMA Speedcat SAS

France

Illkirch

indirect

100%

14. Dobotex France SAS

France

Paris

indirect

100%

15. PUMA International Trading GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

16. PUMA Europe GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

17. PUMA Vertrieb GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

18. PUMA Sprint GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

19. PUMA Mostro GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

indirect

100%

20. Brandon Germany GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

indirect

100%

21. Dobotex Deutschland GmbH

Germany

Düsseldorf

indirect

100%

22. PUMA UNITED KINGDOM LTD

Great Britain

Leatherhead

indirect

100%

23. PUMA Premier Ltd

Great Britain

Leatherhead

indirect

100%

24. Dobotex UK Ltd

Great Britain

Manchester

indirect

100%

25. Brandon Merchandising UK Ltd.

Great Britain

London

indirect

100%

26. Sport Equipm. Hellas S. A. of Footwear,
Apparel and Sportswear

Greece

Athens

direct

100%1

27. PUMA Cyprus Ltd.

Cyprus

Nicosia

direct

100%1

28. PUMA Hungary Kft.

Hungary

Budapest

indirect

100%

29. Tretorn R&D Ltd.

Ireland

Dublin

indirect

100%

30. PUMA Italia S.r.l.

Italy

Milano

indirect

100%

13

G4-17

PUMA RELAY | 131

4 | Consolidated financial statements

31. Dobotex Italia S.r.l.

Italy

Milano

indirect

100%

Americas14

32. PUMA Sport Israel Ltd.

Israel

Hertzeliya

indirect

100%

68. Unisol S.A.

Argentina

Buenos Aires

direct

100%

33. PUMA Baltic UAB

Lithuania

Vilnius

indirect

100%

69. PUMA Sports Ltda.

Brazil

Sao Paulo

indirect

100%

34. PUMA Malta Ltd

Malta

St.Julians

indirect

100%

70. PUMA Canada, Inc.

Canada

Montreal

indirect

100%

35. PUMA Blue Sea Ltd

Malta

St.Julians

indirect

100%

71. PUMA CHILE S.A.

Chile

Santiago

direct

100%

36. PUMA Racing Ltd

Malta

St.Julians

indirect

100%

72. PUMA SERVICIOS SPA

Chile

Santiago

indirect

100%

37. PUMA Benelux B.V.

Netherlands

Leusden

direct

100%

73. PUMA Mexico Sport S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

Mexico City

direct

100%

38. PUMA International Sports Marketing BV

Netherlands

Leusden

direct

100%

74. Servicios Profesionales RDS S.A. de C.V. Mexico

Mexico City

indirect

100%

75. Importaciones RDS S.A. de C.V.

Mexico City

direct

100%

39. Dobotex International BV

Netherlands

Tilburg

direct

100%

40. Dobotex BV

Netherlands

s-Hertogenbosch

indirect

100%

76. Dobotex de Mexico SA de C.V.

Mexico

Mexico City

indirect

100%

41. Dobo Logic BV

Netherlands

Tilburg

indirect

100%

77. Distribuidora Deportiva PUMA S.A.C.

Peru

Lima

indirect

100%

Mexico

42. Dobotex Licensing Holding BV

Netherlands

s-Hertogenbosch

indirect

100%

78. Distribuidora Deportiva PUMA Tacna S.A.C Peru

Tacna

indirect

100%

43. PUMA Norway AS

Norway

Oslo

indirect

100%

79. PUMA Retail Peru S.A.C

Peru

Lima

indirect

100%

80. PUMA Sports LA S.A.

Uruguay

Montevideo

direct

100%

44. Tretorn Norway AS

Norway

Oslo

indirect

100%

45. PUMA Polska Spolka z o.o.

Poland

Warsaw

indirect

100%

81. PUMA Suede Holding, Inc.

USA

Westford

indirect

100%

46. PUMA Sport Romania s.r.l.

Romania

Bucharest

indirect

100%

82. PUMA North America, Inc.

USA

Westford

indirect

100%

47. PUMA–RUS GmbH

Russia

Moscow

indirect

100%

83. Brandon USA, Inc.

USA

Chicago

indirect

100%

48. PUMA Serbia DOO

Serbia

Belgrade

indirect

100%

84. Cobra Golf Inc.

USA

Carlsbad

indirect

100%

49. PUMA Slovakia s.r.o.

Slovakia

Bratsilava

indirect

100%

85. PUMA Wheat Accessories, Ltd

USA

San Diego

indirect

85%

50. PUMA Sports Distributors (Pty) Limited

South Africa

Cape Town

indirect

100%

86. Janed, LLC

USA

New York

indirect

51%

87. PUMA Kids Apparel North America, LLC

USA

New York

indirect

51%

51. PUMA Sports S.A.

South Africa

Cape Town

indirect

100%

52. PUMA Iberia S.L.U

Spain

Barcelona

direct

100%

53. Dobotex Spain S.L.

Spain

Barcelona

indirect

100%

54. Brandon Company AB

Sweden

Gothenburg

direct

100%

55. Brandon AB

Sweden

Gothenburg

indirect

100%

56. Hunt Sport AB

Sweden

Helsingborg

indirect

100%

57. Tretorn AB

Sweden

Helsingborg

direct

100%

58. PUMA Nordic AB

Sweden

Helsingborg

indirect

100%

59. Tretorn Sweden AB

Sweden

Helsingborg

indirect

100%

Asia/Pacific14
88. PUMA Australia Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Moorabbin

indirect

100%

89. White Diamond Australia Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Moorabbin

indirect

100%

90. White Diamond Properties

Australia

Moorabbin

indirect

100%

91. Kalola Pty Ltd.

Australia

Moorabbin

indirect

100%

92. Liberty China Holding Ltd

indirect

100%

60. Mount PUMA AG (Schweiz)

Switzerland

Oensingen

direct

100%

93. Brandon Trading Ltd.

British Virgin
Islands
China

Shanghai

indirect

100%

61. PUMA Retail AG

Switzerland

Oensingen

indirect

100%

94. PUMA China Ltd

China

Shanghai

indirect

100%

62. PUMA Schweiz AG

Switzerland

Oensingen

indirect

100%

95. Dobotex China Ltd.

China

Shanghai

indirect

100%

63. Dobotex Switzerland AG

Switzerland

Guangzhou

indirect

100%

Oensingen

indirect

100%

Istanbul

indirect

100%

96. Guangzhou World Cat Information Consulting Services Co., Ltd

China

64. PUMA Spor Giyim Sananyi ve Ticaret A.S. Turkey
65. PUMA Ukraine Ltd.

Kiew

indirect

100%

97. World Cat Ltd.

Hongkong

direct

100%

98. Development Services Ltd.

Hongkong

direct

100%

99. PUMA International Trading Services
Limited

Hongkong

direct

100%

Hongkong

direct

100%

Ucraine

66. PUMA Middle East FZ LLC

United Arab
Emirates

Dubai

indirect

100%

67. PUMA UAE LLC

United Arab
Emirates

Dubai

indirect

100% 1)

100. PUMA Asia Pacific Ltd.

14

132 | PUMA RELAY

G4-17

consolidated financial statements | 4

101. PUMA Hong Kong Ltd

Hongkong

indirect

100%

102. Dobotex Ltd.

Hongkong

indirect

100%

103. Brandon Hong Kong Ltd.

Hongkong

indirect

100%

104. PUMA Sports India Pvt Ltd.

India

Bangalore

indirect

100%

105. PUMA India Retail Pvt Ltd.

India

Bangalore

indirect

100%1

106. World Cat Sourcing India Ltd.

India

Bangalore

indirect

100%

107. PT Puma Cat Indonesia

Indonesia

Jakarta

indirect

100%

The significant conversion rates per Euro are as follows:

T.11
Currency

2014
Reporting date
exchange rate

Average
exchange rate

2013
Reporting date
exchange rate

Average
exchange rate

108. PUMA JAPAN K.K.

Japan

Tokio

indirect

100%

109. PUMA Korea Ltd.

Korea

Seoul

direct

100%

USD

1.2141

1.3285

1.3791

1.3281

indirect

100%

HKD

9.4170

10.3025

10.6933

10.3013

direct

100%

JPY

145.2300

140.3061

144.7200

129.6000

indirect

100%

GBP

0.7789

0.8061

0.8337

0.8491

CHF

1.2024

1.2146

1.2276

1.2310

110. Dobotex Korea Ltd.

Korea

Seoul

111. PUMA Sports Goods Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia

Kuala Lumpur

112. PUMA New Zealand LTD

New Zealand

Auckland

113. PUMA Sports Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore

direct

100%

114. PUMA Sports South East Asia Pte. Ltd

Singapore

direct

100%

115. PUMA Taiwan Sports Ltd.

Taiwan

Taipei

indirect

100%1

116. World Cat Vietnam Co. Ltd.

Vietnam

Long An
Province

indirect

100%

117. World Cat Vietnam Sourcing & Development Services Co. Ltd.

Vietnam

Ho Chi Minh
City

indirect

100%

1) subsidiaries which are assigned to be economically 100% PUMA Group

Currency Conversion As a general rule, monetary items in foreign currencies are converted in the individual financial statements of the Group companies at the exchange rate
valid on the balance sheet date. Any resulting currency gains and losses are immediately
recognized in the income statement. Non-monetary items are converted at historical acquisition and manufacturing costs.
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, the functional currency of which is not the
Euro, have been converted to Euros at the average exchange rates valid on the balance
sheet date. Expenses and income have been converted at the annual average exchange
rates. Any differences resulting from the currency conversion of net assets relative to exchange rates that had changed in comparison with the previous year were adjusted against
equity.
14

G4-17

Derivative Financial instruments /Hedge Accounting Derivative financial instruments
are recognized at fair value at the time a contract is entered into and thereafter. At the time
when a hedging instrument is acquired, PUMA classifies the derivative as a hedge for a
planned transaction (cash flow hedge).
At the time when the transaction is concluded, the hedging relationship between the hedging instrument and the underlying transaction as well as the purpose of risk management
and the underlying strategy are documented. In addition, assessments as to whether the
derivatives used in the hedge accounting compensate effectively for a change in the fair
value or the cash flow of the underlying transaction are documented at the beginning of and
continuously after the hedging relationship.
Changes in the market value of derivatives that are intended and suitable for cash flow
hedges and that prove to be effective are adjusted against equity, taking into account deferred taxes. If there is no complete effectiveness, the ineffective part is recognized in the
income statement. The amounts recognized in equity are recognized in the income statement during the same period in which the hedged planned transaction affects the income
statement. If, however, a hedged future transaction results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or a liability, gains or losses previously recorded in equity are included in the
initial valuation of the acquisition costs of the respective asset or liability. The fair values of
the derivative instruments used to hedge planned transactions are shown under ”Other current financial assets” or ”Other current financial liabilities.”
Leasing Leases are to be classified either as finance leases or operating leases. Leases
where the Company, in its capacity as the lessee, is responsible for all significant opportuniPUMA RELAY | 133

4 | Consolidated financial statements

ties and risks that arise from the use of the lease object are treated as finance leases. All
other leases are classified as operating leases. The lease payments from operating leases
are recorded as an expense over the term of the contract.
Cash and Cash Equivalent Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances.
To the extent that bank deposits are not immediately required to finance current assets, they
are invested as risk-free fixed-term deposits, presently for a term of up to three months. The
total amount of cash and cash equivalents is consistent with the cash and cash equivalents
stated in the cash flow statement.
Inventories Inventories are valued at acquisition or manufacturing costs, or at the lower
net realizable values derived from the selling price on the balance sheet date. As a general
rule, the acquisition cost of the merchandise is determined using the average cost method.
Value adjustments are adequately recorded, depending on age, seasonality and realizable
market prices, in a manner that is standard throughout the Group.
Receivables and Other Assets Receivables and other assets are initially stated at fair
value, taking into account transaction costs, and subsequently valued at amortized acquisition cost after deduction of value adjustments. All identifiable risks with respect to value
adjustments are sufficiently accounted for in the form of individual risk assessments based
on historical values.
Adjustments are conducted in principle if, after recognition of the financial asset, there are
objective indications for an adjustment that has an effect on the expected future cash flow
from that financial instrument. Significant financial difficulties of a debtor, an increased
probability that a creditor becomes insolvent or enters into a clean-up procedure, or a
breach of contract, e.g., a cancellation or delay in interest payments or repayments, all
count as indicators for an existing adjustment. The amount of the adjustment loss corresponds to the difference between the carrying amount and the cash value of the expected
cash flows.
The non-current assets contain loans and other assets. Non-taxable non-current assets are
discounted in principle at cash value if the resulting effect is significant.
Non-current Investments The investments reported under non-current financial assets
belong to the category “available for sale”. This category includes financial instruments that
are not loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments and that are not stated at
fair value. The categories “held-to-maturity investments” and “financial assets stated at fair
value in the income statement” do not apply within the PUMA Group.
134 | PUMA RELAY

All purchases and sales of non-current investments are recognized on the date of the
trade. The initial recognition of non-current investments takes place at fair value plus transaction costs. They are also recognized in subsequent periods at fair value, if this can be
reliably determined. Unrealized gains and losses are stated in comprehensive income, taking into account deferred taxes. When non-current investments are sold, the gain or loss is
recognized in the income statement.
If there is material objective evidence of the impairment of non-current investments, these
assets are written down against income. For equity investments categorized as available
for sale, material objective evidence of impairment exists when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the assets below their acquisition cost. The same applies
if there is no longer an active market for listed shares.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition
cost, net of accumulated depreciation. The depreciation period depends on the expected useful
life of the respective item. The straight-line method of depreciation is applied. The useful life
depends on the type of assets involved. Buildings are subject to a useful life of between ten and
fifty years, and a useful life of between three to ten years is assumed for moveable assets.
Repair and maintenance costs are recorded as an expense as of the date on which they
were incurred. Substantial improvements and upgrades are capitalized to the extent that the
criteria for capitalization of an asset item apply.
As a general rule, lease objects, the contractual basis of which is to be classified as a finance lease, are shown under property, plant and equipment; initially they are accounted
for at fair value or the lower present value of the minimum lease payments, and net of accumulated depreciation in subsequent accounting periods.
Goodwill Goodwill resulting from a business acquisition is calculated based on the difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the acquired asset and liability items.
Goodwill from acquisitions is largely attributable to the intangible infrastructure acquired
and the associated opportunity to make a positive contribution to corporate value.
Goodwill amounts are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to
benefit from the synergy effects resulting from the business combination.
An impairment test of goodwill per cash-generating unit (usually the countries) is performed
once a year, as well as whenever there are indicators of impairment, and can result in an
impairment loss. There is no reversal of an impairment loss for goodwill.
Other Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets largely consist of concessions, intellectual property rights and similar rights. These are valued at acquisition cost, net of cumula-

consolidated financial statements | 4

tive amortization. The useful life of intangible assets is between three and ten years. The item
also includes acquired trademark rights, which were assumed to have an indefinite useful life
in light of the history of the brand and due to the fact that the brand is continued by PUMA.

amount, the difference is recognized as an impairment loss. If the reasons for the previously recognized impairment no longer apply, a write-up is recognized in the income
statement.

Impairment of Assets Intangible assets with an indefinite or indeterminate useful life are
not subject to scheduled depreciation, but are subject to an annual impairment test. Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets with finite useful lives are tested for
impairment if there is any indication of impairment in the value of the asset concerned. In order to determine whether there is a requirement to recognize the impairment of an asset, the
recoverable amount of the respective asset (the higher amount of the fair value less costs to
sell and value in use) is compared with the carrying amount of the asset. If the recoverable
amount is lower than the carrying amount, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss.
The test for impairment is performed, if possible, at the level of the respective individual asset, otherwise at the level of the cash-generating unit. Goodwill, on the other hand, is tested
for impairment only at the cash-generating unit level. If it is determined within the scope of
the impairment test that an asset needs to be written down, then the goodwill, if any, of the
cash-generating unit is written down initially and, in a second step, the remaining amount
is distributed proportionately over the remaining assets. If the reason for the recognized
impairment no longer applies, a reversal of impairment loss is recognized to the maximum
amount of the written-down acquisition cost. There is no reversal of an impairment loss for
goodwill.
Impairment tests are performed using the discounted cash flow method. To determine the
fair value less costs to sell and value in use, the expected cash flows are based on corporate planning data. Expected cash flows are discounted using an interest rate in line with
market conditions.

Financial Debt, Other Financial Liabilities and Other Liabilities As a general rule,
these items are recognized at their acquisition cost, taking into account transaction costs,
and subsequently recognized at amortized acquisition cost. Non-interest or low-interestbearing liabilities with a term of at least one year are recognized at present value, taking into
account an interest rate in line with market conditions, and are compounded until their maturity at their repayment amount. Liabilities from finance lease agreements are recognized as
of the beginning of the lease transaction at the amount of the present value of the minimum
lease amount, or at the lower fair value, and are adjusted by the repayment amount of the
lease installments.
As a general rule, current financial liabilities also include the proportion of long-term loans
that have a maximum residual term of up to one year.

Holdings in Associated Companies Associated companies represent shareholdings over
which PUMA has a significant influence, but which do not qualify as subsidiaries or joint
ventures. Significant influence is generally assumed when PUMA holds, directly or indirectly, at least 20 percent, but less than 50 percent, of the voting rights.
Holdings in associated companies are accounted for using the equity method. Here, the
shares are initially recognized at their acquisition cost and are subsequently adjusted for the
prorata changes in the company’s net assets that are attributable to PUMA. Any recognized
goodwill is shown in the carrying amount of the associated company.
Within the scope of the impairment test, the carrying amount of a company valued at
equity is compared with its recoverable amount provided that there is an indication that
the asset has decreased in value. If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying

Provisions for Pensions and Similar Obligations In addition to defined benefit plans,
some companies provide defined contribution plans, which do not result in any further obligation other than the payment of current contributions. The pension provision for defined
benefit plans is generally calculated using the projected unit credit method. This method
takes into account not only pension benefits and pension rights accrued as of the reporting date, but also expected future salary and pension increases. The defined benefit obligation (DBO) is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows based on a discount
rate by reference to high quality corporate bonds. The currency and estimated term of the
corporate bonds are consistent with the currency and estimated term of the obligations.
Some of the plans are funded. The fair value of plan assets is then deducted from the defined benefit obligation in order to determine the net defined benefit liability.
Remeasurements, resulting from actuarial gains and losses, changes in the asset ceiling
and return on plan assets (without interest on the net liability) are shown in Other Comprehensive Income. The remeasurements shown in Other Comprehensive Income are part of
the retained earnings. Past service costs are included in the pension expense when they
occur.
Other Provisions Provisions are recognized if the Group, as a result of a past event,
has a current obligation and this obligation is likely to result in an outflow of resources with
economic benefits, the amount of which can be reliably estimated. The provisions are recognized at their settlement value as determined on the basis of the best possible assessPUMA RELAY | 135

4 | Consolidated financial statements

ment and are not offset by income. Provisions are discounted if the resulting effect is significant.
Provisions for the expected expenses from warranty obligations pursuant to the respective
national sales contract laws are recognized at the time of sale of the relevant products,
according to the best estimate in relation to the expenditure needed in order to fulfill the
Group’s obligation.
Provisions are also recognized to account for onerous contracts. An onerous contract is
assumed to exist where the unavoidable costs of fulfilling the contract exceed the economic
benefit arising from this contract.
Provisions for restructuring measures are also recognized if a detailed, formal restructuring plan has been produced that has created a justified expectation that the restructuring
measures will be carried out by those concerned due to its implementation starting or its
major components having been announced.
Treasury stock Treasury stock is deducted from equity at its market price as of the date
of acquisition, plus incidental acquisition costs. Pursuant to the authorization of the Annual
General Meeting, treasury stock can be repurchased for any authorized purpose, including
the flexible management of the Company’s capital requirements.
Equity Compensation Plans/Management Incentive Program In accordance with
IFRS 2, stock-based compensation systems are recognized at fair value and recorded under personnel costs. PUMA has stock-based compensation systems in the form of stock
options (SOP) involving compensation in shares and in the form of virtual shares with cash
compensation.
The expenses associated with the SOP are determined from the fair value of the options
as of the grant date, without taking into account the impact of non-market-oriented exercise
hurdles (e.g., forfeited options if the eligible employee leaves the Company prematurely).
The expense is recorded by distributing it as personnel costs over the vesting period until
the options are vested and is recognized as a capital reserve. Non-market-oriented exercise hurdles are adjusted in accordance with current expectations and the assessment of
expected exercisable options is reviewed on each balance sheet date. The resulting gains
and losses are recognized in the income statement and recorded through a corresponding
adjustment in equity over the remaining period up to the vesting date.
For share-based remunerations with cash compensation, a liability is recognized for the
services received and measured with its fair value upon addition. Until the debt is cleared,
its fair value is recalculated on every balance sheet date and on the settlement date and all
changes to the fair value are recognized in the income statement.
136 | PUMA RELAY

Recognition of Sales Revenues Revenues from the sale of products (sales revenues)
are recognized at the time of the transfer of the significant opportunities and risks associated with the ownership of the goods and products sold to the buyer if it is likely that the
Group will derive the economic benefit from the sale. The amount of the recognized sales
revenues is based on the fair value of the consideration received or to be received, taking
into account returns, discounts and rebates.
Royalty and Commission Income Income from royalties is recognized in the income statement in accordance with the invoices to be submitted by the license holders. In certain
cases, values must be estimated in order to permit accounting on an accrual basis. Commission income is invoiced to the extent that the underlying purchase transaction is deemed
realized.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses Advertising expenses are recognized in the income statement as of the date of their accrual. As a general rule, promotional expenses
stretching over several years are recognized as an expense over the contractual term on an
accrual basis. Any expenditure surplus resulting from this allocation of expenses after the
balance sheet date is recognized in the form of an impairment of assets or a provision for
anticipated losses in the respective annual financial statements..
Product Development PUMA continuously develops new products in order to meet market requirements and market changes. Intangible assets are not capitalized since the criteria set forth in IAS 38 are not satisfied.
Financial Result The financial results include the results from associated companies as
well as interest income from financial investments and interest expense from loans. Financial results also include interest expense from discounted non-current liabilities and pension
provisions that are associated with acquisitions of business enterprises or arise from the
valuation of pension commitments.
Exchange rate effects that can be directly allocated to an underlying transaction are shown
in the respective income statement item.
Income Taxes Current income taxes are determined in accordance with the tax regulations
of the respective countries where the individual Group companies conduct their operations.
Deferred Taxes Deferred taxes resulting from temporary valuation differences between
the IFRS and tax balance sheets of individual Group companies and from consolidation

consolidated financial statements | 4

procedures are charged to each taxable entity and shown either as deferred tax assets or
deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets may also include claims for tax reductions that
result from the expected utilization of existing losses carried forward to subsequent years
and which are sufficiently certain to materialize. Deferred tax assets or liabilities may also
result from accounting treatments that do not affect net income. Deferred taxes are calculated on the basis of the tax rates that apply to the reversal in the individual countries and
that are in force or adopted as of the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are shown only to the extent that the respective tax advantage is likely
to materialize. Value adjustments are recognized on the basis of the past earnings situation
and the business expectations for the foreseeable future, if this criterion is not fulfilled.
Assumptions and Estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires some assumptions and estimates that have an impact on the amount and disclosure
of the recognized assets and liabilities, income and expenses, as well as contingent liabilities. The assumptions and estimates are based on premises, which in turn are based on
currently available information. In individual cases, the actual values may deviate from the
assumptions and estimates made. Consequently, future periods involve a risk of adjustment
to the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities concerned. If the actual trend is different
to the expected trend, the premises and, if necessary, the carrying amounts of the assets
and liabilities involved are adjusted in the income statement.
All assumptions and estimates are continuously reassessed. They are based on historical
experiences and other factors, including expectations regarding future global and industryrelated trends that appear reasonable under the current circumstances. Assumptions and
estimates particularly arise in relation to the valuation of goodwill, pension obligations, derivative financial instruments and deferred taxes. The most significant forward-looking assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty as of the reporting date concerning the
above-mentioned items are discussed below.
Goodwill A review of the impairment of goodwill is based on the calculation of the value
in use. In order to calculate the value in use, the Group must estimate the future cash flows
from those cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. To this end, the data
used were from the relevant three-year plan, which is based on forecasts of the overall
economic development and the resulting industry-specific consumer behavior. Another key
assumption concerns the determination of an appropriate interest rate for discounting the

cash flows to present value (discounted cash flow method). See paragraph 10 for further
information, in particular regarding the assumptions used for the calculation.
Pension Obligations Pension obligations are determined using an actuarial calculation.
This calculation is contingent on a large number of factors that are based on assumptions
and estimates regarding the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets, future wage
and salary increases, mortality and future pension increases. Due to the long-term nature
of the commitments made, the assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties. Any
change in these assumptions has an impact on the carrying amount of the pension obligations. The Group determines at the end of each year the discount rate applied to determine
the present value of future payments. This discount rate is based on the interest rates of
corporate bonds with the highest credit rating that are denominated in the currency in which
the benefits are paid and the maturity of which corresponds to that of the pension obligations. See paragraph 15 for further information, in particular regarding the parameters used
for the calculation.
Deferred Taxes The recognition of deferred taxes, in particular with respect to tax losses
carried forward, requires that estimates and assumptions be made concerning future tax
planning strategies as well as the expected date of initial recognition and the amount of future taxable income. The taxable income from the relevant corporate plan is derived for this
judgment. This takes into account the past financial position and the business development
expected in the future. Active deferred tax assets on losses carried forward are recorded
for companies incurring a loss only if it is highly likely that future positive income will be
achieved that can be offset against these tax losses carried forward. Please see paragraph
8 for further information and detailed assumptions.
Derivative Financial Instruments The assumptions used for the valuation of derivative
financial instruments are based on the prevailing market conditions as of the balance sheet
date and thus reflect the fair value. See paragraph 24 for further information.

3. Cash and Cash Equivalents
As of December 31, 2014, the Group had € 401.5 million (previous year: € 390.1 million) in
cash and cash equivalents. The average effective interest rate of financial investments was
1.2 % (previous year: 1.6 %). There are no restrictions on disposition.

PUMA RELAY | 137

4 | Consolidated financial statements

4. Inventories

Allowances for trade receivables changed as follows:

Inventories are allocated to the following main groups:
T.14
T.12

Raw materials, consumables and supplies

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

17.6

13.3

Finished goods and merchandise/inventory

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

53.9

57.1

0.2

-1.1

Allocations

10.9

13.3

Status of value adjustments as of January 1
Exchange rate differences

Footwear

166.1

164.4

Utilization

-19.6

-9.6

Apparel

153.5

145.5

Reversals

-6.0

-5.8

Status of value adjustments as of December 31

39.4

53.9

88.1

85.5

Goods in transit

Accessories /Other

146.2

112.6

Total

571.5

521.3

The table shows the carrying amount of the inventories net of value adjustments. Of the value adjustments of € 62.5 million (previous year: € 71.1 million), approx. 69 % (previous year
approx. 69 %) were recognized as expense under cost of sales in the 2014 financial year.
The amount of inventories recorded as an expense during the period mainly includes the
cost of sales shown in the consolidated income statement.

5.Trade Receivables

The age structure of the trade receivables is as follows:
T.15
Gross values 2014
Total

€ million

488.6

of which not written down
Not due

0–30
days

31–60
days

61–90
days

91–180
days

over 180
days

312.4

39.8

15.0

6.9

5.5

1.2

of which
written down
107.8

This item consists of:
T.13

T.16
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Trade receivables, gross

488.6

477.3

Less value adjustments

-39.4

-53.9

Trade receivables, net

449.2

423.4

Gross values 2013
Total

€ million

477.3

of which not written down
Not due

0–30
days

31–60
days

61–90
days

91–180
days

over 180
days

299.2

38.1

14.0

5.9

6.1

2.2

of which
written down
111.8

With respect to trade receivables that were not written down, PUMA assumes that the debtors
will satisfy their payment obligations.
138 | PUMA RELAY

consolidated financial statements | 4

6. Other Current Financial Assets

8.Deferred Taxes

This item consists of:

Deferred taxes relate to the items shown below:

T.17

T.19
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Fair value of derivative financial instruments

58.0

11.6

Other financial assets

35.6

Total

93.6

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Tax losses carried forward

98.4

71.5

26.8

Non-current assets

28.4

22.5

38.4

Current assets

24.9

28.3

Provisions and other liabilities

The amount shown is due within one year. The fair value corresponds to the carrying amount.

7. Other Current Assets
This item consists of:

67.8

52.2

219.5

174.5

Non-current assets

74.8

53.8

Current assets

20.1

5.9

0.3

0.9

95.2

60.6

124.3

113.9

Deferred tax assets (before netting)

Provisions and other liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (before netting)

T.18

Deferred tax assets, net

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Prepaid expense relating to the subsequent period

35.9

30.0

Other receivables

55.9

40.1

Total

91.8

70.1

The amount shown is due within one year. The fair value corresponds to the carrying
amount.
Other receivables mainly include VAT receivables amounting to € 24.8 million (previous
year: € 19.5 million).

Of the deferred tax assets, € 75.3 million (previous year: € 77.3 million) and, of the deferred
tax liabilities, € 20.4 million (previous year: € 5.8 million) are current.
As of December 31, 2014, tax losses carried forward amounted to a total of € 566.2 million
(previous year: € 455.8 million). This results in a deferred tax asset of € 160.8 million (previous year: € 127.4 million). Deferred tax receivables were recognized for these items in the
amount at which the associated tax advantages are likely to be realized in the form of future
taxable profits. Accordingly, deferred tax receivables for tax losses of € 62.4 million (previous year: € 55.9 million) have not been recognized; these are non-forfeitable. In addition,
no deferred taxes were recognized for deductible temporary differences amounting to € 6.8
million (previous year: € 11.1 million).
Deferred tax liabilities for withholding taxes from possible dividends on retained earnings
of subsidiaries that serve to cover the financing needs of the respective company were not
recognized, since it is most likely that such temporary differences will not be cleared in the
near future.

PUMA RELAY | 139

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to a taxable entity and can in fact
be netted. Accordingly, they are shown in the balance sheet as follows:

9. Property, Plant and Equipment

T.20

T.23

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities
Deferred tax assets, net

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

178.8

164.2

54.5

50.3

124.3

113.9

The changes in deferred tax assets were as follows:

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

164.2

152.0

Recognition in the income statement

19.9

20.4

Adjustment against Other Comprehensive Income

-5.3

-8.2

178.8

164.2

Deferred tax assets

Land and buildings, including buildings on third-party land

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

105.9

114.6

Technical equipment and machinery

11.7

4.3

Other equipment, factory and office equipment

95.1

82.7

Assets under construction

11.3

11.2

224.0

212.8

Total

T.21

Deferred tax assets, previous year

Property, plant and equipment at their carrying amounts consist of:

The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is derived from the acquisition costs.
Cumulative depreciation of property, plant and equipment amounted to € 267.0 million (previous year: € 254.9 million).
Property, plant and equipment include lease assets (finance lease) of € 0.6 million (previous
year: € 0.3 million).
The changes in property, plant and equipment in the 2014 financial year are shown in
“Changes in fixed assets”. Impairment expenses that exceed current depreciation during
the reporting year are included to the value of € 0.3 million (previous year: € 3.9 million).

10.Intangible Assets
The changes in deferred tax liabilities were as follows:

T.22
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Deferred tax liabilities, previous year

50.3

54.1

Recognition in the income statement

-1.4

1.5

5.6

-5.3

54.5

50.3

Adjustment against Other Comprehensive Income
Deferred tax liabilities

140 | PUMA RELAY

This item mainly includes goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite or indeterminate useful
lives and assets associated with the Company’s own retail activities.
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite or indeterminate useful lives are not subject
to scheduled amortization. An impairment test was performed in the past financial year
using the discounted cash flow method. This was based on data from the respective threeyear plan. The recoverable amount was determined on the basis of the value in use. This
resulted in an impairment loss for three cash-generating units.
The cash-generating unit ‘Turkey’ includes total goodwill before impairment of € 1.5 million
(previous year: € 1.4 million). This is allocated to the EMEA segment. Based on an adjustment in expected income, an impairment loss of € 1.5 million resulted when calculating the
recoverable amount. Beyond that, no further impairments were required. The recoverable
amount (€ 3.2 million) was determined by calculating value in use, using a discount rate of

consolidated financial statements | 4

14.5 % p.a. (previous year: 13.7 % p.a.) and a growth rate of 3 % (previous year: 3 %). The
impairment is included in the item “Other operating income and expenses” in the consolidated income statement.
The cash-generating unit “Brandon” includes goodwill before impairment of € 1.3 million
(previous year: € 1.4 million). The cash-generating unit corresponds to a business unit at
PUMA, which was allocated to the Central Unit segment. Based on an adjustment in expected income, an impairment loss of € 1.3 million resulted when calculating the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount (€ 15.7 million) was determined by calculating value
in use, using a discount rate of 7.2 % p.a. (previous year: 7.5 % p.a.) and a growth rate of
2 % (previous year: 2 %). The impairment is included in the item “Other operating income
and expenses” in the consolidated income statement.
The cash-generating unit “CPG – Cobra PUMA Golf” includes goodwill before impairment
of € 4.2 million (previous year: € 2.4 million). The cash-generating unit corresponds to a
business unit at PUMA, which was allocated to the Central Unit segment. Based on an
adjustment in expected income, an impairment loss of € 4.2 million resulted when calculating the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount (€ 162.6 million) was determined by
calculating value in use, using a discount rate of 7.2 % p.a. (previous year: 7.6 % p.a.) and
a growth rate of 3 % (previous year: 3 %). The impairment is included in the item “Other
operating income and expenses” in the consolidated income statement.
The cash-generating unit ‘CPG – Cobra PUMA Golf’ includes intangible assets in association with the Cobra brand, with an indefinite useful life of € 117.2 million (previous year:
€ 103.1 million). The intangible assets are significant in comparison to the overall carrying
amount of the intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. The recoverable amount was
determined by calculating value in use, using a discount rate of 7.2 % p.a. (previous year:
7.6 % p.a.) and a growth rate of 3 % (previous year: 3 %). In addition, the recoverable amount
of the Cobra brand (Level 3) was determined on the basis of the “relief from royalty” method.
This calculation assumed a royalty rate of 8%, a 3% growth rate and a discount rate of 7.2 %
p.a.
The changes in intangible assets in the 2014 financial year are shown in “Changes in fixed
assets”. Other intangible assets include advance payments of € 5.6 million (previous year:
€ 4.4 million). Impairment expenses that exceed current depreciation during the reporting
year are included to the value of € 7.0 million (previous year: € 64.9 million).

Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s identifiable cash-generating units (CGUs) according to
the country where the activity is carried out. Summarized by regions, goodwill is allocated
as follows:

T.24
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

150.3

153.0

Americas (including Cobra PUMA Golf)

39.6

39.5

Asia/Pacific

51.8

50.5

241.7

243.0

EMEA (including Dobotex, Brandon and Tretorn)

Total

Assumptions used in conducting the impairment test in 2014:

T.25
Tax rate
(range)

WACC before tax
(range)

WACC after tax
(range)

EEA

24.5%-26.3%

8.7%-9.6%

7.1%-7.7%

EEMEA

20.0%-28.0%

17.2%-20.3%

12.8%-14.5%

EMEA

20.0%-28.0%

8.7%-20.3%

7.1%-14.5%

North America

28.3%-37.0%

8.0%-9.0%

7.2%

Latin America

18.5%-35.0%

10.4%-37.0%

9.0%-24.3%

Americas

18.5%-37.0%

8.0%-37.0%

7.2%-24.3%

Asia/Pacific

17.0%-30.0%

9.0%-11.5%

7.9%-9.0%

A growth rate of 3 % is generally assumed, and a growth rate of under 3 % has only been
used in exceptional cases where this is justified.
The cash-generating unit “Dobotex” includes goodwill of € 139.4 million (previous year:
€ 139.4 million), which is significant in comparison to the overall carrying amount of the
goodwill. The cash-generating unit corresponds to a business unit at PUMA that was allocated to the Central Unit segment. The recoverable amount was determined by calculating
value in use, using a discount rate of 7.1% p.a. (previous year: 7.5 % p.a.) and a growth rate
of 2 % (previous year: 2 %).
PUMA RELAY | 141

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Sensitivity analyses related to the performed impairment tests indicate that neither a 1%
increase in the discount rate nor a one-percentage point decrease of the growth rate result
in an impairment of goodwill or of intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. Accordingly,
the sensitivity analysis with a one-percentage point increase in the discount rate and the
sensitivity analysis with a one-percentage point reduction of the growth rate do not show
any indication of impairment.
The following table contains the assumptions for the performance of the impairment test in
the previous year:

T.26
Tax rate
(range)

WACC before tax
(range)

WACC after tax
(range)

EEA

24.5%-30.0%

9.2%-13.6%

7.4%-10.5%

EEMEA

20.0%-28.0%

16.5%-17.1%

12.8%-13.7%

EMEA

20.0%-30.0%

9.2%-17.1%

7.4%-13.7%

North America

28.3%-37.0%

8.3%-9.4%

7.5%-7.6%

Latin America

18.5%-35.0%

11.0%-39.6%

9.6%-25.8%

Americas

18.5%-37.0%

8.3%-39.6%

7.5%-25.8%

Asia/Pacific

17.0%-30.0%

10.0%-12.9%

8.5%-9.6%

A growth rate of 3 % is generally assumed, and a growth rate of under 3 % has only been
used in exceptional cases where this is justified.

T.27
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Gains relating to continuing operations

6.3

6.6

Other result

0.0

0.1

Comprehensive income

6.3

6.7

PUMA’s share of the net earnings of Wilderness Holdings Ltd. amounts to € 1.3 million (previous year: € 1.3 million).
The balance sheet date of Wilderness Holdings Ltd. is February 28, 2015. The information
stated above relates to the company’s financial information as of December 31.

12. Other Non-Current Assets
Other non-current financial and non-financial assets consist of:

T.28

Non-current investments
Other loans

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

17.9

0.0

0.0

0.1

11. Holdings in Associated Companies

Other financial assets

16.7

15.1

The 20.1% interest in Wilderness Holdings Ltd. is shown under Holdings in associated
companies. The carrying amount of the shares as of December 31, 2014 is € 15.2 million
(previous year: € 13.9 million).
The following overview shows the aggregated benchmark data of the associated companies recognized at equity. The values represent the values based on the entire company
and do not relate to the shares attributable to the PUMA Group.

Total of other non-current financial assets

34.6

15.2

Other non-current non-financial assets

23.4

14.1

Other non-current assets, total

58.0

29.3

142 | PUMA RELAY

The non-current investments relate to the 5 % share of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co.
KGaA (BVB) acquired in 2014.
Other financial assets mainly include rental deposits of € 14.2 million (previous year: € 12.7
million). The other non-current non-financial assets mainly include deferrals in connection
with promotional and advertising agreements.

consolidated financial statements | 4

In the 2014 financial year, there were no indicators of impairment of other non-current assets.

13. Liabilities
The residual terms of the liabilities are as follows:
T.29
2014

2013

Residual term of
Total
€ million

up to 1 year
€ million

1 to 5 years
€ million

19.8

29.0

25.1

3.9

515.2

515.2

373.1

373.1

3.0

0.5

2.6

0.5

31.9

31.9

25.4

25.4

5.6

5.6

5.3

5.3

57.7

57.7

44.8

44.8

Liabilities from market valuation of forward exchange
transactions

8.3

8.3

14.5

14.5

Liabilities from leases

0.4

0.4

0.1

0.1

57.5

54.8

2.7

53.8

51.0

2.8

699.4

694.2

5.2

548.5

539.8

8.7

Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Liabilities from acquisitions of business enterprises

Total
€ million

up to 1 year
€ million

19.8

Residual term of

1 to 5 years
€ million

over 5 years
€ million

2.5

over 5 years
€ million

2.1

Other liabilities
Liabilities from other taxes
Liabilities relating to social security
Payables to employees

Other liabilities
Total

PUMA has confirmed credit facilities totaling € 343.2 million (previous year: € 347.0 million).
Of the financial liabilities of € 19.8 million (previous year: € 29.0 million), of which € 1.0 million (previous year: € 6.9 million) were claimed from credit facilities only granted until further
notice. The unused credit facilities as of December 31, 2014 amounted to € 324.4 million,
compared to € 324.9 million the previous year.

0.0

0.0

The effective interest rate of the financial liabilities ranged between 0.5 % and 14.2 % (previous year: 0.5 % and 13.0 %).

PUMA RELAY | 143

4 | Consolidated financial statements

The table below shows the cash flows of the original financial liabilities and of the derivative
financial instruments with a positive and negative fair value:
T.30

Liabilities to banks can be repaid at any time.

Cash Flows from Non-Derivative and Derivative Financial Liabilities
Carrying
amount
2014
€ million

Cash flow for 2015
Interest
€ million

Cash flow for 2016

Repayment
€ million

Interest
€ million

Cash flow for 2017 et seq.

Repayment
€ million

Interest
€ million

Repayment
€ million

Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Liabilities from finance leases
Purchase price liabilities
Other liabilities

19.8

19.8

515.2

515.2

0.4

0.4

3.0

0.5

42.6

42.6

Derivative financial liabilities and assets
Currency forward contracts with cash flow hedges – inflow
Currency forward contracts with cash flow hedges – outflow

2.5

862.4

54.3

815.1

54.3

The following values were determined in the previous year:
T.31

Cash Flows from Non-Derivative and Derivative Financial Liabilities
Carrying
amount
2013
€ million

Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Liabilities from finance leases
Purchase price liabilities
Other liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities and assets
Currency forward contracts with cash flow hedges – inflow
Currency forward contracts with cash flow hedges – outflow

144 | PUMA RELAY

29.0

Cash flow for 2014

Cash flow for 2015

Interest
€ million

Interest
€ million

0.2

Repayment
€ million

25.1

373.1

373.1

0.1

0.1

2.6

0.5

41.8

41.8
581.8
608.3

0.1

Cash flow for 2016 et seq.

Repayment
€ million

3.9

2.1

Interest
€ million

Repayment
€ million

consolidated financial statements | 4

14. Additional Disclosures on Financial Instruments

Financial instruments that are valued at fair value in the balance sheet were determined
using the following hierarchy:

T.32

Level 1: 	Use of prices quoted on active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: 	Use of input factors that do not involve the quoted prices stated under Level 1, but
can be observed for the asset or liability either directly (i.e., as price) or indirectly
(i.e., derivation of prices).
Level 3: 	Use of factors for the valuation of the asset or liability that are based on nonobservable market data.

Measurement
categories
under IAS 39

Carrying
Amount

Fair
Value

2014
€ million

Carrying
Amount
2013
€ million

Fair
Value
2013
€ million

2014
€ million

)LAR

401.5

401.5

390.1

390.1

Trade receivables

LAR

449.2

449.2

423.4

423.4

Other current financial assets

LAR

35.6

35.6

26.8

26.8

Derivatives with hedging
relationship (fair value)

n.a.

57.6

57.6

11.5

11.5

Derivatives without hedging
relationship (fair value)

n.a.

0.4

0.4

0.1

0.1

Loans

LAR

0.0

0.0

0.1

0.1

Other non-current fin. assets

LAR

16.7

16.7

13.7

13.7

AfS

17.9

17.9

0.0

0.0

OL

19.8

19.8

29.0

29.0

Trade payables

OL

515.2

515.2

373.1

373.1

Purchase price liabilities

OL

3.0

3.0

2.6

2.6

n.a.

0.4

0.4

0.1

0.1

Other financial liabilities

OL

42.6

42.6

41.8

41.8

Derivatives with hedging
relationship (fair value)

n.a.

8.3

8.3

13.7

13.7

Derivatives without hedging
relationship (fair value)

n.a.

0.0

0.0

0.8

0.8

Total LAR

903.0

903.0

854.1

854.1

Total OL

580.6

580.6

446.5

446.5

Total AfS

17.9

17.9

0.0

0.0

Assets
Cash and cash equivalents

Non-current investments
Liabilities
Financial liabilities

Liabilities from leases

1)

1

3)

2)

The fair values of the financial assets in the “available-for-sale” category (AfS) were determined on the basis of Level 1. The market values of derivative assets or liabilities were
determined on the basis of Level 2.
Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other assets have a short residual maturity. Accordingly, as of the reporting date, the carrying amount corresponds to fair value.
Receivables are stated at nominal value, taking into account deductions for default risk.
Accordingly, as of the reporting date, the carrying amount of loans receivable corresponds
to fair value.
The fair value of other financial assets corresponds to their carrying amounts, taking into account prevailing market interest rates. Other financial assets include € 16.2 million (previous
year: € 15.3 million) that was pledged as rental deposits at usual market rates.
Liabilities to banks can be terminated at any time and, thus, have a short maturity. Accordingly, as of the reporting date, the carrying amount corresponds to fair value.
Trade payables have a short residual maturity. The recognized values approximate fair
value.
Pursuant to the contracts entered into, purchase price liabilities associated with acquisitions
of business enterprises lead to prorated payments. The resulting nominal amounts were
discounted at a reasonable market interest rate, depending on the expected date of payment. As of the end of the financial year, the market interest rate only affects one company
and is 2.3 % (previous year: 2.3 %).
The fair values of other financial liabilities are determined based on the present values, taking into account the prevailing interest rate parameters.
The fair value of derivatives with hedging relationships as of the balance sheet date is determined taking into account the prevailing market parameters. The discounted result of the
comparison of the forward price on the reporting date with the forward price on the valuation
date is included in the valuation.

LAR: Loans and Receivables; 2) OL: Other Liabilities; 3) AfS: Available for Sale
PUMA RELAY | 145

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Net income by valuation categories:
T.34
Germany

UK

Other
Companies

PUMA
Group

€ milion

€ milion

€ milion

€ milion

Annuity

0.0

35.2

7.6

42.8

Lump sum payment

0.0

0.0

4.6

4.6

17.3

0.0

0.0

17.3

6.2

0.0

0.0

6.2

T.33

Loans and receivables (LAR)
Other liabilities (OL)
Derivatives without hedging relationship
Non-current financial assets (AfS)
Total

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

6.7

-8.0

-17.6

-8.1

1.2

1.4

-3.5

0.0

-13.2

-14.7

Present Value of Pension Claims
12 /31/2014
Salary-based obligations

Non-salary-based obligations
Annuity
Lump sum payment

The net income was determined by taking into account interest rates, currency exchange
effects, impairment losses, and gains and losses from sales.
General administrative expenses include write-downs of receivables.

The following values were determined in the previous year:

15. Pension Provisions

T.35

Pension liabilities result from statutory or contractual benefits, which are granted in case of
invalidity, death or when a certain retirement age has been reached. Pension liabilities in
the PUMA Group are either resulting from benefit based or contribution based plans and
comprise pensions payable now or in the future. Pension plans are financed internally or via
external pension funds.
The risks associated with the pension plans are typical risks of defined benefit plans – mainly possible changes in the discount rate and, to a minor degree, inflation rates and longevity.
In order to limit the risks of changed capital market conditions and demographic changes
the pension plans in the countries with the main liabilities, Germany and the UK were closed
to new hires a few years ago or are fully insured.

Germany

UK

Other
Companies

PUMA
Group

€ milion

€ milion

€ milion

€ milion

Annuity

0.0

30.0

8.8

38.8

Lump sum payment

0.0

0.0

4.0

4.0

19.9

0.0

0.0

19.9

6.0

0.0

0.0

6.0

Present Value of Pension Claims
12 /31/2013
Salary-based obligations

Non-salary-based obligations
Annuity
Lump sum payment

The main plan rules are described below:
The general pension agreement of PUMA AG provides benefits amounting to € 127.82 per
month as a maximum. This plan was closed for new hires from 1996 onwards. For some
employees, individual pension agreements apply under which higher fixed pension amounts
146 | PUMA RELAY

consolidated financial statements | 4

are granted. In addition, there are individual contribution based programs (to some extent
deferred compensation) which are fully insured. There are no statutory minimum funding requirements. The defined benefit obligation for the German pension arrangements amounts
to € 23.5 million or 33.1 % of the total obligation at 2014. The fair value of plan assets for
these arrangements amounts to € 11.6 million. The corresponding balance sheet liability
amounts to € 11.9 million.
The defined benefit scheme in the United Kingdom is closed to new entrants since 2006.
Benefits are provided in the event of disability, death, or upon retirement and are based
on salary and length of service with the company. Benefits are paid as annuities or can be
converted partly into lump sum payments. The defined benefit obligation for the UK pension
scheme amounts to € 35.2 million, or 49.6 % of the total obligation at the end of 2014. The
fair value of plan assets for these arrangements amounts to € 30.3 million. The corresponding balance sheet liability amounts to € 4.9 million.
The reconciliation of the defined benefit obligation is set out below:

The changes in the plan assets are as follows:

T.37
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

40.7

38.7

Interest income on plan assets

1.6

1.5

Actuarial gains and losses (-)

0.9

0.7

Employer contributions

2.2

2.3

Employee contributions

0.4

0.5

-2.8

-2.5

0.0

0.0

Fair Value of Plan Asset January 1

Benefits paid
Transfers In / (Out)
Exchange rate changes

T.36
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

68.8

69.4

Service Cost

2.5

2.6

Past service cost

0.2

-0.7

-3.1

0.0

Interest expense

2.6

2.4

Employee contributions

0.4

0.5

Benefits paid

-7.4

-3.8

Transfers In / (Out)

-0.1

-0.2

Actuarial gains (-) and losses

4.9

-0.4

Exchange rate changes

2.1

-1.1

70.9

68.8

Defined benefit obligation January 1

Gains (-) and losses from plan settlements

Defined benefit obligation December 31

2.0

-0.5

45.0

40.7

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Defined benefit obligation

70.9

68.8

Fair value of plan assets

-45.0

-40.7

25.9

28.1

0.0

0.0

25.9

28.1

Fair Value of Plan Asset December 31

The reconciliation of the pension liability is shown below:

T.38

Funded Status
Effect of asset ceiling
Balance Sheet Liability December 31

In 2014, benefits paid amounted to € 7.4 million (previous year: € 3.8 million). Payments in
2015 are expected to amount to € 2.3 million. Of these, €1.1 million is expected to be paid directly by the employer. In 2014, contributions to external plan assets amounted to € 2.2 million
(previous year: € 2.3 million). Contributions in 2015 are expected to amount to € 2.2 million.
PUMA RELAY | 147

4 | Consolidated financial statements

The changes in balance sheet liability are as follows:

Actuarial gains and losses recorded in Other Comprehensive Income:

T.39

T.41

Balance Sheet Liability January 1
Pension expense
Actuarial gains (-) and losses recorded in Other Comprehensive Income

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

28.1

30.7

0.7

3.0

4.0

-1.1

Employer contributions

-2.2

-2.3

Benefits paid by the employer

-4.8

-1.5

Transfer In / (Out)

-0.1

-0.2

Exchange rate changes
Balance Sheet Liability December 31
Thereof pension assets
Thereof pension liabilities

0.1

-0.6

25.9

28.1

0.1

0.0

26.0

28.1

Components of pension expense are as follows:

Past service cost

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2.5

2.6

0.2

-0.7
0.0

2.6

2.4

Interest income on plan assets

-1.6

-1.5

Administration costs

0.1

0.1

Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans

0.7

2.9

Employer Contributions for Defined Contribution Plans

8.9

8.6

Interest expense on defined benefit obligation

Total Expenses for Defined benefit and Defined Contribution
Plans

4.9

-0.4

Actuarial gains (-) and losses resulting from changes in
demographic assumptions

0.0

0.0

Actuarial gains (-) and losses resulting from changes in
financial assumptions

4.9

0.6

Actuarial gains (-) and losses due to adjustments based on
experience

0.0

-1.0

-0.9

-0.7

Effect of asset ceiling

0.0

0.0

Total Remeasurements
(included in Other Comprehensive Income)

4.0

-1.1

Remeasurements relating to Plan Assets

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Cash and cash equivalents

0.1

0.8

Equity instruments

0.1

0.1

Bonds

11.0

9.8

Investment funds

17.6

15.6

3.6

3.1

11.7

10.6

Real estate
Insurance
Other
Total Plan Assets

9.6

11.5

of which personnel costs

8.6

10.6

of which financial costs

1.0

0.9

148 | PUMA RELAY

Remeasurements relating to Defined Benefit Obligation

T.42

-3.1

Effect of settlements

2013
€ million

Plan asset investment categories:

T.40

Service Cost

2014
€ million

0.9

0.7

45.0

40.7

consolidated financial statements | 4

Of which investment categories with a quoted market price:

The following overview shows how the present value of the defined benefit obligation would
have been affected by changes to the most significant actuarial assumption.

T.43
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Cash and cash equivalents

0.1

0.8

Equity instruments

0.1

0.1

Bonds

11.0

9.8

Investment funds

17.4

15.4

Real estate

3.3

2.6

Insurance

0.0

0.0

Other
Plan Assets with a Quoted Market Price

0.0

0.0

31.9

28.7

As in the previous year, plan assets do not include any Group’s own financial instruments or
real estate used by Group companies.
The plan assets are used solely to fulfill the pension claims. There are legal funding requirements in some countries; in other countries (for example Germany) there are no rules if and
in which extend pension plans have to be funded. In the UK, a board of trustees made up
of Company representatives and employees is in charge of asset management. The UK
investment strategy is aimed at long-term profits and low volatility.
The following assumptions were used to determine defined benefit obligations and pension
expense:

T.45
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

the discount rate was 50 basis points higher

-6.2

-5.6

the discount rate was 50 basis points lower

6.0

5.5

Effect on present value of defined benefit obligation if

Changes in salary and pension increase rates do only have a negligible effect on the present value of the defined benefit obligation due to the structure of the benefit plans.
The weighted average duration of pension plans is 20 years.

16. Other Provisions
T.46
2013

2014
Currency
adjustments,
retransfers

Addition

Utilization

Reversal

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

Warranties

9.4

0.5

2.2

-2.3

-0.4

9.5

Purchasing risks

5.4

0.1

6.8

-4.9

-0.5

6.9

29.8

1.0

0.9

-14.2

-6.5

11.0

Provisions for:

T.44

Discount rate

2014

2013

3.16%

3.78%

Other

94.1

1.4

16.0

-41.7

-4.5

65.2

Total

138.8

3.0

25.9

-63.1

-11.9

92.6

Future pension increase rate

2.42%

2.10%

Future salary increase rate

3.91%

3.90%

The assumptions stated above are a weighted average of the assumptions of the individual
plans. The discount rate for all Euro zone countries was 2.0 % (previous year 3.25 %).

Restructuring

The warranty provision is determined on the basis of the historical value of sales generated
during the past six months. It is expected that the majority of these expenses will fall due
within the first six months of the next financial year. The provision for warranties includes
€ 3.6 million for non-current provisions (previous year: € 4.6 million).
PUMA RELAY | 149

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Purchasing risks relate primarily to materials and molds that are required for the manufacturing of shoes. The provision will probably result in a payment in the following year.
The provision for restructuring includes expenses associated with the package of measures
as part of the company-wide transformation and cost reduction program. The provision for
restructuring does not include any non-current provisions (previous year: € 7.7 million).
The release of the restructuring provision is related to the € 4.5 million affected restructuring provisions remaining as of September 30, 2014, which were part of the errors totaling
€ 11.0 million identified by the German Accounting Enforcement Panel (DPR) in their audit
of PUMA’s consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2012. These errors related
to the planned relocation of inventories, the expected dual-rent payments related to the office relocation currently under negotiation, advisory costs related to the future conduct of
the business, and future expenses related to sailing sponsorship contracts. The difference
of € 6.5 million between the amount released and the errors identified by the DPR is due to
provisions being either used (€ 5.8 million) or released (€ 0.7 million) in prior periods. These
misstatements had no material effect on either the financial situation or the earnings position of the PUMA Group in prior years and the current year. We have therefore corrected the
misstatements in the current accounts.
Other provisions consist primarily of € 30.0 million for risks associated with legal disputes
(previous year: € 32.9 million), provisions for anticipated losses from pending business and
other risks. Other provisions include € 19.5 million in non-current provisions (previous year:
€ 21.0 million).

17. Liabilities from the Acquisition of Business Entities
Pursuant to the contracts entered into, purchase price liabilities associated with acquisitions
of business enterprises lead to prorated payments. The resulting nominal amounts were discounted at a reasonable market interest rate, depending on the expected date of payment.
The purchase price liabilities consist of:

T.47
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Due within one year

0.5

0.5

Due in more than one year

2.5

2.1

Total

3.0

2.6

150 | PUMA RELAY

18. Shareholders’ Equity
Subscribed capital The subscribed capital corresponds to the subscribed capital of PUMA
SE. As of the balance sheet date, the subscribed capital amounted to € 38.6 million and is
divided into 15,082,464 bearer shares. Each no-par-value share corresponds to € 2.56 of the
share capital. Capital reserves rose by € 0.3 million as a result of the valuation of stock option
programs for management (previous year: € 3.7 million).
Changes in the circulating shares:

T.48
2014

2013

Circulating shares as of January 1

share

14,939,913

14,939,279

Conversion from Management Incentive Program

share

0

634

Share buy-back

share

0

0

Circulating shares as of December 31

share

14,939,913

14,939,913

Capital Reserve  The capital reserve includes the premium from issuing shares, as well as
amounts from the grant, conversion and expiration of share options.
Retained Earnings and Net Profit Retained earnings and net profit include the net income of the financial year as well as the income of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements achieved in the past to the extent that it was not distributed.
Reserve from the Difference Resulting From Currency Conversion  The equity item
for currency conversion serves to record the differences from the conversion of the financial statements of subsidiaries with non-Euro accounting compared to the date of first-time
consolidation of the subsidiaries.
Cash Flow Hedges  The Cash flow hedges item includes the market valuation of derivative
financial instruments. The item includes € 34.6 million (previous year: € -3.2 million), which
is offset against deferred taxes amounting to € -13.5 million (previous year: € 0.1 million).
Treasury Stock  The resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting on April 20, 2010
authorized the company to purchase its own shares to a value of up to ten percent of the
share capital up to April 19, 2015. If purchased through the stock exchange, the purchase
price per share may not exceed or fall below 10 % of the average closing price for the Com-

consolidated financial statements | 4

pany’s shares with the same attributes in the XETRA trading system (or a comparable successor system) during the last three trading days prior to the date of purchase. At the same
time, pursuant to the resolution granting authorization, the previous resolution of the Annual
General Meeting from 2009 was revoked.
The Company did not make use of the authorization to purchase treasury stock during the
reporting period. As in the previous year, as of the balance sheet date, the Company holds
a total of 142,551 PUMA shares in its own portfolio, which corresponds to 0.95 % of the
subscribed capital.
Authorized Capital Pursuant to Section 4, (3) and (4) of the Articles of Association of
PUMA SE, the authorized capital expired on April 10, 2012. Pursuant to Section 4(3) and (4)
of the Articles of Association of PUMA SE, on April 24, 2012 the Annual General Meeting
revoked the authorization for the authorized capital and, pursuant to Section 4(2) and (3)
of the Articles of Association of PUMA SE, authorized new authorized capital, including a
corresponding amendment to the Articles of Association. Pursuant to the resolution of the
Annual General Meeting dated April 24, 2012, the Administrative Board is authorized to
increase the share capital by April 23, 2017 as follows:
A)	By issuing up to 2,929,687 new bearer shares worth up to € 7.5 million on one or
more occasions with a prorata amount of the share capital of € 2.56 per share in exchange for cash contributions. The new shares can also be acquired by one or several banks as determined by the Administrative Board, subject to the obligation to
offer these to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right). The
shareholders are basically entitled to a subscription right, whereby the shareholders’
subscription right may be barred to avoid fractional amounts (Authorized Capital I).
B)	By issuing up to 2,929,687 new bearer shares worth up to € 7.5 million on one or more
occasions with a prorata amount of the share capital of € 2.56 per share in exchange for
cash contributions. The new shares can also be acquired by one or several banks as
determined by the Administrative Board, subject to the obligation to offer these to the
shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right). Shareholders have, in principle, a subscription right whereby the shareholders’ subscription right may be wholly or
partially barred to avoid fractional shares (Subscribed Capital II).
Conditional Capital Pursuant to the resolution passed by the Annual General Meeting of
April 22, 2008, the share capital can be increased by up to € 1.5 million through the issuance of up to 600,000 new shares. The contingent capital increase shall be used exclusively

for granting subscription rights (stock options) to former members of the Board of Management and the Managing Directors of the Company, as well as other executives of the company and of subordinate associated companies.
As of December 31, 2014, total conditional capital of € 1.5 million (previous year: € 1.5 million) was still available.
Dividends The amounts eligible for distribution relate to the net income of PUMA SE, which
is determined in accordance with German commercial law.
The Managing Directors recommend to the Administrative Board and the Annual General
Meeting that a dividend of € 0.50 per circulating share, or a total of € 7.5 million (with respect
to the circulating shares as of December 31), be distributed to the shareholders from the net
income of PUMA SE for financial year 2014. This corresponds to a payout ratio of 11.7 %
relative to consolidated net income compared to 140.3 % in the previous year.
Appropriation of the Net Income of PUMA SE:

T.49
2014

2013

€ million

60.7

53.1

€

0.50

0.50

share

14,939,913

14,939,913

Total dividend *

€ million

7.5

7.5

Carried forward to the new accounting period *

€ million

53.2

45.7

Net income of PUMA SE as of December 31
Dividends per share
Number of circulating shares *

* Previous year‘s values adjusted to the outcome of the Annual General Meeting

Non-controlling Interests The non-controlling interest remaining as of the balance
sheet date relates to PUMA Wheat Accessories, LLC with € 0.1 million (previous year: € 0.6
million), Janed, LLC with € 22.6 million (previous year: € 15.1 million) and PUMA Kids Apparel North America, LLC, which was established in 2014, with € 0.4 million.
Capital Management The Group’s objective is to retain a strong equity base in order to
both maintain investor and market confidence and strengthen future business performance.
Capital management relates to the consolidated equity of PUMA. This is shown in the consolidated balance sheet as well as the reconciliation statement under Changes in equity.
PUMA RELAY | 151

4 | Consolidated financial statements

19. Equity Compensation Plans/Management Incentive Program
In order to provide long-term incentives and thereby retain the management staff in the
Company, PUMA uses share-based compensation systems in the form of stock option programs (SOP) and in the form of virtual shares with cash compensation.
The current programs are described below:

T.50

SOP
2008
Tranche I

2008
Tranche II

2008
Tranche III

2008
Tranche IV

2008
Tranche V

€ 199.27

€ 147.27

€ 250.50

€ 199.95

€ 265.00

Expected volatility

29.1 %

47.7 %

34.5 %

29.2 %

26.8 %

Expected dividend payment

1.50 %

2.31 %

1.30 %

1.30 %

0.8%

Risk-free interest rate

4.60 %

1.97 %

1.60 %

2.40 %

0.3 %

Share price as of the grant date

Explanation of “SOP” Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting of April
22, 2008, a stock option program, “SOP 2008”, was accepted in the form of a “Performance
Share Program”. Conditional capital was created for this purpose and the Supervisory
Board and the Board of Management of PUMA AG (as of July 25, 2011 change of form into
an SE) were authorized to grant subscription rights to the members of the Board of Management and other executives of the Company and of affiliated subsidiary companies for five
years (after the registration of the conditional capital in the commercial register), but for at
least three months after the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2013.
The term of the subscription rights issued or to be issued is five years and these subscription rights can be exercised after two years at the earliest, provided, however, that the price
of the PUMA share has increased by at least 20% since the grant date. In contrast to traditional stock option programs, the equivalent amount of the increase in value of the PUMA
share since the grant date is serviced with shares, whereby the beneficiary pays an option
price of € 2.56 per share granted if the share was issued as part of a capital increase. If
employees leave the company, then their options rights expire.
Furthermore, pursuant to the authorization, the Administrative Board, in accordance with
the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code, may limit, fully or partially, the scope and contents of subscription rights granted to the company’s Managing
Directors in the event of extraordinary unforeseen developments. This authorization also
applies to the Managing Directors with respect to the other executive staff concerned.
The programs were valued using a binomial model or a Monte Carlo simulation.
The following parameters were used to determine the fair value:

The historical volatility during the year prior to the date of valuation was used to determine
the expected volatility.
Changes in the “SOP” during the financial year:

T.51

SOP
2008
Tranche I

2008
Tranche II

2008
Tranche III

2008
Tranche IV

2008
Tranche V

07/21/2008

04/14/2009

04/22/2010

04/15/2011

04/30/2012

113,000

139,002

126,184

151,290

145,375

Exercise price

€ 0.00

€ 0.00

€ 2.56

€ 2.56

€ 2.56

Residual term

Issue date
Amount issued

0.00 years

0.00 years

0.31 years

1.29 years

2.33 years

Circulating as of January 1, 2014

0

1,500

98,693

103,463

113,469

Exercised

0

0

0

0

0

€ 220.83

€ 214.57

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

Expired

0

-1,500

0

0

0

Circulating as of December 31, 2014

0

0

98,693

103,463

113,469

Exercisable options as of the reporting
date

0

0

0

0

0

Ø Share price when exercised

Pursuant to Section 5 of the Option Terms and Conditions, every year the options are subject to a vesting period from December 15 for up to ten trading days after the Annual General Meeting. Accordingly, no options could be exercised as of the reporting date.
As of the date of allocation, the average fair value per option was € 49.44 for “Tranche I
-2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no further expenses for the current
152 | PUMA RELAY

consolidated financial statements | 4

financial year. Of the options in circulation, 0 options belong to the previous members of the
Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was € 53.49 for “Tranche II –
2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no further expenses for the current
financial year. Of the options in circulation, 0 options belong to the previous members of the
Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was € 61.81 for “Tranche III –
2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no further expenses for the current
financial year. Of the options in circulation, 83,693 options belong to the previous members
of the Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was € 40.14 for “Tranche IV –
2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no further expenses for the current
financial year. A total of 86,463 options belong to the previous members of the Board of
Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors as of yearend.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was € 44.59 for “Tranche V –
2008”. Taking into account the vesting period and the expiration, the expenses for the current financial year amount to a total of € 0.3 million. A total of 13,453 options belong to the
current Managing Directors as of yearend.

2014, based on commitments to the Managing Directors in employment contracts.
At the end of the financial year, all participants in “Program 2014” remained in active service.

Explanation of “Virtual Shares” In 2013, the company began granting virtual shares
annually as part of a management incentive program. Each virtual share entitles the holder
to a cash payout at the end of its term. This payout is determined partly by the final determined price of the PUMA share (component 1), which has a 70 % weighting, and partly by
the final determined price of the Kering share (component 2), which has a 30 % weighting.
Component 1 compares the success with the average virtual stock appreciation rights of
the last 30 days of the previous year. Component 2, however, measures the success by
comparing the performance of Kering shares to the average performance of a benchmark
portfolio of the luxury and sport sector for the same period. These virtual shares are subject
to a vesting period of three years. After that, there is an exercise period of two years (in the
period from April to October) which can be freely used by participants for the purposes of
exercising the options. The fundamental exercise condition after the vesting period is the
existence of an active employment relationship with PUMA.
As of the reporting date for the 2014 financial year, two participants in the 2013 program
were no longer actively employed by the company. The release of the provision for these
participants in the 2014 financial year was € 0.2 million.
“Program 2014” will be adopted at the first Administrative Board meeting in the financial year
2015. Provisions amounting to € 0.4 million were recorded for this program in financial year

This commitment consisting of share-based remuneration transactions with cash compensation are recorded as personnel provisions and revalued on every balance sheet date at
fair value. Expenses are likewise recorded over the vesting period. Based on the market
price on the balance sheet date, the provision for the two virtual stock programs amounted
to a total of € 0.9 million at the end of the financial year.

T.52

Virtual Shares

Issue date

01.01.2013

Term

5 years

Vesting period

3 years

Base price component 1

224.00 €/share

Base price component 2

130.84 €/share

Benchmark component 1 at the end of the financial year

172.55 €/share

Benchmark component 2 at the end of the financial year

167.00 €/share

Participants in year of issue

4 people

Participants at the end of the financial year

2 people

Number of virtual shares on the issue date

13,761 share

Explanation of the program “Game Changer 2017” In addition, in 2014, a further longterm incentive program called “Game Changer 2017” was launched. Participants in this program consist mainly of top executives who report to the Managing Directors, as well as occasional key functions in the PUMA Group. The goal of this program is to promote the loyalty of
this group of employees to the company and to allow them to share in the medium-term success of the company. The duration of the program is 3 years and is based on the mediumterm objectives of the PUMA Group in relation to the operating result (EBIT) (70%), working
capital (15%) and gross profit margin (15%). The program calls for a provision to be formed
each year upon fulfillment of the currency-adjusted targets. The credit accrued in this way will
then be paid out to participants in March 2017. The payment is subject to the condition that
the participant is in an ongoing employment relationship with a company of the PUMA Group
as of December 31, 2016. € 0.9 million was set aside for this program in the reporting year.
PUMA RELAY | 153

4 | Consolidated financial statements

20. Other Operating Income and Expenses
According to the respective functions, other operating income and expenses include personnel, advertising, sales and distribution expenses as well as rental and leasing expenditure, travel costs, legal and consulting expenses, and other general expenses. Typical
operating income that is associated with operating expenses was offset. Rental and lease
expenses associated with the Group’s own retail stores include sales-dependent rental
components.
Other operating income and expenses are allocated based on functional areas as follows:

ing expenses (previous year: € 0.5 million), € 0.1 million to tax advisory services (previous
year: € 0.1 million) and € 0.1 million to other assurance services (previous year: € 0.0 million).
Other operating income includes € 16.3 million (previous year: € 17.3 million) relating to income from the allocation of development costs and € 1.0 million (previous year: € 0.4 million)
relating to other income
Overall, other operating expenses include personnel costs, which consist of:
T.54
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

341.3

336.6

47.8

47.5

Expenses from share-based remuneration with compensation
in shares

0.3

1.1

Expenses from share-based remuneration with compensation
in cash

0.5

0.4

35.4

39.7

425.3

425.3

T.53
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

997.7

977.6

Product management/merchandising

34.8

32.9

Research and development

46.2

47.9

Sales and distribution expenses

Administrative and general expenses
Other operating expenses
Other operating income
Total
of which scheduled depreciation
of which impairment expenses

215.4

305.1

1.294.1

1.363.5

17.3

17.7

1.276.8

1.345.8

50.5

53.8

7.3

79.1

Within the sales and distribution expenses, marketing/retail expenses account for a large
proportion of the operating expenses. In addition to advertising and promotional expenses,
they also include expenses associated with the Group’s own retail activities. Other sales
and distribution expenses include warehousing expenses and other variable sales and distribution expenses.
Expenses for product management/merchandising and research and development were
combined under the item Product Development/Design in the previous year. In order to
improve the communication of information to users of financial statements, the items have
been presented separately and prior year amounts have been restated accordingly.
Administrative and general expenses include expenses for the statutory auditor of PUMA
SE of € 0.8 million (previous year: € 0.6 million). Of this, € 0.6 million is allocated to audit154 | PUMA RELAY

Wages and salaries
Social security contributions

Expenses for retirement pension and other personnel
expenses
Total

In addition, cost of sales includes personnel costs of € 13.6 million (previous year: € 18.2
million).
The annual average number of full-time employees was as follows:
T.55

Marketing/retail/sales
Product development/design
Administrative and general units
Total annual average

2014

2013

7,247

7,176

864

882

2,719

2,692

10,830

10,750

As of the end of the year, a total of 11,267 people were employed (previous year: 10,982)
on a full-time basis.

consolidated financial statements | 4

21. Financial Result

22. Income Taxes

The financial result consists of:
T.57
T.56

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Income from associated companies

1.3

1.3

Germany

11.9

10.7

Interest income

4.8

6.2

Other contries

46.4

40.7

Income from currency conversion differences, net

0.0

0.0

Total current income taxes

Financial income

4.8

6.2

Deferred taxes

Interest expense

-9.8

-6.7

Interest accrued on purchase price liabilities from acquisitions of
business enterprises

-0.1

-0.1

Valuation of pension plans

-0.9

Expenses from currency conversion differences, net
Financial expenses
Financial result

-1.0

-1.5

-8.4

-12.3

-16.2

-6.2

-8.7

Current income taxes

Total

58.3

51.4

-21.3

-18.9

37.0

32.5

In general, PUMA SE and its German subsidiaries are subject to corporate income tax, plus
a solidarity surcharge, and trade tax. Thus, a weighted mixed tax rate of 27.22 % has been
applied for the financial year.
Reconciliation of the theoretical tax expense with the effective tax expense:

T.58

Income from associated companies results exclusively from the shareholding in Wilderness
Holdings Ltd. (see also paragraph 11).
Interest income results from financial investments.
Interest expenses relate to short-term financing liabilities.
The financial result also includes a total of € 1.5 million in expenses from currency
conversion differences (previous year: expenses of € 8.4 million), which are attributable to
financing activities.

Earnings before income tax

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

121.8

53.7

Theoretical tax expense
Tax rate of the SE = 27.22 % (previous year: 27.22 %)

33.1

14.6

-13.1

-4.1

Income tax for previous years

7.9

-6.7

Losses and temporary differences for which no tax claims were
recognized

2.2

20.5

Changes in tax rate

0.8

0.1

Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes and non-taxable
income and other effects

6.1

8.1

37.0

32.5

30.4%

60.5%

Taxation difference with respect to other countries
Other tax effects:

Effective tax expense
Effective tax rate

PUMA RELAY | 155

4 | Consolidated financial statements

The tax effect resulting from items that are directly credited or debited to equity is shown
directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
Other effects include withholding taxes of € 11.9 million (previous year: € 9.9 million).

24. Management of the Currency Risk

The earnings per share are determined in accordance with IAS 33 by dividing the consolidated annual surplus (consolidated net earnings) attributable to the shareholder of the
parent company by the average number of circulating shares. Potential shares from the
management incentive program may lead to a dilution of this indicator (see paragraph 19).
The calculation is shown in the table below:

In the 2014 financial year, PUMA designated “forward purchase USD” currency derivatives
as cash flow hedges in order to hedge the amount payable of purchases denominated in
USD, which is converted to EUR.
The nominal amounts of open rate-hedging transactions, which relate mainly to cash flow
hedges, refer to currency forward contracts totaling € 862.4 million (previous year: € 581.8
million).
Cash flows for the underlying transactions are expected in 2015.
The market values of open rate-hedging transactions on the balance sheet date consist
of:

T.59

T.60

23. Earnings per Share

2014

2013

€ million

64,1

5,3

Average number of circulating shares

share

14,939,913

14,939,515

Diluted number of shares

share

14,939,913

14,941,089

Earnings per share

€

4.29

0.36

Earnings per share, diluted

€

4.29

0.36

Net earnings

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Currency forward contracts, assets (see paragraph 6)

58.0

11.6

Currency forward contracts, liabilities (see paragraphs 13 and 14)

-8.3

-14.5

Net

49.7

-2.9

The changes in effective cash flow hedges are shown in the schedule of changes in shareholders’ equity and the statement of comprehensive income.
In order to disclose market risks, IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses that show the effects
of hypothetical changes in relevant risk variables on earnings and equity. The periodic effects are determined by relating the hypothetical changes caused by the risk variables to
the balance of the financial instruments held as of the balance sheet date. The underlying
assumption is that the balance as of the balance sheet date is representative for the entire
year.
Currency risks as defined by IFRS 7 arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and is monetary in nature. Differences
resulting from the conversion of the individual financial statements to the Group currency
are not taken into account. All non-functional currencies in which PUMA employs financial
instruments are generally considered to be relevant risk variables.
Currency sensitivity analyses are based on the following assumptions:
Material primary monetary financial instruments (cash and cash equivalents, receivables,
interest-bearing debt, liabilities from finance leases, non-interest-bearing liabilities) are ei156 | PUMA RELAY

consolidated financial statements | 4

ther denominated directly in the functional currency or transferred into the functional currency through the use of currency forward contracts.
Currency forward contracts used to hedge against payment fluctuations caused by exchange rates are part of an effective cash-flow hedging relationship pursuant to IAS 39.
Changes in the exchange rate of the currencies underlying these contracts have an effect
on the hedging reserve in equity and the fair value of these hedging contracts.
If, as of December 31, 2014, the USD had appreciated (devalued) against all other currencies by 10 %, the hedging reserve in equity and the fair value of the hedging contracts would
have been € 59.0 million higher (lower) (December 31, 2013: € 57.2 million higher (lower)).
Currency risks are discussed in greater detail in the Group Management Report under the
Risk Management section.

25.Segment Reporting
Segment reporting is based on geographical regions in accordance with our internal reporting structure. Sales revenues and operating results (EBIT) are shown according to
the head office of the respective Group company of the corresponding region. Intra-group
sales for the respective region are eliminated. Allocation of the remaining segment information is also determined on the basis of the respective group company’s head office.

The sum totals equal the amounts on the income statement or on the balance sheet,
respectively.
The regions are subdivided into EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Americas (North
and Latin America) and Asia/Pacific.
The segments’ internal sales are generated on the basis of market prices. They are not
considered in the representation, as they are not relevant for controlling.
Investments and depreciation/amortization relate to additions and depreciation/amortization
of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets during the current financial year. In
addition, total impairment expenses of € 7.3 million (previous year: € 79.1 million) were taken
into account in the segments EMEA (€ 1.5 million, previous year: € 19.1 million), Americas
(€ 1.4 million, previous year: € 0.0 million), Asia/Pacific (€ 0.2 million, previous year: € 29.0
million) and central units/consolidation (€ 4.2 million, previous year: € 31.0 million).
Since PUMA is active in only one business area, namely that of the sporting goods industry,
sales revenues and gross profit are allocated based on products, i.e., according to the footwear,
apparel and accessories product segments in accordance with the internal reporting structure.
According to this reporting structure, except for the allocation of sales revenue and of
gross profit, there is no other allocation of the operating result or of the asset and liability
items.

PUMA RELAY | 157

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Operating Segments 1-12/2014
T.61

Regions
External Sales

EBIT

Investments

1 – 12 / 2014
€ million

1-12 / 2013
€ million

1 – 12 / 2014
€ million

1-12 / 2013
€ million

1 – 12 / 2014
€ million

1-12 / 2013
€ million

1,109.8

1,125.0

-5.6

-14.7

26.9

23.6

Americas

968.1

952.0

41.6

71.5

27.2

19.7

Asia/Pacific

559.3

576.5

12.8

18.1

11.4

8.5

Central units/consolidation

334.8

331.9

79.2

116.5

9.3

4.3

0.0

-129.0

2,972.0

2,985.3

128.0

62.5

74.8

56.1

EMEA

Special items
Total

T.62

Regions
Depreciation

Inventories

Trade Receivables

1 – 12 / 2014
€ million

1-12 / 2013
€ million

1 – 12 / 2014
€ million

1-12 / 2013
€ million

1 – 12 / 2014
€ million

1-12 / 2013
€ million

EMEA

12.0

15.8

227.2

248.8

160.0

151.2

Americas

13.4

12.7

191.7

143.7

160.4

142.2

9.1

9.0

68.5

62.8

69.8

74.5

Central units/consolidation

16.0

16.3

84.1

66.1

59.0

55.4

Total

50.5

53.8

571.5

521.3

449.2

423.4

Asia/Pacific

158 | PUMA RELAY

consolidated financial statements | 4

T.63

Product
External Sales

Gross Profit Margin

1 – 12 / 2014
€ million

1-12 / 2013
€ million

1 – 12 / 2014
€ million

1-12 / 2013
€ million

Footwear

1,282.7

1,372.1

42.6%

43.7%

Apparel

1,103.1

1,063.8

49.5%

48.3%

586.3

549.4

50.0%

49.8%

2,972.0

2,985.3

46.6%

46.5%

1 – 12 / 2014
€ million.

1-12 / 2013
€ million

128.0

62.5

-6.2

-8.7

121.8

53.7

Accessories
Total

T.64

Bridge to EBT

EBIT
Financial Result
EBT

26. Notes to the Cash Flow Statement

27. Contingencies and Contingent Liabilities

The cash flow statement was prepared in accordance with IAS 7 and is structured based on
cash flows from operating, investment and financing activities. The indirect method is used
to determine the cash inflow from ongoing operating activities. The gross cash flow, derived
from earnings before income tax and adjusted for non-cash income and expense items, is
determined within the cash flow from ongoing operating activities. Cash inflow from operating activities, reduced by investments in property, plant and equipment as well as intangible
assets, is referred to as free cash flow.
The financial resource fund reported in the cash flow statement includes all payment methods and equivalent payment methods shown under “Cash and cash equivalents”, i.e., cash
in hand, checks and temporary bank balances.
Other non-cash expenses and income in the reporting year mainly concern depreciation
of property, plant and equipment. In addition, the main expenses in the previous year were
related to impairment losses and restructuring measures.

Contingencies As in the previous year, there were no reportable contingencies.
Contingent Liabilities As in the previous year, there were no reportable contingent liabilities.

28. Other Financial Obligations
Obligations from Operating Leases The Group rents and leases offices, warehouses, facilities, and fleets of vehicles, as well as selling space for its own retail business.
Rental agreements for the retail business are concluded for terms of between five and
fifteen years. The remaining rental and lease agreements have residual terms of between
one and five years. Some agreements include options to renew and price adjustment
clauses.
Total expenses resulting from these agreements amounted in 2014 to € 123.5 million (previous year: € 117.5 million). Some of the expenses are dependent on sales.
PUMA RELAY | 159

4 | Consolidated financial statements

As of the balance sheet date, the obligations from future minimum rental payments for operating lease agreements are as follows:

T.65
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2015 (2014)

103.4

91.0

2016 - 2019 (2015 – 2018)

215.5

194.6

63.3

59.3

Under rental and lease agreements:

from 2020 (from 2019)

Further Other Financial Obligations Furthermore, the Company has other financial obligations associated with license, promotional and advertising agreements, which give rise
to the following financial obligations as of the balance sheet date:

T.66
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2015 (2014)

135.6

112.8

2016 - 2019 (2015 – 2018)

388.1

363.7

93.9

55.3

Under license, promotional and advertising agreements:

frrom 2020 (from 2019)

In addition, there are industry-standard obligations concerning the provision of sports equipment under sponsorship agreements.
As customary in the industry, the promotional and advertising agreements provide for additional payments upon the reaching of pre-defined goals (e.g., medals, championships).
Although these are contractually agreed upon, they naturally cannot be exactly foreseen in
terms of their timing and amount.

160 | PUMA RELAY

29. Managing Directors and Administrative Board
Disclosures pursuant to Section 314 (1)(6) of the HGB (German Commercial Code)
In accordance with the Act on Disclosure of Management Board Compensation of August
3, 2005, the disclosure of the individual earnings of the members of the Board of Management and Managing Directors may be dispensed with for a period of 5 years pursuant to
Section 286 (5); Section 285(9)(a) sentences 5–8; Section 314 (2)(2) and Section 314 (1)
(6)(a) sentences 5–8 of the HGB, if the Annual General Meeting passes a resolution in this
regard by a 75 % majority.
Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting of May 7, 2013, the Company was
authorized to refrain from disclosures pursuant to Section 285 (9)(a) sentences 5–8 and
Section 314 (1)(6)(a) sentences 5–8 of the HGB with respect to the financial year beginning
on January 1, 2013 and all subsequent financial years ending December 31, 2017 at the
latest.
The Managing Directors and the Administrative Board are of the opinion that the shareholders’ justified interest in information is sufficiently accounted for by the disclosure of the total
compensation of the Managing Directors. The Administrative Board will ensure the appropriateness of the individual compensation in accordance with its statutory duties.
Managing Directors The compensation of the Managing Directors, which is determined
by the Administrative Board, consists of non-performance-based and performance-based
components. The non-performance-based components consist of a fixed salary and noncash compensation, whereas the performance-based components consist of bonuses and
components with a long-term incentive effect. Along with job assignments and performance
of each individual Managing Director, the criteria for calculating the total remuneration are
the economic situation, long-term strategic planning and related targets, the long-term durability of targeted results and the Company’s long-term prospects.
Fixed salary as non-performance-based basic compensation is paid out monthly. In addition, the Managing Directors receive non-cash compensation, such as company cars,
pension contributions and insurance premiums. In principle, these benefits are granted to
all Managing Directors in an equal manner and are included in the non-performance-based
compensation.
The bonus component of performance-related compensation is mainly based on the PUMA
Group’s operating income (EBIT) and free cash flow, and is staggered according to the
degree to which targets are met. Individual qualitative goals are also agreed upon, which
include an upper limit.
A new remuneration program with a long-term incentive effect was introduced for Managing Directors in the 2013 financial year; this program was approved at the first Administra-

consolidated financial statements | 4

tive Board meeting in 2014. In keeping with the vesting period prorata provisions of € 0.4
million were recognized for this program in 2014, based on commitments to the Managing
Directors in employment contracts. The new performance-based program is based 70 %
on the medium-term performance of the PUMA SE share and 30 % on the medium-term
performance of the Kering SA share in relation to benchmark companies. Further information on this program is provided in Section 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
The fixed compensation for the five Managing Directors amounted to € 2.5 million in the
financial year (previous year: € 1.9 million) and variable bonuses amounted to € 2.4 million
(previous year: € 0.9 million). € 0.2 million (previous year: € 0.1 million) was granted in noncash compensation.
In the compensation program with a long-term incentive effect, the allocation of expenses
to the vesting period results in expenses resulting from options issued in previous years
totaled € 0.3 million (previous year: € 3.1 million). Following the departure of two Managing
Directors, provisions in the amount of € 0.2 million were reversed.
In the reporting year, a total of € 4.1 million was spent on compensation and related payments promised to Managing Directors leaving the company.
The Managing Directors receive pension benefits, for which the Company has taken out
a pension liability insurance policy. The proportion of the pension capital that is already
financed through contributions to the pension liability insurance is deemed to be vested.
€ 0.5 million was allocated for Managing Directors in the financial year (previous year:
€ 0.3 million). The present value of the pension benefits granted to Managing Directors
of € 1.3 million as of December 31, 2014 (previous year: € 0.3 million) was offset against
the pledged asset value of the pension liability insurance policy, which was of an equal
amount.
Pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management and Managing Directors amounted to € 12.5 million (previous year: € 12.5 million) and are accordingly recognized as liabilities under pension provisions, unless they are offset against asset values
of an equal amount. Pensions were paid to the value of € 0.2 million (previous year: € 0.2
million).
A long-term incentive plan “Game Changer 2017” was introduced for the global senior management and strategically important employees, which allows this group of employees to
participate in the medium-term success of PUMA SE. This program replaces the previous
stock option plan and is based on the success criteria of operating profit (EBIT), working
capital and gross profit margin over a three-year period. € 0.9 million has been set aside for
this program. Further information on this program is provided in Section 19 of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Administrative Board In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Administrative
Board has at least three members; it currently consists of eight members. The compensation
of the Administrative Board is comprised of a fixed and a performance-based component.
The total fixed compensation amounted to € 0.3 million (previous year: € 0.3 million).
In accordance with the Articles of Association, each member of the Administrative Board
receives fixed annual compensation of € 25,000. Fixed remuneration is increased by an
additional fixed annual amount of € 25,000 for the Chairman of the Administrative Board,
€ 12,500 for the Vice Chairman of the Administrative Board, € 10,000 for the Chairman of a
committee (with the exception of the Nominating Committee) and € 5,000 for each member
of a committee (with the exception of the Nominating Committee).
In addition, each Administrative Board member receives performance-based compensation
of € 20.00 for each € 0.01 by which the earnings per share figure shown in the consolidated
financial statements exceeds a minimum amount of € 16.00 per share. The performancebased compensation amounts to a maximum of € 10,000 per year. The Chairman of the
Administrative Board receives twice this amount (maximum € 20,000); the Vice Chairman
receives one-and-a-half times this amount (maximum € 15,000) in compensation. Since
earnings per share are below the minimum amount in the financial year, no performancebased compensation was paid.

30. Related Party Relationships
In accordance with IAS 24, relationships with related parties that control or are controlled
by the PUMA Group must be reported unless such related parties are already included as
consolidated companies in the consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE. Control is
defined as the ability to determine an entity’s financial and business policies and benefit
from its activities.
SAPARDIS SE, Paris, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kering S.A., presently holds over 75 % of
the subscribed capital of PUMA SE. Kering S.A. is controlled by Artémis S.A., Paris, which
in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Financière Pinault S.C.A., Paris. Consequently, all
companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by Artémis S.A. and are not included in
the consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE are accounted for as related companies.
In addition, the disclosure obligation pursuant to IAS 24 also extends to transactions with
associated companies as well as transactions with other related parties. These include noncontrolling shareholders in particular.
Transactions with related parties largely concern the sale of goods and services. These
sales were concluded under normal market conditions that are also customary with third
parties.
The following overview illustrates the scope of the business relationships:
PUMA RELAY | 161

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Deliveries and services
rendered

T.67

Deliveries and services
received

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Artémis-Group consolidated comapnies

0.0

0 .1

0.1

0.4

Kering-Group consolidated companies

2.8

4.3

2.3

3.0

Other related parties

7.1

6.6

14.0

14.9

Total

9.9

11.0

16.4

18.3

Net receivables from

T.68

Payables to

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Artémis-Group consolidated comapnies

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.2

Kering-Group consolidated companies

1.1

1.2

0.7

0.4

Other related parties

17.9

9.9

0.2

1.7

Total

19.0

11.1

0.9

2.3

Receivables from related parties are, with one exception, not subject to value adjustments.
Only with respect to the receivables from a non-controlling shareholder and its group of
companies were gross receivables of € 52.2 million fully adjusted in value for a subsidiary
of PUMA SE in Greece as of December 31, 2014 (previous year: € 52.2 million). In the 2015
financial year, expenses of € 0.0 million (previous year € 0.0 million) were recorded in this
regard.
The Managing Directors and the members of the Administrative Board of the PUMA Group
are related parties within the meaning of IAS 24. The services and compensation of this
group of individuals are shown in paragraph 29.
Within consulting, service and employment contracts, members of the Administrative Board
received compensation from PUMA of € 0.3 million (previous year: € 0.3 million).

162 | PUMA RELAY

31. Corporate Governance
In November 2014, the Managing Directors and the Administrative Board submitted the
required compliance declaration with respect to the recommendations issued by the Government Commission German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Section 161 of the
AktG (Aktiengesetz, German Stock Corporation Act) and published it on the Company’s
website (www.puma.com). Please also refer to the Corporate Governance Report in the
Group Management Report of PUMA SE.

32. Events after the Balance Sheet Date
There were no events after the balance sheet date that had any material impact on the net
assets, financial position and results of operations.

consolidated financial statements | 4

33. Declaration by the Legal Representatives
We state to the best of our knowledge that the consolidated financial statements give a true
and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in
accordance with the applicable accounting principles, and that the Group Management Report provides a true and fair view of the course of the development and performance of the
business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and
opportunities associated with the expected performance of the Group.
Date of Release The Managing Directors of PUMA SE released the consolidated financial
statements on February 10, 2015 for distribution to the Administrative Board. The task of the
Administrative Board is to review the consolidated financial statements and state whether
it approves them.

Herzogenaurach, February 10, 2015
Managing Directors

Gulden

Lämmermann

Sørensen

PUMA RELAY | 163

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Managing Directors
of PUMA SE

Bjørn Gulden

Departing Managing Directors

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Tchibo GmbH, Hamburg
• Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KG, Dortmund
• Dansk Supermarked A/S, Højbjerg/Denmark

Andy Köhler
Chief Operating Officer (COO)
until July 31, 2014

Chief Executive Officer (CEO)

Michael Lämmermann

Chief Financial Officer (CFO)

Lars Radoor Sørensen

Chief Operating Officer (COO)
from August 1, 2014

164 | PUMA RELAY

Stefano Caroti
Chief Commercial Officer (CCO)
until December 31, 2014

consolidated financial statements | 4

Administrative Board
of puma se
herzogenaurach

Jean-François Palus
(Chairman)
London, United Kingdom
Group Managing Director and member of the Administrative Board of Kering S.A.,
Paris/France,
responsible for Strategy, Operations and Organization
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Kering Americas, Inc., New York / USA
• Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa / USA
• Luxury Goods International (L.G.I.) S.A., Cadempino  /  Switzerland
• Kering Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg / Luxembourg
• Brioni S.p.A., Penne / Italy
• Kering Tokyo Investment Ltd. Tokyo / Japan
• Pomellato S.p.A, Penne / Italy
• Volcom Luxembourg Holding S.A., Luxembourg / Luxembourg
• Sowind Group S.A., La Chaux-de-Fonds / Switzerland

François-Henri Pinault
(Deputy Chairman)
Paris , France
CEO and Chairman of the Administrative Board of Kering S.A., Paris / France
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Artémis S.A., Paris / France
• Financière Pinault S.C.A., Paris / France
• Société Civile du Vignoble de Château Latour S.C., Pauillac / France
• Christie’s International Ltd., London / United Kingdom
• Bouygues S.A., Paris / France
• Sowind Group S.A., La Chaux-de-Fonds / Switzerland
• Soft Computing S.A., Paris / France
• Boucheron Holding S.A.S, Paris / France
• Yves Saint Laurent S.A.S., Paris / France
• Kering Holland N.V. (previously named Gucci Group N.V), Amsterdam / Netherlands
• FNAC S.A., Ivry sur Seine / France (until 6 / 18 / 2013)
• Sapardis SE, Paris / France
• Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa / USA
• Stella McCartney Ltd., Haywards Heath / West Sussex / United Kingdom
• Brioni S.p.A., Penne / Italy
• Kering International Ltd., London / United Kingdom

Thore Ohlsson
Falsterbo, Sweden
President of Elimexo AB, Falsterbo / Sweden
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Nobia AB, Stockholm/Sweden
• Bastec AB, Malmo/Sweden
• Elite Hotels AB, Stockholm/Sweden
• Tomas Frick AB, Vellinge/Sweden
• Tjugonde AB, Malmo/Sweden
• Tretorn AB, Helsingborg/Sweden
• Cobra Golf Inc., Carlsbad/USA
PUMA RELAY | 165

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Todd Hymel

Martin Köppel

Paris, France
Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Kering S.A., Paris / France,
responsible for Sport & Lifestyle

(Employees’ Representative)
Weisendorf, Germany
Administrator IT Microsoft Systems of PUMA SE

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Volcom, Inc., Costa Mesa / USA
• Cobra Golf, Inc., Carlsbad / USA

Guy Buzzard

Jean-Marc Duplaix

(Employees’ Representative)
West Kirby, United Kingdom
Key Account Manager (Sales) of PUMA United Kingdom Ltd.

Paris, France
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Kering S.A., Paris / France
Departing Members of the Administrative Board
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Sapardis SE, Paris / France GPO Holding SE, Paris / France
• Redcats S.A., Paris / France
• E_lite S.p.A., Milan / Italy
• Kering Italia S.p.A., Scandicci / Italy
• Pomellato S.p.A., Milan / Italy
• Kering Japan Ltd., Tokyo / Japan
• Kering Tokyo Investment Ltd., Tokyo / Japan
• Kering Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg / Luxembourg
• Qeelin Holding Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg / Luxembourg
• E-Kering Lux S.A., Luxembourg / Luxembourg
• Luxury Fashion Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg / Luxembourg
• Noga Luxe S.L., Barcelona / Spain

Bernd Illig
(Employees’ Representative)
Bechhofen, Germany
Administrator IT Systems of PUMA SE
166 | PUMA RELAY

Michel Friocourt
Paris, France
Group General Counsel of Kering S.A., Paris / France,
until October 31, 2014
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Luminosa, Paris / France
• Yves Saint Laurent S.A.S., Paris / France
• Discodis Belgique N.V., Brussels / Belgium,
• Balenciaga UK Ltd., United Kingdom
• Kering UK Services Ltd., United Kingdom
• Kering Management Services II Ltd., United Kingdom
• Stella McCartney Ltd., United Kingdom
• Kering Holdings Ltd., Hong Kong
• Yves Saint Laurent UK Ltd., United Kingdom
• PPR HK Ltd., Hong Kong
• APARFI, Switzerland
• PPR Suisse, Switzerland

consolidated financial statements | 4

Administrative Board
Committees

Executive Committee

Thore Ohlsson (Chairman)
Martin Koeppel
Jean-Marc Duplaix (Member as of November 5, 2014)
Until October 31, 2014: Michel Friocourt

Personnel Committee

François-Henri Pinault (Chairman)
Bernd Illig
Jean-François Palus

Sustainability Committee
Jean-François Palus (Chairman)
François-Henri Pinault
Martin Köppel

Nominating Committee

François-Henri Pinault (Chairman)
Jean-François Palus
Todd Hymel

Audit Committee

Thore Ohlsson (Chairman)
Jean-Marc Duplaix
Guy Buzzard

PUMA RELAY | 167

4 | Consolidated financial statements

Statutory Auditor’s
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach, which consist of the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated income statement,
the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement
of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, as well as the Group management report for the financial year from
January 1 through December 31, 2014. The Company’s Managing Directors are responsible
for preparing the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report in
accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as applicable in
the EU, as well as according to the supplementary regulations under commercial law according to Section 315a (1) HGB. It is our duty to render an opinion on the basis of the audit
we conducted of the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements pursuant to Section 317
HGB in compliance with the German principles of proper auditing established by the Institute of Auditors. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that
misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and
results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group management report are identified
with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and
legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken
into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accountingrelated internal control system as well as evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report are examined primarily
on a random basis within the framework of the audit. The audit comprises the evaluation
of the consolidated financial statements, the consolidated financial statements of the group
of consolidated companies, the determination of the group of consolidated companies, the
accounting and consolidation principles applied and material assessments by the Managing
168 | PUMA RELAY

Directors, as well as the acknowledgement of the entire presentation of the consolidated
financial statements and the Group management report. We believe that our audit provides
a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.
Based on the information obtained during our audit, in our opinion the consolidated financial
statements of PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach, have been properly prepared in accordance
with the IFRS, as applicable in the EU, as well as according to the supplementary regulations under commercial law according to Section 315a(1) HGB and give a true and fair
view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group. The Group
management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole
provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and accurately presents the opportunities
and risks of future development.

Munich, February 10, 2015

Deloitte & Touche GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

(Stadter)

(Besli)

Wirtschaftsprüfer
[German Ceritfied Auditor]

Wirtschaftsprüferin
[German Ceritfied Auditor]

Report by the
administrative
board
Wedahd van der Schyff (42),
Head of Retail PUMA Middle
East, with PUMA since 2005.

“For me, ‘Forever
Faster’ means taking the
learnings from the past into
consideration while creating
our future.”

5 | report by the administrative board

Report
by the
Administrative Board

Dear Shareholders,
In financial year 2014, the Administrative Board has exercised all its duties under the law,
statutes and company rules. It has managed the Company, determined the basic business
strategies and monitored their implementation by the Managing Directors.
In this regard, the Administrative Board has in its four regular meetings discussed and
resolved on the Company‘s business policies, all relevant aspects of corporate development and corporation planning, the Company‘s economic situation, including its net assets,
financial position and results of operations, and all key decisions for the Group. All members
participated in the resolutions. The Managing Directors have informed the Administrative
Board regularly, comprehensively, and in a timely manner in written and verbal form about
the implementation of all decisions and about all major business transactions.
The Administrative Board discussed in detail all of the Company‘s key business transactions, based on the reports by the Managing Directors and the committees, and presented
its own ideas. Any deviations from business performance based on the specifications that
have been given to the Managing Directors by the Administrative Board have been explained by the Managing Directors to the Administrative Board. The Administrative Board
verified all of these explanations using the supporting documents submitted. The Adminis170 | PUMA RELAY

trative Board was involved in all key decisions at an early stage. In addition, the Chairman
of the Administrative Board and other members of the Administrative Board maintained,
and continue to maintain, regular verbal or written contact with the Managing Directors, and
keep themselves informed of all major developments. Overall, these discussions did not
give rise to any doubts that the Managing Directors were managing the Group in anything
other than a lawful and proper manner.
Main advisory focus In the financial year 2014, the focus was primarily on the following topics: audit and approval of the 2013 financial statements, dividend policy, setting the
agenda for the 2014 Annual General Meeting, ongoing business development, the Group’s
financial position, business planning for 2015 and medium-term planning, including investments, transformation and cost reduction program, compliance and the internal control system, material litigation in the Group, corporate governance, sustainability, and personnel
issues concerning the Managing Directors.
To address these topics, the Administrative Board reviewed the Company’s financial reports
and records.

report by the administrative board | 5

Conflicts of interest The members of the Administrative Board are required to disclose
any conflicts of interest immediately. In the past year, no such disclosures were made.
Committees The Administrative Board has established five committees to perform its duties and receives regular reports on their work. The members of the committees are listed
in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Annual Report.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee organizes the Administrative Board
meetings and makes decisions when instructed by the Administrative Board to do so on its
behalf. It did not meet in 2014.
Personnel Committee The Personnel Committee is responsible for entering into and
making changes to Managing Directors’ employment contracts and for establishing policies
for Human Resources and personnel development. The Personnel Committee met once
during the financial year 2014.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee held four regular meetings in financial year 2014. In
particular, the Audit Committee is responsible for accounting issues and monitoring the accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal control system, risk management and the
risk management system, internal audits, compliance and the statutory audit of the financial
statements, with particular regard to the required independence of the statutory auditors,
issuing the audit mandate to the statutory auditors, defining the audit areas of focus, any
additional services to be performed by the auditors and the fee agreement.
Sustainability Committee The Committee is responsible for promoting corporate sustainability and an awareness of the need to act fairly, honestly, positively and creatively in
every decision made and every action taken. Two meetings were held in 2014.
Nominating Committee The Nominating Committee proposes suitable shareholder candidates to the Administrative Board for its voting recommendations to the Annual General
Meeting. It did not meet during the reporting period.

Corporate Governance
In the 2014 financial year the Administrative Board discussed the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC), which contains key legal requirements and recommendations for
the management and supervision of listed companies and standards for responsible company management. The corporate governance standards have long been a part of the cor-

porate routine. None of this is changed in the single-tier corporate governance system now
in place at PUMA.
Pursuant to paragraph 3.10 of the GCGC, the Administrative Board reports on corporate
governance in the Corporate Governance Report. With very few exceptions, the Company
satisfies the requirements of the GCGC and explains these system-related exceptions, as
well as deviations from the GCGC resulting from PUMA’s single-tier system, in the Statement of Compliance. The Statement of Compliance is available to our shareholders at any
time on the Company’s website under http://about.puma.com/de/investor-relations/
corporate-governance/declaration-of-compliance/.

Annual financial statements adopted
The annual financial statements for PUMA SE prepared by the Managing Directors in accordance with the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch/HGB) and the management report for financial year 2014 as well as the consolidated financial statements and
the consolidated management report for financial year 2014 prepared in accordance with
Section 315a HGB on the basis of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) have
been audited by the statutory auditors who were appointed by the Annual General Meeting on May 13, 2014 and commissioned by the Administrative Board to audit the annual
financial statements and the consolidated financial statements, Deloitte & Touche GmbH,
Munich, and have been given an unqualified auditor’s opinion.
In their report, the statutory auditors conclude that PUMA’s institutionalized risk management system, in accordance with Section 91(2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz/AktG), is capable of detecting at an early stage and countering any developments
that might jeopardize the continuity of the Company as a going concern. The Administrative
Board has been updated by the Managing Directors regularly on all relevant risks in this
regard, in particular their assessments of market and procurement risks, financial risks (including currency risks) and organizational risks.
The accounting records, the audit reports from the statutory auditors and the Managing
Directors’ recommendation on the appropriation of net profit were made available to all
members of the Administrative Board in a timely manner. At the meeting of the Audit Committee on February 13, 2015 and at the subsequent Administrative Board meeting held on
the same day, the statutory auditors reported on the key results of their audit and discussed
them in detail with the Managing Directors and the members of the Administrative Board.
No discrepancies were detected. Further, at today’s meeting, the Managing Directors explained to the Administrative Board the disclosures made in the management report, pursuant to Section 289(4) and 289(5) and Section 315(4) of the German Commercial Code
(HGB).
PUMA RELAY | 171

5 | report by the administrative board

The Administrative Board reviewed in detail the annual financial statements, the management report, the Managing Directors’ recommendation on the appropriation of net profit
and the consolidated financial statements as well as the Group management report and
raised no objections. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the
Administrative Board agreed with the results of the audit of both statements and approved
the annual financial statements of PUMA SE and the consolidated financial statements for
the 2014 financial year. The 2014 annual financial statements have thus been adopted.
The Administrative Board likewise agrees with the Managing Directors’ proposal to distribute a dividend of € 0.50 per dividend entitled share to the shareholders for financial year
2014. The dividend will be funded from cash and cash equivalents, which will not jeopardize the Company’s liquidity. A total amount of €7.5 million will be paid out in dividends from
PUMA SE’s net income. The remaining net income of € 53.2 million will be carried forward.

October 31, 2014.
The composition of Managing Directors has also changed. Andreas Köhler resigned from
his position as Chief Operating Officer effective August 31, 2014. The Administrative Board
appointed Lars Radoor Sørensen as his successor with effect from August 1, 2014. Furthermore Stefano Caroti resigned from his position as Chief Commercial Officer effective
December 31, 2014.
The Administrative Board offers its thanks to Mr. Friocourt, Mr. Köhler and Mr. Caroti for
their commitment and hard work on behalf of the company.

Thanks
We would like to express our gratitude and recognition to the Managing Directors, the management teams at the Group companies, the Works Council and all our employees for their
hard work and their outstanding cooperation.

Report on Relationships with Affiliated Companies
Since April 10, 2007, PUMA SE has been a dependent company of Sapardis S.E., a wholly
owned subsidiary of Kering S.A, which in turn is a subsidiary of Artémis S.A. (due to the
voting right majority), pursuant to Section 17 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).
The report by the Managing Directors on relations with affiliated companies (Dependent
Company Report) specified in Section 312 AktG has been made available to the Administrative Board. The report has been reviewed by the statutory auditors, who issued the following
auditor’s opinion:

Herzogenaurach, February 16, 2015
On behalf of the Administrative Board

“We have duly examined and assessed the report and hereby certify that:
1. The information contained in the report is correct,
2. The payments made by the corporation in the legal transactions listed in the report
were not unduly high.”
After a thorough review, the Administrative Board agreed with the Dependent Company
Report prepared by the Managing Directors and approved the auditors’ findings. No objections were raised.

Personnel Changes in the Administrative Board in the Managing Directors
There were personnel changes in the Administrative Board that have relevance for shareholders. Michel Friocourt resigned from his position on the Administrative Board effective

172 | PUMA RELAY

Jean-François Palus
Chairman

GRI INDEX
Stefan Seidel (44),
Global Team Head Environmental
Affairs, with PUMA since 2001.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means to embed
sustainability across all our
core business functions and
creating positive change in
our industry and beyond.”

6 | gri index

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
G4-1

Fully

G4-2

Fully

Foreword of Bjørn Gulden
Our Sustainability Strategy
New Mission Statement
Materiality Analysis
Sustainability Targets
Social Sustainability
Environmental Sustainability
Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration
Anti-Corruption Efforts
The Way Ahead

4-5
36
37
42
43
44-52
53-64
65-66
66
67

ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
G4-3

Fully

Imprint

G4-4

Fully

G4-5

Fully

Commercial Activities and Organizational Structure
Sales
Product Development and Design
Commercial Activities and Organizational Structure

G4-6

Fully

G4-7

Fully

G4-8

Fully

G4-9

Partially

G4-10

Partially

174 | PUMA RELAY

Sourcing
Sales
All countries with subsidiaries are listed in the notes to the
consolidated financial statement.
Group of Consolidated Companies
All countries with subsidiaries are listed in the notes to the
consolidated financial statement.
Sales
All countries with subsidiaries are listed in the notes to the
consolidated financial statement. No further explanation
given due to confidentiality reasons.
Employees
Sales
Results of Operations
Dividends
Quantity of products sold not disclosed for confidentiality
reasons.
Working Conditions / Working Environment
Dare to Be Diverse
Employees
Numbers only reported only by gender and product type.
More detailed information is deemed as not material.

81
91-95
84
81
85-86
91-95

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

G4-11

Fully

Working Conditions / Working Environment

G4-12

Fully

New Factory Audit System
Sourcing

G4-13

Fully

Strategic Priorities
Net Assets and Financial Position
More detailed information reported in the Consolidated
Financial Statement.

G4-14

Fully

Social Sustainability
Environmental Sustainability
Environmental Management at PUMA Suppliers

44-52
53-64
61-63

G4-15

Fully

Human Rights and Risk Management
Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration

47
65-66

G4-16

Fully

Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration

65-66

73
44-46
85-86
82-83
101-102

IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17

Fully

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

131-133

G4-18

Fully

Developing Targets with our Stakeholders
Materiality Analysis
Reporting According to GRI G4

42
42
41

Materiality Analysis

42

168

G4-19

Fully

130-133
Partially

91-95

73
73-74
87-88

76-77

76-77
G4-20

87-88
91-95
95-98
98-99

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

G4-21

Partially

Materiality Analysis
More detailed information on Materiality can be found on
our website:
http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/stakeholders/
materiality-matrix

42

Materiality Analysis
More detailed information on Materiality can be found on
our website:
http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/stakeholders/
materiality-matrix

42

G4-22

Not
Reported

No restatements during the reporting period.

G4-23

Fully

Reporting According to GRI G4

76-77

76-77

41
76-77

GRI index | 6

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

stakeholder engagement
G4-24

Fully

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Governance
Corporate Governance Report

41
116-120

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

GOVERNANCE

Developing Targets with our Stakeholders
Organization Set-up
Governance
Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration
Anti-Corruption Efforts

42
38
41
65-66
66

G4-25

Fully

Developing Targets with our Stakeholders
Materiality Analysis

42
42

G4-26

Fully

Developing Targets with our Stakeholders
Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration

42
65-66

G4-34

Fully

76-77
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56

Fully

Adherence to PUMA’s u Code of Conduct
Anti-Corruption Efforts
u Code of Ethics

44
66

76-77
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
76-77
G4-27

Fully

Developing Targets with our Stakeholders
Materiality Analysis
Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration

42
42
65-66

REPORT PROFILE
G4-28

Fully

Calendar Year 2014

G4-29

Fully

April 2013

G4-30

Fully

Annual

G4-31

Fully

Imprint

G4-32

Fully

Reporting According to GRI G4
Independent Assurance Report
Statutory Auditor’s Opinion

41
76-77
168

Category: Economic
Aspect: Economic Performance
G4-DMA

Fully

Overview 2014
Targets and Strategy
Management System
Economic Report

79-80
82-83
89
90-95

G4-EC1

Fully

Overview 2014
Results of Operations
Sales
Cash Flow

79-80
95-98
91-95
103-104

76-77

Detailed information can be found in the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the notes the Consolidated Financial Statements.
G4-EC2

Partially

The ‘in accordance’ option Core has been chosen.
G4-33

Fully

Independent Assurance Report
Statutory Auditor’s Opinion
External assurance seeked through independent audit by
Deloitte & Touche GmbH. All executive levels were involved
in this process.

76-77
168

Risk and Opportunity Management
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account
u Sustainable Products

107-110
43

More details have been reported in PUMAs response to the
u Carbon Disclosure Project
G4-EC3

Fully

Compensation Report
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Provisions for Pensions and Similar Obligations
Pension Provisions

105-106
128-129
135
146-149

PUMA RELAY | 175

6 | gri index

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts
G4-DMA

Partially

Risk and Opportunity Categories

108-110

G4-EC7

Partially

Cash Flow

103-104

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-EN2

Partially

Reducing Raw Material Impact
E-KPIs
Waste and Recycling
Paper

Partially reported as PUMA does not disclose on the
development extent of investments on communities.
Community needs assessments have not been conducted.
G4-EC8

Partially

Environmental Sustainability
Social Sustainability
Training and Capacity Building
Better Wages Program
Worker Retention
Environment Management at PUMA
Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals
The PUMA SAVE Project
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account

53-64
44-52
48-49
49
50
53
56
61
43

Partially

Social Sustainability
Environmental Management at PUMA Suppliers
Sourcing
Risk and Opportunity Categories

G4 - EC9

Partially

PUMA SAVE Project
Sourcing

44-52
61
85-86
108-110

Aspect: Energy
G4-DMA

Fully

Materiality Analysis
Environmental Sustainability
Environmental Management at PUMA
Energy
Environmental Management at PUMA Suppliers
PUMA SAVE Project

G4-EN3

Partially

E-KPIs
Energy
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

61
85-86

G4-EN5

Category: Environmental

Partially

Aspect: Materials
Fully

Materiality Analysis
Environmental Sustainability
Environmental Management at PUMA
Reducing Raw material Impact
Environmental Management at PUMA Suppliers
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

42
53-64
53
53-54
61
43

E-KPIs
Summary of Supplier E-KPIs

58
59
43

58
62-63

Overall energy intensity is reported but not by sub-categories.
G4-EN6

Partially

E-KPIs
Energy
Summary of Supplier E KPIs
Partially reported as energy saved and is listed as part of
total energy figures.

176 | PUMA RELAY

42
53-64
53
59
61
61

Total renewable and non-renewable energy consumption (in
KWh as well as percentage) is reported irrespective of fuel
types.

Partially reported detailed disclosure of information is
deemed to be proprietary.

G4-DMA

53-54
58
59
59

Only reported in general terms. Specific percentages are
reported for cotton, polyester and leather; total figures are
reported for recycled waste and recycled paper.
Partially reported as PUMA is not directly producing goods,
main input material is paper. More detailed information on
input materials for production is contained in our suppliers’
own
u Sustainability reports

Aspect: Procurement Practices
G4-DMA

Page
Number

58
59
62-63

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

GRI index | 6

GRI

GRI

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-EN7

Partially

u PUMA SAVE Project
Environmental Management at PUMA Suppliers
Summary of Supplier E-KPIs

Page
Number
61
61-63
62-63

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-EN12

Partially

u Environmental

Materiality Analysis
Sustainability Targets
Environmental Management at PUMA
Water
Environmental Management at PUMA Suppliers
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

42
43
53
59
61-63
43

Not fully material for PUMA’s own organizational operations
but deemed material for supply-chain operations.
G4-EN8

Partially

Water
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

Materiality Analysis
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

Fully

Materiality Analysis
Sustainability Targets
Environmental Sustainability
Environmental Management at PUMA
Chemical Management
Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals
Extension of our Annual Environmental Data Collection
Improved Environmental Auditing

G4-EN15

Partially

E-KPIs
CO2 Emissions
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

42
43

G4-EN16

Fully

E-KPIs
CO2 Emissions
Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

G4-EN17

Partially

E-KPIs
CO2 Emissions
Summary of Supplier E-KPIs
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

Partially reported by source as biodiversity is not identified
as a material topic for PUMA’s operations.
G4-EN11

Partially

u Environmental

Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

Due to the low level of Materiality as indicated in our Materiality Analysis, we are mainly reporting on biodiversity
as part of our efforts in the Environmental Profit and Loss
Statement as well as under the materials aspect (paper,
leather).

42
43
53-64
53
55
56
61-63
63
58
60
43

No quantitative reporting for CO2 emissions from biogenic
source.

Aspect: Biodiversity
Partially

G4-DMA

59
43

Volume of water withdrawn by source, collection method
and reuse of water discharges are not fully reported as
PUMA’s own entities use water only for domestic purposes
and discharge into public waste water collection systems.

G4-DMA

43

Aspect: Emission

Aspect: Water
Partially

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

Biodiversity is not identified as a material topic for PUMA’s
operations but general impacts of PUMA’s operations in
form of ‘Loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services’ are
reported partially in E-P&L

Partially reported as PUMA as production of goods is
outsourced.

G4-DMA

Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

Page
Number

58
60
43
58
60
62-63
43

Reported as total figures irrespective of origin, i.e. biogenic
CO2 emissions not calculated separately

43
G4-EN18

Fully

u PUMA SAVE Project
Environmental Management at PUMA Suppliers
Summary of Supplier E-KPIs

61
61-63
62-63

Partially reported as PUMA as production of goods is
outsourced.
G4-EN19

Fully

E-KPIs
CO2 Emissions

58
60

PUMA RELAY | 177

6 | gri index

GRI

GRI

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-EN21

Partially

Chemical Management
Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

Page
Number
55
56
43

Partially reported because air emissions are not considered
significant for PUMA’s operations. Quantitative emissions
of air pollution are not reported as PUMA is not directly
involved in production but detailed information could be
obtained from PUMA’s individual
u Supplier’s Sustainability Reports

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Aspect: Products and Services
G4-DMA

Fully

Sustainability Targets
Environmental Management at PUMA
u S-Index
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)
u Sustainable Products

43
53
53-54
43

G4-EN27

Partially

Waste & Recycling
Improved Environmental Auditing
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)
u Sustainable Products

59
63
43

Aspects: Effluents and Waste
G4-DMA

Partially

Materiality Analysis
Environmental Sustainability
Waste and Recycling
u IPE Data Disclosure
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

42
53-64
59
64
43

Partially reported as detailed information is not material
since PUMA has outsourced production to independent
supplier factories. Selected suppliers report in more detail
within their own sustainability reports
u Supplier’s Sustainability Reports
G4-EN22

Partially

u Environmental

Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

Partially

E-KPIs
Waste and Recycling
Paper
Summary of Supplier E-KPIs
Partially reported in percentage. Detailed information is not
material since PUMA has outsourced production to independent supplier factories. Suppliers sustainability reports
are more detailed
u Supplier’s Sustainability Reports

178 | PUMA RELAY

Indirectly reported as we report average EKPIs of our
products.
Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA

Partially

“Talks at Banz” 2014
Annual Supplier Meeting 2014
Anti-Corruption Efforts
u Code of Ethics

65
66
66

Materiality Analysis
Environmental Management at PUMA

42
53

Aspect: Transport
43

Destination, treatment method and reuse of water discharges are not fully reported as PUMA’s own entities use water
only for domestic purposes and discharge into public waste
water collection systems.
G4-EN23

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

G4-DMA

Partially

Not fully material for PUMA’s own operations since major
transportation activities are undertaken by third parties.
G4-EN30
58
59
59
62-63

Partially

E-KPIs
CO2 Emissions
Partially reported in the form of E-KPIs.

58
60

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

GRI index | 6

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Aspect: Environmental Assessment
G4-DMA

G4-EN32

G4-EN33

Fully

Fully

Partially

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

53
61
61
65-66
53-54
43

New Factory Audit System
Extension of Our Environmental Data Collection
IPE Data Disclosure

44-46
61-63
64

Extension of Our Environmental Data Collection
Improved Environmental Auditing
IPE Data Disclosure
u Supply Chain Auditing

61-63
63
64

G4-DMA

Partially

Training and Development
Growing Talent
Leadership Training

69-70
70
70-71

G4-LA9

Partially

Training and Development

69-70

Fully reported are total training hours and amount of trained
employees. (Average per employee per year: 9,72h).
G4-LA10

Partially

G4-LA11

Partially

Aspect: Employment

Partially

70-71
70
71
87-88

Performance Management and Succession Planning

71

In general all our employees receive an annual appraisal
talk. No detailed information by gender, employee category
reported.

Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work

G4-LA1

Leadership Training
Growing Talent
Performance Management and Succession Planning
Employees
General training and development program in place,
including leadership training. No specific lifelong learning
program supporting continued employability.

Category: Social

Partially

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

Aspect: Training and Education

Environmental Management at PUMA
PUMA SAVE Project
Roll-Out of the SAC Higg Index Facilities Module
Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration
u S-Index
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

PUMA also works in collaboration with independent NGO’s
like IPE, China, for detailed supplier’s environmental Impact
Assessments.

G4-DMA

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Materiality Analysis
People@PUMA

42
69-75

Working Conditions / Working Environment
Employees

73
87-88

Information is deemed not material. Total employee turnover and overall range of turnover are collected and reported.

G4-DMA

Partially

Dare to Be Diverse

73-74

G4-LA12

Partially

Dare to Be Diverse

73-74

Partially reported as PUMA was not able to collect detailed
data on the total percentage of employees of minority
groups and minority groups on governance bodies. The age
of the governance bodies’ members is not disclosed. The
total workforce by gender category can be found in LA1.

Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety
G4-DMA

Fully

Materiality Analysis
Occupational Health and Safety

42
75

G4-LA6

Partially

Occupational Health and Safety

75

Partially reported only for suppliers, as occupational
disease rate and minor injuries at our own entities are not
significant (not material).

PUMA RELAY | 179

6 | gri index

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Aspect: Non-discrimination

G4-DMA

Fully

Materiality Analysis
New Factory Audit System
Non-Compliance Resolution

42
44-46
47

G4-LA14

Fully

New Factory Audit System

44-46

G4-LA15

Partially

New Factory Audit System
Resolution of Complaints
Non-compliance resolution
Human Rights and Risk Management
u PUMA Supply Chain

44-46
46-47
47
47

Impact assessment of suppliers and areas of impact can
be seen according our implemented factory evaluation
system and non-compliance resolution overview. Detailed
information on percentages is not included in the scope of
our reporting.
Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms
G4-DMA

Fully

Resolution of Complaints

46-47

G4-LA16

Partially

Resolution of Complaints

46-47

Reported only on complaints that have been raised and
resolved during the reporting period.

G4-DMA

Partially

Materiality Analysis
Adherence to PUMA’s u Code of Conduct

42
44

G4-HR3

Partially

Non-compliance resolution
u PUMA Supply Chain

47

Covered for suppliers, for PUMAs own entities deemed as
not material.
Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
G4-DMA

Fully

Materiality Analysis
Freedom of Association Protocol
u Code of Conduct

42
50

G4-HR4

Fully

Non-compliance resolution
Freedom of Association Protocol
u PUMA Supply Chain

47
50

Aspect: Child Labor
G4-DMA

Fully

Materiality Analysis
Adherence to PUMA’s u Code of Conduct

42
44

G4-HR5

Partially

Human Rights and Risk Management
Non-compliance resolution
u PUMA Supply Chain

47
47

Sub-Category: Human Rights

No detailed information reported on which operations or
suppliers are considered to have significant risk for incidents. Only actual cases in the reporting focus.

Aspect: Investment
G4-DMA

Fully

Adherence to PUMA’s u Code of Conduct
Human Rights and Risk Management

44
47

G4-HR1

Fully

Adherence to PUMA’s u Code of Conduct

44

G4-HR2

Partially

Human Rights and Risk Management
Training and Capacity Building
Human Rights aspects are covered within general trainings
as well as for related staff (e.g. sourcing) on the job and in
dedicated meetings. Total hours of training in general are
disclosed in LA9.

180 | PUMA RELAY

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

47
48-49

Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor
G4-DMA

Fully

Materiality Analysis
Adherence to PUMA’s u Code of Conduct

G4-HR6

Partially

Non-Compliance Resolution
Training and Capacity Building
u PUMA Supply Chain)
No detailed information reported on which operations, suppliers or regions are considered to have significant risk for
incidents. Only actual cases and measures taken are in the
reporting focus.

42
44
47
48-49

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

GRI index | 6

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Aspect: Assessment

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

Sub-Category: Society

G4-DMA

Partially

Human Rights and Risk Management
Governance

G4-HR9

Partially

New Factory Audit System
Non-Compliance Resolution
u PUMA Supply Chain

47
41
44-46
47

Aspect: Local Communities
G4-DMA

Partially

Materiality Analysis
Charity Cat

G4-SO1

Partially

Charity Cat
Social Sustainability
Environmental Sustainability
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

Covered for suppliers, for PUMAs own entities not material.
Information reported for percentage of suppliers by regions.
Not by operations and country.

Fully

Materiality Analysis
Adherence to PUMA u Code of Conduct

42
44

G4-HR10

Fully

Adherence to PUMA’s u Code of Conduct
Human Rights and Risk Management

44
47

G4-HR11

Partially

New Factory Audit System
Non-Compliance Resolution
u PUMA Supply Chain

44-46
47

Impact assessment of suppliers and areas of impact can be
seen according our factory evaluation system and noncompliance resolution overview. Detailed information on
percentages is not included in the scope of our reporting.

74
44-52
53-64
43

For community engagement only qualitative data reported.
As production is outsourced, more information on local
impact assessments can be found in individual u supplier’s
sustainability reports.
Percentages of operations are not gathered as deemed not
material.

Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment
G4-DMA

42
74

Aspect: Anti-corruption
G4-DMA

Fully

Materiality Analysis
Anti-Corruption Efforts
Corporate Governance Report

42
66
116-120

G4-SO3

Partially

Corporate Governance Report
Risk and Opportunity Categories
u PUMA’s Code of Ethics
u KERING Code of Ethics

116-120
108-110

Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms

Only qualitative data disclosed.

G4-DMA

Fully

Resolution of Complaints

46-47

G4-HR12

Fully

Resolution of Complaints

46-47

G4-SO4

Partially

Anti-Corruption Efforts
Corporate Governance Report

66
116-120

Total number of participants / business partners reported,
not by employee category and region.

PUMA RELAY | 181

6 | gri index

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society
G4-DMA

Partially

Materiality Analysis
Administrative Board Sustainability Committee
Human Rights and Risk Management

G4-SO9

Fully

New Factory Audit System
u PUMA’s Auditing Process

42
41
47
44-46

According to our policies every new supplier has to go
through our initial assessment.
G4-SO10

Partially

Materiality Analysis
New Factory Audit System
Non-compliance resolution
Environmental Sustainability
Social Sustainability
Better Wages Program
Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals
Environmental Management at PUMA Suppliers
u Environmental Profit & Loss Account (E-P&L)

42
44-46
47
53-64
44-52
49
56
61-63
43

Only total numbers reported.
Detailed information on percentages is not included in the
scope of our reporting.
For more information see also u Sustainability Reporting of
our Suppliers
Sub-Category: Product Responsibility
Aspect: Customer Health and Safety
G4-DMA

Partially

Materiality Analysis

42

G4-PR1

Partially

Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals

56

Numbers for RSL testing only disclosed for total test results
and not by product category as this information is not
deemed as material.
Aspect: Product and Service Labeling
G4-PR3

Fully

182 | PUMA RELAY

PUMA’s products are covered by normal product information requirements and are not subject to any specific product information regulations.

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

THE PUMA SHARE

Denise Dilek Meier (30),
Senior Retail Manager
Herzogenaurach, with PUMA
since 2014.

“For me, ‘Forever Faster’
means raising the bar and
chasing improvements in
the way we interact and
work together.”

7 | the puma share

The PUMA SHARE

T.1

The PUMA share opened in 2014 at its highest price in the year (€ 235.00). After the
lowest price of € 157.10 was recorded on
October 16, 2014, the share price recovered
and reached € 172.55 at year-end. This
represents a decline of 26.6 % on a yearly
basis. The market capitalization of PUMA
decreased to € 2.6 billion accordingly. The
average daily volume of shares traded was
equal to 7,209 compared to 11,086 in the
previous year.
184 | PUMA RELAY

Key Data per Share
2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

End of year price

€

172.55

235.00

224.85

225.00

248.00

Highest price listed

€

235.00

249.40

274.00

252.85

263.75

Lowest price listed

€

157.10

205.35

210.10

197.30

201.50

Daily trading volume (Ø)

amount

7,209

11,086

24,739

39,973

32,045

Earnings per share

€

4.29

0.36

4.69

15.36

13.45

Gross cashflow per share

€

11.52

15.44

21.89

25.47

23.84

Free cashflow (before acquisitions) per share

€

4.23

3.33

5.58

4.07

8.35

Shareholders’ equity per share

€

108.32

100.22

106.73

107.14

92.24

Dividend per share

€

0.50

0.50

0.50

2.00

1.80

the puma share | 7

PUMA Share Performance / Trading Volume

F.1
€
300

250

Share Development – rebased

F.2
amount
120,000

120

SDAX

100,000

PUMA Share Performance

100
80,000

200

PUMA
60,000

150

100

Trading Volume

80

40,000
60
20,000

50

0

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

June

July

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

0

40

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

June

July

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

The PUMA share has been registered for the regulated market (formerly official trading)
on German stock exchanges since 1986. It is listed in the Prime Standard Segment and
the Small-Cap Index SDAX of the German Stock Exchange [Deutsche Börse]. Moreover,
membership in the Dow Jones World / STOXX Sustainability indices and the FTSE4Good
index was once again confirmed.
PUMA RELAY | 185

further
information

further information | 8

T.1

PUMA Year-on-Year Comparison

T.1

PUMA Year-on-Year Comparison

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Deviation

Brand sales

3,171.2

3,178.8

-0.2%

Gross cashflow

Consolidated sales

2,972.0

2,985.3

-0.4%

Sales

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

Deviation

172.2

230.6

-25.4%

Free cashflow (before acquisition)

63.1

49.8

26.8%

Investments (before acquisition)

72.6

55.7

30.3%

Acquisition investments

23.8

20.6

15.6%

10,830

10,750

0.7%

274.4

277.7

-1.2%

Cashflow and investments

Result of operations
1,385.4

1,387.5

-0.2%

EBIT1)

128.0

191.4

-33.1%

Employees

EBT

121.8

53.7

126.6%

Number of employees (annual average)

64.1

5.3

1,103.0%

Gross profit

Net earnings
Profitability

Sales per employee (k€)
PUMA share

46.6%

46.5%

0.1%pt

Share price (in €)

172.55

235.00

-26.6%

EBT margin

4.1%

1.8%

2.3%pt

Average outstanding shares (in million)

14.940

14.940

0.0%

Net margin

2.2%

0.2%

2.0%pt

Number of shares outstanding (in million)

14.940

14.940

0.0%

11.5%

5.6%

5.9%pt

Earnings per share (in €)

4.29

0.36

1,103.0%

4.0%

0.4%

3.6%pt

Gross profit margin

Return on capital employed (ROCE)
Return on equity (ROE)
Balance sheet information

1,618.3

1,497.3

8.1%

- Equity ratio

63.5%

64.9%

-1.4%pt

Working capital

455.7

528.4

-13.8%

15.3%

17.7%

-2.4%pt

Shareholders' equity

- in % of Consolidated sales

Market capitalization

2,578

3,511

-26.6%

Average trading volume (amount/day)

7,209

11,086

-35.0%

1) EBIT before special items

187 | PUMA RELAY | 187

8 | further information

T.2

PUMA Group Development (1)
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2012
€ million

2011
€ million

2010
€ million

2009*
€ million

2008
€ million

2007
€ million

2006
€ million

2005
€ million

2004
€ million

3,171.2

3,178.8

3,448.6

3,172.5

2,862.1

2,607.6

2,767.9

2,738.8

2,755.1

2,387.0

2,016.6

-0.2%

-7.8%

8.7%

10.8%

9.8%

-5.8%

1.1%

-0.6%

15.4%

18.4%

19.2%

2,972.0

2,985.3

3,270.7

3,009.0

2,706.4

2,447.3

2,524.2

2,373.5

2,369.2

1,777.5

1,530.3

-0.4%

-8.7%

8.7%

11.2%

10.6%

-3.0%

6.3%

0.2%

33.3%

16.2%

20.1%

- Footwear

1,282.7

1,372.1

1,595.2

1,539.5

1,424.8

1,321.7

1,434.3

1,387.9

1,420.0

1,175.0

1,011.4

- Apparel

1,103.1

1,063.8

1,151.9

1,035.6

941.3

846.2

899.3

827.3

795.4

473.9

416.0

586.3

549.4

523.6

433.9

340.3

279.4

190.6

158.3

153.8

128.6

102.9

1,385.4

1,387.5

1,579.0

1,493.4

1,344.8

1,243.1

1,306.6

1,241.7

1,199.3

929.8

794.0

46.6%

46.5%

48.3%

49.6%

49.7%

50.8%

51.8%

52.3%

50.6%

52.3%

51.9%

19.4

20.8

19.2

17.6

19.1

20.6

25.7

35.6

37.0

55.7

43.7

128.0

191.4

290.7

333.2

337.8

299.7

350.4

372.0

368.0

397.7

359.0

4.3%

6.4%

8.9%

11.1%

12.5%

12.2%

13.9%

15.7%

15.5%

22.4%

23.5%

121.8

53.7

112.3

320.4

301.5

138.4

326.4

382.6

374.0

404.1

364.7

4.1%

1.8%

3.4%

10.6%

11.1%

5.7%

12.9%

16.1%

15.8%

22.7%

23.8%

64.1

5.3

70.2

230.1

202.2

79.6

232.8

269.0

263.2

285.8

258.7

2.2%

0.2%

2.1%

7.6%

7.5%

3.3%

9.2%

11.3%

11.1%

16.1%

16.9%

Marketing/retail

599.7

544.1

609.3

550.7

501.3

501.2

528.6

448.3

439.5

285.3

223.5

Personnel

425.3

415.7

438.8

393.8

354.1

320.2

306.4

278.0

265.7

199.4

163.4

Sales
Brand sales
- Change in %
Consolidated sales
- Change in %

- Accessories

Result of operations
Gross profit
- Gross profit margin
Royalty and commission income
EBIT1)
- EBIT margin
EBT
- EBT margin
Net earnings
- Net margin

Expenses

1) EBIT before special items
* adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8, see chapter 3 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010

188 | PUMA RELAY

further information | 8

T.2

PUMA Group Development (2)
2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2012
€ million

2011
€ million

2010
€ million

2009*
€ million

2008
€ million

2007
€ million

2006
€ million

2005
€ million

2004
€ million

Total assets

2,549.9

2,308.5

2,530.3

2,581.8

2,366.6

1,925.0

1,898.7

1,863.0

1,714.8

1,321.0

942.3

Shareholders' equity

1,618.3

1,497.3

1,597.4

1,605.2

1,386.4

1,133.3

1,177.2

1,154.8

1,049.0

875.4

550.2

- Equity ratio

63.5%

64.9%

63.1%

62.2%

58.6%

58.9%

62.0%

62.0%

61.2%

66.3%

58.4%

Working capital

455.7

528.4

623.7

534.0

404.5

323.2

436.4

406.5

401.6

255.7

148.4

571.5

521.3

552.5

536.8

439.7

344.4

430.8

373.6

364.0

238.3

201.1

39.3

29.2

-8.2

16.8

17.1

167.3

85.8

208.8

10.4

134.4

256.6

381.7

365.0

363.2

413.1

436.8

437.3

325.3

461.2

393.6

430.4

356.4

96.4

76.3

172.9

115.3

163.6

136.3

144.1

112.9

153.9

79.8

43.1

4.0%

0.4%

4.4%

14.3%

14.6%

7.0%

19.8%

23.3%

25.1%

32.6%

47.0%

11.5%

5.6%

8.6%

28.7%

31.7%

20.3%

41.0%

54.8%

58.0%

96.7%

156.5%

Number of employees (year-end)

11,267

10,982

11,290

10,836

9,697

9,646

10,069

9,204

7,742

5,092

3,910

Number of employees (annual average)

10,830

10,750

10,935

10,043

9,313

9,747

9,503

8,338

6,831

4,425

3,475

172.55

235.00

224.85

225.00

248.00

231.84

140.30

273.00

295.67

246.50

202.30

4.29

0.36

4.69

15.36

13.45

5.28

15.15

16.80

16.39

17.79

16.14

Average outstanding shares (in million)

14.940

14.940

14.967

14.981

15.031

15.082

15.360

16.018

16.054

16.066

16.025

Number of shares outstanding (in million)

14.940

14.940

14.939

14.935

14.981

15.082

15.082

15.903

16.114

15.974

16.062

2,578

3,511

3,359

3,360

3,715

3,497

2,116

4,342

4,764

3,938

3,249

Balance sheet

- thereof: inventories

Cashflow
Free cashflow
Net cash position
Investments (incl. acquisitions)

Profitability
Return on equity (ROE)
Return on capital employed (ROCE)

Additional information

PUMA share
Share price (in €)
Earnings per share (in €)

Market capitalization

* adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8, see chapter 3 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010
189 | PUMA RELAY | 189

impRINT

Publisher
PUMA SE
PUMA Way 1
91074 Herzogenaurach
Germany
Phone: 0049 (0) 9132 81 – 0
Online: www.about.puma.com

∂

If you have any questions concerning
this report, please contact:

Corporate Communications
Kerstin Neuber
Head of Corporate Communications
kerstin.neuber@puma.com

Sustainability
DR. Reiner Hengstmann
Global Director PUMA.Safe
reiner.hengstmann@puma.com

Johannes Hackstette
Manager Corporate Communications
johannes.hackstette@puma.com

Stefan Seidel
Teamhead Environmental Affairs
stefan.seidel@puma.com

Human Resources
DIETMAR KNÖSS
Director Human Resources
dietmar.knoess@puma.com

Investor Relations
Johan-Philip Kuhlo
Senior Manager Global Strategy
investor-relations@puma.com

∂
∂
∂

∂
∂
∂

Editorial Departments
Corporate Communications
Investor Relations
PUMA.Safe
Human Resources
Design and Realisation
G64-medienwelten GmbH
Planckstraße 13
Planckstudios-Magistralgebäude
22765 Hamburg
gramlow@g64-medienwelten.de

∂

PHOTOGRAPHY
Relay Pictures of Employees: Christoph Maderer
Cover Picture: Ralf Rödel

